 Choosing the outfits for the next day while your children are doing their nightly hygiene is a great time saver.While they are in the bath you can take that time to choose their clothes so that you are not rushing the next day.


If your children are still very young, do NOT leave them unsupervised in the tub. Also, if your child is older, he can pick out his own clothes for the next day after hygiene is complete.
Be sure that everything is picked out the night before. This includes shoes, socks, and any accessories such as headbands and jewelry. Also make sure the comb, pick, or hairbrush is in its place to avoid searching for them in the morning.
Alternatively, you could pick out the clothes, including all accessories, for the entire week on Sunday evenings.
Make sure coats, hats, and gloves are in the designated space for colder days.
 Have all bags ready and sitting in their designated space before going to bed.This way, all you have to do is grab them as you are walking out the door. Bags that should be prepared include:


Book bags
Work bags
Lunch bags for the children, you, and your spouse can be filled with non-perishables the night before. The perishable foods and ice packs can be added in the morning.
 Setting the breakfast table at night can result in a more organized morning. Set out place mats, cups, bowls, spoons and cereals the night before so that everyone can serve themselves as they get up.All that is needed is the milk and juice in the mornings. This works well if you are a cereal eating family.


You may want to run a load of dishes in the dishwasher right after dinner. This way you will ensure clean dishes to set the table before heading to bed.
 Waiting for the morning to fill out school forms can be disastrous. They can be time consuming, thrusted at you at the last minute, or may be forgotten altogether. Have a specific bin where all school forms go when the kids arrive home in the afternoon.After the kids are in bed, fill out the forms and place them in backpacks so that they are ready to go in the morning.
 It is very helpful to have a to-do list ready the night before. This helps keep everything organized. Be sure to check your calendar and schedule before creating the list so that nothing is forgotten.


It may be helpful to hang a family calendar.Everyone, with the exception of small children, is responsible for writing down dates of upcoming events. For example, Tierra would be responsible for noting on the calendar the date and time of her upcoming dance recital or basketball game.

