 We all seem to have that aunt, uncle, or cousin whom we can’t stand. The one who drinks too much at Thanksgiving, who drones on about her life problems, or who is an open bigot. Unlike a noisome colleague, however, you can’t get rid of her. She turns up at Thanksgiving and Christmas; maybe you are the godmother to her children. How do you handle her? Rule number one is to avoid open strife.At family gatherings, try to have innocuous topics of conversation in mind and stick to them. If you fight over social views, for instance, steer clear of anything related to politics.
Don’t press her buttons. Strife with close family is easy, because we know one another’s weak spots. Be kind and don’t deliberately press your obnoxious relative’s buttons just to get a reaction.
As host, you might consider giving her a task. Ask her to help in some way so that she feels needed and useful. Studies show that giving a person a rationale also increases compliance. For instance, “Sharon, could you please help me peel the potatoes so that we can mash them?” might work better than “Sharon, would you please peel the potatoes?”, Whatever it is that you dislike, your obnoxious relative will not change it for you. Stop trying to fix her and try to accept her for who she is, to a point. Part of this is about letting go of how you want the relationship to work, how you envision it, and your ire when it doesn’t live up to the fantasy.Don’t be overly judgmental. You might not get along, in part, because she knows you want to change her, and resents you.
Try to be empathetic, instead. Take a deep breath, listen to what she has to say, and don’t interrupt. Show her that you are at least listening.
Studies show that recognizing a person’s viewpoint, without necessarily judging it, can make them less combative and defensive.If you disagree with something she says, say something non-committal in reply, like “You seem to feel very strongly about this and I respect that.”

, Our relatives’ obnoxious traits often surface at family gatherings where wine, beer, or booze flows freely. Alcohol lowers inhibitions and loosens the tongue. Don’t overindulge if you are wary of conflict.Alcohol makes some people more belligerent or self-pitying. If you are the host, and if your obnoxious relative is one of these types, consider cutting out booze altogether.
 Avoiding an obnoxious relative is harder than avoiding a co-worker. If you simply can’t get along, however, you may want to stay away as best you can and maintain a respectful distance.


Limit your time together to larger family gatherings and prepare yourself ahead of time. Steel yourself and be patient.
Give her plenty of space when under the same roof. For example, if she is in the living room, make yourself useful in the kitchen or dining room. If she is in the television room, escape to the living room.
Be diplomatic with other relatives. Your well-meaning relations might try to intervene if they see something is amiss. Be upfront but civil. Say something like, “I love Aunt Sharon, but she and I don’t always see eye to eye. I’m just giving her some space.”

, Be aware that a clash might take place, whether in person, over the phone, or through third parties. Try to stay calm and polite to avoid an embarrassing scene.


Take a personal disagreement to a private place, like an empty room or the bathroom, and talk softly, and don't air your grievances in front of others.
Say your part in a respectful tone and either listen to her response or walk away.
Feel free to get some fresh air. Stepping outside will allow you to calm down and collect your thoughts in private.

