 You need to know how much you owe. Accordingly, go through your papers and gather everything you can find that shows your debt. If you can’t find your paperwork, then contact the creditor. In particular, look for the following on each debt:


Total amount. Include the principal as well as late fees and other charges.
Who currently owns the debt.
Date you went into default.;
, Not all debts are the same. You should divide them into the following categories so that you can decide how to tackle them.


Secured debt. This is debt backed up by collateral. Your home loan or car loan are common examples.Unsecured debt. Credit card, personal loans, and medical debt are common examples. No collateral backs up this debt.
Non-negotiable debt. Some debt can’t be negotiated or is very difficult to negotiate. Your alimony and child support payments, as well as student loans, are in this category., Since you can’t settle all debts, you should prioritize how you will pay them. Since money is tight, you probably can’t pay everything. Decide which debts you will continue to pay and which ones you will attempt to settle. Everyone is different. However, it is fairly common to prioritize debts in the following manner:


Pay non-negotiable debts—child support, alimony, student loans, taxes. You should also consider reducing your child support payments, lowering your alimony, and changing the terms of your student loans. Doing so will free up money.
Pay your secured debts second. Make your car payment so you can still get to work, and pay your mortgage so you don’t lose your home. If push comes to shove, you can always sell your home. You might not want to, but you don’t have a lot of options when you are financially distressed.

Unsecured debt. You should work on settling these debts for less than they are worth.
 Some debts are so old that a creditor cannot legally collect on them. Take out your paperwork and find out when you went into default. If the debt is too old, then the statute of limitations might have expired. This is the amount of time a creditor has to collect on a debt.


If the statute of limitations has expired, then you shouldn’t even negotiate settlement. Leave it alone.
You can find a table showing each state’s statute of limitations here: http://www.bankrate.com/finance/credit-cards/state-statutes-of-limitations-for-old-debts-1.aspx.
 You will be most successful negotiating a settlement for unsecured debt. You should spend some time thinking about how much you want to offer each creditor. Generally, use the following rules of thumb:


If the debt is still with your creditor, then you might be able to settle for around 50% of the face value.For example, if you owe $30,000 in credit card debt, you could settle for $12,000-18,000.
If the creditor has sold the debt to a collections agency, you might be able to settle for less

, You may have other options than debt settlement. For this reason, you should meet with a credit counselor who can walk you through them. You can find credit counselors at your local credit union, university, housing authority, or military base.Call and schedule a meeting. At the meeting, ask the following questions:


How will debt settlement impact your credit score?
Is bankruptcy a better option than debt settlement? What are the differences between Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 bankruptcy?
How can you get on top of mortgage or car debt?

, Debt settlement isn’t for everyone. Fortunately, you have many other options you should consider before contacting your creditors to negotiate a settlement. Consider the following:


Your creditors might agree to lower your interest rate or let you stop making payments for a few months until you get back on your feet (which is called “forbearance”). If your financial problems are temporary, then these might be better options than settling the debt. Come up with a budget and determine what you can pay each month, then call up the credit card companies and explain your situation.You can work with a credit counselor on a debt management plan. Your counselor will contact your creditors and try to get late fees waived. They may also get lower interest rates. You make one payment to the counselor, who distributes the payments to your creditors.Consolidate your debt. If you have several high-interest loans, you can try to roll them into one personal loan with a lower interest rate. You might also use credit card balance transfers, which typically give you 12-18 months with 0% APR.However, avoid taking out a home equity line of credit to pay unsecured debt. When done right, debt consolidation might lower your monthly payments to something affordable.

