 If not, select the ones who are your friends.


Be aware that some classmates may feel left out.;
, Pre-teenage and teenage girl's schedules tend to fill up at a rapid pace and if you don't set a definite time and date they might start making other plans!

, Choose ballet themes for making one, such as a ballet shoe shape or a tutu on a card. Send these out in plenty of time for giving notice of the party and getting RSVPs in return.
 This will be where you play games, perform dances and do active parts of the party. Ensure that there is plenty of space and that there is nothing to bump into or break.
 This might be your bedroom or perhaps the same room as the activities. Just be sure there is plenty of space for everyone's sleeping bags.
 Play fun ballerina-style games. Some include:


Dream It!: You pick tour favorite ballet that everyone is familiar with (Swan Lake, the Nutcracker, etc;) Someone has a notepad and pen. You go around to everyone confessing what roles you dream of having in that ballet openly. You write down the role, but not the confessor's name. Example.....Hannah says "I would really love to be the Sugarplum Fairy!" Adrianna says "If I could be any role I would choose the Arabian Princess."Grace says "Hands down I would be the Snow Queen." You would write down... Sugarplum Fairy, Arabian Princess, Snow Queen. Then you put all the roles in a hat/pillowcase. Each girl picks one out and reads it aloud. They all preform their best impression of the dance (or a portion of it).
Slipper-Swap: Every girl puts her ballet slippers on a pile and you scramble them up. Each girl picks the first pair they see and tries to guess who they belong to. *Also works with pointe/shoes*

, For example: Would You Rather, Manhunt, or Truth or Dare. You are still teenage girls and close friends so the more secrets the better!

, Using a ballet theme is fun, if possible. For example, pipe images of ballet items and dancers onto cakes, cupcakes, cookies, etc., make cookies in the shape of ballet shoes, and so forth.


Also choose drinks, such as flavored water and homemade lemonade.
 Include ballet-related items, such as erasers and pencils with ballet dancers on them, books about ballet, and so on.
 Make them feel welcome, especially if they are coming to your house for the first time ever. In a new home no one likes it better than to feel welcomed.
 Try to avoid boredom at all costs. As the last resort try board or video games.
 Do dances. Watch ballet DVDs. Spend some time outdoors in the yard. Talk lots.
 Try to get some sleep, otherwise you'll all feel irritable in the morning.
 In the morning, have a Pancake Making Contest. See who can make their pancake look closest to a toe shoe!

, Don't be too sad. There is nothing a mother dislikes more than a whiny child.
 At next class, laugh and giggle about the time you had. Maybe relive a funny moment?

,