 A line graph requires two axes in order to function. Enter your data into two columns. For ease of use, set your X-axis data (time) in the left column and your recorded observations in the right column. For example, tracking a sports team’s wins would see the year in the left column, and the corresponding number of wins in the right.;
, From the tabs on the top of the Excel window, select Insert to see everything that you can insert into an Excel worksheet., Select it. A blank graph field will appear in your spreadsheet.


Depending on your version of Excel, there will be no option that actually says, Line Graphs. Find the icon that looks like a line graph, and hover over it to confirm that it is the Line Chart option. When you hover over it, it will say, Insert Line Chart.
There will be several options for line graphs. If you have a lot of datapoints, choose a standard line graph. If you only have a small number of datapoints, choose the Line with Markers graph, as it will highlight each piece of data on the line. Again, hover over each icon with your cursor to see a more detailed explanation of what the icon represents.
 When you click on the chart, the Chart Design menu will open. In the Data group, click on Select Data. The Select Data Source window will open up.


Select the Chart Data Range field. With the Select Data Source window open, highlight all the cells that contain the data you want to turn in to a line graph -- including the column names.
 In the Under Select Data Source window and under the Horizontal (Category) Axis Labels, click the Edit button. Select the column that contains the data you want to be on the X-axis, which is usually time. Select the entire column by clicking on the letter above that column. Then, click OK from the Axis Labels window. This will now label the X-axis with whatever you entered in to the column header.

After you have added the X-axis column to Horizontal (Category) Axis Labels, remove that column from the Legend Entries (Series). Select it, then click the Remove button.
 You can edit the visual appearance of the chart by right-clicking on the chart and selecting Format Chart Area… This will give you options on line sizes and colors. You can do the same with each individual element of the chart by right-clicking and selecting the Format option.


You can change your chart title by clicking on the title once to select it, and then again to activate the text cursor. By default, the title is the same as the label for your data.
You can resize your chart by clicking and holding a corner with your mouse. Drag the mouse to resize the chart.
 You can change many different aspects of your chart through the Layout menu.


You can insert an explanatory text box, or place pictures on the chart to highlight the datapoints.
You can use the Layout menu to adjust where the legend shows up, and how the axes are labeled.
You can also choose from several preset layouts in the Design menu.

