 Smart TVs connect to your home network, and can run media streaming apps such as Netflix. Check your TV's documentation or menu to determine if you have a Smart TV that can run streaming apps. Your remote may have a button to launch Smart TV apps.

The sticker on your TV may have streaming service logos, including Netflix, which would indicate that it's a Smart TV.
If you're having difficulty determining, you can perform a web search using your TV's model number.
 In order to stream Netflix from your Smart TV's app, it will need to be connected to your home network. There are two ways you may be able to do this, depending on your TV:

Ethernet - Some Smart TVs have Ethernet ports that allow you to connect them directly to your router. Simply plug an Ethernet cable into your router and into the TV to connect it to your network.
Wi-Fi - Many newer Smart TVs have wireless adapters that you can use to wirelessly connect to your network. You'll need a wireless router in order to use the Wi-Fi adapter on the TV. Open the Network menu on your TV and select your home network. You'll need to enter the password if your network is secured. The process for this will vary from TV to TV.
 Most Smart TV remotes will have a button that opens the apps list. This button is often a logo or has the TV's brand name on it. You'll need to use the remote for your TV, not your cable box or universal remote.

Samsung - The button looks like a multicolor cube.
LG - Look for the "My Apps" button.
Sony - Press the "Internet Apps" or Netflix button.
Panasonic - Press the "Apps" button.
Vizio - Press the Vizio logo or the Netflix button.
 Again, this process will vary depending on your TV. Some may even have a dedicated Netflix button on the remote.

If you can't find the Netflix app, you may have to download it from your Smart TV's app store.
You may need to update your TV's firmware in order to access streaming apps. The process for this varies, but generally you'll download the file on your computer, copy it to a USB drive, and then load that into the TV. Refer to your TV model's Support page for detailed instructions.
 Once you've opened the app, you'll be prompted to sign in with your Netflix account. Enter your login information and select your profile if given the option. Not all Smart TVs support the Netflix Profile system.

You'll need to have a Netflix plan that supports streaming video. The DVD-only plans will not allow you to use the Netflix app on your TV. See How to Change Your Netflix Plan for tips on choosing the right plan for you. Any of the streaming plans will allow you to use the Smart TV app.
 Your TV remote will allow you to navigate the Netflix interface. Use the arrow buttons on the TV to find the video you want to watch, then press the "Select" or "Enter" button on your remote to start it.