 Go to any store that sells a variety of gift cards. Pick up an un-branded gift card from a major credit card company that’s already filled with x-amount of dollars (as opposed to, say, an Applebee’s gift card that can only be used at Applebee’s). Use this in favor of your personal debit card, since it’s in no way tied to any personal information of yours.Expect to have to pay an activation fee when you first purchase a prepaid debit card.
Prepaid cards have some restrictions about where and what they can be used for, buy you can generally get around those by using your card to start a PayPal account, which you can then use to shop online.
 Don't use the card that's tied directly to your bank account. Instead, opt for a credit card. This way you won't lose any of your personal money in the event that your payment method information is compromised.


Dealing with credit card fraud can also be inconvenient, but the up-side is that the credit card company is the one who must get its money back, not you., If your bank doesn't offer an online intermediary service, use PayPal as one instead. Open an account with them and link your debit card with it. Use your bank account to fill your PayPal "wallet" and then use your PayPal account to make purchases with accepting vendors.The benefit of this is that you only have to worry about your debit card information being compromised on one site, rather than every single one that you've ever made a purchase from.
 Remember: your debit card is tied directly to your checking account. Take that to mean that this is the last payment method you should ever choose to use online, because if it falls into the hands of hackers, they now have access to your money. Only use it online if it’s absolutely necessary.Having money stolen from your account is bad enough, but keep in mind that this may cause additional problems that will cost you even more money. For example, you may get hit with overdraft fees or penalties for bounced checks if you continue using your account without realizing that it's been drained.

