 You could send out an office memo talking about why that food is important due to dietary restrictions. In other words, if you can't eat that food, you won't be able to eat because you have a strict diet or food allergies and can't pick up food just anywhere.You could also leave a note on the fridge instead of sending an email.
 Ask your boss if you can post rules about office food on the fridge. For instance, one rule could be, "Don't eat food that's not yours unless clearly marked." Another rule could be "Label all food with a name and a date." Rules may deter a few people., While it won't stop someone from taking your food, it may cause some people to think twice if your food is labelled with your name. That way, it puts a face on the problem, and they have to think about stealing your food rather than just "someone's" food.However, labeling your food can backfire, depending on the reason the person is stealing. For example, if the person steals as a way to get retribution on someone they don't like, and you happen to be someone they don't like, labeling the food just tells them whose is whose.
 That is, if you want a sandwich, bring components rather than the assembled sandwich. Similarly, if you have a salad, bring it in parts rather than assembled. Most people will go for something already assembled over something that needs to be put together., Another option that will deter some people is picking a lunch bag that's opaque. That way, the person can't see what's inside. Most people will avoid digging through a bag they can't see in, but they will take an option they can see., Bags of chips or carrots, sodas, yogurts, and even frozen meals are more likely to be stolen then things you buy in bulk and package yourself. The reason is the pre-packaged items seem more convenient, so they're easier to grab., One way to keep your lunch is to hide it away. If it's out-of-sight, it's less likely to be stolen. You can try hiding it at the back of the fridge, for instance, behind other food. You can also simply keep it at your desk in a small cooler or insulated lunch bag, along with ice packs.