 It is important to get a cage that has plenty of room for your bird. A cockatiel will need more space than a smaller bird, like a parakeet. An individual cockatiel should have a cage that is at least 24 inches wide, 24 inches tall, and 24 inches deep.The space between the cage bars shouldn't be more than 5/8 inch, so that your bird cannot get their head stuck between them.;
, Your bird's cage should also be very sturdy. A cockatiel's beak is very strong, so having a cage that has thick bars and is made of stainless steel or powder-coated steel is important.If you put your cockatiel in cage that is flimsy or made of sub-par materials, you run the risk of your cockatiel escaping from it or scratching itself against the areas it has chewed on.
 You should get at least three or four perches for your bird to sit on. These can include traditional wooden perches that typically come with bird cages but there are also other types of perches that can serve some additional needs your bird may have.For example, there are grooming perches, also called cement perches or pedicure perches, which are said to keep a cockatiel's nails rounded. These reduce the frequency with which you will need to trim your bird's nails.
There are also natural wood perches available at most pet stores. These can be very enjoyable for a cockatiel to stand and chew on.
 Buying sturdy food and water dishes is important when setting up your bird's habitat. Food dishes should have a good place for your bird to perch while eating and they should be made of a material that is easy to clean, such as plastic or stainless steel. Additionally, look for dishes that have a wide opening, so that your bird will be able to see where its food is easily.Consider getting food and water dishes that are covered. Then, if the bird is on top of one of its dishes and it goes to the bathroom, the food or water won't be contaminated.
The number of food dishes you will need depends on how many different things you plan on feeding your cockatiel. In many cases, you will need to have three food dishes and one water dish.
 Your cockatiel will need a variety of enrichment items to stimulate its brain and to keep it healthy and happy. These can vary, but usually include some combination of:Cuttle bones or mineral bones
Shredding toys
Wooden toys
Swings
Mirrors

, Cockatiels like to be a part of the family but they don't want to be in a hectic and busy spot. Try putting your bird's cage in a corner of your living room or another room your family spends a lot of time in, so that the bird can see you all but is not right in the center of everything going on.

Try putting the cockatiel's cage in a place where it can see out a window. The window will allow it to get some sunlight and to see some activity outside. However, make sure that the bird always has an area of the cage that is not in the sun, so that it does not get overheated., In order to more easily clean your bird's cage, you should cover the bottom with something that can be removed and thrown away. Most people use newspaper, because it is cheap, not toxic to your bird, and keeps most of the mess off the actual bottom piece of the cage. Simply take a few layers of newspaper and shape it to fit the bottom of your bird's cage.

Many cages have a pan that can be removed from the bottom of your bird's cage. If you wrap the newspaper all the way over the edges of this pan, you can then easily remove the soiled paper and give the pan a quick rinse with soap and water when it's time for cleaning, which should happen weekly., Toys and enrichment items, such as cuttle bones or sticks to chew on, should be placed around the cage. Basically, your bird should be able to find something fun to do in each area of its cage and it should be encouraged to move all around its cage so that it gets physical activity.Consider putting a toy that your bird loves in a place that is hard to get to, such as a corner that doesn't have a perch. This will force your bird to use its brain and body to figure out how to get to it.
 Make sure that food and water dishes are in your bird's cage at all times. Water dishes should be placed away from food dishes, ideally on the opposite end of the cage, so that the food does not get flicked into the water dish and the bird gets physical activity when going between the two.Make sure that food and water dishes are placed securely on the cage walls. Your bird will not only perch on them, but will likely chew and push on the dishes while it is having a meal.
 Once you have your bird in its habitat, you may discover that some items don't work where you originally placed them. Don't be afraid to reorganize the cage to better suit your bird's needs. Your bird will adjust to any changes you make, especially if they benefit the bird in the long run.

For example, you may need to move the cockatiel's food dishes so that your bird has easy access to them or so that they don't knock them over when playing with a favorite toy.

