 Review the website to familiarize yourself with what Greenpeace advocates for and the ways in which it expresses its environmental activism. Although Greenpeace has a worldwide presence, they may focus on issues particular to your local area and it's a good idea to find out what they're actively working on, to find out if you are interested in becoming a part of such a campaign.


Also check out Greenpeace's news feed and social media pages to see what the up-to-date issues are and to catch any calls for immediate assistance. Even spreading the word of a particular campaign via Twitter, Facebook, Google+, etc., can be a big help when others find out more about the issue. Even if all you do is retweet their tweets, you're doing them a big favor!





;
, There are often job vacancies available with Greenpeace but you'll need the specific skills required (such as fundraising, communications and media, project planning, expedition planning, scientist, etc.) and you may need to relocate. Also expect fierce competition for most positions. Alternatively, you may wish to donate some of your free time as a volunteer, in which case you're more likely to be able to participate fairly quickly and in a fairly broad range of activities.


The types of jobs you might be able to get include crew on board a Greenpeace ship, software analyst and developer, campaigner, researcher, financial controller, human resources, database manager, technical manager (of ships), coordinator, etc.
The types of volunteer positions you might be able to get include cyber activist, office work, campaigner, community leadership, sewing, carpentry, marketing, painting, etc. Opportunities can last from a few hours to a year or so., Read through the selection criteria to see if you meet the requirements, then apply as outlined. Avoid simply sending in your resume hunting for a non-advertised job, as you're not likely to get anywhere doing so; it is better to inquire and speak face-to-face with someone about non-advertised possibilities, or to join as a volunteer first and to be alert for job opportunities as they come up.


In the USA, you can find job applications at: http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/en/about/jobs/.






For Greenpeace International, you can find job applications at: http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/about/jobs/. A second or more languages would probably be helpful for international positions.
For other countries, check your individual Greenpeace website.
 You will be asked to submit an 80- to 100-word statement explaining why you would like to volunteer.


You must be older than 14 years of age to be considered for volunteer opportunities in the USA. This age limit varies by country (for example, it's 18 in the London, U.K. office), so check the website for individual details.






The Greenpeace website says that it has volunteer opportunities for everyone, no matter where they live, although you do need to check passport/residency restrictions for each area to be sure you meet the requirements. Greenpeace offers many volunteer positions that could include traveling and participating directly in clean-ups and other types of activism or working on local campaigns.
For US Greenpeace volunteer opportunities, see: http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/en/getinvolved/get-involved/volunteer-with-greenpeace/.
For Greenpeace International volunteer opportunities, see: http://www.greenpeace.org/international/en/about/volunteers/.
 You will see information about current initiatives Greenpeace is undertaking. Fill out the online forms necessary to sign petitions and send letters to politicians advocating for Greenpeace's stance on the issues.
 (Note that the tax-deductible nature of a donation is dependent on your own country's tax laws.)


Donations are accepted online via credit card or PayPal. You can also donate with a credit card over the phone, or mail a check to Greenpeace's street address.






If paying by credit card, you can elect to make a monthly contribution of a specific amount. You will automatically be charged on the same day each month.






The Greenpeace website offers further information about giving through estates and trusts, as well as gifting non-cash assets.



Choose a 5-week summer session for $2,220 in tuition, or a 13-week fall semester program for $3,950 in tuition.
Participants receive activist training and attend a campaign trip to learn about grassroots organizing and event planning. Fall semester participants also go on an expedition trip to work firsthand in combating environmental disasters.
Most students receive internship or independent study credit for completing an educational program with Greenpeace. Many colleges offer grants that could help cover tuition costs.
 Encourage friends to join your efforts to get involved.

