 The amount of iron you should consume each day is determined by many factors, including general health, your gender, and your age. It is a good idea to talk to your doctor about how much iron you specifically should be getting, given your medical history and personal information.


Women generally need more iron than men. The general amount is 18 mg, while men 18 years and older generally need 8 mg a day.Children generally need more iron than adults. In addition to this, as women age and reach menopause, they generally need less iron than they used to. They commonly need 8 mg or so.;
, Some conditions will keep your body from absorbing iron efficiently, which may mean that you need to take supplements in order to get enough iron each day. These conditions include:


Kidney diseases
Crohn’s disease
Celiac disease
Pregnancy
Ulcerative colitis

, Iron supplements come in several different forms. Generally, the form of supplement that you take is up to you and your preferences. The different forms include:


Tablets (both chewable and non-chewable)
Capsules
Liquid

, Of course, if your doctor has told you that you need to take the supplements, do as he or she says. If you are choosing to take iron supplements on your own however, try eating iron-rich foods before you spend your money on the supplements. Foods that are rich in iron include:


Red meat like beef.
Leaner meats like poultry and fish.
Fortified cereals and grains.
Beans.
Green, leafy vegetables like kale or spinach.
Dried fruits.
 The general rule is that you should limit your iron intake to 45 mg a day unless you have a severe medical condition and your doctor prescribes further supplementation. Luckily, your body has a system in place that regulates how much iron your body absorbs. Despite this fact, some people have systems that do not work as well. Signs of iron toxicity include:


Vomiting, nausea and diarrhea
Dehydration
Cramps or abdominal pain
Blood in your stool

, Iron deficiencies tend to clear up after two months of supplementation. However, this does not mean that you should stop taking your iron supplements.


Your doctor will most likely recommend that you continue to take iron supplements for 12 more months. Doing this can help to make sure that iron stores in your blood marrow get larger.
 Some medications do not mix well with iron supplements. In particular, iron can make the following medications less effective:


Penicillin, ciprofloxacin, and tetracycline. You should talk to your doctor before taking iron supplements, regardless of what medication are you are taking.
The chances that the iron will affect your medications are reduced when you wait to take your medication two hours after you have taken your iron supplement.
 It is thought that your body is more efficient at absorbing iron when you have not eaten anything.


However, some people find that taking iron on an empty stomach makes their stomach hurt, and can even cause stomach cramps. If you find this to be the case, eat a small amount of food before you take your supplement so that you don’t feel nauseous.
 Vitamin C is thought to help your body absorb iron. Because of this, drinking a glass of orange juice when you take your iron supplement can help your body to process your supplement more efficiently.You could also try taking a vitamin C supplement along with your iron supplement.
You can also try eating foods that are rich in vitamin C. These foods include citrus fruits like oranges and grapefruits, veggies like peppers and broccoli, and green leafy vegetables.
 While foods rich in vitamin C can help your body absorb iron, other foods can hinder your body’s ability to do so. These foods include:


Foods or drink that have a lot of caffeine in them, like coffee, black tea, and chocolate.
Foods that are high in fiber. This includes some vegetables like collard greens and spinach, bran products, and whole grain items like bread or brown rice.
You should also avoid drinking milk, or eating milk products at the same time as you take your iron supplements.
 Calcium and antacid supplements can interrupt your body’s uptake of your iron supplement. Because of this, you should try to wait at least two hours before you take either of these supplements, once you have taken your iron supplements for the day.
 Some iron supplements that come in liquid form can sadly stain your teeth and give them a blackish tinge. Luckily, these stains can be combated by brushing your teeth with baking soda-based toothpaste (or just plain baking soda).


Another way to minimize the amount of staining that occurs is to drink your supplement through a straw. This limits the amount of time that the supplement spends against your teeth.
You could also talk to your doctor about potentially switching to a different form of supplement, such as a tablet.
 If you are taking a high dose of iron supplement, you may begin to feel a little queasy. You may be able to combat this feeling by switching to a different form of iron, eating food when you take your supplement, or taking a smaller amount.


However, it is very important that you talk to your doctor before you change anything about your supplement regimen.
 If you are taking your iron supplements because of a medical condition and cannot stop taking them, or take less of them, then you may need to take a medication to make passing stool easier. Some common constipation medications include:


Amitiza
Colace
GlycoLax
Metamucil

, While this may sound like something you really don’t want to do, iron can affect the way your stools look. These supplements will often turn your stool black, which is completely normal. However, there are some things that may indicate that there is a problem. These things may include:


Red or bloody stools
Soreness in your stomach when you go to the bathroom

