 To create a simple electromagnetic pulse, you will need a disposable camera, copper wire, rubber gloves, solder and soldering tools, and an iron rod. These components can be found at your local hardware store.


The thicker gauge copper wire you use in this experiment, the more powerful your electromagnetic pulse will be.
In the event an iron rod is not available to you, you can use a non-metal rod as a substitute. However, a non-metal rod will have a negative impact on the strength of your EMP.
When working with electrical components that could be holding a charge, or when running electrical current through an object, it is recommended you wear rubber gloves to prevent any errant shocks to yourself.;
, An electromagnetic coil is a device that is made up of two distinct yet integral parts: a conductor and a core.In this case, your iron rod will be your core and your copper wire the conductor.









Wrap your copper wire tightly around your core, leaving little to no gaps in your windings.You should leave excess wire at the beginning and end of your winding so that you can connect your coil to your flash capacitor.
 A capacitor is generally a double pronged, cylindrical shaped component found on most circuit boards.Your disposable camera should have a capacitor for its flash.Be sure that the battery of your disposable camera is removed before attempting to solder the ends of your coil to the capacitor, or else you could get a nasty shock.









Wearing rubber gloves can save you from getting an electric jolt while handling your camera circuit and flash capacitor.
Expend the charge in your capacitor by engaging the flash after removing the batteries from your camera. Any stored charge in your camera can result in an electrical shock., Depending on the materials you have used, the effective range of your EMP shouldn't be more than a few feet in any direction. Be that as it may, any electronics caught in your EMP may be permanently destroyed.Keep in mind that EMPs indiscriminately influence electronics. This includes life-supporting devices, like pacemakers, and valuables like cellular phones. Any damage you cause to these devices through your EMP could result in legal repercussions.
A grounded platform, like a tree stump or plastic table, is an ideal testing surface for your EMP emitter.
 Since the electromagnetic pulse field will only affect electronics, you may want to buy an inexpensive electronic device from your local electronics store. If your electronic device ceases function after your EMP, you have successfully created an electromagnetic pulse.


Many office supply stores have affordable electronic calculators that you can use to test your EMP.
 You will need electricity to re-charge your capacitor, which will then provide the current to your electromagnetic coil and create your EMP. Be sure you have placed your test object close to your EMP emitter.


Electromagnetic fields are, in most cases, invisible to the eye.If you don't have a test object, even if you have successfully created an EMP, you may not know it.
 You can do this by removing the wires from the electromagnetic coil, allowing the current from the battery to feed into the capacitor, and then with an insulated manipulator (like rubber gloves or plastic tongs), reattach the wires of your coil to your capacitor. Using your bare hands could result in a taser-like zap.
 By activating the flash of your camera, you will release the stored electricity in it, which will surge through your electromagnetic coil and create your EMP.









The nature of the EMP field you are creating will affect any electronics, even those that are switched off. If you have chosen a calculator as your test object, after activating your capacitor, if your EMP has worked, the calculator will not turn on.
Depending on the kind of flash capacitor you have used, the voltage required to charge your capacitor will be variable. The approximate capacitance for a disposable camera should be between 80-160 microfarads, and the voltage will likely be between 180-330 volts.