 If you want to treat an older woman right, then you absolutely have to be a gentleman. This may be a foreign concept to you, but all it really means is that you should treat her like a lady and give her kindness and respect. If you pick her up in your car, hold the passenger door open for her, and hold the door open for her if you enter a restaurant or any other location. If she comes over, take her coat and hang it up. Here are some other ways to be a gentleman:


Show up on time, or even a little early. Let her see that she means a lot to you.
Always complement her. Tell her she looks stunning, beautiful, or however she may look that day. Don't be embarrassed to tell her what you really think -- this will win her over as long as you do it in moderation.
Don't spit, scratch yourself, burp, or do other un-gentlemanly things.
Always look nice. Make an effort to shower, groom yourself, and to wear unwrinkled and well-fitting clothing. This will show her that you've put thought and effort into seeing her.
Take her out on nice dates. Don't take her to the local Burger King. You may not have a lot of spending money, but you should make an effort to do something that is at least romantic, even if it's eating at a dimly-lit sushi bar or taking a long walk on a starry night.
 Don't make her think that you just have a fetish for older women and that being with her or talking to her means you've won some kind of prize. Instead, you should ask her about her interests, what she likes to do on the weekends, and about the relationships that mean the most to her. As you're getting to know her, you don't have to pry or interview her, but you should show that you want to know who she really is -- it's cool that she's four years older than you, but that's not her defining characteristic.


When you see her, ask her how her day was. It can be as simple as that.
Ask her opinion on a variety of subjects, from her favorite bands to a new political candidate.
 Older women tend to be more confident and experienced than younger women, which means that they can keep up a better conversation a lot of the time. While recapping last night's football game for an hour may be okay with your buddies, you should make an effort to read the papers, watch the news, and read interesting literature that makes you a more well-rounded person. This way, you'll not only broaden your horizons, but you'll have more to talk about.


If you read something really interesting that day, talk to her about it. See what she thinks.
Talk about relationships. You can discuss you relationship with your siblings, or your bond with a close friend -- just don't talk about your ex girlfriend.
Talk about your travel experiences. Even if all you did was spend a summer a few states away, discuss the interesting aspects of your trip.
Maintain a witty banter. If she says something funny, don't just laugh, but counter her comment with another funny statement. This will show her that you can really keep up.
 Though it may have been amusing or fun for her to be talking to a younger guy at first, you don't have to keep joking about how much younger you are, or how she's so much more experienced. Unless you want her calling you "junior" and thinking of you as a kid brother, you should avoid mentioning this too much, or she'll think that you're obsessing over it -- or worse, she may start obsessing over your age difference too.


Don't bring it up in front of others, either. If you're meeting her friends or introducing her to your friends, keep it cool. Her friends may not even notice that you're a bit younger if you play your cards right.
 You may be so focused on trying to impress and attract an older woman that you may be forgetting who you really are. You shouldn't act like a different person completely, or she'll see right through you. No woman wants to be with a guy who isn't genuine. Remember that you're building your maturity and developing desirable qualities that would make you appeal to a woman -- or any woman, really -- but that it doesn't mean you have to be someone else completely.


If you have a secret "dorky" hobby, don't be afraid to tell her about it if it means a lot to you.
Let her see the best qualities that your other friends see. The friends who are your age must like you for some reason, so don't hide your strongest qualities completely.

