 Wash off the pollen, mold, fungus and dust by giving your cat a bath twice a week. This should help with the itching.Ask your veterinarian for an appropriate shampoo recommendation.Do not use people shampoo on cats.Avoid shampoos with parabens, artificial dyes, sodium laurel sulphate and petrochemicals.Try a hypoallergenic shampoo, hydrocortisone shampoo or colloidal oatmeal shampoo., If your cat has just come inside after a period of playing in high grass or weeds, it is best to rinse them immediately. This will get rid of the pollen and dust on their fur, which will make them itchy for the rest of the day if it is not addressed right away., Topical hydrocortisone creams and salves can be applied directly to your cat’s skin to reduce local irritations. Play with your cat for a while after applying the cream so that they won’t be as tempted to lick it off. These creams tend to be more effective if they are applied to areas where your cat cannot lick them off easily.Monitor your cat to make sure they don’t ingest the cortisone cream.You can purchase low strength creams over the counter.Avoid using cortisone creams on cats with an allergy to cortisone, fungal infections, stomach ulcers, liver or kidney issues., There are some natural remedies for cat skin problems that can be used such as salves with antibacterial, anti-fungal and anti-inflammatory properties. Ask your veterinarian about natural remedies for cat allergies.Apply bee propolis cream. Bee propolis has anti-viral, antibacterial, and anti-parasitic characteristics, so it may help with skin reactions. Although not specifically recommended for allergies, this treatment is one of the most popular natural remedies for cats.Apply aloe vera gel. Aloe vera gel has soothing properties that may help your cat deal with skin irritations during allergy season.Try spraying the irritated skin with some iced chamomile tea. Make some chamomile tea and then ice it in the fridge. Put it into a spray bottle and then spray the affected area of your cat's skin. This should have a nice soothing effect.