 Your metabolism spikes after every bout of physical activity. So if you can break up your hour workout into two half-hour chunks, you'll get two spikes instead of one. Your body burns calories at a higher-rate after a workout (sometimes for several hours after), and if you rejuvenate it later in the day, you'll further enhance the effect.This can be taken advantage of in small ways, too. Even two 15-minute walks can cause a boost. So, with both your meals and your workouts, try to go with smaller/shorter but more frequent.
 Doing cardio is great for you, but doing cardio and lifting weights is even better for burning fat. If you want the most bang for your buck, you should do both.Working with weights is important if you’ve cut back on calories. When you restrict your caloric intake, you risk losing muscle mass instead of fat. If so, you might shed some pounds and still not get the results you’re looking for.
 If you're doing both cardio and lifting weights, it's ideal if you do weights first and then do cardio — in other words, “firm then burn!” Doing so helps keep your post-workout metabolism up for longer — perhaps even all day.This order of exercise may also be easier for you to manage. Generally, pumping iron requires better form and technique. When you're tired from running or biking, it may be harder to lift weights with proper technique., This type of exercise routine can help you break up your workout without actually stopping your workout session. Interval training involves you going at an easy pace for a duration of time, and then going all out. You can also adjust the duration and pauses between the cycling back and forth. This can burn more calories and potentially increase your metabolism.The simplest example of interval training might be the treadmill. Walk for 30 seconds, then run full out for 30. Just 15 minutes of this is more beneficial than a 30-minute even-paced jog., Whatever your workout is — whether it's a 15 minute walk with the dog or a 10K through the park — your body gets used to it. You can actually burn fewer calories when your body is familiar with the level and type of exertion it’s experiencing. So to keep your body a bit off guard, try crosstraining. Consider it a good excuse to pick up that hobby you've been eying.


Crosstraining simply means doing a variety of exercise activities — running one day, swimming the next, biking the day after that. Mixing it up isn't only good for your body, though — it also does wonders for impending boredom!