 You may go to an appointment unsure whether or not medications are right for you or your child. Come prepared with a list of questions for your provider. Make sure you have your questions answered prior to obtaining medication. Some examples of questions you can ask are:What medications do you recommend?
How long will medication use last?
How will medication affect attention, concentration, and hyperactivity?
Can I (or my child) take medication breaks on the weekends or during vacations?;
, Your prescriber will put you on the medication that best suits your needs. Atomoxetine is a long-acting medication and can last 24 hours or more. This makes it appealing for people who have a difficult time “getting going” in the morning or notice the steep decline of functioning when medication starts to wear off. It is not as effective at treating symptoms of hyperactivity.Atomoxetine has antidepressant properties, which can be a good fit for people also struggling with symptoms of depression.
Atomoxetine has a low potential for abuse or recreational use.If you have a history of prescription abuse or drug history, Atomoxetine may be a good alternative to stimulants.
Ask your doctor about starting with a lose dose of medication and increasing it if necessary. This way you can determine the dosage with the most positive effects and least negative side effects. Don’t get frustrated if you don’t see an immediate response. Stick with the treatment plan and follow up with your doctor.
 Atomoxetine does not mix well with certain medications or medical conditions. If you have ever had glaucoma or pheochromocytoma, Atomoxetine is not advised. If you are taking or have stopped taking the following in the last two weeks, Atomoxetine is not advised: monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, including isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate).It is not advised to take Atomoxetine if you have a heart condition or there is a high risk you may develop a heart condition.
Recognize if you are allergic to any ingredients present in Atomoxetine. If so, do not take Atomoxetine., Prior to obtaining a prescription, let your provider know if you take other prescription medications, supplements, vitamins herbs, or recreational drugs.


Specifically, mention any use of the following: albuterol syrup or tablets (Proventil, Ventolin), amiodarone (Cordarone, Pacerone), bupropion (Wellbutrin), chlorpheniramine (antihistamine in cold medications),cimetidine (Tagamet), clomipramine (Anafranil), fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), haloperidol (Haldol), metaproterenol syrup or tablets, medications for high blood pressure, methadone (Dolophine), metoclopramide (Reglan), nefazodone, paroxetine (Paxil), quinidine, ritonavir (Norvir), and sertraline (Zoloft).Your prescriber may adjust your dosage or may monitor your symptoms closely.
 Medication is delivered in pill form and taken once or twice a day, either once in the morning or once daily and nightly. It’s advised to take the medication at the same time each day. Atomoxetine can be taken with or without food. Medication is to be swallowed whole; do not open, chew, or crush.Do not take more or less medication than prescribed. If you encounter any medication difficulties, contact your prescriber.
Do not take Atomoxetine recreationally or as a “party drug.” Use only as directed., As with all prescription medications, Atomoxetine comes with the risk of experiencing side-effects. Some commonly reported side-effects include:Sleepiness
Headache, dizziness
Stomach upset, nausea
Mood swings
Insomnia
Appetite suppression

, Some people may experience serious side-effects from Atomoxetine. Serious side effects can include fast or pounding heartbeat, chest pains, shortness of breath, weakness in your arms or legs, hives, rash, abnormal thoughts or behaviors, hallucinations, or seizures.If you experience serious symptoms, call emergency services right away.


If serious symptoms arise, discontinue medication use right away and contact your provider.
Atomoxetine can cause liver damage in some patients. Notify your prescriber if you notice symptoms such as right upper belly pain, dark urine, yellow skin or eyes, itching, or unexplained flu-like symptoms., Risks for serious symptoms related to suicide are higher in children than adults. For some children, increased suicidal thoughts or behaviors may occur. This is a higher risk in children diagnosed with bipolar disorder or depression.The risk for suicidal tendencies increases at the beginning of medication treatment and when doses are adjusted.Tell your prescriber if your child or teen has a history of bipolar disorder or previous suicidal thoughts or behaviors.
Call your provider immediately if your child shows signs of agitation, irritability, suicidal thoughts or actions, or if your child experiences any unusual changes in behavior.
 Continue to receive regular medical and psychological care while on Atomoxetine. Attend follow-up appointments to check in on Atomoxetine use and effectiveness. Note any difficulties or side-effects with your provider. Talk about any necessary adjustments to dosing as needed.Notify your prescriber before taking any newly prescribed medications as they may interact with Atomoxetine.
Follow through on any tests your provider recommends to track effects of Atomoxetine such as blood, heart, and blood pressure checks. If problems are found, discontinue or decrease dosage.
 If you live with other people or have children in your home, keep the medication in a secure, locked location.This can safeguard against misuse, abuse, or accidental doses.


If medication is given to a child, administer single doses each day with supervision. If medications are taken at school, keep the medications with the school nurse, not in the child’s backpack or locker.
 If you miss a dose, take your dose as soon as you remember it. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and continue your regular schedule. Do not make up for your missed dose. Do not take more than one dose in a 24 hour period.If you have questions about missing a dose, contact your provider.
 Even if you have a friend that struggles with attention, do not share your medication. Your prescription is for you and only you. If you share your medication, you are engaging in illegal activity that may be unsafe or cause harm to someone unknowingly.If you have a friend that struggles with symptoms of ADHD, recommend that he or she see a prescriber about medication or a therapist to learn coping skills.
 Even if you are prescribed Atomoxetine, do not take any medication that does not come directly from a pharmacy. These medications may be unsafe, expired, or mixed with other medications. Always receive medication from a prescription and always pick it up at the pharmacy., Therapy is an effective way to cope with symptoms of ADHD and make long-term improvements in functioning. While medications can be helpful in managing symptoms of ADHD, the thoughts and behaviors associated with ADHD are present when medications wear off. Therapy can help build skills such as organization, managing time effectively, and creating a daily schedule. Therapy can also help you or your child gain emotional skills such as coping with stress, managing impulsive behaviors, and controlling anger.When medication is coupled with therapy, the prognosis for ADHD symptoms improves.

