 If you are trying not to show your sadness for whatever reason, try putting on a "mask", such as looking calm or mildly engaged, even when you're not. It might actually help to make you feel better and won't draw attention to you when you don't want it. Stay neutral and try not to let your sadness seep through.;
, If you are feeling really sad and you're on the verge of tears, try to excuse yourself from a large crowd of people, such as going to the bathroom or finding a silent place without many people. Your emotions might overwhelm you and it's best just to take deep breaths.


Concentrate on breathing in and out and repeat this action until you've calmed down a little.
Concentrate on something else that's not your source of sadness, such as a funny video or a picture that cheers you up.
Pop outdoors briefly. Sometimes you just need to breathe and give yourself some fresh air.
 If you can, confide in a friend and they can help you to calm down, especially when you're feeling overwhelmed and ready to cry. Your friends don't want you to be sad and they'll know how to help. Even if they don't, just being there for you and knowing that you have their support is important. Other people you could talk to include teachers, counselors or an office manager.
 Even looking up some funny things online and showing them to others will lighten the mood and as the cliché says, laughter is contagious and always the best medicine.
 This might be drawing, gaming, playing music or doing whatever your talent is. Find something that you enjoy doing.
 Find a person who makes you feel happy, and go see what they are doing. Maybe you can help them, or talk about their day. Sometimes focusing on someone else can get your mind off of your own troubles.
 It will help you to feel better. It's unhealthy to bottle up your feelings and caring people are always willing to listen. There is always someone who will listen and people do care about you and your well-being. You are not a burden and neither are your problems, so one of the best things is to express your feelings openly.

