 A vocal range is the span from the lowest to highest note that a voice can make. There are four main vocal ranges with several sub-ranges that people can produce.


Every person possesses a different vocal range, and while men typically fill out the lower ranges and women the higher ranges, some people possess an ability to span several ranges.
The four main vocal ranges from highest to lowest are: Soprano, Alto, Tenor, Bass.
Sub ranges include: Mezzo-soprano, Contralto, Countertenor/Tenor 1 or Tenor 2, Baritone. High tenor is also known as Countertenor or Tenor 1.;
, Middle C will help you find your vocal range since it’s in the middle of the piano or keyboard and a great starting pitch that most people can sing.


To locate middle C, Look for the name of the piano manufacturer in the center of the piano. You’ll see a grouping of five black keys in the middle separated by two white keys. The white key directly to the left of two black keys in the center of the piano is middle C.
 You can find your vocal range on a piano, keyboard, or with a computer program by singing along as you go up and down in the notes. To accurately find your full vocal range it’s best to do some vocal warm ups before you begin to loosen up your vocal chords.


Start warming your voice up by humming, allowing your pitch to slide up and down freely. Perform lip trills by pursing your lips and blowing air through them as if you were blowing bubbles underwater. Sing scales.Start at middle C and match pitch. Then progress downward on the piano hitting each note and matching its pitch.
Once you’ve gone as far down as you can and still produce a sound with your voice, make your way back up and continue matching pitch to notes until you’ve gone as high as possible being to sustain the note.
As you go higher up, you will have to sing in head voice and falsetto. Head voice is when you feel the vibrations in your head as you’re producing sound from higher up in your body. Think Mickey Mouse when trying to sing in head voice. Head voice marks the break in your voice, where you can’t smoothly hit a higher note. Falsetto, or “false voice” is when you feel that nasally pinch in the back of your throat.
Once you’ve gone as low and high as you can, count how many octaves your voice spans. Each octave is eight notes. Start at middle C and count down to the next C, remembering which is the lowest key you could hit. Repeat with the upper keys. Most people possess a range of 1.5 octaves.
High Tenor is in the (G♯2-)C♯3-B4(-E5) range.
 If you naturally sing in the tenor range, you’re well on your way to singing in high tenor. Locate middle C again and match pitch with an "Ahhhhh" sound.


Now locate the C an octave below Middle C, followed by the C an octave above Middle C. Match your voice to each note by going, "Ahhhhh."
Typically the highest note for a tenor is around the E5 key.
 Your head voice is like a bell. In order to master your head voice, you have to be able to access the resonance in your nasal cavity and employ your pharynx. The pharynx is the passageway that connects your nasal cavity to your larynx.Start in the middle of your range and produce an “Ng” sound. As you open your mouth into an “Ahhhh” sound and move up through the scale, really connect to the vibration you feel in the back of your neck.Head voice is a connected sound, as it still involves part of your chest. Meaning that you may not feel a break when transitioning from chest voice to head voice.
To strengthen your head voice, sing an “Ahh” sound starting at the upper middle point in your range and sliding up until you can’t sing any higher without transitioning into falsetto.
Do lip rolls. Lip rolls will help you learn to control your vocal cord closure, which develops a well rounded head voice.
 Register breaks occur when you transition from chest voice to a higher mode like head voice or falsetto. Breaks can also occur when coming back down, and can be smoothed out with proper technique and practice.You can learn to minimize your break by opening up the throat further through manipulation of vowels. This means not pronouncing vowels as you would when speaking. Instead drawing out and rounding vowel sounds to keep your larynx stable.
 Countertenors have the ability to produce a full sound in falsetto, sometimes allowing the voice to reach lower alto levels. Your falsetto doesn’t draw from your chest, but your nose and throat.If you’ve ever imitated a female voice, this is similar to falsetto.
To produce a well rounded falsetto sound, keep your larynx stable, and picture yourself closing around the notes, not pushing or straining them outward.
Start with the lowest note that you can in falsetto and practice scales going up and down until you can produce a consistent sound.
 They tend to be tensed when hitting high notes.


You might be tempted to raise your chin as if you’re reaching for the note, but this will strain your voice and restrict your vocal cords. Keep your head level.
Pull your shoulders back and align your spine in a straight line, extending through the crown of your head.
 It will help you hit the higher notes and it should be very light sound. Project your voice from your nasal cavities.When you sing higher notes your vocal cords get tighter and smaller, like the strings on a guitar.
Don’t think about reaching up to hit higher notes. This will cause your voice to strain. Instead, picture reaching out farther in front of you to grab the notes.
 Begin by singing an “Ahh” sound in your chest voice, and move up the scale. Notice how the pharynx and back of your throat feel when singing in your chest voice.As you ascend the scale, keep your throat open and try not to let your pharynx move up in your throat.
You’re still still drawing breath from your diaphragm, but you’re not involving your nasal passages as much as you would when singing in chest voice.
Pinch your nose and sing. Though higher notes involve your nasal cavity, you’re not singing out of your nose. Pinch your nose and transition to head voice and falsetto. Work on being able to produce a consistent sound with your nose blocked.
 The best way to sing in high tenor is to practice repeatedly. By singing songs that force you to consistently hit higher notes you can begin to train your voice and expand your range. Consult a vocal coach to help you as well. Some countertenor songs are:


Alone in The Universe from Seussical the Musical.
Bring Him Home from Les Miserables.
Dentist, (The) from Little Shop of Horrors.
Can’t Take My Eyes Off of You from Jersey Boys.

