 Direct intuition, also called literal intuition, is the sort of intuition you harness when you ask yourself about a specific situation.Make yourself comfortable. Sit down in a quiet place and focus your breathing until your body relaxes.
Identify a situation you would like insight on. Focus on this situation for several minutes.
Ask aloud or in your mind for a direct intuitive experience about it in the near future.
Let it go. You may need to do this multiple times before anything comes of it, but by focusing your energy on one specific situation, your intuition is more likely to pick up on cues for that situation than on anything else.;
, Indirect intuition, also called symbolic intuition, focuses on the mind's natural ability to pick up on things of key importance by developing your ability to see in and interpret mental symbols.


Grab a pencil and a piece of paper.
Ask yourself, "What does my life need right now?" Repeat this question three times, pausing in between each repetition while imagining yourself moving to a more meaningful answer each time.
After asking the question three times, pick up your pencil and draw the first symbol that comes to mind.
Interpret the symbol. Figure out what it represents from your perspective and how that concept plays into your life.
 The human mind enters the REM stage of sleep every 90 minutes, and during this state, the mind dreams. Dreams can be a powerful tool in your journey to interpret cues from external stimuli that your subconscious has already analyzed.Before going to sleep, put a pad of paper and a pen next to your bed. Ask yourself a question or focus on a specific situation in your life that you need an intuitive answer to. Repeat it as often as possible before falling asleep.
When you wake up, write down anything you dreamed about. If you did not dream about anything, write or draw whatever enters your mind.
Repeat as needed until you get an answer to your question or situation.
 Blind readings use a system of cards to help you focus your energy and subconsciously answer questions using your intuition.Sit down at a desk with three blank cards.
Think about a question or situation you need your intuition to help you with. Write three different solutions to that question, assigning one to each card.
Flip the cards over so that the answers face down. Shuffle them and place them face-down on the desk.
Run your hands over the cards. Take your time, relax, and breathe deeply.
Flip the cards over. The card you felt most drawn to should be the correct solution.
 Most instructors who teach psychic development will say that the biggest obstacle you need to overcome when becoming clairvoyant is the fear you have regarding the ability to see the future.


Identify the source of your fear. Oftentimes, your fear may be as simple as worrying about how silly you look, but sometimes, you might have a frightening image at a young age and turn off your clairvoyant abilities in response.
Get rid of your fear by chanting an affirmative phrase silently or out loud. Try a phrase like, "I am willing to release all fear of seeing my future."

, Before you can use clairvoyance to answer direct, specific questions, you may need to increase your ability to see vivid images in your mind. You can do this with a simple visualization exercise.


Imagine yourself holding seven balloons. Each balloon should be a different color.
Let the balloons go one by one. Watch each one float up to the blue sky until they disappear before releasing the next balloon and visualizing the same thing.Practice until you can clearly see each balloon complete its journey.
 When the time comes to use your clairvoyance on a particular question, make sure to phrase your question in a very specific manner so that you can really address the heart of the matter.


Stay away from a broad question like, "Will I enjoy my birthday this year?" In this instance, think about what you actually want your birthday to be like, and ask yourself a more specific question like, "Will any of my friends or family take me out to do something special for my birthday this year?"

, After asking your question, breathe deeply three times. Focus on the area between your eyes. This spot is a chakra known as a "third eye," which psychics claim to be responsible for visual clairvoyance abilities.


Continue breathing while fixing your attention on this area. Vividly imagine an illuminated horizontal oval shape in the center of your forehead. This is your "third eye." Ask it to open, repeating the request until it does and you feel a warm feeling rush through your body.
 Let the images come into your mind naturally. Do not force them. If they seem fuzzy or unclear, tell them, aloud or silently, to grow in size and strength right away.


Clairvoyant images will usually come as a picture inside your mind's eye, a picture seen outside of the mind's eye, a movie inside your head, or a movie outside your head.
The images may be black and white or full color. Moreover, they many appear life-like or cartoonish.
If you cannot figure out what your clairvoyant images mean, ask aloud or silently, "What do these pictures mean?"
You should receive an answer as a feeling, thought, or sound.
If this does not work, repeat the exercise until some answer does come. When you just start out, the answer may seem hazy and uncertain, but it is important that you trust yourself no matter what.
 When people think of psychic abilities and predicting the future, they often think only of clairvoyance. Clairvoyance is the practice of future “sight,” but there are other senses you can use to anticipate the future.


Clairaudience is the ability to "hear" psychic energy.
Clairsentience is the ability to "feel" energy. Common forms of clairsentience include gut feelings and empathy.
Claircognizance is the ability to "know" things without being told. If you ever had a grandmother or aunt who knew whenever anyone was sick at your house without being told about it first, she would have possessed claircognizant abilities.
 To develop clairaudience, you need to learn how to fine-tune your sensitivity to the sounds around you and inside you.When lying in bed at night, consciously listen to the noises you usually tune out. Separate and identify each one. Pick out as many as possible before falling asleep, and do this for about a week.
Listen for clairaudient guidance. Picture yourself turning on a radio and tuning to your clairaudient channel. Start asking questions, and listen for any words you get in response. These words may be soft or loud, sensible or confusing, but once you hear a response, you need to analyze what it means.
 One of the most beneficial ways to develop clairsentience is to work on reading the energy and feelings of someone else. You can practice this in several ways.Ask a friend to show you a picture of someone you do not know but whom he or she knows well. Look at the eyes of the person in the picture and try to determine how that person felt at the time the photo was taken. Also ask yourself if this person is trustworthy, and if there is anything else that stands out. Check with your friend to determine how accurate your senses were.
Ask a friend to give you an object belonging to someone you do not know but whom he or she knows well. This object should be something the person has worn regularly, since these objects are more likely to absorb more energy. Hold the object in your hands and gauge whether there more positive or negative energy has soaked into it.
 Developing your claircognizance is a lot like developing your intuition. You will need to focus on exercises that help you organize your thoughts and understandings, like automatic writing.Sit down with a pen and paper. Ask yourself a question and write down whatever pops into your mind in response, even if it seems like unrelated nonsense.
Force your mind to be a spectator in this exercise. Do not let your mind think about the information you get or try to direct it. Simply write your thoughts as they roll out until they cease to come.
Read over what you wrote. If anything jumps out at you, highlight it and analyze it after you finish reading your entire thought process.
 Whether you are trying to develop intuition, clairvoyance, clairaudience, clairsentience, or claircognizance, tracking your psychic experiences in a journal can help you develop your abilities further.


Keeping a journal helps you understand your strongest psychic and intuitive abilities. It also lets you check for accuracy and assess how valuable your responses tend to be., Even if no one among your friends and relatives is working on developing clairvoyance, you should have at least one person whom you can openly express your thoughts to. Sharing your experiences can help sharpen your understanding of them.


Share entries from your intuition journal and discuss your interpretations.
Discuss similar experiences your intuition buddy has had and help him or her analyze any dream or experience that has remained a mystery to him or her.

