 Mark the vertical line in several areas on the wall. If your walls or windows appear crooked compared to these lines, consider a random wallpaper pattern so the edges and corners aren’t noticeable.;
, Generally, large prints don’t work in small rooms because they make them feel smaller.
 Small prints exaggerate the size of the room, while light colors reflect light, adding to the spacious feeling.
 It is best to use a wall without windows and other fixtures in this case.
 This will allow you to inquire about the best methods and tips for using it. You will be able to call the store if you have any questions throughout the process.
 If you need to order more, they may be able to match the color to the exact printing that you used previously., Each paper is slightly different. When in doubt, use the specific directions rather than general directions for wallpapering.
, To make your own, rest a three by six-foot (0.9m by 1.5m) piece of three-fourths inch (1.9cm) plywood on top of two sawhorses. Sand the corners of the plywood to avoid tearing.


Basswood and plywood are like a self-healing mat, allowing you to cut into the surface of the paper with a utility knife without ruining the paper.
 Large pieces can be slightly unwieldy.
 You should make a mark every six inches (15cm) or so, to ensure you hang a sheet to be completely level. Don’t trust ceilings, floors, trim or windows, since many of them are hung without being perfectly level.


You will want to start hanging your wallpaper in the least conspicuous area of the room.
 Cover the floor in drop cloths. The water and paste can drip off the table and onto floors.
 You will need to apply patching compound and sand it if there are holes. Wash the wall with trisodium phosphate (TSP) or a TSP substitute.



For exceptionally uneven walls, you may want to apply special “liner paper” over them before pasting wallpaper.
 Cut it to the length of your wall, adding four inches (10cm) of extra space, or two for the top and two for the bottom.
 This means the prepasted side, usually white side, should be toward the outside., Place it at the bottom end of your worktable.
 Soak it for about 30 seconds, or the time recommended by the manufacturer.
 The patterned/colored side should be facing up.
 They should not be creased, just coerced slightly in toward the pasted side. This is called “booking.”

, During this time, the wallpaper expands. Laying the paper too soon will cause it to expand on the wall and create gaps., Ensure the pattern is right side up.
 Use your plumb marks on the wall to line it up. Then, leave about two inches (5cm) of extra paper above the trim to remove later.
 The size on the walls should allow you to slide it to an exact position.
 Brush the bubbles out toward the sides. Repeat until the wallpaper is smoothed to the wall.
 Always smooth from top to bottom and from the center toward the sides.
, Cut with one clean motion against the top edge of the putty knife using a utility knife. Keep your utility blade as horizontal as possible as you cut.


Replace the blade after cutting the trim off two pieces of wallpaper. Sharp blades are essential to avoid tearing.
 Make sure you align it with the plumb line and with the previous strips of wallpaper. Pay attention to manufacturer directions on how to match up the pattern.
 Then, cut from the center of the fixture toward the corners. Trim the paper with our utility knife and putty knife.

