 Your deck should have more than 25 cards and it should be shuffled well. One-fourth to one-third of the cards in your deck should be energy cards.;
, Take 7 cards from the top of the deck and put them aside, face down.
 These are your prize cards.
 Typically these should be on your right side, opposite to the prize cards. Your Discard Pile will be next to the deck.
 Look for a basic Pokémon in your hand of 7 cards. If there aren't any, shuffle your hand into your deck and draw another 7 cards. Each time you do this, your opponent can draw an extra card.
 If you have at least one basic Pokémon in your hand, put the one you want to use for attack first face down onto the playing area a few inches in front of you. If you have more basic Pokémon cards in your hand, you can put them face down beneath your active Pokémon as your bench. You may have no more than 5 Pokémon on your bench at one time.
 Place these cards in a pile on the side face-down, without looking at them. Each time you knock one of your opponent's Pokémon out, take a prize card. When you run out of prize cards, you win. Fewer prize cards can be used for a faster game.
 Flip a coin to see who starts. The first player cannot attack.
 When you are ready to begin, make sure your active and benched Pokémon cards are all turned face up. The rest of your hand, prizes, and the rest of your deck should all be face down. You can look at your hand, but not your deck or prize cards.
 You win if you take all your prize cards, if your opponent has to draw but can't because they've run out of cards in their deck, or if you knock out all Pokémon on your opponent's field.
, If you have a basic Pokémon in your hand, you can place that Pokémon in your bench. This can be done as many times as you want. There can be up to five Pokémon on your bench.
 You can attach one Energy card per turn by placing it underneath one of your Pokémon, below all pre-evolved forms.
 These cards are self-explanatory and let you do lots of helpful things. Different types of Item cards are Trainers, Supporters, Tools, and Stadiums. You can activate any number of Trainer cards during your turn, but only one Supporter. After they are used, they go to the discard pile. A Pokémon Tool can be attached to one of your Pokémon that doesn't already have a tool attached to it. They stay there with the Pokémon until the Pokémon gets knocked out, at which point they both get discarded. When you play a stadium, it is placed horizontally between both player's fields. It is discarded when a new stadium comes into play. There are also special energy cards used to provide energy and do something else special that is said on the card.
 If you have evolution cards for a Pokémon that is active or on your bench, you can evolve the Pokémon by placing that card on top of it. A Basic evolves into a Stage 1, and a Stage 1 into a Stage 2. You can't evolve a Pokémon on the first turn it is played, either by benching them or evolving them, unless using an effect. You also can't evolve Pokémon on your first turn.
 Some Pokémon have abilities which can be used for special effects.These are listed on their cards.
 To retreat a Pokémon is to switch it out for another Pokémon on your bench. Usually, you will have to pay a retreat cost by discarding energy attached to that Pokémon. The retreat cost will be listed on the bottom of the card. You can only retreat once per turn.
 The last thing you can do in your turn is to attack your opponent's active Pokémon using yours. After you attack, your turn ends. You cannot attack on your first turn if you go first. This action is expanded upon in the following section.
 You have to have the right amount and type of Energy needed for the attack cost (listed on the card to the left of the attack name) attached to that Pokémon in order to attack.


Some attacks require colorless energy. There are indicated by white stars, and can be any type of energy. Other attacks will require specific energy types.
 Most cards have a Weakness to a particular type. It will receive additional damage if your Pokémon is of the type it has weakness to.
 It will receive less damage if your Pokémon is of the type it has resistance to.
 The damage an attack inflicts will be to the right of the attack name. This damage is placed on the defending Pokémon. In game, damage will be referred to as damage counters, with each one representing 10 damage. You can keep track of these damage counters by using official counters, any sort of small flat objects, or with dice.
 Pokémon with 0 HP are knocked out. Place them in their owner's discard pile, along with any Energies or items that may be attached, and any or all evolutions. Then, you can take a Prize card.
 These include Burned, Poisoned, Asleep, Confused, and Paralyzed. Poisoned, Burned, Asleep, and Paralyzed have effects that occur in-between turns, in that order.
 Put a Poison marker on the Pokémon that is poisoned. It takes 1 damage counter between each turn.
 Place a Burned marker on the Pokémon if it is Burned. Flip a coin in-between turns. If heads, the Pokémon takes no burn damage. If tails, put 2 damage counters on the Burned Pokémon.
 If a Pokémon is Asleep, its card is turned counterclockwise. Flip a coin in-between turns; if heads, the Pokémon wakes up. If tails, stays asleep. Asleep Pokémon cannot retreat or attack.
 Paralyzed Pokémon are turned clockwise, and can't retreat or attack. Paralysis is cured between turns if the Pokémon was Paralyzed since the beginning of your last turn.
 The card of a Confused Pokémon is turned upside down. Flip a coin before you attack with a Confused Pokémon; if tails, put three damage counters on that Pokémon and the attack does nothing. If heads, your Pokémon attacks successfully.


If the attack involves a coin flip, flip for the Confusion first.
 The easiest way to heal an affected Pokémon is by returning it to the bench. It cannot be retreated if it is asleep or paralyzed, but can still be switched by using effects. You can also use trainer cards that heal status conditions. If a Pokémon would be affected by multiple conditions that rotate the card, only the most recent one applies.

