 Before you begin baking, you will need to make sure that you have 2 cups of light brown sugar, 1 ¾ cups of unsalted butter, 1 ½ cups of granulated sugar, 3 whole eggs, 1 tablespoon of vanilla extract, 2 ¼ cups of white flour, 1 ½ teaspoons of table salt, ¾ teaspoon of baking soda, and 1 pound of dark or semi-sweet chocolate. Have all of these ingredients on hand before you begin making your cookies.This recipe will make roughly 34 cookies.
Make sure that your butter is at room temperature.
 It is important that the oven has had enough time to reach the appropriate temperature for baking crispy cookies. If you put your dough into an oven that is not warm enough, your cookies will likely melt together into a giant cookie mess.For a thicker, yet still crispy, cookie, preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius)., Mix the brown sugar, butter and granulated sugar in a stand mixer until the mixture is pale and fluffy. This should take about five minutes. Once the sugars and butter are creamed, add three eggs one at a time and mix them in completely. Finally, mix in 1/3 cup of water and the vanilla.Fat will help make your cookies crispier. The more butter, the crispier the cookie.Add ¼ cup of vegetable oil to make your cookies a little thicker.If you do not have a standing mixer, you can mix these ingredients together by hand. However, it will take much longer.
 In a separate bowl, mix these ingredients together. Once they are incorporated, add the flour mixture to the butter and mix on low until thoroughly combined. Finally, mix in the chocolate pieces.Be sure to mix slowly. You want to ensure that everything is mixed evenly. You also do not want to make a mess.
 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper. Scoop out cookie dough and freeze for an hour. Because they will melt a lot when they cook, try to keep at least four inches between each cookie.If you want more evenly distributed and uniform cookies, use an ice cream scoop.
Using parchment paper will make sure that the cookies do not stick. It also helps your baking sheets last longer.
If you are not going to cook all of the cookies, pop the remainder off of the parchment paper and place them in a freezer bag. You can store your cookies in the freezer for up to two weeks.
 Place the cookies in the oven and bake them for 15 to 20 minutes, rotating the sheets halfway through. The longer the cookies bake, the crispier they will get, so try different lengths of time to find the right crispiness for you.Depending on your oven, heating time may vary.
 Once they have baked to the desired crispiness, remove the cookies from the oven and let them cool. Because they will be extremely thin, use a spatula to remove the cookies.Let the cookies cool on the sheet for a crispier texture.

