  Dirty and smelly girls are very unattractive and seem trashy.  Take a shower or bath every day, and use a light-scented body wash.  Apply a light-scented body lotion.  Use deodorant when you're out and are sweating and smelly.  Brush your teeth twice a day and floss once at night.  Wear clean clothes and wash your hair when it starts to smell and look very greasy and unappealing.
  Classy girls look naturally flawless.  If you're healthy, you'll have shiny hair, flawless skin, strong nails, and a fit body.  Eat lots of fruits and vegetables for fibre, and also eat lots of protein like chicken, fish, eggs, tofu, and nuts.  Only eat junk food once or twice a week.  Exercise at least 5 days a week for at least 20 minutes.  Drink lots of water and sleep for at least 8 hours a night.
  Wash your face twice a day.  In the morning, just splash your face with cold water and gently pat dry.  Apply a light moisturiser.  At night, follow the directions on your cleanser and rinse with warm water.  Gently pat dry and apply a light moisturiser.  Visit a dermatologist if you have acne.
  Wash your hair every other day to every 3 days, and use dry shampoo if your hair can't go a day without being very greasy.  Squeeze some excess water out of your hair after showering/bathing.  Gently pat your hair with a towel and let it air dry.  Avoid using heat on your hair or dyeing your hair too often.  Wear your hair in a bun, waves, straight and smooth, or braid.  Get a trim if your hair is damaged.
  It's completely fine to go all natural.  Only use light brown, light pink, white, and nude.  Wear mascara, eyeshadow, lip gloss, and cream blush.  On special occasions, wear a little bit of eyeliner and red lipstick.
  Wear comfortable but flattering clothes.  Wear black leggings, thin cardigans, light-coloured tank tops, pretty T-shirts, high-quality runners, Uggs, and flats.  Own one pair of heels if necessary.  Avoid showing too much skin (e.g. super short skirts, low-cut shirts).  Only wear real jewelry and wear it sparingly.

