 It is so easy to be consumed by the opinions of other people. If you are constantly living to please other people, you will quickly lose sight of your dream life. Check in with yourself frequently to be sure that you are living for yourself and not for anyone else.Worrying about what other people think could prevent you from achieving your goals. For example, if you want to become a hair stylist you must go to beauty school. Your friends or parents may think that going to beauty school is a waste of your time. However, if you worry about what they think you might not become a hair stylist.
 Everyone has a different set of values and priorities that they should consider when they are trying to live their dream life. Some people value the time with their family more than anything. Others are more focused on their career and value their time in the office. Be sure to keep your values in mind when you are making decisions that affect your life.Make a list of your values and priorities so that you can refer to them often.
 If you have done a good job making SMART goals, then you’ve taken the first step to setting yourself up for success. The next step is to meet those goals. Make a list of actionable steps that pave the way to each milestone that you set.For example, if you set the goal to travel more often, have a certain amount of your pay automatically go to a savings account each payday. You could also dedicate one weekend a month to traveling to a new local place.
 Find out who you truly are and learn to love yourself. Consider what really matters to you. Stop comparing yourself to other people. It may seem as though other people have a better life that you, especially in the age of social media. When you truly love yourself you will start to believe that other people love you too.Commit time to causes that you truly care about.
Find people that enjoy the same movies, books, and music as you and enjoy them together.
 A huge part of your dream life is likely to be the people with whom you share that life. Make an effort to let them know how important they are to you. Spend time with them whenever possible, and show them respect and gratitude.


For example, if your spouse is the most important person in your life, make time to go on dates or have romantic nights at home.

