 Unlike with bleeding a separate or new master cylinder, you can do this without gathering new parts or equipment. You will need:


A brake bleed screwdriver or wrench. You will have to loosen the screws that hold the hoses in place in order to bleed the master cylinder.
Pliers. You will need these to pinch the hose attached to your master cylinder in between pumps
WD-40 or other water-displacing solvent. Your brake bleed screw may be caked with oil or other contaminants and be difficult to unscrew. You'll use the WD-40 to remove this material and allow yourself to loosen the screw.
Jacks. Since the master cylinder is underneath your car, you'll want to jack up the car so you can get underneath it. Just make sure that the jacks are sound, so the car doesn't come crashing down on top of you.
A helper. He or she will pump your brakes while you fiddle with the hoses and screws underneath your car.
 This will allow you to get underneath it to work with the master cylinder.


Immobilize the car by blocking the wheels, and make sure it won't roll by parking it on a flat surface.
Don't detach the wheels, because if the jacks fail the wheels will give the car some bounce and perhaps prevent your untimely demise.
 This container will be used for catching the excess brake fluid, so make sure you don't mind that it gets dirty.


Consider attaching the hoses to the container in some way. Once you begin pumping, they will begin flailing about and spray blake fluid everywhere if they are not anchored down in some way.
An old coffee can works especially well for this, as does any cylindrical container with a wide, flared opening.
 Have him or her indicate to you what he or she is doing by calling out "down" when pressing the brake pedal and "up" when letting it go.
 Now you will begin doing some work on the master cylinder.
 This isolates your master cylinder and keeps you from bleeding your brakes as well.


You're trying to bleed your master cylinder, and not your brakes, so you don't want to affect the latter by messing with the former.
Likely, brake fluid will instantly fly out. This is why you want to have a container attached.
Before your helper releases the pedal, make sure you have the hoses back on.
 If there is air in the fluid, you will see air bubbles in what was discharged.


This is also why it is important to have a container or jar, because without collecting the fluid, you will have no idea whether there is fluid in the brakes or not.
 Failing to do so will allow air back in to the cylinder.
,


Don't forget to continue topping up the master cylinder with brake fluid. Otherwise, you may introduce air into it and have to begin again.

