 Because Kool Aid pie filling doesn’t require any baking, using a store-bought graham cracker crust that doesn’t require any baking either makes the dessert especially easy to make. You can use a 9-inch (approximately 229 mm) crust to make a single pie, or purchase a package of 6 mini 3-inch pie crusts to make individual pies.If you prefer, you can use use a premade crust made of vanilla wafer cookies instead of graham crackers for your Kool Aid pie.;
, If you want to make a sweeter crust that will balance the tartness of the filling, place 6 cups (1420 g) of a fruit flavored cereal in a plastic bag, and use a rolling pin, heavy can, or even your hands to crush it into approximately 3 cups (approximately 708 g) of fine crumbs.Fruit flavored cereal that works well for the crust include Trix, Fruit Loops, and Captain Crunch Crunch Berries.
You can also make your own graham cracker or cookie crust by crushing the cookies.
 A homemade crust must be baked in the oven to set it up, so it’s important to make sure the oven is at the right temperature. Set the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to preheat fully so it’s hot when the crust is ready.Your oven will likely alert you when it’s properly preheated. It may beep or an indicator light will turn on to let you know that it’s reached the desired temperature.
 In a large bowl, combine the crushed cereal with 1 stick (½ cup or 115 g) of butter that’s been melted and 3 tablespoons (approximately 38 g) sugar. Mix the ingredients together with a spoon until they are thoroughly combined.The mixture will be coarse and almost sandy when the ingredients are fully mixed.
Melt your butter in a heavy saucepan on the stove at medium heat, or cut it into pieces, place it in a microwave-safe bowl covered with towel paper, and microwave on medium-low (30% power) for 10 to 15 second intervals until it is melted., Once the crust ingredients are completely mixed, take a greased 8-inch springform pan and begin pressing the crumb mixture into the pan. Make sure to press the crumbs into the bottom and up the sides.To make sure that the crust is tightly packed, use the bottom of a glass, measuring cup, or other flat item to press the crumb mixture into the pan.
 Once the crust is pressed into the pan, place it in the preheated oven. Allow the crust to bake for 15 to 20 minutes until it is firm and not crumbly.You can also refrigerate the crust for approximately two hours until it sets up. However, it won’t be as firm as a baked crust, so it make crumble more easily.
 When the crust is finished baking, remove it from the oven. Leaving the pan in tact, allow the crust to fully cool. That can take anywhere from 15 to 20 minutes. Be sure not to remove the sides of the pan while it’s cooling.It’s extremely important to make sure that the crust is completely cooled before you add the filling. Touch it to ensure that it’s not giving off much warmth before spreading the filling inside.
 Add 1 8-ounce (225 g) container of whipped topping to a large mixing bowl, and mix with a 14-ounce (397 g) can of sweetened condensed milk. Use a whisk to blend the two together well.For a richer pie, you can replace the condensed milk with an 8-ounce package of softened cream cheese and a 13-ounce (approximately 367 g) jar of marshmallow creme.
 To add the main flavor to your pie, sprinkle a 1 packet (6 g) of Kool Aid into the whipped topping and condensed milk mixture. You can also any flavor that you like, but strawberry, cherry, and raspberry are classic options.You don’t necessarily have to add the entire packet of Kool Aid to the filling. You can add a little less if you don’t want your pie as sweet or tart.
Lemonade or Pink Lemonade Kool Aid are great flavors for a summer pie. Kool Aid comes in so many flavors that it’s easy to find one to fit any occasion.
Some Kool Aid shades, such as Lemonade, don’t have any color. You may want to add a few drops of an appropriate food coloring shade, such as yellow for Lemonade, to make your pie look bright and fun.
 Once you added the Kool Aid powder to the whipped topping and condensed milk, use the whisk to fully incorporate the Kool Aid into the filling. The mixture will change color from the whitish tone of the whipped topping and condensed milk to whatever shade the Kool Aid powder is., Once the filling is completely mixed, carefully begin spooning the mixture into the pie crust. Be gentle as you add the filling to the crust to avoid crumbling any of it. Make sure to spread it all the way to the edges so the entire crust is filled.The filling has a tendency to stick to the spoon or spatula that you’re using to spread it into the crust, so take your time adding when you’re adding it.
 The pie needs to set up before you can eat it, so you must chill it after you’ve added the filling to the crust. Cover the pie with the lid from your store-bought crust or some plastic wrap, and allow it to refrigerator for approximately 2 hours.Be sure to leave the pie in the refrigerate until you’re ready to serve it.
 Once the pie is set, you can decorate the top however you’d like. You might add some more whipped topping, or decorate it with appropriate fruit, such as sliced strawberries for a Strawberry Kool Aid pie. If you’ve made a homemade crust with cereal, you can scatter some pieces across the top. Colorful sprinkles are also a pretty addition.If you want to add fruit to your pie, you can also layer it across the bottom of the crust before you add the filling. For example, you might place some strawberry or banana slices on the bottom before pouring Strawberry Kool Aid or Tropical Fruit Kool Aid filling over it.
