 You will be working with fire, and with fire, come many risks. Even if you are extra careful, there is a chance of the wax igniting as it drips onto your paper. This can result in a small fire. Work on top of a tiled counter or a clean, metal baking sheet. Have a large glass of water near by—something that is easy to grab and spill.


This method is recommended for stamps made out of metal. You can use other stamps, such as clay ones, but they will be more likely to stick to the wax.
 Try to get a wax stick made specifically for making wax seals. If you cannot find one, then you can use a crayon instead; just be sure to peel the paper away first. Hold the wax in one hand, and a lighter in the other. Ignite the lighter, and hold the wax up to it.


If you are using a wax stick that has a wick inside of it, light the wick, and let it burn for a few moments. You can also use a candle instead.
 Keeping the wax stick close to the flame, hold it directly above the paper. Let a few, big drops of wax drip onto the paper, until you get a puddle that is the same size as your seal.If you are using a candle or wicked wax stick, hold the candle/wax stick at a 45-degree angle above the paper.Black soot may get into your wax, especially if you are using a wicked stick. This is normal.
 Use the opposite end of your wax stick—the one that never got melted. Dip it into the puddle, and swirl it around. This will help give you a uniform color and thickness. It will also help get rid of any air bubbles., A quick and easy way to do this is to tap the base of the stamp against a damp sponge. This is very important. If you work with a dry stamp, the hot wax may get stuck to it.You can use a store-bought stamp meant for making wax seals, or you can make your own stamp using the methods above; do not use a rubber ink stamp.


Use cold water. If your stamp gets too hot, the wax won't cool down fast enough. It might also stick to your stamp.
If you are working with a non-metal stamp (such as a clay stamp), use oil instead.Any cheap oil, such as vegetable oil, will do.
 Hold your stamp over the wax, and peak under it. Make sure that the design or letter are facing the right direction, then press the stamp firmly into the wax.


To lessen the chances of sticking, let the wax cool for about 30 to 40 seconds first., During this time, the wax will start to cool and harden.
 If you feel a "tug" on the stamp, that means that the wax hasn't cooled enough. Don't pull the stamp away. Instead, hold it against the wax for a few more seconds, then try pulling it away again.If you try to pull the stamp away too soon, the design may not form properly.
Gently rotate the stamp around the wax before you pull it away. This will allow the wax to gently release the stamp., Even if the design the embedded clearly in the wax, the wax may still be hot and squishy. Don't touch or handle the seal until the wax cools completely. After this, your wax seal is complete.

