 It's a tough job that comes with long hours, many demands and a paucity of work until you're considered bankable. Even then, for many models it's a short-lived career. and winning a few talent shows isn't the same as living a modeling career, so be sure you're truly ready for what it will involve, even if you already think you've got what it takes.;
, Some of what is out there isn't pretty to read about but you should be aware of. Go into this industry with your eyes wide open.For example, read The Vogue Factor by Kirstie Clements. It will help inform you about some of the issues models face, along with magazine and publishing expectations.
 Apart from that, you won't learn much else. Do not rely on the glamor shots in these publications as an indication of what modeling is all about; there is much more involved than looking amazing (which can take hours of effort in itself!). Modeling is hard work, often challenging and at times, will likely force you to cross your comfort zone as you are expected to perform in ways that might scare of or overwhelm you. For example, you might have to deal with jobs that include heights, walking quickly in high heels down many stairs, holding scary animals, diving into deep water, wearing clothing you feel exposed in, and so forth––you just never know what stunts you may be asked to cope with. However, these experiences can present a fun challenge if you have the right mindset; only you can make that choice.
 There are good agencies and there are also shoddy agencies, as with many other career assistance out there. Research the agency online and find comments others have left. Also ask existing and past models for their opinions. Best of all, find a mentor who can guide you in making good decisions, including which agency to use––preferably choose someone who has been in the modeling industry (or associated with it, such as a magazine editor, fashion writer, etc.) for decades.


Find financial information about the agency - is the company solvent? Does it have a good financial reputation?
Does the agency have a good reputation in general?
Which models are already with the agency?
What clients does the agency attract?
Read the fine print of anything you sign with an agency (see below). Know what you're getting yourself into.
 It is your brand, your promise and your ticket to new work opportunities. Be sure to have complete control over the brand you're presenting. If you do not know how to get this aspect right, speak to people who can assist you to do it properly. Again, be guided by your mentor or adviser on the right places to get assistance from.


Look at other model's portfolios. What do you see that is effective and what do you see that doesn't work? Avoid copying but do be ready to use the general ideas of what is a good portfolio. Aim for a unique presentation and look.
Use a commercial photographer with a great reputation to prepare excellent shots of you for the portfolio.
There are reputable courses and portfolio producers but they are not a promise of work; participating in courses and getting a portfolio together can only start you on your way. Be wary of paying for "work opportunities"; paying for courses is one thing but not for the modeling jobs themselves! And if you do pay for courses, get advice first and ask previous students if the course was value for money.
 Every person who wants to work for someone else has to get used to doing interviews. This isn't anything new; what is different is that you need to present a brand (your appearance), as well as your skill set.


If you act confident, even if you don't feel it, this will help you to grow in confidence. Knock-backs are inevitable but they do not need to diminish your self worth unless you permit this.
Work on your assertiveness. In this industry, you will need to speak up politely. There is no space for a diva who argues all the time or a pipsqueak who doesn't say anything until her or his hair is on fire from that crazy fire shoot. Find an assertive balance that lets you be heard and that gets you known as the person who will speak up when needed in constructive ways, without resorting to complaints and always willing to use initiative to overcome difficulties.
Remind yourself that clients are after a certain look and the reality is, that won't be your look all of the time. However, you can help yourself by refining your niche, such as choosing swimwear, catwalk or fashion shoots because you have the look that the specific niche is after.
 Treat makeup as an enhancement; the simple fact is that many clients will book you based on your natural self, expecting makeup to enhance what they already like about your look, poise and style.


Don't overdo the makeup for interviews. Keep your hair natural too (no obvious hair product in it); this lets the stylists see the potential for your hair without artifices in the way.
Wear neat, casual clothing that isn't out of keeping with current fashion. Simple clothing that shows your silhouette, shape and look, is best.
 All job seekers must know the company's background, mission and achievements. It is no different for modeling, except that you will need to check this background information out more frequently. Fortunately, the internet makes this easy. Do not neglect to do this homework; knowing the background to the product or service and what the ethos of the company you're modeling for can help win you the job, as you'll reveal a better understanding of what's expected than models who have failed to do their homework.
 It is a standard part of the industry. Pick yourself up each time, learn from it and realize that you often just don't have the right look for that particular campaign or show. It is not that you aren't a good model; it's simply that clients are free to choose from many types of models, male/female/transgender and this is just part of what modeling is all about. If you give up early on, then this isn't the right job for you.
 Be prepared, not ambushed. Sometimes there will be lecherous, advantage-taking and backstabbing people in the industry, just as there will be people you can trust. Avoid seeing everyone as a potential untrustworthy person but keep your wits about you. Consider the following:


How will you fend off unwanted sexual advances (sexual harassment)? While it is to be hoped you will never have to do this, do not be naive. For example, if you sense something isn't right about a situation or person's expectations of you, put yourself ahead of the job, always. Report sexual harassment to your agency and the police.
Consider what you will do to avoid unsafe situations. For example, if there is a suggestion that you turn up to a photo shoot alone and in the middle of nowhere, ask why it is so secretive and if you don't like the explanation, or your agency cannot satisfy you that it's safe, turn down the job. If you're under 18, always have a chaperone, such as a your parent or an older sibling. If you're in your late teens and 20s, a chaperone still won't hurt until you know enough about the industry. And have the phone numbers for the police and people you trust on speed dial on your cellphone (and always take the phone with you).
Consider how you will cope with the pressure to be pin-thin. The extent of thinness expected will vary depending on the type of modeling you choose to do. For example, Paris thin for the catwalk can be alarmingly thin, while many fashion, beauty, editorial and sports shoots may be a healthier slim weight; plus-size modeling is also an option. You need to make up your own mind about losing weight for modeling but you do need to face this expectation rather than hoping it won't be an issue. Ultimately, if it gets to the point that you're starving yourself constantly, you'll have no energy, you won't be a healthy role model for women or men who see your image and it can most certainly end up damaging your health.
Consider what you will do if you're asked to wear/promote something that conflicts with your personal beliefs or values. What if you have an ethical dilemma about the company whose product or service you're promoting? What if you're asked to do a photo shoot that you find clashes with your beliefs? These ethical or moral issues may confront you, and it is a good idea to know ahead of time what you will choose to do. Some people might say "it's all part of the job" and suck it up, while others might say that your longer-term values that allow you to sleep well at night matter more. You decide.
 Even better, have someone with legal or contract-vetting knowledge read it over for you first. Ask questions before signing, and be sure you understand both the terms and conditions of the contract and any verbal explanations you are offered.


Beware any changes made to the contract in handwriting, with crossing out, or changes to what is usually a "standard" contract.
If you do not understand the contract, do not be bullied into signing it. If someone makes a comment that plenty of others are willing to sign it without bothering with its clauses, walk away. There will be other jobs with people who are willing to let you read it and understand it. You have a lot of life ahead of you; do not base decisions on a moment of undue pressure.
 Modeling is, for many models, a hard career in terms of regular cash flow. There may well be no regular cash flow, so you will need to make the money you do earn work harder and last longer. Have a really good budgeting system in place, avoid splurging and always think ahead to the future.


Keep some of your money in an investment account for "emergencies". Try not to touch it unless the need is dire.
Draw up and follow a budget based on your average earnings.
Avoid splurging. This can throw out your budget for months to come.
 Consider what you would like to do post-modeling. Many models will not still be modeling beyond their 20s, 30s or 40s. Many reasons are behind this, with the most potent probably being the never-ending commercial pressure to only feature the youngest faces and looks. But realistically, many things can cause you to want to leave modeling, such as wanting a steady income, having children, disliking the travel/hours/dieting, pursuing a new passion, and so forth. By thinking ahead, you can safeguard your future, as well as enjoying your modeling now.


Do you want to do a certificate, diploma or degree course by correspondence, part-time? Having a qualification behind you makes good sense and can be part of your longer-term plan for continued financial independence and following a satisfying career path.
Perhaps you're more business-minded? If so, consider what you'd like to do by way of offering goods or services when running your own business. Do some night classes or do an online part-time course in business management, entrepreneurship or similar. Start making business plans; it's never too early, and who knows, you may wish to juggle both modeling and running a business.
Consider working in a related industry. Perhaps acting, TV or publicity events are of interest to you. You might also consider being a host for parties, a speaker, a club owner, etc. Consider work where your appearance, poise and confidence form an intrinsic part of the role.
Write books. Models such as Miranda Kerr and Heidi Klum have written books about beauty, personality and similar things that play to what they know well. Or Tara Moss, who made a conscious decision to try out modeling for a time, but who has always loved writing, and is now a world-renowned crime writer.