 IBooks is a free application available for the iPhone and iPad; the application is developed by Apple, and is designed to work seamlessly with the iPhone operating system. The iBooks application can be downloaded from the app store on the iPhone, or from iTunes on your home computer. From within the application you can access the "iBookstore," which allows you to purchase e-books for your iPhone. The e-books in this store are primarily in the "epub" format, which is one of the most common and widely supported file formats for digital books. You will need an Apple account to purchase the books.


To sync applications between iTunes and your iPhone, first connect the iPhone to your computer. Click on the "Apps" heading and check "Sync Apps." Select the apps your want to sync and then click the "Sync" button.





;
, Amazon, who manufactures the popular Kindle e-book reader, also makes a Kindle application for iPhone. This application is available for free in the iPhone's app store. After downloading the application, you can browse Amazon's website from your phone and purchase e-books through their site. These e-books will be wirelessly delivered to your iPhone. You can also purchase these e-books when browsing the Amazon website on your home computer.


Note that Amazon's e-book store uses a proprietary file format called "azw." These e-books will work on the Kindle and through the Kindle application, but will not be readable on other e-book readers. The Kindle does not support the more common "epub" format.
 Stanza is a free e-book reader developed by Lexcycle; it is available for the iPhone as well as for desktop use. You can download the application through the app store and purchase books directly through the application.


A benefit of using Stanza is its wide file format support. Stanza supports the popular epub and eReader formats, as well as other common formats like HTML, PDF, rich text, and Microsoft Word documents.
Because Stanza is also available in a desktop version, it is easy to manage your book collection on both your home computer and your iPhone. Load your books into iTunes, and then drag them into the "My iPhone" library under the "Devices" heading.
 While you'll need some form of e-book reader to read books on your iPhone, you don't have to purchase books directly through that application. Instead, you can browse books at online retailers like ebooks.com. These retailers will generally give you a choice of file format when downloading. Make sure that the e-book application you have on your iPhone is capable of reading the file formats you choose to download.

