 Take a close look at the skin surrounding your nail and try to pinpoint what the problem might be, as this will directly impact your course of treatment. Look for signs of picking or biting. Test out the texture of the skin to see if it feels dry or brittle. Look at the color, as a yellowish tint could indicate an infection or fungus.Your cuticle should also lay relatively flat against your nail. Extra bumps or ridge can be a sign of trauma or even an illness, such as kidney disease. If you see these, talk to your doctor for guidance and treatment.
If the nail or cuticle feels brittle, applying cuticle oil and moisturizer on a daily basis should help to hydrate the skin and nail area.
You should be able to see a half-moon shape at the bottom of your nails. If it is not immediately present, try pressing down lightly on your nails. If you still cannot see it, it may be a sign of other underlying health issues, such as hyperthyroidism. In this case, consult a doctor.If you see signs of fungus, then start by applying an anti-fungal cream, as directed. If this doesn't work, talk with your doctor. They may prescribe a pill that can help.;
, Your hands come into contact with all sorts of germs throughout the day and allowing a cut to go untreated allows these things to enter into your body. Wipe down any cuts with a prepackaged alcohol wipe. Apply a tiny bit of Neosporin and then cover the area with a bandaid. If the cut is small, let it air dry, but keep an eye on it.If you go with a Band-Aid, make sure to remove and replace it every few hours, so that your cut can breathe.
 If all of your cuticles are causing you pain or if you just can’t seem to heal them, then it may be time to make an appointment with your general physician. It is possible that a more serious infection is causing your problems or even a hormonal issue. If the nail structure looks injured, your doctor may call for an x-ray to check for any broken bones.Tell your doctor if you have recently slammed or hit your hands against another object or if you work with construction tools. They will check for hand injuries just in case.
Be aware that long-term damage to the cuticle area can cause deformities to the entire finger. That is why it is good idea to talk with your doctor if you suspect something more serious or if you damaged your cuticle via an injury.If you bite your nails until they bleed or if you feel as if you can’t stop picking or biting your cuticles, then you should speak with a mental health professional to help end these behaviors., If you’ve damaged your nail bed and cuticle by crushing or if you’ve received a deep cut to this area, then it is a good idea to seek medical assistance as soon as possible. Leaving a serious injury untended can cause damage to the nerve endings, among other complications.A nail avulsion, or when a portion of the nail is pulled away from the cuticle and underlying skin, is also an injury requiring quick treatment. Avulsions are often accompanied by distal tuft fractures of the finger after blunt trauma.In some cases, the entire nail bed may be removed to ensure proper healing. Try not to worry. The nail will grow back in around six months.

