 It can be a dragon, a unicorn, a human hybrid, a flying pony, a seafaring pig, a wizard gorilla, or a mixture of all sorts.;
, Grab a piece of paper and a pen. Draw or describe your creature.


Choose colors, such as rainbows, all black, all white, and so forth.
Consider special features, such as a glow, lots of eyes, scales, sparks, and so forth.
Can your creature talk? Is it telepathic, or does it use signals? Maybe it uses its own language and you understand somehow.
 If can be an easy or difficult creature to care for, it can be curious, adventurous, slothful, unruly or anything else that you feel works for your creature.


Consider making a paper, clay, foil or other type of model of the creature.
 Cover all of the things you'd cover if caring for a companion animal. For example:


Where will it be kept? Can it be kept or only called?
What will it be fed? Is this easy or hard to obtain?
What will it drink? Water or only certain waters from certain places? Or perhaps not water at all.
Where will it sleep? Do you need to make a bed or will it make its own nest?
What supplies will you need to take good care of this creature?
Do you need riding equipment if the creature is large enough? Or a halter, leash, etc., to restrain and lead it?
What will you do with it? Does it need training, talking to, grooming, de-fleaing, etc.? Do you want to do things with it, such as going on quests, swimming, flying, opening portals together, visiting new lands, and so forth?
Can your imaginary creature do tricks or does it have a special power that can help you in your quest, everyday life or particular needs? Do you need to give it anything or cultivate these special powers in any way?

, What do you need to do to take care of the creature should this happen?

, This is optional but can be a great fun way to use your writing and drawing skills to create a lovely treasure of a read. It can be shared with family and friends when finished, or used to accompany a board game, a book, a cosplay adventure, a stage play or anything else you would like to use it for.

