 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper.


If you don't have parchment paper, cooking spray will do -- but it's less reliable.;
, With your whisk in hand, mix together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Once combined, move onto the butter. Be sure to use chilled butter, cutting it into small pieces to incorporate it into the flour mixture with a pastry blender or two knives. When it's ready, it'll have the consistency of coarse crumbs.









Make sure the butter is thoroughly mixed in! It may take a few minutes to accomplish this -- be diligent.
 Add all of it to the flour mixture -- when the dough comes together, stop mixing. Do not be tempted to over mix the dough; that will make it lose its pliability and texture.
 Knead the dough gently four or five times to get it going and then work it into a round. About 7" (18 cm) is good. To make your individual shortcakes, cut out rounds with a 3" (7 cm) round cookie cutter. Place them evenly spaced out on the baking sheet.









Brush the tops of the scones with a little cream; this will give them a golden, luscious color.
 Insert a toothpick in the center of a scone -- if it comes out clean, they're ready. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.









As the shortbread bakes, keep an eye on it. It can burn quite easily.
 Make pieces of all shapes and sizes -- don't worry about uniformity.
 Then it's time to go to town, crushing them with a potato masher or fork. Add the remaining sliced strawberries, along with the sugar. Use more or less sugar, depending on how sweet your berries are.









Some strawberries are a bit unripe and need more sugar to match the flavor of the scone and cream.
 Leave them alone and at room temperature for about 30 to 60 minutes. This softens the berries and gives them a dessert-like quality. The flavor will come alive at this time, so don't skip this step!








, This will help the cream aerate. Kind of like how a beer is always better in a frosted glass.
 This should take about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. When the peaks start forming, stop immediately. If you over beat the mixture, it will lose its form.









If you don't have vanilla and lemon zest, you can make a topping out of 1 cup (250 ml) cold heavy whipping cream and 1-2 tbsps (15-30 g) white sugar. Orange zest or lime zest can be colorful alternatives to lemon zest as well.
 Place the bottom half of the scone (soft side up) on the plate. It's time to make it beautiful.
 Make sure to get both crushed and whole strawberries on all areas, for presentation (even though it'll last about 2 minutes once served!). Place the top half of the scone on top, like the most delicious sandwich ever. Almost there!








, If there is strawberry juice left over, drizzle a little over the top of the whipped cream or make a pattern on the edge of the plate. Place a bit of the strawberry mixture to the sides, too -- everyone likes extra! Serve immediately.








