 If your partner reads braille, it is a good idea to include braille writing on all of the written materials for your wedding (such as programs, placards, and signs). Many companies offer this service, or you can purchase a braille printer and make these materials yourself., If your partner (or guests) are visually-impaired, keeping the venue well-lit can make a huge different in their ability to navigate the space. You want to create as much light in the space as you can, and you want it to be evenly-distributed. Add standing lamps to the space, or increase the wattage on your bulbs.You can use incandescent, full spectrum, or florescent bulbs.
You can help reduce glare by covering windows with blinds or curtains, and avoiding shiny surfaces (like shiny tablecloths).
Using contrast (such as dark tablecloths with white dishes, or a dark rug on a tile floor) can also help make the space more accessible.
 When choosing a venue, make sure that it is a safe, accessible place for your partner. Make sure the aisle is flat and smooth, and that your partner will be able to navigate the space easily. Also, make sure that the seating is adequately spaced (with rows and chairs a little father apart from one another) to make the space more accessible for your guests., Speak the manager of your venue about what can be done to accommodate your partner and other blind guests. With the help of your partner, create a list your specific needs and bring this list to the manager. Find out everything they can do to make the day easier and more enjoyable for you and your guests.For example, you might inquire with the venue about your ability to bring guide dogs.
You might ask about adding additional lighting.
You might find out if you can customize and rearrange furniture in the space.
For best results, bring some of these needs and concerns to light before you book a venue.
 An effective way to help accommodate your blind guests (or any of your guests) is to provide transportation to and from the wedding. You might book a limo, bus, or car service, or simply asks some friends and family to volunteer. Providing transportation can make it easy for many different people to attend., If your partner is involved in the visually impaired and blind community, remember there will probably be several guests with visual impairments. Even if you have already tried to foresee what accommodations you could make for them, it is best to inquire about their needs. Every blind person is different, and there may be simple and reasonable ways for you to help make your guests comfortable.

