 This type of canner heats the jars of food to 240ʡF (116ʡC), which is necessary in order to ensure that all the bacteria and other contaminants are killed. Since meat is a low acid food, and does not contain natural preservatives, using a pressure canner is the only safe way to can it.Pressure canners are available new at kitchen supply stores, but you may be able to borrow one or find a used one online.
Consider getting a jar lifter to use with the canner. This tool is used for moving the jars out of the steaming water when the canning process is complete.
Do not use a simple bath canner to can meat. Bath canners do not raise the internal temperature of the meat to a high enough level to kill the contaminants.;
, Canning jars are made of glass and come in convenient sizes. You can buy new jars or reuse old ones, but make sure the lids are new. Reusing old lids isn't safe, since they won't properly seal the second time around.


Jars come in quarts, pints and half pints. Choose the size that fits the needs of your family. It makes sense to can a meal's worth of meat in one jar., Before you start canning, take the time to set up your work area in the kitchen. Be sure the surfaces you'll be using are clean. Lay out your cutting board and knife, paper towels and some vinegar for wiping the rims of the jars. Place your jars within reach of the cutting board so you'll be able to transfer the meat to them right away. Keep the lids and rings away from the meat area to prevent them from getting bits of fat or grease on them.
 When used correctly, modern pressure canners rarely cause the types of accidents that older models used to cause. They have safety features in place to prevent them from exploding with pressure buildup. That said, it's important to handle the machine with care. Take the following precautions before you start canning:


Keep children and pets away from the kitchen. The machine gets very hot, and a small child could pull it down from the counter. Kids and pets underfoot could cause you to trip and break a glass jar. It's best to keep them out of the kitchen while you're concentrating on canning.
Check the vents in your pressure canner. Each time you use it, check to make sure the vents aren't clogged. If they are, dangerous pressure could build up in the machine.
Make sure the pressure gauge is accurate. If it's not, too much pressure could build up without you realizing there's a problem.
Be ready to stay close by at all times. Don't leave the kitchen while you're using the pressure canner.