 The Department of Homeland Security is an umbrella agency for three different agencies all of which compile information in different situations. You should learn the acronyms for each agency as you will see them often as you search for your immigration records.


U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Immigration (CBP)
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE);
, Different agencies maintain different immigration records, and you will need to make a request to the specific agency that has the type of record that you want. Here is a breakdown of the information collected by each specific agency:CBP: contacts at the border; apprehensions at the border (if 2000 or after); voluntary returns; detentions by Border Patrol on the border or a port of entry; expedited removals by Border Patrol; inspections or examinations at arrival.
USCIS: the “A-file,” which is the file that USCIS keeps on you whenever it comes into contact with you (this file will also contain information about apprehensions on the border before 2000).
ICE: deportation records; student exchange visitor information; medical records while in detention.
 In order to make a successful request, you will need to provide certain information. Gather this information ahead of time to expedite the request process:Date of birth
Any aliases you may have used
Your parents’ names
I-94 Admission Number
Alien Registration Number

, If you have a pressing need for the records, then you might want to meet with a lawyer. An experienced immigration lawyer can help you access necessary records as swiftly as possible. He or she can also help you access court records, if that is what you really need.


Some immigration records before 1982 cannot be accessed with a Freedom of Information Act request.Accordingly, you should meet with a lawyer if you need older records.
To find an experienced immigration lawyer, see Find an Immigration Lawyer.
 Under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), you may use the DHS Form G-639 to request information from USCIS. The form can also be used to request records from ICE and CBP.This form is available from the USCIS website at http://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/files/form/g-639.pdf.


Instructions for filling out the form are also available at the USCIS website. You should download a copy if you need help understanding how to fill out the form.
 Type or print clearly in black ink. If you need extra space, then you can attach extra sheets of paper provided the paper has your name and Alien Registration Number (if any) at the top of each sheet. Indicate what Page, Part, and Item number the supplementary information refers to. Also sign and date each sheet.The form must be signed in front of a notary public.Notary publics can be found in most courthouses and large banks.
Be sure to bring acceptable forms of personal identification, such as a valid driver’s license or passport.
 You should mail your request to the appropriate office, which depends on the agency you are requesting records from. For some agencies, you may also scan and then email your request.


CBP: You should mail your request to the CBP office in the city closest to the port of entry where your incident occurred.You can find a list of ports and their addresses by using the map created by CBP available at http://www.cbp.gov/contact/ports.

Note that CBP prefers that you submit an electronic FOIA request online.USCIS: National Records Center, FOIA/PA Office, P.O. Box 648010, Lee’s Summit, MO 64064-8010. Email: uscis.foia@uscis.dhs.gov.ICE: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Freedom of Information Act Office, 500 12th Street, S.W., Stop 5009, Washington, D.C. 20536-5009. Email: ICE-FOIA@dhs.gov., For ease of access, you can make an application online by visiting the Department of Homeland Security. The website is available at http://www.dhs.gov/dhs-foia-request-submission-form. You can select either ICE or USCIS from the drop-down menu.


If you want information from CPB, then you can make an online FOIA request at https://foiaonline.regulations.gov/foia/action/public/home. You can make a request as a guest or create an account., There is no fee to file an initial FOIA request. However, agencies can charge fees if you are a commercial requester or for photocopying in excess of 100 pages. Some requesters may also be charged a fee if more than two hours of searching is required. By making a FOIA request, the agency may presume that you have agreed to pay at least $25 in fees., You should receive an acknowledgement letter within 3-5 business days after the agency receives the request. A tracking number will be included. The government is supposed to provide your records within 20 days but can take an additional 10 days if needed.