 StoryCorps recording sessions are dialogues between a subject and an interviewer. For 40 minutes, the subject talks about an important story from his or her life. Though one person's story is usually the central focus of the recording session, many stories benefit from the relationship and back-and-forth between the two participants, so they're not strictly one-person shows.


If you know someone who has a great story, accompany this person and participate in the interview. If you yourself have a great story, invite someone close who will be able to talk about it with you.;
, Except in special circumstances, interviews are conducted by appointment only. To make an appointment, visit the StoryCorps reservation site located here.


Alternatively, book appointments via a toll-free hotline at 1-800-850-4406. The hotline accepts calls 24/7 and is available in both English and Spanish., StoryCorps operates three permanent recording studios called StoryBooths. These are located in San Francisco, Chicago, and Atlanta. To make an appointment at a StoryBooth on the reservations page, follow these steps:


Select your preferred location from the "Choose your Recording Locations" drop-down menu.
Under "Choose a Date Range," pick the earliest and latest possible dates for scheduling your interview.
The list of possible appointments below will change to match your criteria. Click "Book Now" next to the most convenient option. Fill out the reservation form on the next page to finalize your appointment.
 Don't live near one of the three StoryBooth locations? You may be able to schedule an appointment at StoryCorps' mobile recording studio, which travels to various locations throughout the country. If you're interested in finding the mobile tour, select "Mobile Tour" from the list of location options and follow the rest of the instructions above as normal.


For information on the mobile tour (including a schedule of upcoming stops), visit the tour page here., This will make for a quick and easy reservation process. You'll want to have:Your name and contact information
Your interview partner's name and contact information
Your preferred date and time for your interview
Payment information for a valid credit card. You will only be charged if you cancel within 48 hours of your appointment (the cancellation fee is $50).
 40 minutes goes by quickly once you start talking, so you won't want to waste any recording time on dead air.


In general, emotional, open-ended questions usually get the most personal results. Asking "how did that make you feel?" as opposed to "and then what happened?" will make for a deeper, richer conversation.
If you're having a hard time thinking of questions, visit the StoryCorps question generator, which has great conversation-starters for every occasion.
 Arrive at the recording location on time. You will be greeted by a StoryCorps Facilitator, who will explain the process and help you get started. You should expect:A brief introduction/sound check/set up before the interview (about 15 minutes total).
A long, mostly uninterrupted dialog between yourself and your partner (about 40 minutes total). It is absolutely OK to express strong emotions here; laughter and tears are a common experience.
After your interview session, you'll be given a CD copy of your interview and have your picture taken.

