 Taking an over-the-counter medication is one of the fastest and easiest ways to get rid of a fever. If your fever is from a viral infection, then it may be difficult to treat. Viruses live in the cells of the body and reproduce rapidly. They do not respond to antibiotics.You can, however, take medication to try to manage your body's fever response, no matter what the cause.


Try taking acetaminophen (Tylenol) or aspirin to help bring down your fever. Make sure that you follow the instructions on the package and do not exceed the recommended dosage.
Don't give aspirin to children, because it can cause Reye's syndrome if they have viral infections. Acetaminophen is a safer option. Look for "children's" formulas, and follow dosage instructions carefully.;
, Bathing or showering in lukewarm water may also help to cool down your body faster as well.Fill the bathtub with lukewarm water or adjust your shower until the water is lukewarm. Soak in the tub or stand in the shower for 10 to 15 minutes to help cool down your body.


Do not take a freezing cold shower or add ice to the bath to bring down your fever. Just stick to lukewarm water to gently reduce your fever.
 A fever can dehydrate you and this may make matters worse. Make sure that you drink plenty of water to help your body combat the fever and keep yourself well-hydrated as well.


Kids may also need to drink an electrolyte fluid, such as Pedialyte, to help replenish lost electrolytes.Ask your child's pediatrician first to see if this is necessary.
Gatorade or Powerade are also an option. You may want to cut these with water to reduce the sugar and calorie content.
 Taking multivitamins will not fight the fever directly, but it will strengthen your body so it can fight.


Take a multivitamin with vitamins A, C, E, and B-complex vitamins, magnesium, calcium, zinc, and selenium.
Take one or two capsules or teaspoons of fish oil every day for the omega-3 fatty acids.
You can also try zinc or echinacea.
Probiotic supplements or foods (like yogurt with "active cultures") will introduce more Lactobacillus acidophilus bacteria into your system and improve immune health. But if you have a severely compromised immune system, talk to your doctor before taking probiotics.
Do not take herbal supplements without consulting your doctor. Some can interact with prescription medication or medical conditions.
 This, in turn, stimulates the immune system and triggers a more restful, healing state of sleep.


Soak a pair of thin cotton socks in lukewarm water, then wring them out until they're moist but not dripping.
Put them on when you're going to bed, then wear a thicker pair of dry socks over them.
Take two nights off after five to six days.
 Adult bodies can handle fever pretty well, but children may suffer febrile seizures if the fever rises too high. In fact, fever is the leading cause of seizures in children between six months and five years.If the child's temperature rises over 104°F (40°), or begins to rise quickly, start cooling them off immediately. Remove his clothing. Use a sponge or washcloth to pat tepid (not cold) water all over his body to bring down his temperature.Applying ice to a fevered body can be dangerous if done incorrectly. It causes shivering, which actually raises body temperature.They may apply ice in a hospital setting, but it's best to use tepid water at home.
Call the doctor immediately if your child’s fever spikes. They will either direct you to take the child to an ER or provide detailed guidance for how to care for them at home.
Call 911 for emergency assistance if the child has a seizure.
Your doctor may administer rectal diazepam to treat febrile seizure in your child.
 Sometimes a fever just has to run its course, but you can do things to make yourself more comfortable while you wait for it to go away. For example, placing wet towels on your skin won't reduce the fever, but it may help to reduce discomfort from the fever.Moisten a washcloth or hand towel with cool water and apply it to your neck or forehead.


Wear warm clothes and stay under blankets to deal with the chills from the fever. If you feel hot, then just use a light sheet and wear light, breathable clothes.
 GI infections are more commonly known as the "stomach flu." Symptoms include diarrhea, stomach pain, nausea or vomiting, and muscle or headaches.They often also present with a low-grade fever. GI infections resolve on their own in three to seven days, so you just need to take care of yourself until yours passes. Drink at least eight to ten 8 oz. glasses of water per day, especially if you are vomiting. Watch for symptoms of dehydration in children, as this needs emergency attention. Signs include fewer wet diapers, decreased fontanelle (soft spot on the skull) size, sunken eyes, and lethargy. If you see these symptoms, call emergency services or seek immediate medical attention.

The BRAT (Bananas, Rice, Applesauce, and Toast) diet is often recommended for GI trouble, but the evidence to support it is weak. The American Academy of Pediatrics does not recommend using it for children, as it does not provide adequate nutrition.Eat reasonably, stay away from greasy, heavy, and spicy foods, and drink plenty of water.
 Herbal remedies can be taken in a number of forms: powder, capsule, or tincture. Many people prefer to brew hot teas with dried herbs. The warm liquid soothes the throat while the herbs fight the fever. To brew an herbal tea, steep one teaspoon of the herb in a cup of hot water for five to ten minutes for leaves or flowers or ten to twenty minutes for roots. Talk with your doctor before consuming any herbs or natural remedies, as they may interfere with prescription medication or other medical conditions. The following herbs all improve immune function, but can have some negative side effects:Green tea may increase your anxiety levels and raise your blood pressure. You may want to avoid drinking green tea if you have diarrhea, glaucoma, or osteoporosis. Consult your doctor if you have liver disease.
Cat's claw may make autoimmune disorders or leukemia worse. It can also interfere with certain types of medications, so talk to your doctor before drinking it.
Reishi mushroom you may find this as a tincture rather than in dried form. Take 30-60 drops two to three times a day. Reishi may interact with some medicines as well, like blood thinners and blood pressure medications.
 Wash your hands often with antibacterial soap. Keep your distance from uninfected people and public spaces as much as possible. Don't share glasses or utensils with anyone, and don't take it personally if your partner doesn't want to kiss you for a while!


Have children play with hard toys that can be cleaned easily in the sink with soap and water.
 If someone in your household or workplace has been ill in the recent past, you may have picked it up from them. Children often spread illnesses to each other, and may catch a cold or the flu from friends at school or the playground.If you know that the other person’s illness resolved on its own, you can relax a bit. Your illness will likely also resolve with rest and plenty of water.
 They may be able to use that information to diagnose you with a specific illness. For example, you may assume you have a simple cold, but after a week, your fever spikes suddenly. Odds are you have a secondary bacterial infection like an ear infection or pneumonia. Some cancers, like non-Hodgkin lymphoma, on the other hand, cause a fever at night, but none during the day.


Make sure to take your temperature multiple times every day until the fever recedes.
Night fevers may be a sign of tuberculosis or HIV/AIDS.
 Make note of anything that seems out of the ordinary, even if it doesn't make you feel ill, necessarily. Unexpected weight change, for example, can point to several causes. Your other symptoms may be able to point to the organ system being affected, which will narrow the field for diagnosis.


For example, a cough suggests a lung problem like pneumonia.Burning during urination points to a kidney infection., Give your temperature log and list of symptoms to your doctor, who will try to diagnose the cause of the fever. They will do a physical examination will provide further clues about the source of the fever.The history you provided and physical exam will help the doctor narrow down the possible causes. The causes can be easily confirmed or ruled out with lab analysis or imaging.


Common tests your doctor may order include a physical examination, white blood cell count, urine analysis, blood cultures, and a chest X-ray., Cold and flu are by far the most common viral infections doctors see. However, there are a number of somewhat less common viral infections that also won't respond to antibiotic treatment.Croup, bronchiolitis, varicella (chickenpox), roseola, and hand, foot & mouth disease are caused by viruses too.Many of these resolve on their own; for example, foot, hand, and mouth disease usually passes within seven to ten days. For most of these viruses, good self-care (proper hygiene, nutrition, and rest) are the best treatment, but talk to your doctor.


Ask your doctor how long the virus will last and whether there are any ways to speed up the healing process.
Ask what you should be looking for as you monitor your symptoms, as some normally harmless viruses can progress and become dangerous. Foot, hand, and mouth disease, for example, can cause fatal brain inflammation in rare cases., Antibiotics either kill the bacteria or stop them from reproducing in your body. From there, your immune system can fight off the remaining infection.


Bacterial pneumonia is a common cause of fever.
The doctor will take a blood sample to determine which bacteria is causing the fever.
They will use that information to decide which antibiotic to use to fight the infection and reduce your fever.
 Viruses and bacteria are the most common causes of fever, but they aren't the only ones. Fevers can also be caused by reactions to immunization, allergic reactions, and chronic inflammatory conditions such as IBS (inflammatory bowel disease) and arthritis.


If you get frequent or recurring fevers, talk to your doctor about potential causes. You may be able to treat the underlying condition and reduce the number of fevers you get.
 You should not try to measure your own temperature rectally, so use the thermometer either orally or in the armpit. Clean the thermometer with cold water, then rubbing alcohol, then a final cold water rinse. Never use a thermometer that has been used rectally in your mouth.


Don't eat or drink anything for five minutes before taking your temperature. This could change the temperature in your mouth and lead to an inaccurate measurement.
Put the tip of the thermometer under your tongue and hold it still for about 40 seconds. Most digital thermometers beep to let you know when they've finished taking the measurement.
After reading the measurement, rinse the thermometer in cold water, clean with rubbing alcohol, and rinse again to sterilize.
 Place the tip of the thermometer directly into your armpit. It should only be touching skin, not fabric from your shirt. Wait for about 40 seconds or until you hear the beep letting you know the measurement is finished.
 Take the child’s temperature by which ever method they can realistically handle. A 2-year-old, for example, cannot hold a thermometer still under the tongue long enough to get an accurate reading. Ear thermometers have been met with mixed results. The most accurate measurement you can take is a rectal one, which is not painful for the child. This is recommended for children between three months and four years of age., After drying the tip, lubricate it with petroleum jelly for ease of movement.


Have the child lay down on their back, then lift their legs into the air. For babies, you should lift the legs like you would when changing a diaper.
Gently insert the thermometer about 1/2 to one inch into the rectum, but don't force it against resistance.
Hold the thermometer still for about 40 seconds or until it beeps to let you know the measurement is ready.
 You may have heard that a healthy body temperature is 98.6°F (37°C), but this is merely a guideline. A normal body will fluctuate in temperature, even in the course of one day. Temperature is usually lower in the morning and warmer in the evening. Furthermore, some people simply have higher or lower resting temperatures. A healthy daily range can be from 97.5 to 98.8°F (36.4 to 37.1°C). The guidelines for feverish temperatures are as follows:


Children: 100.4°F (38°C) measured rectally; 99.5°F (37.5°C) measured orally; 99°F (37.2°C) measured in the armpit.Adults: 100.7°F (38.2°C) measured rectally; 100°F (37.8°C) measured orally; 99°F (37.2°C) measured in the armpit.
Temperatures under 100.4°F (38°C)are considered "low-grade" fevers. You shouldn't worry about a fever until it reaches 102°F (38.9°C).
 Viral infections don't respond well to treatment. But scientists have developed vaccines that can prevent a large number of viral infections. Talk to your doctor about which vaccinations they would recommend. Having children vaccinated at an early age can prevent many potentially serious illnesses later in life. Consider getting vaccinations against:


Pneumococcal infection, which protects against the bacteria that causes ear infection, sinus infection, pneumonia, meningitis, and sepsis.H influenzae, which causes upper respiratory infections like ear and sinus infections. It can also cause more serious infections like meningitis.
Children age 11 years and older should be vaccinated for meningitis.There is no evidence that vaccinating your child causes autism. Vaccinations must be licensed by the FDA and be extensively tested to show that they work. Vaccinating your child could save their life., This reduces your ability to fight off infection.


Try to get at least seven to eight hours of uninterrupted sleep every night to keep your immune system strong

, Nourish your body with whole foods like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Avoid processed foods, which tend to be high in sugars and saturated fats that are bad for your body.


Make sure to get 1000 mg of Vitamin C and 2000 iu of Vitamin D per day. Vitamins A and E are also important for their antioxidant properties.
 Even when there's no visible illness around you, maintain good hygiene practices.


Wash your hands after leaving public spaces, and always wash them before eating. If you don't have access to water in public, carry a small bottle of hand sanitizer with you.
 This leaves you vulnerable to illness. Make room in your life for relaxation and activities you enjoy, and try to be present in those moments when you have them.


Yoga and meditation are popular activities that help people reduce their stress levels. Aerobic exercise also has a significant impact on stress.
Try to get at least 150 minutes of aerobic exercise every week, in periods of 30 to 40 minutes.
When you exercise, aim for a target heart rate appropriate to your age. Calculate this by subtracting your age from the number 220.Target heart rate is 60-80% of your Max Heart Rate depending on fitness.

