 Before you take your kitten, you should determine her medical and family background. There are some important questions to ask the breeder, rescue centre, or pet store before you buy a kitten. You should start by asking who bred the kitten, as well as inquiring about the health of the rest of the litter and the mother.


Specifically, you should find out if the mother has had her vaccinations and been wormed. If she hasn't, it is more likely that her kittens will have health problems.
Ask how many litters the mother has had. If it is a lot, this may indicate irresponsible breeding and may suggest that the breeders are not taking good care of her.
Ask if there are potential hereditary health problems that you should be aware of., As well as asking about the mother's medical condition, you should determine the medical status of the kitten before you take her home. Ask if the kitten has been wormed and has had her vaccinations. This should happen with veterinary supervision at an early stage, with the first vaccinations typically administered when she is eight or nine weeks old. Ensure you have the documentation from the vet to prove this.


Check if she has been microchipped. This is very important, and you can arrange for a vet to do this if the breeder hasn't done it yet.
Finally, you should ask some questions about the kitten's first weeks. Where has she been kept? Has she had much contact with people or other animals?
This information will help you understand your kitten. She will need plenty of contact with different people to become comfortable around humans., Before you bring her home it's sensible to find your local vet and give them a call to book her in for a check-up. All pets should be registered with a vet to help ensure they are taken good care of, and get all the necessary injections and veterinary care. When you take her in, be sure to bring documentation from the breeder and have any necessary vaccinations, or worming treatments carried out as soon as possible.


Your vet will also be able to give you guidance about nutrition and care.
You should also consider getting pet insurance before your kitten gets home.
Pet bills can be expensive and if you need to get vaccinations, it could be more economic to ensure you have insurance in place first.

