 Mark and cut the jamb on the high side with your saw. If you cut more than 1/4 in. from the jamb, you might need to trim the bottom of the door so it conforms to the floor slope.
 Saw or plane up to the pencil marks, then sand the edges until they are smooth. Keep in mind that you're better off trimming too little rather than too much.
 With shallow wedges underneath the door and someone else to help you hold it up, place the door in the frame and see if it fits properly. If it doesn't, you will need to trim again until the fit is perfect.










Determine in which direction the door will open. The door should open in to the room and hinge placement should be such that the light switch is accessible on the side opposite the hinges. If, as you enter the room, the light switch is inside on the wall to your right, then the hinges should be on the left. As you push the door open to enter the room, the switch should be immediately accessible on the knob side of the door.
Place the door on its side with the hinge side upwards. Measure and mark 15 cm (6 inches) from the top and bottom of the door. This mark represents the bottom of the hinge at the bottom of the door, and the top of the hinge at the top.
Open a hinge and place it on the door in line with the mark you have just made. Draw around it with a pencil. Repeat this for the other hinge.
 Use a chisel to make shallow recesses, called mortises, in the door within the pencil marks. Strip away the surplus wood and trim the recess until the hinge is flush with the wood.









Be conservative. If you chisel out too much, it will be very hard to fix.
 With each hinge flap in its mortise, mark the screw positions with a pencil. Remove the hinges and use a drill bit that is slightly narrower than your screws to drill pilot holes where they are marked by the pencil. To center the pilot holes perfectly, use a special bit called a Vix-Bit, available at any hardware store or home center. When using a Vix-Bit, drill through the hinge's screw holes with the hinge in its proper location on the door. Keep the bit perpendicular to the door.








