 Surgery is the most effective way to treat localized CD. It is sometimes also used to reduce the symptoms of MCD, although it cannot remove it the same way that it can localized CD. During the surgery, the surgeon will remove the mass. The severity of the surgery depends on where the affected lymph nodes are located. Some patients are able to go home after the surgery while others, especially those whose affected nodes are deep in the chest, may have to remain in the hospital for several days.Follow your surgeon’s advice before and after the procedure.
Some questions you may want to ask your surgeon before the surgery include "How long will I have to remain in the hospital?"; "What will I have to do after the surgery to recover?"; "Am I at risk for any side effects during this surgery?"; "Should I discontinue taking any medications before I go in?"
If you have MCD and the spleen is growing too large, the surgeons may decide to remove it entirely.
 Immunotherapy drugs may be the most effective for your CD. While the use of prescription drugs is still undergoing research, some have been found to be effective in managing the size and expansion of the masses. If prescribed a drug, ask your doctor if these medications interfere with any other medications you are taking, including aspirin and birth control.


There may be a connection between MCD and human herpes virus type 8. Because of this, your doctor will likely choose antivirals for follow-up treatment.Siltuximab (Sylvant) may be used for those with MCD who are also HIV negative.Side effects include constipation, headaches, weight gain, and throat, mouth, or stomach pain. If a rash or infection develops while on siltuximab, contact your doctor immediately.Rituximab (Rituxan) may be prescribed for those who are HIV positive. Antiviral agents may also be prescribed.Common side effects include chills, fever, or other cold-like symptoms. If you become confused, dizzy, or weak on one side of your body, contact your doctor immediately.Monthly injections of tocilizumab (Actemra), which is typically used for rheumatoid arthritis, have also been approved for off-label use on CD.Let your doctor know if you have muscle pain, fever, night sweats, mouth or skin sores, or blurred vision.Taking both tocilizumab and rituximab at the same time may increase your risk of infection.
 If your MCD is severe, you may have to undergo chemotherapy. The treatments for MCD are very similar to those for lymphoma. You will most likely be given a combination of chemotherapy drugs, given to you either as a pill or by injection. You may be cycled through weeks of chemotherapy followed by a few weeks of rest.Chemotherapy can cause a wide range of side effects, including hair loss, mouth sores, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, infection, fatigue, and weakness. It also make you more susceptible to bruising or bleeding. Let your medical team know about your symptoms, and they will prescribe ways to manage them.
Chemotherapy is sometimes used in combination with radiation therapy and corticosteroids.
 Radiation therapy is the use of a powerful beam of radiation to reduce the spread and size of your tumors. It is an alternative to surgery for those whose localized CD is difficult to reach. Doctors will place you under a device similar to an X-ray where a beam will target the mass for several minutes. You may have to go in for treatment as often as five days a week for several weeks.Radiation therapy can cause rashes, nausea, diarrhea, and loss of appetite.
 Corticosteroids can be used alone or in conjunction with chemotherapy to treat MCD. Your doctor may either inject it or they may give you a pill, like Prednisone, to take. Side effects may include increased blood sugar, mood swings, infection, weakened bones, fatigue, muscle weakness, weight gain, fluid retention, and high blood pressure.