 Commodity futures are contracts to make or take delivery of a specified amount of a commodity at a predetermined price at a specific future date. Futures trade on specialized financial markets where delivery is due on a future date. Futures contracts are available for a variety of different commodities ranging from bushels of wheat and corn to barrels of crude oil or ethanol. Each futures contract has two parties, one to make delivery of the commodity and the tether to take delivery.


A buy order is a contract to take delivery of the commodity while a sell order is a contract to make delivery of the commodity.
Commodity futures and spot prices are tracked in the market just like other assets. Traders make money by buying commodities (or commodity derivatives) for a certain price and then subsequently selling them for a higher price.
The buyer of a futures contract makes money if the future market price of the commodity exceeds the market price of the commodity at the time of purchase. A seller of a futures contract makes money if the future market price is less than the market price of the commodity at the time of sale.
Rather than making or taking physical delivery of a commodity, futures traders close their positions by implementing a contrary position to offset their liability to make or take delivery. For example, a buyer of a contract would sell the contract before delivery date while the seller of a contract would buy the contract.
 Commodity prices are established by market perceptions of supply and demand for the commodity. For example, a Midwestern storm can drive up the futures price of wheat due to investors' belief of substantial crop losses. Worries about an economic depression can likewise increase the price of precious metals in the belief the economies and currencies will decline and investors will turn to gold as a refuge.


Commodities traders made trades based on two different types of analysis that they believe help them to predict commodity prices. The first, fundamental analysis, focuses on studying world events, like weather predictions, national and international political events, and trade patterns, to predict commodity prices. For example, a forecasted increase in air travel might lead a trader to believe the price of oil will go up with the increased demand.
The second, technical analysis, focuses on analyzing historical price trends to predict future ones. It relies on identifying patterns, trends, and relationships in the market to predict prices.
Price trends are the tangible result of the interplay between investors' perceptions about supply and demand. Fundamental analysis is a guide to long-term prices while technical analysis reflects short term investor psychology.
Review the Futures Institute's website at https://www.myfuturesinstitute.com/ for additional information about trading futures.
Visit the CME Group, which is a collection of four futures exchanges, at http://futuresfundamentals.cmegroup.com/ and review futures fundamentals.
 The commodities futures market is characterized by its significant use of leverage. This means that the buying commitments are made using borrowed money (also called buying on margin). This practice allows investors to invest in tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of a commodity when they’ve only deposited a few thousand dollars of their own money. For example, you can invest in a futures contract for 1,000 barrels of crude oil at $90 (a value of $90,000) with a deposit of only $5,610.Since the contracts are so large, small price movements have major impacts on profits or losses. If you own 1000 barrels of oil and the price increases or falls $1, it is about a 1.2% move. However, it represents a 20% loss or profit on your investment, Producers and consumers of a commodity use the futures market to "hedge" against unknown price movements in the commodity. For example, a national food company knowing that they will use 100,000 bushels of wheat in six months might buy 20 wheat futures tat $5.50 per bushel for delivery in six months. The spot price is $6.00. As a consequence, they lock in a price of $5.50 regardless of future price changes.


Hedging is possible because the futures price and the spot price will be the same on the day the contract expires. To close its position, the food company would buy physical wheat on the spot market paying the market price while selling his futures contract at the same price.
If the spot and futures price is $7.00, the food company will pay $700,000 for his wheat on the spot market. However, having purchased 100,000 bushels on the futures market at $5.50 ($550,000), he would close his futures position by selling the contact at $7.00 ($700,000), making $150,000 to reduce his costs on the spot mark.
 First spend a lot of time studying charts of past price movements of various commodities. This will help you identify specific support and resistance levels. Then, create a trading system that includes your entry and exit signals. Make practice (paper) trades where you won't have to risk your money. Develop a list of proposed commodity purchases, and monitor the market to see how your choices would have fared over time if you had actually bought them. You will then learn about your system’s strengths and weaknesses. Find out where you would have made money and study the areas where you would have lost money.


Recognize that the results you have with "paper trading" can be misleading since it does have not an emotional component. Being at risk to make or lose your investment complicates decision-making.
 Study how traders develop and execute their strategies and how well they work. You might want to incorporate some of those trading ideas into your own system. Start by searching online for any well-reviewed books about commodities trading. There are also a number of online training courses that can prepare you for commodities trading. Search for these courses and then look for reviews of each course before starting or purchasing it.
 Such a firm invests money in commodities funds for you. Major commodities trading firms include the Vitol Group, Cargill, Glencore and Archer Daniels Midland. One advantage is that you don't have to commit a large sum of money in order to own a share of a diversified commodities portfolio. The firm will pool your money with that of other investors. Secondly, commodities funds can bargain for lower commissions than if you were to buy futures contracts on your own.The fund team's expertise should allow them to make choices that may make you money. Also, they have the expertise to knowledgeably diversify the investments, potentially moderating the risk of a single commodity holding. , Opening a futures account is similar to opening a brokerage margin account. However, most brokerage firms will require a potential futures trader to have a minimum net worth and income as well as several years of experience in investing. In addition, the brokerage firm will expect the client's written acknowledgement of the risks in commodity futures and that he is capable and willing to assume such risks, including the loss of his investment.Clients are required to make minimum deposits of $5,000 to $10,000 in commodity accounts and are subject to initial and maintenance margin rules established by the commodity exchanges.

