 Open a new web tab on your computer, type “maps.google.com,” and hit Enter on your keyboard. The Google Maps home page will open up where you will see a full map on your screen.;
, While on Google Maps home page, click the “Sign in” button found at the top right corner of the page. This will take you to the login page. Enter your Google account email address on the first text box and password on the second text box. Then hit “Sign in” below to continue.
 On the top left of the page is a search box. Take your mouse and hover over this search box. When you do so, a list of options will appear. Scroll through the list and click “My maps.” This will take you to a page for creating your custom map.


Alternatively, you can select “My Maps” by clicking on the menu icon (three short horizontal lines) at the top left of the page. When you click on it, a number of options comes up. Select “My Maps” from the options.
 The “Create” button is on the right side of My Maps and has an icon of a pencil. You will be taken to the screen for creating a customized map. Here, you will be basically entering the points that you have visited (or will visit) during your run on Google Maps.
 Click “Untitled map” on the upper left corner of the page to edit the map title and description. Add a map title in the title text box (e.g., Morning Run) and description of the map on the Description text box (e.g., Run around the park and through X Street).


Click “Save” to save the details.
 Type the name of your current location on the search box at top right of the page. Suggestions of places will pop up. Select the correct location from the list by clicking on it. The place you have clicked will be displayed on the map.
 The marker tool is found at the top middle section of the page. The marker tool, a picture of a pin, is used to point at a location on the map. Click and hold the marker then drag and drop it to the map where you have passed or will be passing during your run.


Enter a name for the pin when the marker tool is in the exact place. You can also add notes along the route in selected locations where you drop pins. Click “Save” after entering the details.
Repeat dragging and dropping markers to the second, third, and so on locations until the point where you will be finishing, or had finished, your run.
 The drawing tool is next to the marker tool on the upper middle section of your map. Drag the drawing tool by left-clicking on your mouse, and then dragging it to the point where you want to stop running. The drawing tool draws a blue line on the paths you drag it on. Draw the line along the points you created to connect them. By doing this, you will create your running path.


Creating the running route helps you to trace your trip. The mapping tool will also help you to know the distance measurements, directions, and layer settings. If you want to change the route, you can click the point you want to change and then drag it to your desired destination. The blue line acts as a navigator to track your progress.

