 In some cases, a rash may be a symptom of a severe allergic reaction that requires immediate medical attention. Call emergency services (911) if you have a rash that is accompanied by:Shortness of breath or trouble breathing
Tightness in your throat and/or difficulty swallowing
Swollen face
Purplish, bruise-like color
Hives

, Rashes often go away on their own, but they can also indicate that there is a problem that needs to be treated. If your rash does not improve within a couple of days, then call your doctor.If you are on a medication or have started a new medication, call your physician right away. Your rash may be a side effect of the medication. Do not stop taking your medication unless your physician says to do so, or if you have severe symptoms (in which case you should seek immediate emergency care).
Keep in mind that there are many different types of rashes and many causes of rashes as well. Your doctor can help you determine what has caused your rash and find the best way to treat it and prevent it from happening in the future.
 Hydrocortisone cream is available without a prescription and it may help to relieve a rash on your face. However, you should not apply hydrocortisone cream to the sensitive skin on your face without asking your doctor first.Cortisone creams come in different strengths and are recommended for short-term use, as they can thin skin surfaces.
 Some rashes may be due to allergies, so taking an antihistamine may help. Talk to your doctor first to see if taking an antihistamine may help you. If your rash is itchy, consider taking an antihistamine such as:Fexofenadine (Allegra)
Loratadine (Claritin)
Diphenhydramine (Benadryl)
Cetirizine dihydrochloride (Zyrtec)

, Some types of rashes can be accompanied by pus-filled pimples and these can become infected. If you have a pus-filled, pimple-like rash, you may consider using a topical antibacterial cream. Ask your doctor if this is a good option for your rash. Make sure that your read and follow the manufacturer's instructions as well.Your physician may prescribe a topical antibiotic cream such as mupirocin (Bactroban) for a more severe skin infection.Keep in mind that there are no topical creams or ointments made for viral rashes. This type of rash often resolves on its own.
Fungal rashes may also be treated with topical creams that contain clotrimazole (Lotrimin).Your doctor may be able to tell you if your rash is fungal.

