 The ideal piaffe will look like your horse is trotting in place, with only one hoof print landing forward in every step. Your horse should be bent at his haunches, with his pelvis tilted, his back arched, and his front legs lifted. When your horse does a piaffe, he should look like he is doing a rapid trot, with short, active and high steps.He should move through four clear stages or steps to achieve the piaffe. First, he should bend his body from head to tail. Second, he should bend his inside hind leg and put his weight in this leg. Third, he should bend his outside hind leg and put weight in this leg. Fourthly, he should be able to bend both of his hind legs so both legs carry weight.
In a piaffe, your horse’s movements should be high, energetic, and smooth. His mouth should be relaxed and his entire body should be engaged but also calm and fluid as he moves. His front leg should lift until his forearm reaches a horizontal level, and his posture should be constant and even.
As the rider, you should be tall and relaxed as your horse does a piaffe. You should follow the movements of your horse and give him aids very subtly.;
, Teaching your horse to piaffe successfully will require you to use gradual or more accelerated training, based on his temperament. If your horse is energetic and seems comfortable with moving diagonally, you may have an easier time of teaching him how to piaffe. If your horse’s temperament is more calm but he has difficulty moving diagonally, you may need to be more patient and work slowly to teach him how to piaffe.As the rider, you should consider your relationship with your horse. If you are an experienced rider who has taught horses to piaffe before, you may use a method you are comfortable using. But if you are less experienced rider, you may try more than one method when you teach your horse to piaffe.
 Your horse is ready to learn how to piaffe if he is relaxed and calm as you ride him, and if he can halt and trot with ease. He should also be familiar with shoulders-in and half passes and should be able to execute these movements comfortably.Your horse may already know how to do the “school walk” and the “school trot”. If so, he may be able to pick up the piaffe fairly quickly.
 Start by standing on one side of your horse with a good grip on his reins. You will need a horse whip to guide the horse and sugar cubes to reward him when he moves correctly.You want to make your horse more comfortable with lifting his front legs and his hind legs up, one at a time. Do this by using the whip to tap on one of your horse’s legs. This should then signal to him that he needs to lift up the leg you have tapped. When he does this, reward him with a sugar cube.
Continue to practice this, alternating from one hind leg to the other hind leg. Reward him with a sugar cube when he lifts up each leg in succession. Then, alternate from one front leg to the other front leg. Reward him again when he lifts up each leg in succession. This will allow him to get more comfortable with how he should be moving his hind legs and his front legs.
Some horses are uncomfortable with being tapped or touched, especially on their legs. Before you try tapping exercises, make sure your horse is comfortable with being touched with the whip and that you have done some in hand exercises with your horse before where he responded positively.
 In order for your horse to successfully piaffe, you will need to develop certain aids or movements you can perform on him to get him to then move as you would like. Your horse’s reins can act as aids and you can teach him to read the movements of his reins to perform the piaffe. You can also use the whip and the rein to help your horse get more comfortable with the aids.Face the horse’s shoulder with your legs apart and your upper body turned towards the horse’s croup. Hold the left rein with your left hand and hold the right rein in your right hand. You can then hold the whip in your right hand, with the right rein.
Ask your horse for one or two easy halts along the rail. His neck should be flexed and his jaw should be relaxed. Then, ask your horse for one to two backing up steps by vibrating the reins in your left hand towards the back side of the horse.
Once he backs up two steps, reward him with a sugar cube. Then, repeat these movements and reward him after he completes them again correctly.
 Once your horse appears comfortable with moving one to two steps backward, ask him to take one to two steps back and then carry your upper body forward. Loosen your grip on the left rein and the right rein and carefully touch your horse on his inside buttock to move him forward. If he moves forward, reward him.Continue to practice these movements, increasing to two to three steps forward and two to three steps backward. You should be leaning forward as your horse moves forward and leaning backward as your horse moves backward.
 If your horse responds well to rein training, you should try to increase the speed of his movements over time until he makes several strides forward and backward, with his knees lifted high, and does the piaffe.Keep your touches quick and light on his backside, and keep the reins semi taut as you train him to move forward and backward. Your hold on the reins should be confident and smooth so he does not get confused or thrown off as he moves.
 Ease your horse into the movements of the piaffe while you are riding him by beginning with sharp, smooth halts, followed by collect trot departs. You can use the reins as aids to communicate when your horse should halt and when he should trot.After your horse appears comfortable with halting and then collect trotting, you can start to reduce the amount of strides he takes between halts. You can also shorten the duration of the halt.
Note how quickly your horse complies with halting and trotting. If he hesitates or appears confused, you may have moved too fast and need to spend more time halting and trotting with longer strides between halts.
You should also pay attention to how relaxed your horse is and how balanced your horse’s movements are. Your horse should move smoothly and fluidly from a halt to a trot.
 Once your horse seems comfortable with halting and trotting, you can work on getting your horse to trot on the spot. Try to reduce the amount of strides between each halt and trot and also shorten the trot stride. Hold the reins loosely and do not jolt or roughly tug at them, as this can throw off your horse.When your horse starts to move at a slow and relaxed pace, have him slow down for several strides and shorten his trot stride by sitting taller and deeper in the saddle. Try to get your horse to do two to three strides one after the other on the spot and then allow your horse to move forward again. His balance should not shift as he strides and then moves forward.
Reward your horse when he successfully trots on the spot and moves forward with ease and confidence. You should then end the training session and allow your horse to rest.
 Only move on to this final step if your horse can perform an energetic walk that contains a fluid trot and stride. You can then work on moving your horse diagonally on command to create the piaffe. Be light and relaxed in the saddle as you work on this skill with your horse.Ask your horse to move forward and do a fluid short trot and then two to three fluid strides. Allow the horse to move on his own after you ask him and do not pull or tug at the reins.
Reward him when he does this and then let go of the reins and allow the horse to walk on loose reins. This will give him a moment to stretch his neck, as the piaffe requires a balanced body and a straight neck. Continue to practice diagonal walking on the spot until your horse seems comfortable with the movements and is doing the piaffe.
You can also have a helper watch you and your horse move to ensure you are both moving fluidly together. The helper can also help to guide your horse’s hind legs with a long whip by lightly tapping or touching his hind legs as he moves.

