 Get inspired by seeking out the work of poets you admire. Explore a wide range of works, from poems that are widely regarded as classics to popular song lyrics. As you interact with more poetry, you'll find your aesthetic becoming more shaped and refined.


To train your ear and meet like-minded people, attend poetry readings. (Check your local college or bookstore's calendar for these, or look for events you can stream online.)
Find some of your favorite song lyrics and read them like poetry. You might be surprised at how it reads on the page, instead of being spoken or sung aloud.;
, Perhaps you want to write a poem to express your love for your boyfriend or girlfriend; perhaps you want to commemorate a tragic event; or perhaps you just want to get an "A" in your poetry or English class. Think about why you are writing your poem and who your intended audience is, and then proceed with your writing accordingly.
 For example, if you want to write about nature, try to visit a park or a small forest nearby. The natural scenery may inspire a few lines, even if they're not perfect.
 It's been said that if a novel is "words in the best order," then a poem is "the best words in the best order."


Think of the words you use as building blocks of different sizes and shapes. Some words will fit together perfectly, and some won't. You want to keep working with your poem until you have built a strong structure of words.
Use only those words that are necessary, and those that enhance the meaning of the poem. Choose your words carefully. The differences between similar sounding words or synonyms can create interesting word play.
A computer spreadsheet such as OpenOffice.org Calc, is very efficient for rearranging words in columns and checking the rhythm through the alignment. Put one syllable in each cell. You can then transfer the text to a word processor for fancier printing when you're done.
 Most poetry appeals to the senses (yes, plural) in some way so as to help the reader become more fully immersed in the text. Here are some things to consider when you're constructing descriptions:


Love, hate, happiness: these are all abstract concepts. Many (perhaps all) poems are, deep down, about emotions and other abstractions. Nevertheless, it's hard to build a strong poem using only abstractions — it's just not that interesting. The key, then, is to replace or enhance abstractions with concrete images, things that you can appreciate with your senses: a rose, a shark, or a crackling fire, for example. The concept of the objective correlative may be useful. An objective correlative is an object, several objects, or a series of events (all concrete things) that evoke the emotion or idea of the poem.
Really powerful poetry not only uses concrete images; it also describes them vividly. Show your readers and listeners what you're talking about. — Help them to experience the imagery of the poem. Put in some "sensory" handles. These are words that describe the things that you hear, see, taste, touch, and smell, so that the reader can identify with their own experience.
Give some examples rather than purely mental/intellectual descriptions. As a silly example, consider "He made a loud sound", versus "He made a loud sound like a hippo eating 100 stale pecan pies with metal teeth."

, Poetry that doesn't rhyme doesn't need to be free verse, though. Many poets keep a structured meter pattern but do not rhyme the lines. This is usually called blank verse. The fixed meter usually means a set number of syllables per line and/or a consistent pattern of stressed syllables. If you are looking to make your poetry flow well and sound consistent, using meter is often a great way to do this.
, While many people today have been exposed to poetry only in written form, poetry was predominantly an oral art form for thousands of years, and the sound of a poem is still important. As you write and edit your poem, read it aloud and listen to how it sounds.


A poem's internal structure commonly focuses on rhythm, rhyme, or both. Consider classic styles like sonnets and Greek epics for inspiration.
A lot of spoken English is based on iambic pentameter, in which speech follows an alternating pattern of stressed and unstressed syllables for a total of 10 syllables. A lot of poetry written in iambic pentameter, such as that of Shakespeare, begins with an unstressed, one-syllable word such as "an" or "the" to start the alternating pattern.
This is where poems can become songs. It is easier to find a tune for regular meter, so maybe you want to cut words out or put some in to get the same number of syllables in each line. Memorize it. If you believe it, then maybe someone else will learn it and love it before it is a song.
 When the basic poem is written, set it aside for awhile and then read the poem out loud to yourself. Go through it and balance the word choices with the rhythm. Take out unnecessary words and replace imagery that isn't working.


Some people edit a poem all at once, while others come back to it again and again over time.
Don't be afraid to rewrite if some part of the poem is not working. Some poems have lines that simply don't convey an element well, and those can an should be replaced.
 It can be hard to critique your own work, so after you've done an initial edit, try to get some friends or a poetry group (there are plenty online) to look at your poem for you. You may not like all their suggestions, and you don't have to incorporate any suggestions, but you might find some insight that will make your poem better.


Feedback is good. Pass your poem around, and ask your friends to critique your work. Tell them to be honest, even if it's painful.
Never apologize for your work as it's being critiqued; just focus on listening to the opinions of your readers. Filter their responses, heeding and ignoring, then edit as you see fit.
Offer to critique the work of others, as well. Offering someone else feedback on their work can help you develop a critical eye, which you can apply to your own work.

