 Severe pain and panic is often the first response to the injury regardless of the age of the patient. Before any treatment can be done, it is important to calm the patient (even if that is you).An injured child can be very unnerving so it is important you try to stay calm when you investigate the injury.
If your child panics, be reassuring and try to give him or her a focal point, like your face or a favorite toy.;
, Mineral oil contains petroleum and can help lubricate the area and release pressure. Mineral oil and petrolatum are also known to be effective in healing wounds.Pour mineral oil over the penis and zipper. This lubricates the moving parts and often frees the skin without having to cut the zipper.
Let it soak in for about 10-15 minutes.
 Before you move to dismantling the zipper, see if you can release the skin by pulling the skin and zipper to opposite directions with your hands.


Grasp the area of skin with one hand and the zipper with the other.
Slowly and carefully pull the area of skin in the opposite direction as you pull the zipper.
Caution: if bleeding or tearing occurs, stop and seek medical attention.
 To release the skin, dismantle the zipper from below. This technique can release the pressure between the zipper plates and will free the trapped skin.Option 1: Cut the median bar (the small bridge between the anterior and posterior faceplates) at the front of the moveable zip head in half with wire cutters. This will cause the zipper to fall apart, freeing the skin relatively painlessly.
Option 2: Use a small screwdriver and insert the thin blade between the outer and inner faceplates of the zip fastener. Use a twisting motion toward the median bar to widen the gap between faceplates and help disengage the skin.
Option 3: If that doesn’t work, use pliers to apply pressure to the zipper and then, cut the teeth of the closed zipper to release the skin.
 Once the zipper has been released the skin is going to be sensitive and sore. However, it’s important to properly clean and treat the affected area and stop any bleeding.


Wash the area with water and mild soap if needed.
If there is a bleeding wound present, use a clean washcloth to apply gentle but direct pressure to the wound until the bleeding stops.
If the wound is bleeding a lot, you'll need to hold pressure for at least 15 minutes. If that does not stop the bleeding, seek medical attention., To keep the wound protected, apply petroleum jelly over the injured skin and then press a sterile gauze pad over the area. The pad will stick to the petroleum jelly.
 Open wounds can lead to infection if not taken care of. Keep a close eye on the area and look for signs of infection, including:Expanding redness around the wound
Yellow or greenish-colored pus or cloudy wound drainage
Red streaking spreading from the wound
Increased swelling, tenderness, or pain around the wound
Fever
If any of the above signs occur, seek medical consultation.

