 It's really not about how much information you have, it's about your opinions, even about things like abortion or animal rights or gay marriage.;
,,, It makes you look ignorant and cheap, not because you're a woman obviously. Swearing is stupid. Do not use any words that would be written out using symbols like #$!%...just AVOID those terms, ok?

, A healthy diet and sports make you look acceptable and give you the self-confidence you make lack of.
 Boho-chic, preppy, indie... Wikihow can be a great help with that. You could start with very simple outfits such as jeans (or khaki pants), a polo shirt or a very nice blouse, a simple cardigan, a ring, a necklace, earrings and a few thin bracelets. Further on you can experiment the art of skirts (pencil and tube skirts, (if you feel comfortable, then try mini skirts). When you get more confidence the girly style will be like a best friend for you.
 It doesn't look good. If you must dye your hair, dye it a natural color. As for straightening and curling, it's okay as long as you don't fry your hair. Additionally, wash your hair daily as to keep it clean.
 You are a woman, and women, remember, fat or thin, black or white, short or tall, are always outstanding and beautiful.
 Nobody will tell you who to hang out with, and if you already have a lot of friends who are not exactly "girly", don't let them down. You are not your friends. It is always good to meet new people though.
 Don't spend all your savings on a new wardrobe. Buy one piece at a time, every now and then. For example, if you really want boat shoes and a blue polo, then next time you go shopping that is what you'll look for.
 One main feature of women is to give birth to children. You don't have to love kids, that's okay! But please at least try to be kind to them. Offer to babysit if you do like children and show how tender you can be.
 A women in modern society is firstly independent. Prove it, girl! Get a job and complete your goals. If you demonstrate you are mature you'll also achieve more freedom.
 Enough of stupid ancient conflicts. Genders are just genders. So be nice! Don't tolerate sexism. Girliness has nothing to do with that. Make friends with guys. They can be great to help you catch those different point of views on things.
 It matters not the gender of this person. Love is love, and be with the person you love.
,,, It's annoying to speak with someone who is constantly ignoring and interrupting you.
 Trashing people on social networks, embarrassing things of or about other people, and nude photographs are all a BIG no-no. When you do post anything online, be sure to have acceptable grammar and spelling. "People hoo typez lyyke dis" are very annoying.

