 Before you can get started you will need to collect all the materials required by the the project. All of these materials will be used at some point so make sure you have them all collected. Take a look at the following items to learn what you will need:A chrome novelty motorcycle helmet.
Printable mask templates, made by Luchofunk, which can be found on-line.
At least five sheets of card-stock.
Glue or glue gun
Small wooden sticks, coat hanger, or crafting foam to add support.
Two cans of soda.
Car mirror replacement sheets or silver vinyl.
Programmable LED belt buckle.
A clear plastic sheet.
Spray on window tint.;
, Depending on what type of helmet you've bought you may need to remove extra material from it. These might be black liners that run along the edge of the helmet, stickers, or molding. Your goal is to have your helmet looking smooth, with only the shining chrome pieces showing., You won't need to create your own templates to build the front of your mask. Instead, you can download these templates and then print them out. These templates will ensure that your mask face is the proper size and shape when you add them to your helmet.You can find the mask files on-line.
You won't need to download the ear mask files as you will be using soda cans instead.
Print the templates on the card-stock.
 Once you've printed the mask files out on your card-stock you can cut them out, form them, and then glue them to your mask. Doing this will form the face of your mask.You can attach wooden sticks or wire for extra support.
Craft foam can also work well for adding extra support.
Apply any support to the back or inside of the mask.
 Now that you have your cardstock face attached to the helmet you will want to cover them in either the mirror replacement sheets or vinyl. This will cover up the paper texture and give your mask a shiny metallic look. Cut the mirror sheets or vinyl to the sizes of your mask face and glue them on to complete the look.You can spray paint the whole mask first with a metallic silver paint.
After painting the mask you can apply the silver metallic vinyl.
 You will to cut two soda cans in half to create the ears of your mask. The part you will be attaching to your mask is the bottom half of the soda cans. Attach one of the soda can bottoms on each side of the mask with glue or hot glue.If the can has an image printed on it you can paint them with your silver paint or apply silver vinyl.
Cut the cans in half, going around the middle of the can. You want to end up with the bottom of the can for use on your mask.
The cans will be attached on the outside of the mask in the area where Bangalter's are located.
 Now that your mask frame is complete it's time to build the visor. Take your clear plastic sheet and cut it to the size that you will need to completely cover the visor area of your mask. Once you've cut out the shape of the visor you can tint it using your tint-spray to complete the visor.Don't cut the visor to the exact size of the mask. Leave about 1/2” of material so that you can glue it to the inside of the mask later on.
 After your visor has been cutout, tinted, and dried you can attach it to your mask. You will be attaching it to the inside of your mask using your hot glue gun or other adhesive. Gluing it to the inside of your mask will help hide the glue and keep your masking looking clean.The visor is attached on the inside of your mask.
Apply your adhesive inside the mask, around the edge where the hole for the visor is.
Stick the visor to the inside of the mask by placing it so that it comes in contact with your glue.
Putting the visor on the inside of your helmet will help keep its visible lines clean and flush with the outside of the mask.
You can also place your visor in the mask and then tape it in place.
 Before you install your LED belt buckle you will need to program it. Programming your LED belt buckle will allow you to display anything you might want to when your mask is being worn. Think about programming in some of your favorite lyrics or other Daft Punk icons.Each LED belt buckle will come with it's own programming instructions.
Many LED belt buckles will allow for a number of words to be programmed into them.
 The last step in completing your helmet it to attach the LED belt buckle to your visor. Tape the LED belt buckle to the inside center of your visor. This will allow any programmed text or images to be seen through the visor, completing your Daft Punk mask.Put your helmet on and see how it looks.
You should be able to see the LEDs through the front of the visor.
You won't be able to see directly through the LED buckle. However, you will still be able to see through the rest of the visor just fine.
Make any adjustments that you might need to.

