 Does your summary entice readers or put them off?


Keep the summary positive and relevant to the story. One option is to put a quote in from the story - it shows your writing style (which may immediately interest the reader.) Another option is to pose a question or teaser in your summary: Dawn Summers is used to letting her superhero sister Buffy take care of all the vampires in town, but when a new vamp turns up while Buffy's on vacation, Dawn decides to take matters into her own hands. Has she got what it takes to be a hero too, or has she bitten off more than she can chew?
Use full sentences.
Check for spelling mistakes and word omissions. Sometimes it's what isn't there that is causing the problem.;
, What do readers see when they click on your story? You'd be surprised what people decide about a story before they have even started to read it.


Differentiate the story from any author's notes, disclaimers, or warnings. Common methods include using a line break or centered dashes, or heading the start of the story with the title/chapter title. Divide up everything properly, and keep rechecking after a couple of days - some sites don't update immediately.
Make use of paragraph spaces to break up text in appropriate places. A wall of text is never nice to read through. Also remember to divide up long stretches of speech, and if writing a poem, each verse or stanza needs to be on its own.
Restrict use of bold and italics; use them for emphasis. Don't be afraid to make a flash back a separate chapter, or divide using a page divider, dots, or dashes rather than all in italics.
Re-read before posting.
Spell-check before posting.
Look at your punctuation. Is it consistent? Does it help the reader? Be prepared to edit.
If you trust a beta and have access to one, make use of him/her.
It's very tempting to post as soon as something is finished; if you can, resist this impulse. Wait a day or better still a week before you re-read, edit and post. You'll be amazed at the number of mistakes and odd turns of phrase you encounter when you pick it up again.
 Post one or two chapters at a time. The word count of a large multi-chaptered story posted in one go may put some readers off. Be prepared for a slow start to the number of reviews. When it gets good, they'll come.
 Is the rating reducing traffic to your story? Is the story rated M? These stories only come up on the main page when a searcher looks for stories of all ratings or with an M rating.
 It might not be you or your story. If you're confident your story looks inviting but you're still not getting any reviews, consider the fandom. Is it very active?


Check your hit numbers.
Do other writers' stories get reviews? Lots of reviews? Ask yourself what kind of stories seem the most popular. Maybe you're writing for an unpopular pairing. You may need to be prepared to do some extra work to encourage reviewers.
 If your fandom is small and not very active, you may have to take other steps to advertise your story. Is there a livejournal community where you can advertise it? A fanfiction.net community?

, Fandoms can be fickle; maybe it's just not your story's time - or maybe it's time to go on a charm offensive.


Are you new to the fandom? Let other writers know you're interested in their stories. Why should anyone be interested in your story if you seem uninterested in the fandom you're writing for?
Review stories that interest you and writers you admire. Be a constructive critic. You aren't the only one wanting good reviews, Try leading by example and helping fellow writers by reviewing their work. Go into detail about the things you like and the things you feel needs improving. Not only will it attract the writer's attention and gratitude, but other readers as well with a taste of your writing skills and insight.
 What does it say about you? It looks a little funny if you write a story for one fandom but all your favorite authors are in another fandom....

