 The U.S. Government doesn’t just work with major companies. The Department of Defense sets aside a substantial portion of its budget to contracting with small business. Small businesses owned by women, veterans, and minorities are given further advantages in the bid selection process. Working with the DoD can be a real boon for your small business!

, Working with the federal government requires understanding and following a lot of complicated rules and procedures. The U.S. Small Business Administration maintains a comprehensive guide for small business that wish to take on federal contracts.The ACQ also maintains a helpful Guide to DOD Contracting Opportunities.It is important to study and understand these materials before seeking out federal contracts.


The materials noted above are admittedly dense, but know that the paperwork you will need to keep up with to seek and maintain government contracts will be just as bad, so consider these a litmus test for whether or not you are up for the challenge.
 It is important to have a very good understanding of your own company, and what it has to offer, before seeking government contracts. Identify the specific product or services that you can provide, and think about how much you can reasonably charge to do so, and still make a profit.
 Most defense contracts require that some, if not all, of the employees who will be involved in carrying out the contract have security clearance. Think about your own background and any problems that might be present there. If you did not run background checks on your employees when you hired them, you should discuss your intentions to apply for government contracts with them, and let them know that they may be required to obtain security clearance to continue with the company.
 Applying for and carrying out a federal contract requires completing a lot of paperwork, and keeping very careful records. Be sure that you are up for the challenge before proceeding, and budget extra time and resources to dealing with this paperwork., You will need this information to look for contracts, and complete applications. It can be located at www.naics.com/search.
 You will need to apply for a D-U-N-S identification number from the company Dun & Bradstreet.Obtaining your D-U-N-S number is free of charge.
 All federal contracts that go out for bid, including those for the Department of Defense and the Armed Forces, are listed on the “Fed Biz Ops” website www.fbo.gov. Check the site frequently for contracts that your business might be able to compete for.
 These centers are located in most states, and can help you figure out the best way to market your product or service to the DOD. They can also offer more general advice on marketing, and to small business in general.
 Be sure to follow all directions in the call for bids in your proposal, and to clearly and specifically explain how your company can provide the product or service that the agency is seeking. Provide detailed product brochures, and any other helpful materials, and make your presentation as professional and clear as possible.
 Databases are very helpful, but having real human contacts in the defense industry is crucial to getting the inside scoop on upcoming opportunities, and how best to market yourself for open contracts. Identify specific agencies that you would like to contract with, and seek out contacts within them. Attend any events that these agencies might hold, and follow closely any websites or publications they maintain., If you are awarded a contract that requires security clearance, the agency hiring you will send you information on obtaining security clearance for yourself, your company, and your facility, depending on the nature of the contract. Be ready to complete any preliminary paperwork that is requested, and to fully comply with all facets of the investigation. Failure to comply or to pass the investigation process will lead to the revocation of your contract.