 In order to get screaming deals at the farmers' market, you first need to find it. Generally, farmers' markets run from early spring to late fall, but depending on where you live, your local market may be open a shorter time period or may be open year-round. Some markets are open daily during the season, while others are open only one or two days a week, most likely on weekends.


If there are several markets in your area, visit all of them to find the best selection and best deals.;
, Although not true for every market, generally those selling agricultural products at the market the same people who grow or produce the items. Getting to know the producers/salespeople is your first step in building a lasting relationship with them and enjoying the great deals that can come from such a relationship.
 Often it is the case that common items (e.g. carrots, potatoes, and onions) are more expensive at the market than at conventional grocery stores. However, seasonal and specialty products that are outside of mainstream consumption (such as ethnic, heirloom, or rare vegetables) can be purchased for far lower prices than those demanded at the local supermarket. A flexible palate will not only introduce you to foods you never knew existed; you’ll also enjoy big savings.
 If there’s one way to a farmer's heart, it's talking food, especially talking about the food he or she grew. If you tell a vendor that you absolutely loved the way his or her heirloom Brandywine tomatoes complemented the basil you bought from him last week, there is a strong likelihood he or she will cut you a deal on your next purchase. The best reward to working all week in the field is to hear about how much a customer enjoyed eating the products a farmer grew. Farmers, like everyone else, appreciate compliments and knowing that their services make people happy.
 Farmers are independent and sometimes unconventional. The nature of farming instills in nearly all farmers a strong desire and tendency for bartering. A farmer, like anyone else, specializes in a certain trade or skill. If you also have a skill or service that you can offer—website design, carpentry, tax preparation, etc.—a farmer may be willing to trade for your services. You may be able to get all your vegetables free during the summer in return for using your own skills to help your local farmer out.



Because most vendors at farmers' markets grow seasonal products, there is often a large surplus of certain products at certain times. If you are willing to purchase large quantities of surplus items in peak season, you can add value to your purchase by saving seasonal food--by canning, freezing, or drying it, for example--for consumption out of season. For instance, the market price of raspberries is twice as much in winter as in summer. If you require a smoothie every morning, you can simply purchase large quantities in summer, freeze them, and enjoy savings as part of a complete breakfast. Make tomato gravy from those heirloom tomatoes, turn those beautiful onions into sweet onion marmalade, and dare to make pumpkin pie straight from the pumpkin.
 Consider going in with other people and purchasing “cases” of food. Then, once you are home from the market, you can split up the wonderful food you just purchased at rock bottom prices!

