 Surround yourself with friends who either have very few biased opinions, or consciously work to overcome them. This will help you remain aware of your own biases. It will also give you encouragement to continue to overcoming them. , Whether you are introduced to another culture or simply new sets of ideas, you will be forced to look at things differently. This will expand your knowledge and challenge your opinions of the world around you. Even if your biases are not eliminated, they will certainly be weakened by your experiences.For example, spending time living around people of another culture can encourage you to make friends with some of them. Through these friends, you will learn more about the culture. Your biased opinions will begin to fall away to make room for the new, accurate information you are learning.
 Having common ground and common interest with another person will help to disarm biased opinions about them. Try being on a team or participating in a group with people that you have biased opinions about. If you do this often enough, you can overcome at least some of your biases., When you are looking at evidence that relates to one of your biased opinions, it is natural to see the evidence in whatever way confirms your opinion. For this reason, evidence alone is not enough. You should actively ask yourself, “What if the opposite of what I think is true?” This question will force you to look at an alternative to your biased opinion, and this technique has been shown to reduce biases.For example, if you hold the opinion that humans do not contribute to climate change, then you would start analyzing a different perspective by asking “What would it look like if humans did contribute to climate change?”

, If your biased instincts are telling you to act a certain way, don’t listen. Instead, make an effort to do what you know to be right. This can be difficult at first, but as you get used to pushing your boundaries, you’ll be able to overcome most biases.For example, if you know that you have a cultural or racial prejudice, choose not to use racial slurs when referring to members of that race/culture. Instead, make a point to talk about them in a respectful way.

