 Often times you can feel bored or discontented simply because you haven't stopped to think about how much you love what you already have. Take some time to think about what and who you appreciate in your daily life, and ask yourself how you would be affected by losing them. Your reflection probably won’t resolve your restlessness entirely, but it will provide some meaningful perspective on your life and the changes you want to make, as well as afford you numerous mental and physical health benefits.It can help to write down your reflection in a journal or blog. Making a list of things you’re grateful for can be a valuable therapeutic exercise in itself, and having this written list can serve as an effective reminder later., Make a list of all the things you have to do each day and which you can’t escape, such as paying bills, buying groceries, and washing your face. Instead of showing you how boring and routinized your life is, you can see it as showing you how much freedom you actually have: sure, you have to do the things on the list, but that’s all! Every moment in your life not taken up by these non-negotiable responsibilities is open to experiment, novelty, and excitement.


If you feel like you only have time for work, ask yourself if you can cut back on your hours or work remotely one day a week. Get serious with your calendar and try to open up a day of each week that you can devote to new activities.
 Studies have shown that doing good for others constitutes one of the most enriching and satisfying things for people from all cultures and ages.You can do this in your daily life with minimal effort—for example, hugging a friend, opening the door for someone, or holding the elevator for a lagging stranger—or take on more official roles and responsibilities. Volunteering for a soup kitchen or animal shelter, picking up litter for highway cleanup task forces, or collecting signatures for a civic petition are all valuable ways you can contribute to your community while spicing up your day-to-day routine.


If you live in a small town where volunteering opportunities are limited or you have mobility issues, you can still contribute meaningfully to your community and make a big difference in other people’s lives. Consider signing up for an online- or phone-based support network, sending emails for a charity organization, or raising money via mail or online campaigns for your favorite philanthropic group.

