 The basic requirements for donating blood are that you be at least 17 years of age, in good health, and weigh at least 110 pounds. In some states, you can donate blood when you are 16 as long as you have parental consent. Inquire at your local blood center about your eligibility. Some factors that may prevent you from being allowed to donate are:Pregnancy
Sexually transmitted diseases
Recent tattoos or body piercings
Certain medications
A cold or flu
Travel to certain international destinations
Organ or tissue transplants;
, Your best bet for donating blood is through the American Red Cross, which collects almost half of all blood donations in the US. Visit http://www.redcrossblood.org/give/drive/driveSearch.jsp to search for a Red Cross blood drive happening near you. Some other reputable organizations that collect blood include:


America's Blood Centers, a network of community-based, independent blood programs across North AmericaUnited Blood Services, a non-profit blood centre that serves 18 statesThe Armed Service Blood Program, a blood program for the United States Military with 20 locations worldwide, Staying hydrated is important when you are donating blood as it maintains circulation in your body and improves blood flow. Being well-hydrated can also prevent lightheadedness during your donation. Drink at least 16 oz. of water prior to donating blood, and avoid caffeine (i.e. coffee or caffeinated sodas), which can dehydrate you., Before donating blood, make sure to eat a healthy, well-balanced meal. Avoid overly fatty foods (such as French fries or ice cream), as high fat levels can affect testing of the blood you donate. Try to promote a healthy iron level in your diet during the weeks prior to your donation by eating foods like red meat, spinach, beans, fish, and poultry., People who have donated blood before should bring their blood donor card on the day they donate. Otherwise, bring two valid forms of picture ID. These include:Driver's license
State ID
Passport
Immigration and Naturalization Service card (green card)
Student ID
Military ID
Employee ID

, On the day of your donation, wear clothing that will facilitate the process. Sleeves that fall above the elbow, or that can be rolled above the elbow, are a must. Alternatively, dress in layers that will allow you to free up your arm by removing something during your donation.