 It may help you reflect a bit on the “source,” or underlying cause, of the criticism. If it is coming from your parents, it may stem from worry about your financial future. (Although it may also be mixed up in their own desire to be “good parents.”) If it is coming from a friend, it could stem from jealousy or insecurity. If you can uncover the source of the criticism, it may hold less power over you.Try to think about what this person has to "gain" by telling you this.
Does their opposition come from a place of moral disapproval?
Could it be that they are worried about your financial security? (Do they fear you will come to them for help?)
Is it possible that they are jealous because they did not have the tenacity to follow their own dreams?

, Critical people will always find something to pick at. If it wasn’t your career, it could be your marital status, your lifestyle, where you live, how you dress, or how you spend your money. When you can see these comments aren’t really even about your career, you can begin to take them less personally.Even if you chose the career road your friends and family wanted you to choose, there would likely be some other element of your life that they don't agree with.
Perhaps they would pressure you to have more (or less) children. Perhaps they would encourage you to move closer to home. Perhaps they would try to tell you how to spend (or save) your money.
There will always be something that you are not doing "right." You'll be most happy if you do what you want.
 It is easy to get worked up about outside critics, but the truth is that the most powerful critic in your life is probably you. Often we take comments from others, magnify them with our own fears and insecurities, and create an internal storm of criticism. Although the words of others may echo in our ears, it is our own personal worries that actually hold us back.Let's say your aunt told you your career "isn't worthwhile." For the next week, perhaps your find yourself replaying this in your head. Then when an opportunity comes up, you don't take it, thinking "Maybe Aunt Rita was right."
Instead, try to recognize that you are the one replaying this comment. You are the one who chooses whether or not jump on that opportunity.
Recognize that the moment of outside criticism has already passed.
You have the power to move on at any time.

