 Miami is very close to the equator and is the only US metropolitan city that is considered to have a tropical environment, meaning summers are hot and humid and winters are dry and warm. Consider the following fabric facts when you dress for Miami:


Sheer fabrics. During the summer months, especially, sheer fabrics are ideal for letting a breeze in and cooling the skin.
Natural fabrics. All-natural fabrics like silk and cotton wick moisture away from the skin. However, natural fabrics also absorb the air's humidity and can become very heavy and shapeless after only a short time in the Miami heat. Choose thin weaves when wearing natural fabrics, as opposed to linens.
Synthetics. Synthetics or synthetic blends will not soak up the moisture in the air. However, they do not breathe well and can trap sweat inside just as well as they keep the humidity out. Avoid thick, 100 percent polyester materials in favor of thin, rayon blends.;
, Part of the Miami experience is spending time in the South Beach area. Therefore, a swimsuit is a necessity when dressing for Miami.
 While it is true that Miami stays warm throughout the year, even during the winter months, you will need something to put on quickly when going from the outside heat to the inside air conditioning. Some form of cover is also important if you want to dress for Miami parties, because many Miami parties are held on rooftops, which can get very breezy at night.
 For Miami style, the trend is toward showing as much skin as you are comfortable with-the more skin, the better.
 Remember that Miami style is based on Latin influences. This means bold colors, tropical prints and, if you are a female, form-fitting silhouettes that flatter the body's curves.
 It is customary for people in Miami to wear more formal attire when they frequent dining venues. Women often wear short dresses and men often dress in brightly colored button-ups and slacks.
 Miami club goers tend to exaggerate the Miami style when they go out at night, opting for eye-catching colors, patterns and silhouettes.
 Big, sparkly jewelry and bold wardrobe embellishments are ideal compliments to the Miami style. Additionally, hats and sunglasses are necessary for protection from the Miami sun.
 This means that you should bring a variety of footwear to Miami:


Walking shoes are a necessity for sight-seeing by foot. These may be tennis shoes or comfortable walking sandals.
Flip-flops are ideal for a day at the beach. Just remember that South Beach is a place to be seen and your flip flops, however casual they are, should match your swim attire.
For dinners and clubbing in Miami, your shoes are the crowning jewel of your nighttime attire and should be reflective of the no-holds-barred Miami style. For men, shined leather dress shoes are appropriate. For women, high heels are advisable.

