 While you may not always see eye to eye with your Arabic American man, you can take a step back and allow them to say their piece.;
, As in any relationship, listen with your whole heart. Sometimes what is said is not what is meant. Repeat what was said to you back and ask if you understood them. Sometimes this small gesture says to them, "I care what it is you meant to say."

, Sometimes the more traditional men have a problem with this one. A traditional man prefers having the last word and does not care to observe the more contemporary American lifestyle. This is a choice and so is being with your Arab American man. Choose wisely. If you enjoy being in a specific role, wife/daughter/background silent supporter, or just a good neighbor, then this lifestyle choice is for you. However, not all men fit this mold. Some recognize that their family fought to gain a new life and hold in America and perhaps, as a first or second generation American, they are fully indoctrinated into the culture. Never assume, ask questions.
 Some people are so very reserved. Some cultures value that trait, holding back the smoldering fire within. Encourage talk, encourage expression, don't allow a volcano in your life, unless you like that kind of thing. Appreciate when your Arabic American man does tell you his private thoughts as this may not be his first nature. Be vocal when you have praise. Arabic American men, like all men, are not mind-readers and have the same uncertainties we all do.
 No matter what the origins of the ancestors, if you become involved with a man from any country, appreciate the local and regional values, customs, and culture soon after he or you express an interest in each other. He can always tell you some of the customs but this will always be tainted with personal family traditions as well. But if you want to get to the man, get to the root of his family's belief structure and the influences that impacted his parents/grandparents, etc. Some of them may still be in his life and the more you can relate and understand and process for yourself, the better.
 To understand an Arabic man is to understand his belief and value system but also to understand the laws and social mores that had an impact on the formation of his parents and his beliefs. If your Arabic American man was born in your country, and his parents and others are no longer alive then it is possible there is less of an influence where this is concerned. However, the more traditional aspects and the values that are indoctrinated into your AA man, the more heavily the influence is in him carrying on the same traditions and values.
 Family growth is important in the lives of Arabic men and many Arab Americans are no different. Having a legacy is an important facet in all religions. Some are happy with only one or two and, depending on the culture, the narrowing of the field allows more parental focus. However, many seek to have as many as possible because it is important to have as many people behind you as possible.
 A very small minority become radicals. People, throughout history, have felt that a bigger or more shadowy threat has loomed over them, real or imagined, and that the threat, if it were not kept at bay, would overwhelm and possibly wipe them out. So, in response, sometimes people take an extreme viewpoint of attack or be attacked. It's best to attempt to remove the threat by being as clear with your potential mate or friend what your values are and aren't. If radicalism is not something you aspire to for you or your family, state it. You may not be able to prevent it, but at least you stuck to your personal beliefs.
 An Arab American man is not an alien. He is an American who has embraced, either by birth or by choice, the American way. He is subject to the American draft and will go to war on behalf of the American dream. Do not call him anything other than what he will embrace.
 Embracing an occasional word in Arabic will help you out. For example, say (pronounced sah-hah) "Saja" الصحة when people sneeze. It means, more or less, health to you. Little gestures like this will help cement an appreciation.

