 One of the easiest ways to get a guy to stop calling you is to stop responding to him altogether. Do not answer his calls, respond to his text messages or emails, or contact him in any other way. Most guys will understand that you do not want to talk to them if you consistently ignore their calls.


Some guys might interpret any kind of response on your part as progress, which is why it is important not to respond to harassing calls in any way, even if it is just to tell the person to stop calling you., If the guy is not getting the message that you don't want to talk to him and he continues to call you even though you don't answer his calls, it might be time to block his number. Many cell phones have features that allow you to block numbers directly from the device. If your phone can't do this, you may be able to call your phone provider and have them block the number for you.


Some phone companies may not block numbers for you until you have filed a police report against the person who is harassing you.
Keep in mind that this will only work if he calls you from one or two numbers. If the guy starts calling your phone from payphones or from his friends' phones, you will have a hard time blocking all of his calls.
 If the guy has managed to get through to you even though you blocked his number, you may have no other option than to change your phone number.Keep your new number as private as possible so that he can't find it. If it's a home phone number, make sure it is not listed in the phone book. Also tell your friends not to give out your new number without your permission.
You can also consider getting a second number to give only to people you actually want to talk to. You may be able to resume using your old number after some time. This method is also helpful if you want to maintain evidence of the guy's persistent calls.
If you don't want to actually change your number, but you want the guy to believe that you did, you could try having someone else answer your phone or record your voicemail message for you.
If you use Google Voice, the service will help you convince unwanted callers that you have changed your number by playing a message stating that the number is no longer in service to anyone who calls from a number that you have blocked., If you ever feel threatened by this guy in any way, it is critical to report it to the police right away. You may be able to get a restraining order against the guy, which will prevent him from contacting you in the future. You may also be able to file criminal charges against him for stalking.


Stalking includes any actions taken with the intent to kill, injure, harass, or intimidate a person, and which cause a person to be fearful for his or her own life or the lives of others or to suffer severe emotional distress.If you are pursuing an kind of legal case against the guy who is stalking you, keep as much evidence as possible, including text messages and voicemail messages. If the laws in your state allow you to do so, you may also want to record conversations between the two of you to prove that you have in fact told him to leave you alone.

