 Lemon juice is one of the best-known and most effective lightening and bleaching ingredients. Many use lemon to lighten hair, but it also is effective in lightening the tone of your skin.To prepare the lemon juice, squeeze several small lemons into a small bowl. Prepare your skin by washing your face and any other parts of your body that you wish to be paler with a gentle face or body wash. Apply the lemon juice to your face or other parts of your body by brushing on the lemon juice with a large clean brush or by dabbing the mixture on with a paper towel.
Let the lemon juice sit on your skin for 20 minutes, then wash it off with cool water.
For an especially effective lightener, keep the lemon juice on overnight and then wash it off in the morning.;
, Tomato is also a natural lightening agent that has several other health benefits, among which is the reduction of oil production to prevent acne.To create a tomato mask, mash a tomato in a large bowl with a potato masher until it is a pulpy liquid, then squeeze the juice of one lemon into the tomato mixture and stir. Wash your face and/or body with a gentle face or body wash and pat them dry. Then use a pastry brush or paper towel to apply a layer of the tomato honey mixture on your skin.
Wait a few minutes until the layer is dry, then apply another layer of the pulp. Leave the mask on for 20 minutes, then wash it off with cool water.
Tomato is a very mild ingredient, so you can use this mask multiple times a week.
 A milk mask is a very mild and nourishing skin treatment that also can give you a paler skin tone if used several times a week. Before using the mask, clean your face with a gentle cleanser and pat it dry.Pat milk on your face as well as any other parts of your body that you want to be paler. Massage the milk into your skin until it dries, then rinse it off with cool water.
To make this mask more effective, mash potatoes into a paste, either in a food processor or with a potato masher. Then add one part mashed potato to two parts milk and pat the mask into your face.
Use sugarless milk rather than milk with added sugar.
 Honey and cinnamon are two ingredients that are excellent for your skin. Although this paste can be sticky, it gives your skin a healthy and luminous glow by removing dead skin cells and moisturizing.To make honey-cinnamon paste, add a teaspoon (4.9 ml) of ground cinnamon to a tablespoon (14.78 ml) of honey and mix. Then spread the paste on your face and let it sit for about 20 minutes. Wash the paste off your face with water, or a gentle face wash if necessary.
You can also add a pinch of nutmeg, which helps to exfoliate.
 Vitamin C battles free radicals that can age and darken skin pigmentation, and it also helps to get rid of dead skin cells to expose the lighter and brighter skin cells below.Foods rich in Vitamin C include strawberries, tomatoes, cantaloupes, green peas and sweet peppers.
Getting more Vitamin C every day won’t make as big of an impact on your skin as regularly applying skin masks, but it will make a difference over time and has numerous other health benefits.
 Drinking water helps to flush out your skin to brighten and renew it. It can also rejuvenate your skin after getting a tan so that the pigmented layer of skin fades faster. Aim to drink at least eight glasses of water a day to keep your skin radiant and healthy.