 You want to look, smell, and be clean and fresh. Step into the shower and use your favorite scented shampoo for an extra sense of cleanliness. If you need to shave your legs do that as well. Once you step out of the shower and dry yourself off, apply some moisturizer. (It doesn't need to be scented, but it can be if you want.) This will keep your arms and legs soft. Afterwards, wash your face with a good face wash.;
, First, brush out any tangles you have and make sure your hair is fairly smooth. Now begin blow drying your hair while brushing it. Take a break once in a while between blow drying and take the time to comb out any tangles before doing it again, so it isn't a painful process at the end.
 Make sure your clothes are appropriate. Even if all the popular girls are wearing really short dresses, doesn't mean you should.
 Pick a cute bag that matches your outfit! Fill it with money for snacks (if available), have extra makeup (just in case!), gum (bad breath is not good) and your phone. Depending on the size of your bag, you can add some extras. Such as, a small water bottle, a brush, feminine products, perfume or lotion.
 Don't look desperately all over the place, and don't stand by the door craning your neck every which way. Walk over to some friends, first. Try to spot him from there, but if you can't, excuse yourself and get a glass of punch. Look for him, but not too obviously. Look distracted at the same time. When you do find him, take a deep breath and relax. Try not to be nervous before you walk over.
 Let him talk to his friends, and spend some time with yours. Wait until the middle of the dance to ask him. If you procrastinate, you may lose your chance! Spend that time thinking about what you're going to do. Maybe ask the DJ to put on a slow song!

, If you had garlic pizza right before the dance, chew on some mint gum! Check your makeup and apply some perfume/lip gloss if you want. if you've still got butterflies, just tell yourself to calm down, because let's remember, it's just a guy. The world won't end if he refuses.
 Even though this is the big moment, don't seem too uptight or formal, it will make you less approachable. Just be normal.


If he's talking with his friends, wait until their conversation is over. Don't interrupt, it might seem a little rude. instead, if the conversation has gone on for a while and he still hasn't noticed you, lightly tap him on the shoulder.
 Smile, so he doesn't think he's in trouble.
 Don't yank on his arm, just lightly brush your fingertips on his arm and motion for him to follow you.
 If you're crazy nervous though, you could say something like, "This dance is nice. Are you having fun?" or "You look really nice, I love your outfit." Don't keep pulling those, though, just say one thing as an icebreaker.
 Just say, "I was wondering if you wanted to dance." or "Would you like to dance?" Keep it simple.
 If you dance to a fast paced song, it may be less pressure while still spending time with him. Plus, if he wants to keep dancing, he may ask you to dance on the next slow song!

, Tell him it's no big deal and just calmly walk away. Avoid asking why too. Keeping a cool head is much better than bursting into tears. If he says yes, go onto the dance floor with him.
 If you feel uncomfortable with his hands on your hips, lead them a little bit higher. After about a minute of the song, if you feel comfortable, put your head on his shoulder.


When the song is over, you don't have to keep dancing, But don't just leave. Talk with him for a little bit, but if he wants to leave, don't bother him. Just tell him you had fun, smile and walk away.
 You just danced with a guy! Good job and good luck!

