 Sometimes hemorrhoids will improve with home treatment methods and medical treatment will not be necessary. However, you should consult your physician if your hemorrhoid symptoms do not improve with a week of home treatments. Your doctor may discuss a number of prescription-strength or surgical options.


See a doctor right away if your hemorrhoids are causing you pain.
Your doctor may advise you to make some diet and lifestyle changes before trying anything too drastic. These changes may include increasing your fiber intake and getting more exercise.
 If your doctor doesn’t believe a surgical option is necessary, yet he or she wants to help you with the pain associated with your hemorrhoids, he or she can provide a prescription-strength anesthetic, such as lidocaine (Xylocaine), to help deal with the discomfort and itching.
 This is the most common procedure used to treat hemorrhoids. A small elastic band is place around the base of an internal hemorrhoid, which cuts off the circulation to the hemorrhoid. With no circulation, the hemorrhoid will shrink and wither away in a week., In this procedure, a physician injects a chemical solution into the hemorrhoid, which causes scarring and shrinkage of tissue. Sclerotherapy is less effective than rubber band ligation.Sclerotherapy, however, may not be the recommended option by a number of doctors because studies have shown that while effective in the short term, most patients develop recurrent hemorrhoids., Coagulation techniques use laser, infrared light, or heat. The procedures stop bleeding in small hemorrhoids and also cause them to scar and shrivel. Coagulation has higher rates of recurrence of hemorrhoids than rubber band ligation.This technique is often used for small hemorrhoidal tissue for which rubber band ligation is not an option, or it may be used in association with rubber band ligation as the combination of the two techniques has shown as 97 percent success rate.This method also leads to some of the shorter recovery times for hemorrhoid surgery at one to two weeks., This procedure is known as a hemorrhoidectomy. The offending external or internal hemorrhoid is surgically removed. It is the most effective method of treating severe or recurring hemorrhoids. It cures 95% of patients and has a low rate of complications.This procedure is typically performed in the cases of strangulated internal hemorrhoids, mixed internal and external hemorrhoids, or preexisting anorectal conditions that necessitate surgery.This option is also known for the larger degree of pain associated with the healing time.Recovery time for removal options is approximately two to three weeks with a follow-up visit to your surgeon., With stapled hemorrhoidectomy (or stapled hemorrhoidopexy), a physician uses a stapling device to anchor the bleeding or prolapsed hemorrhoid in its normal position. The stapling procedure blocks the blood flow to the hemorrhoid, which causes it to shrink.


Compared to hemorrhoidectomy, stapling has a higher risk of hemorrhoid recurrence and rectal prolapse, which is when the rectum protrudes out of the anus.However, this surgical procedure is also known for its marked decrease in postoperative pain for the patient versus standard hemorrhoidectomy.