 You will have to go to the website for the credit reporting agency (CRA) that contains the bankruptcy information. You can visit the following websites:


Equifax: www.equifax.com
Experian: www.experian.com
TransUnion: www.transuinon.com

, At each CRA’s homepage, there should be a link that you can click on in order to begin the dispute process. You can find it in the following places:


Equifax. Click on “Credit Report Assistance” near the top of the page.Then select “Dispute info on credit report” from the drop-down menu.
Experian. Click on “Credit Report Assistance” at the top of the page.Then pick “Dispute” from the drop-down list.
TransUnion. At the homepage, you should click on “Credit Report Assistance” which is at the top of the page.Then click on “Credit Report Disputes.”

, The CRA may prompt you to create an account so that you can log in and check your information.If you do not already have an account, then you should create one. To create an account, you will be prompted to provide the following information:


first and last name
current address
date of birth
Social Security Number

, Before being able to complete the log-in process, you will probably have to verify your identity. You will do this by answering a series of questions.


For example, you may be asked what state you have a driver’s license in, or the amount of your monthly student loan payment.
 Once you log in successfully, you should be shown your credit report online. Select the bankruptcy information and flag it for review. You can then submit your online dispute.


If you see more errors in addition to the wrong bankruptcy information, then you can report them at the same time.
 The CRA has 30-45 days to review your dispute and investigate the bankruptcy information.You will receive a written summary of the investigation. If your credit report is corrected, the CRA will send you a free copy of the corrected report.


You also have the right to ask the CRA to send corrections to anyone who requested a copy of your credit report over the past six months.
Furthermore, if someone received a copy of your credit report for employment purposes during the past two years, then you can have a corrected report sent to them.

