 Using a workbook can be helpful for working through problems with anger. Workbooks help you work through feelings and gain coping strategies by using writing exercises. The goal of a workbook is to help you reflect on your thoughts and actions and move toward more helpful strategies to deal with anger.


You may want to browse online or in a local bookstore to find an anger workbook. Find one that you feel you can keep up with and engage in regularly.
Check your local library for books or videos.
The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) also has a book that is available online: http://www.veterantraining.va.gov/aims/media/AngerManagementWorkbook-508.pdf


, If you constantly feel “wound up” or ready to explode, start using a daily relaxation practice. Actively include relaxation as a part of every day, as much as brushing your teeth or eating food. When you purposefully relax each day, it can help you release any building pressure and help you gain control.Some activities you can try include yoga, meditation, qi gong, or progressive muscle relaxation.
You may wish to ask a friend or family member to engage in relaxation exercises with you. This can help keep you accountable and motivate you to relax each day together.
 Exercise can help you release energy and cool down. In addition to helping relieve stress, exercise can boost your mood and create emotional and physical benefits for you. If you feel like a situation might trigger your anger, exercising beforehand can help level your mood.Try going for a walk, joining a class at your local gym, or try a new hobby, like hiking, rock climbing, or biking.
When you exercise, remove your focus from anger and focus on your body’s sensations. Turn your attention to your breathing or to the movement in your muscles. Tuning into your body can make you more present in the moment.
 Sometimes anger can result from miscommunication or misunderstandings. You might jump to conclusions that may be inaccurate or misinformed. Learn to abate your defensiveness and think through your words before you say them. If you want to yell or get upset, let the other person finish talking or make sure you have a clear understanding of the situation before responding.Practice listening more and reacting less.


For more information, check out How to Improve Verbal Communication Skills.

