 The best way to begin a conflict resolution is by being a good listener. Instead of talking, criticizing, or offering your opinion early on in the conversation, sit silently and let the other person talk. Don't interrupt the other person, and let him speak frankly but respectfully., When emotions run high, it can be difficult to tell what exactly started the whole situation. This may be particularly true if someone comes to you with frustrations about something you've done and begins throwing around accusations. The only way to arrive at a mutually-beneficial solution is to listen to the person's concerns, let him feel validated, and understand what action, words, or lack of action/words led to the current situation.


Start out by asking open-ended questions, such as "What's wrong?" or "Why do you feel upset over ______?"
Let the person vent his frustrations or talk out the problem with you.
Once you think you've determined the cause of the problem, ask a "yes or no" (closed-ended) question to confirm that that is the underlying problem. For example, you might ask something like, "I just want to make sure I understand what you're saying. Are you saying that the problem is you felt disrespected when you heard _______?", Remember that the person who initiated the confrontation is probably feeling very hurt, and may be speaking/acting out of an emotional space. Don't take anything that's said to you personally, as the situation at its core probably has nothing to do with you as a person.Try not to let your feelings cloud your reaction. You can do this by using calming techniques.
Use deep breathing to stabilize your mood before you respond. Draw in a slow breath for four seconds, hold it for two seconds deep down in your diaphragm (as opposed to shallow breathing through the chest), and exhale slowly for six seconds., It can be difficult to put yourself in another person's shoes, but this is essential in problem solving and compromising. Even if you don't think you're in the wrong, try setting aside your own experience and think about where the other person might be coming from.Avoid jumping to conclusions. Listen without judgment, criticism, or any kind of reaction.
Consider why the person feels the way he does. Perhaps he lacks social skills, or perhaps he's been ignored/marginalized to the point that he feels this is the only way to get results.
Consider whether you would be similarly hurt, frustrated, or otherwise upset if you believed you were being treated the way the other individual sees his situation.
Ask the other person to clarify his stance. Say something like, "I think I understand why you're upset. When I said ______, you saw it as an act of disrespect. Is that correct?"

, If you're part of the problem, acknowledge this. Be apologetic, and use "I" statements instead of making excuses. For example, if something you did led to the situation, say something like, "I'm sorry I upset you. I didn't mean to blame you. In the future, I would like it if you did _______ differently, and I will try to work on my end of the issue as well."Remember that you are responsible for half of every interaction. You cannot choose how the other person feels, but you can manage your own end of the conflict, and the first step in doing this is to remain calm and acknowledge any part of the problem you may have contributed to.
 Even if you cannot give the other person exactly what he wants, try to present him with some options. This will help him feel like he has some control over the situation, and will probably lead to a calm, desirable solution.Never give a flat "no" response. Refusing to help someone will quickly put that person in a bitter and often defensive mood.
Don't make offers/promises that you can't keep. This will only lead to further conflict down the road.If you cannot give the other person what he wants, let him know gently. Say something like, "Unfortunately we can't do that, but we can offer you something else that will help." Then try to come up with something that would somewhat appease the other person (like offering him store credit or coupons if you can't give him a full refund, for example).
Try to offer reasonable options, like "Let me make some calls for you" or "Let me see what I can do." You may also want to include the other person on finding a situation by saying something like, "Let's try to work together and come up with a solution that makes everyone happy."

, You may not be able to give the other person exactly what he wants, but you may also need to let go of the certainty that your way is necessarily correct. There may be a mutually-satisfying option to let everyone feel validated and understood, but you'll have to work with the other person to arrive at such a compromise.Enter the discussion willing to find an alternative solution. That way you will be less likely to rigidly hold onto your own opinions or viewpoint.
Discuss the pros and cons of each possible solution with the other individual. That way he will understand why his desired outcome may not be feasible.
Set S.M.A.R.T. goals (specific, measurable, achievable, results-focused, and time-bound). Setting S.M.A.R.T. goals will help you arrive at realistic, reasonable outcomes that can benefit everyone involved.