 At your vet’s office, there may be certain days, or certain times of day, that are very busy. If your dog’s appointment is at a busy time, your dog may be in the waiting room with a lot of other dogs, which could present a safety issue. By making an appointment for a slower time of day, your dog would be around fewer dogs.


When you call to make your appointment, ask the receptionist when the office is not very busy.
A non-busy time would also allow you to get in and out of your vet’s office more quickly.If you have a puppy, try to schedule the appointment for the first part of the day, when the floor and other surfaces will be the most clean.This will protect your puppy’s immune system, especially if your puppy has not yet received all of its vaccinations.;
, A car ride can be an anxious time for your dog, especially if your dog associates car rides with only vet visits. To help your dog feel less anxious in the car, go for car rides for other activities, like running errands or going to the dog park. When your dog starts enjoying car rides, the rides to the vet's office won't be so anxiety-inducing for your dog.


If your dog gets sick or anxious in the car, talk to your vet. Medications are available to reduce anxiety and prevent car sickness in dogs.Transporting your dog in a crate could make car rides easier and calmer for your dog. Put your dog’s favorite blanket and toys in the crate to keep your dog busy and calm during the ride.
 If your dog gets anxious before vet visits, take it for a walk, either before leaving home or once you arrive at the vet’s office. A walk will help your dog release some nervous energy and be more calm.If you choose to wait outside before your appointment, use this time to walk your dog.
 When you arrive at the vet’s office, keep your dog in the car and briefly walk into the waiting room. If you see a lot of other dogs in the waiting room, consider waiting outside until your appointment time. You could have the receptionist call you to let you know when the vet is ready to see your dog.By waiting outside, you would keep your dog safe from other dogs that may be aggressive or otherwise not behaving well.
 If your dog is aggressive towards other dogs, putting a muzzle on your dog before entering the waiting room would be a good idea. Temporary use of a muzzle would help keep your dog and other dogs safe. The Baskerville (basket) muzzle is the most comfortable, since its design makes it easy for dogs to breathe.Soft muzzles, which are made of nylon, fabric, or leather, are also available. However, they are less comfortable than basket muzzles and make it difficult for a dog to pant.Talk to your vet if you are not sure which type of muzzle would be best for your dog.

Train your dog to wear a muzzle before the vet visit. This way, by the time you will actually need to use it at the vet’s office, your dog will already be comfortable with it.
 When you enter the waiting room, choose a seat away from other dogs.The more distance you can put between your dog and other dogs, the safer each dog will be. Be aware that, if the waiting room is small, you may have to sit closer to other dogs.
 The waiting room of a vet’s office is not the place to let your dog roam around. While you wait for your appointment, shorten the lead on your dog’s leash so your dog stays close to you at all times. This will help you keep better control of your dog.If you have a retractable leash, lock the leash into a short position before entering the waiting room.
If other dog owners are not keeping close holds on their dogs, these dogs may approach your dog. This encounter could be a safety issue. Try to distance yourself from dogs who are not staying close to their owners.
 After you have chosen a seat, position your dog so that its face is toward you. This will prevent your dog from making eye contact with other dogs.This eye contact could indicate the start of aggressive behavior, which would make your dog and the other dogs less safe.
 This will be important if the waiting room is small and/or already full with other dogs and dog owners. To block contact, try to keep part of your body between your dog and another dog.If this is not possible, it may be better to wait outside or stand away from the other dogs.
 With your dog facing you, keep your dog’s focus on you rather than on other dogs. Practice different commands, such as sit and lie down. Reward your dog after it follows each command.The commands and treats will keep your dog happily occupied until it’s time for the appointment.


Along with treats, give your dog lots of verbal praise for focusing on you and following commands.Speak in a soft, calm voice so you do not excite or agitate other dogs in the waiting room.
You could also pet your dog while it is facing you.
 Even if the waiting room is not busy before your appointment, it could be full of dogs afterwards. At the end of your dog’s exam, check the waiting room (or ask the staff to do so). If the waiting room is busy, consider waiting in the exam room until your dog’s medications are ready and the bill is finalized. The less time you spend in the waiting room after the appointment, the safer your dog and other dogs will be., If your puppy is not fully vaccinated, it could pick up diseases from walking where other dogs have urinated and defecated outside the vet’s office.Rather than let your puppy sniff around outside, take your puppy directly into the waiting room.


Since puppies need to empty their bladders frequently, take your puppy outside right before you leave for the vet’s office.
If you have an older dog that is sick, do not let it sniff around outside. An older dog’s immune system may be very weak, increasing the likelihood of illness.
 Holding your dog in your arms is not recommended, since it could bite or scratch you if it becomes agitated. If your dog is small, keep it in a crate until you are in the exam room. This will keep your dog safe from other dogs.In addition, staying in the crate will help shield your dog from diseases that other dogs may have.
 Some dog diseases, such as canine distemper, can be spread when a dog coughs infected particles into the air. If your dog is coughing, it may be best to wait with your dog outside until it is time for the appointment. This will help prevent the spread of disease from your dog to other dogs.


Other highly contagious diseases in dogs are the canine flu and parvovirus. Canine flu is spread through respiratory secretions (coughs, sneezes) and contaminated surfaces. Parvovirus can be spread through direct contact with an infected dog and contaminated feces.If your dog is seriously ill, the receptionist may suggest that you wait with your dog outside to prevent the possible spread of disease.

