 Using a butter knife or spoon, remove baby food from the jar and spread it on a piece of toast, bagel, or cracker. Single-fruit baby foods, such as apricot and banana, work particularly well as spreads. The natural sugar content is high enough to mimic a store bought jam and the consistency is thick enough to stay on the top of bread without being totally absorbed.This also makes a great toddler snack. Cut up the bread with spread into long, thin pieces or small squares for a healthy “finger-food.";
, Take a spoon and drizzle baby food with a smooth consistency and complimentary flavor, such as pear, over a baked chicken or even a dessert, like a tart. Or, take the baby food out of the jar and place a small amount of it on a plate to be used as a dipping sauce with veggie sticks, chicken nuggets, etc.Feel free to add additional spices to the baby food to amplify its flavor as a dip. For example, you could add cinnamon to an apple baby food and then dip French toast sticks into the mixture.
If your baby food is Stage 1 and a smooth consistency, it is ready to be used as a side sauce. If it is a Stage 2 or higher (a bit more chunky), place the baby food in a food processor and pulse for a few times to smooth it out. Or, place the baby food in a bowl and whip it with a fork until it is a smooth consistency.
 Get a bowl, add a few spoons of cottage cheese or yogurt, and place some fruit baby food on top. You can eat it as is, or you can mix it all together. This makes an exceptionally healthy snack for children or adults.This recipe is also something that kids can help make. Give them the bowl with the yogurt and a bowl with baby food. Then ask them to mix the two together with spoons. They can taste test the various versions. A warning, though, this process may get a bit messy depending on the age of your child.
 Throw some ice cubes, fresh fruit, yogurt, and fruit baby food into a blender and pulse until smooth. You can also add fruit juice or milk if you prefer. Play with the consistency to see what you like, adding more food or less ice in different versions.


You can always make smoothies in bulk and then place them in to-go cups in the refrigerator until you want them. A good combination might be ice, orange juice, pear baby food, fresh strawberries, and plain yogurt.
This is another possible food prep activity for kids. Set out all the available ingredients and let your kids decide what to place in the blender. You blend everything together and then let them taste test their creations.
 Get an ice cube tray or plastic popsicle freezer tray. In a bowl or food processor, mix together baby food and fruit juice. Continue until you have a close-to-liquid consistency. Pour the mixture into the trays and freeze at least overnight.You can use the ice cubes with a fruity drink or even water to create additional flavor. The popsicles make a great, cool snack for children and adults. Feel free to include chunkier baby food or even fruit chunks in the mixture; just be careful not to give the final product to young children as it could present a choking hazard.
 Keep a few jars of fruit baby food available as a healthy substitute for sugar in your everyday recipes. For example, if you sprinkle sugar on top of your oatmeal for breakfast, try adding a spoonful of pureed apples instead. You will find that you eventually won’t notice the difference in taste at all., You can use baby food in a wide variety of baking recipes. Baby food adds moisture and additional flavor to most baked goods. You can find tons of recipes online by searching “baked goods and baby food” or “baking with baby food.” Look for those recipes with strong reviews and clear instructions.


Cookies, cakes, biscuits, pancakes, and breads are just a few baking options when using leftover baby food. For example, banana baby food is a great addition to a traditional banana bread recipe.