 Experimental music began to take shape in the early to mid 1900s with the rising influence of Black Mountain College. Several classically trained composers began to experiment with what it means to write a composition. Today several artists and musicians take a pop genre, like techno, and experiment with it. The result, if done successfully, is an entirely different sound.


An example is Stockhausen’s “Helicopter String Quartet,” which requires four helicopters and each member of the quartet to occupy a separate helicopter while playing in unison., Since the 1960s, certain musicians have been interested in blurring the line between a conventional pop song and something completely different. There is a trend in psychedelic experimental music to disrupt pop conventions. Bands like Acid Mother Temple do this by creating a hook through a melody and then branch off into a cosmic jam.


Captain Beefheart’s infamous album, Trout Mask Replica, is a fully composed album, but the record sounds like improvisation and insanity.
 In the mid 1970s, when the synthesizer were beginning to build momentum, certain artist found a new way to use the instrument. Being inspired from Indian ragas and other types of droning Eastern classical music, ambient music creates an atmosphere for the listener.


Brian Eno popularized ambient music with compositions like “Music for Airports,” which was composed to be played in airports.
Another interesting cross genre is noise music. Noise music is loud and chaotic, but it oftentimes creates a consistent ambient wall of sound.
 Minimalist music refers to a specific scene of musicians in the 1960s up to the present day, who wrote music “minimally.” The term itself does not fairly describe the music. Minimalist music is best characterized by several “minimal” layers of music stacked on top of each other to create something incredibly complex.


Philip Glass wrote an opera called “Einstein on the Beach,” which embodies this idea of stacking minimal melodies to create something massive.
Other pioneers of the genre, Steve Reich and Terry Riley, have their own style of creating minimalist music.

