 Standing for long periods of time can have similar effects to sitting for long periods of time. If you have weak muscles, such as the abdominal and glute muscles, your other muscles will get tighter. There has to be a balance.


Avoid leaning on one leg. Shifting your weight from one hip to another is bad for your posture. If your buttock and core muscles are weak, you may tend to stand with more of your weight on one leg to use your lower back and hips to balance you.Stand with your weight distributed evenly between your legs. If your buttocks and core muscles are weak, do exercises to strengthen them such as planks, side-lying leg raises, and bridges.
You can also squeeze your butt muscles while standing to make sure the glute muscles don’t get weak. Do this several times a day.
 If possible, alternate the two positions every 30 minutes, for maximum benefit. Standing all day can have adverse affects on your health, just like sitting, because your joints are supporting you all day.


Ideally, find a sit-stand workstation that can be used when sitting or standing., They are made in desktop models that start at $200 and full-desk models that start at $900.


People who are handy with do-it-yourself projects may find that they can create an adjustable height desk. Even placing your monitor, keyboard, and other work tools on elevated boxes can provide a more ergonomic workstation.
Your standing desk should have your screen 20” to 28” from your eyes and allow you to hold your elbows at a 90-degree angle.You can also use a footstool to take pressure off your back. Stand with one leg slightly bent, and the other leg on a small stool. Make sure you alternate legs every 15 to 20 minutes.
 A small gel mat works well to give your feet extra support.
 Don’t stand at work in heels or flat shoes without arch supports. Add arch supports to your shoes if they don’t have them already.
 As you develop your postural muscles you can increase these periods. Standing too long too soon can result in a backache.
 Standing while answering email, calling or doing research is advantageous because you are likely to do it for 30 minutes and move on. Typing and activities that require honed motor skills are easier to do when sitting.
 Get up and walk around every 30 minutes to ensure that you are getting the exercise and stretching your body needs.