 Because of this, extra care must be taken with your daily skincare regimen. Wash your face with lukewarm water once in the morning and once in the evening before bed. Use a mild, gentle cleanser with a creamy consistency, which won’t strip your skin of its natural moisture.


Before cleansing, always wash your hands thoroughly to avoid transferring bacteria to your face.
After cleansing, dry your face gently by patting it with soft washcloth. Never use scrubbing motions to dry your skin.
If you have oily or acne-prone skin, try cleansers with salicylic acid or sulfur.Unless you have visible acne lesions, avoid products that contain benzoyl peroxide. This chemical is too harsh for mature skin.;
, Toner restores that pH balance. When pH balance is restored, you will experience less inflammation and your skin will be more resilient to bacteria. Wait a few minutes after cleansing, then gently swipe a toner-soaked cotton pad all over your face. Do not rinse the toner off.


Avoid applying toner to the sensitive skin around your eyes.
Use a toner that is alcohol-free for best results.
 After cleansing and toning, apply a thin layer of deeply hydrating moisturizer to your skin. This will plump it and minimize the look of fine lines and wrinkles. Make sure the one you choose has a minimum of SPF 30 sunscreen in it if you’re planning to go outside. Wearing sunscreen is one of the easiest and most effective ways to prevent premature aging, sun damage and wrinkles.If you struggle with oily skin, select a moisturizer that is oil-free. Gel formulas tend to be the lightest moisturizers.
If you have dry or sensitive skin, use a cream formula. These tend to be thicker and heavier.
 Makeup sinks into the fine lines and wrinkles, drawing unwanted attention to them. For mature skin, less is more. Look for hydrating and sheer formulas. Tinted moisturizers that provide light coverage are a great option, too.


When purchasing makeup, look for mineral formulas. These protect the skin and act as a natural sunscreen.Mineral makeup doesn’t settle into fine line and wrinkles as much as some of the other formulas do. It also doesn’t clog pores.
Always remove makeup before you go to sleep. Sleeping with it on can cause chronic inflammation, irritation and damage for aging skin.