 Plum blossoms are believed to attract energy that promotes longevity and good fortune. If you’re planting plum blossoms in your garden, you should place them in the north corner. You can also plant them at the rear of your property., In feng shui, a magnolia tree represents purity and is believed to attract satisfaction to your home. You can plant magnolia trees in your front or back yards for good feng shui. Planting a magnolia tree in your backyard is believed to encourage increased wealth., In feng shui, bamboo is believed to discourage negative or malign energy and protect your home from those energies. You should plant bamboo anywhere outside, as long as its on the left side of your house., Plants with spikes or thorns are thought to disrupt the flow of positive energy to your home. You should therefore avoid planting any such plants in front of your home, as it can disrupt the feng shui of your home from the start., In feng shui, you should avoid planting trees that don’t take a regular shape. This includes willows, withered trees, or titled trees. The bent shape of these trees is believed to interrupt the flow of good feng shui., The more trees in your yard, the better for your home’s feng shui, but you should avoid planting trees directly in front of your home. This includes trees that might cover your home and block sunlight, or trees directly in front of windows or doors on the front of your house., Bamboo is a good plant to have inside your home as well. Placing it in the corner of the living room is believed to create good feng shui and protect your home from negative energy., Chrysanthemum plants are believed to attract positive, happy energy. This makes them a great addition to your living room. You should, however, keep chrysanthemum out of your bedroom, since according to feng shui, bedrooms require different types of energy., Lotus plants are believed to enhance the chi or positive energy of your home. For this reason, you should place lotus plants at your home’s entrance. You can set them up outside or inside of your home’s entryway, but inside is generally better for your home’s feng shui., Money plants – also known as philodendron scandens – are believed to attract energy that encourages abundance. They are a common indoor feng shui tree. They can grow in dark corners as long as you keep the tree’s soil moisturized. They also have the added benefit of purifying the air in your home., The jade plant is one of the most potent symbols of prosperity in Asian culture. Placing a jade plant in the entryway of your home strengthens the energy of your home and encourages prosperity. You can also place it in the southwest corner of any room.Make sure you place your jade plant somewhere where it can get direct sunlight.
 You don’t have always have to choose plants that contribute something specific to your home’s feng shui. Flowering plants with smooth and rounded leaves will contribute to good feng shui., If possible, you should have two of each plant you’re using. Placing the plants inside or outside of your home in pairs maintains the balance necessary for good feng shui.Placing a pair of plants on either side of your front door is a great way to encourage balance in your home.
 When you're choosing the number and type of feng shui plants for your home, don't go overboard. The art of feng shui requires that you maintain your plants and keep them healthy. You won't be able to do this if you have more plants than you can keep up with., Regardless of what types of plants you use for feng shui in your home, they need to be healthy and trimmed. Out-of-control or dying plants will disrupt the positive energy that feng shui can create in your home.