 In your fast paced world of cell phones, social media, and busy schedules, you may be distracted a lot. When you start a relationship, try to focus more of your attention on your partner. This means you should put your cell phone down and stop texting while you are with your partner.


This will let your partner know that you are in the moment and want to be as present as possible. This will help make your relationship stronger and last longer. ;
, When you are in a relationship, you will be spending more time together than you did when you were just dating. This means you need to make time for each other in your weekly schedule so you can enjoy your new relationship. Your time together doesn’t need to be elaborate or extremely thought out. A relationship means you can do everyday things together as well, like making dinner in and watching a movie on your couch.This doesn’t mean you should be at your partner’s beck and call. Keep a little mystery in your relationship. Don’t agree to every date your partner sets. Instead, switch it up and keep your partner wanting more., When you are in a relationship, you want hear from your partner more often. This means that you may call your partner just to talk. When you are dating, you likely only called if you were trying to set up a date and time to meet. When you transition over to a relationship, you will likely talk much more.


This doesn’t mean you have to be on the phone all the time. It just means that there are times when you want to hear your partner’s voice.
You may also text or message each other more as well., When you enter into a relationship, try new and exciting things together. Go for a long hike in the forest. Take up mountain biking together. Go out dancing in the city. Take a trip across the country together. The great thing about changing to a relationship is that you have another person to do exciting things with.


Compromise on what your activities will be. Relationships are a two way street, where each of your opinions matter equal amounts., When you enter into a relationship, you may want to introduce your partner to your family. If you are close with your family, consider having them over for dinner and introduce your partner to them. This will let your partner know that you care about them enough to meet your family and will also allow your family to get to know who you are in a relationship with.


Your partner may also want to introduce you to your partner’s family. Just be yourself and you’ll be fine.
If you are not close to your family, you don’t have to worry about this step. It only matters if your family is important to you.
 When you are changing over to a relationship, you will want to tell those closest to you. Once you and your partner are an official couple, you should tell your friends. Go to group hang outs as an official couple and tell people that you are in a relationship.


This doesn’t have to be a formal thing, just make it obvious that you and your partner are together., Being in a relationship does not mean that you have to like all the same things. You can do things with your partner you might not necessarily want to do as a compromise, you remember you are your own person too. Foster your own interests and let your partner do the same. This will make you both happier and give you something new to talk about when you are together.


For example. if you don’t want to watch football with your partner and instead want to go to the gym, go to the gym. Your partner will be there when you get back.