 With everything you do in life, live it with purpose and love. It doesn't matter where you are at right now in life or what your future goals may be. See your life for what it is right now and learn to love it. Living a life of meaning and purpose and shifting your mentality to love, acceptance and gratitude, will attract more positivity into your life making it easier for you stay motivated.

Your world is filled with energy, and whatever energy you put out there will be the energy you receive back. Love will attract love, and purpose attracts purpose.
Also, as with anything in life, you must be willing to put forth hard work and determination. So, if you desire a new car, a healthier life, then put those intentions out there and work towards saving your money and changing your lifestyle to meet your goals.;
, Whatever your goal, imagining yourself succeeding in it. Think about what it would feel like to be you in that moment. What does that future version of yourself have to say to you now? Think about the big picture and stay motivated to meet your goals. Journaling your thoughts and feelings can help you solidify your motivations to keep going.Think about the emotions you will feel once you meet your goal. Whether you plan to finish a race, get a great job, or lose some weight, think about what you might feel once you succeed. Does the hard work feel worth it?

, Remember what started you on your journey. What was it that initially fired you up for your goal? What outcome did you want? Think back to your initial motivations and become re-inspired by them.Write down your goal and why you want to achieve it. Then, put it somewhere you can easily see. Looking at it each day can help you remember what you’re after and why you want it.
For example, if your goal is to finish a painting, write, “I want to finish this painting so I can submit it to an art show and begin my art career.”

, Look back on your progress and see what you’ve done so far. Be thankful for what you’ve learned, discovered and grown from. Maybe you’re not quite where you want to be yet, but take some time to acknowledge where you started and where you are now. Recognize the growth you’ve made. Let it motivate you to keep going.Your growth and learning may not be over just yet. Stick with it and allow yourself to learn and grow further.
For example, if you’ve completed half of college and want to quit before you graduate, think about all that you’ve accomplished. Reflect on what you’ve learned and how you’ve grown as a person because of your experience.
 Striving for perfection is admirable, yet often unattainable. If your end-goal is always perfection, you may carry projects to a certain level of completion then abandon them when you realize that they’re not perfect. Stick with projects even when they’re difficult or not going your way. If necessary, take a small break and return to it with a new perspective.For example, if you’re creating a piece of music, don’t aim for absolute perfection. Make some changes and listen to it, then go back and make some other changes. If you find yourself making change after change, recognize that you can finish even if it’s not absolutely perfect. Be happy with your final project.
 It’s easy to talk yourself out of doing something, especially if you’re tired or struggling to fit in in your schedule. However, when you start making excuses, counter with the negative consequences of quitting. How will it affect your self-esteem? How will it affect your personal or professional life?

For example, if you have a fitness goal you want to quit, think about how you feel when you work out and what would happen if you stopped. Would you lose money at the gym? Is it likely you’d gain weight or start feeling depressed?

