 If you want a dense, rich vanilla ice cream, you'll need to put in a bit more work than the bag method. This ice cream can also take several hours to freeze, so it's best started earlier in the day if you want it to be ready that night.
 You'll need at least 5 large egg yolks to create the custard base for the ice cream. Optionally, you can use 6, 7, or 8 to create a richer custard, and therefore a richer ice cream.If you are using small eggs, separate out a single additional yolk. Just go with the amounts listed if you are not sure what size your eggs are.

Raw egg whites can be frozen for later use.
 Put the egg yolks in a large bowl, or in an electric mixer bowl. Add 1/4 tsp (1 mL) salt and 1 cup (240 mL) sugar. Whisk until the mixture is pale yellow, contains no lumps or dry spots, and falls off the whisk in thick ribbons when you lift it into the air.You may reduce the amount of sugar to 3/4 cup (180 mL) to make it less sweet, but reducing it further may make the ice cream freeze in larger chunks.
 Fill a large bowl halfway with ice or ice water, leaving enough room to place another bowl inside it. You will use this ice bath later to chill the finished custard base, without the risk of freezing it.


Optionally, you may keep the 2 cups (480 mL) heavy cream or half-and-half chilled in a small, dry bowl within the ice bath.Otherwise, keep it in the refrigerator.
 Evaporated milk is simply milk that has had a large percentage of its water content removed. This is useful for ice cream to minimize the amount of large ice crystals that form, which allows you to churn less often and less vigorously.If evaporated milk is not available, use whole (full-fat) milk instead. Milk with a lower fat content will likely provide less flavor and may affect the density of the ice cream as well.
 Add 2 tsp (10 mL) vanilla extract to the milk and stir it in. Alternatively, split a vanilla bean pod lengthwise and scrape out the sticky seeds inside into the milk. For the strongest vanilla flavor, the vanilla pod itself can also be placed into the mixture, which is then covered and left to infuse for an hour. Remove the vanilla pod before continuing.


There is no need to wait if using vanilla extract.
 Gradually pour the hot milk into the whisked egg in a thin stream, whisking constantly. Be careful not to pour too much milk in at a time, as the heat could turn your excellent ice cream base into sugary scrambled eggs.
 Transfer the newly combined mixture back to the stove and heat at low heat while whisking constantly. Remove it from heat once it reaches a thick, custard consistency.


Be careful not to overheat it; remove from heat immediately if you see any lumps of cooked egg or scalded milk skin.
 Transfer the mixture yet again to a container that can fit inside the ice bath without getting filled with water. Place this container into the ice bath and let it chill while you move on to the next step.


If you were using the ice bath to keep the cream chilled, remove it before moving the mixture into the bath.
 Whisk 2 cups (480 mL) heavy cream, or substitute half-and-half for a lower fat, but less rich and creamy, recipe. It may take several minutes of whisking by hand, or a shorter time by electric mixer, to create an airy cream that has doubled in volume.Do not beat it so long that it forms whipped cream.
 Once the cream is whisked and the egg-and-milk custard is completely chilled, combine the two together. Using a rubber spatula or other flat implement, fold the cream into the egg mixture. Continue until there are no lumps in the mixture.
 If you have clean ice cube trays, fill them with the mixture and place them in the freezer. Because more of the ice cream's surface is exposed to the cold surroundings, the ice cream will freeze faster, preventing the formation of large ice crystals.These typically take 4 hours to freeze.


To form a more ordinary shape of ice cream, remove the frozen cubes of ice cream from the tray with a spoon and combine in a food processor. Transfer to a larger container and freeze., The more traditional method of making ice cream without a machine involves freezing it in one container. However, especially if you are using ordinary milk instead of evaporated milk, large ice crystals will form that ruin the texture of your ice cream and make its flavor uneven. To break up these crystals, you will need to remove it periodically and "churn" vigorously by stirring with an electric mixer or by hand:Churn after about half an hour, before the center has frozen. Churn until the mixture is creamy again.
Churn every half hour, breaking up the frozen edges and stirring them into the mixture.
Once the ice cream is more evenly frozen (typically after 2–3 hours), leave it until it freezes completely.
