 Submerging your body in warm water actually causes a rise in skin temperature—resulting in a drop in body temperature—that triggers your mind for sleep.The key is to obey the drowsiness. Shortly after a bath, your skin will cool to the point of dropping your body temperature, and this sensation is what triggers the feeling of sleepiness. If you go to sleep right when you feel this way, you are more likely to stay asleep and sleep more deeply.
 Part of effective hypnosis before sleep is being comfortable. Pajamas are a must. You need your mind to be calm, yes, but your physical surroundings are important for getting relaxed and staying there.


If you’re wearing anything uncomfortable, this may distract you during hypnosis, defeating the purpose.
Wear pajamas that are suited to the temperature of your room and your bed coverings. If you have a lot of blankets, wear lighter pajamas. You don’t want start sweating (or get cold) after you’ve fallen asleep.
 Part of effective hypnosis is a sense of touch that triggers peace and calming. Make sure you’re lying down when you start. If your bed coverings are scratchy, hot, too firm, too soft, and so on, this can delay or even ruin the effect. You to be triggered to go to sleep as soon as you lay down.


Don’t use linens that will heat you up in your sleep. For example, jersey knit or flannel sheets are soft, but they tend to hold in body heat.
Use a mattress that's just right for your back. One either too soft or too firm can cause back pain. Experts say that people sleep better on newer mattresses, and a good mattress is one that relieves pressure on joints., The scent of lavender is known to help people fall asleep faster and sleep more deeply. You can add scent to your bedroom before a hypnosis session by diffusing an essential oil or lighting a candle.


Lavender scent decreases blood pressure and heart rate. In several studies, people who sniffed lavender before sleep slept better, and infants cried less and slept better after a bath with lavender oils in it., There are many self-hypnosis audio recordings available on the internet. Even though you’re having someone else hypnotize you, having these soothing sounds in the background can enhance the effects of hypnosis.
 Lights can interrupt sleep rhythms, not to mention make it difficult to fall asleep in the first place.


Light triggers many chemical reactions in the brain, so dim lighting triggers your brain to shut down for the night.Eliminate lights during the night. If a street light overlooks your bedroom window, use blackout curtains to block it.

