 If you’re concerned about giving in to cravings, your best option is to make your home off-limits to binge-worthy foods. Stocking your pantry with junk food items or comfort food only creates temptation.Instead stock your fridge and pantry with healthy, whole foods like fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, and low-fat dairy. Purchase snacks like nuts, dried or fresh fruit, cheese, or boiled eggs to munch on in between meals.;
, The trick to preventing emotional eating is to stay full on healthy, fiber-filled foods. You’re less likely to lose control if you are eating at regular times. People often give in to stress-eating when they skip a meal, so be sure to eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner and include a few snacks throughout the day.Choose foods high in fiber that keep you full longer such as oatmeal, whole grain bread (sprouted whole grain bread is best if it is available), beans, and fruits and vegetables.
 When you engage in emotional eating you are more than likely to reach for foods that are normally off-limits such as sweet desserts or salty snacks. However, if you stop restricting yourself, you won’t have the desire to gorge when you’re having a bad day.


Rather than over-indulging, give yourself the okay to enjoy a special holiday treat in moderation so that you don’t feel deprived.For instance, allow yourself to eat a small dessert each day like a square of dark chocolate. This satisfies cravings without going overboard.
 The holidays involve no shortage of calorie-laden foods that can be used to numb emotional pain. This time of year may already have you feeling stressed and low in willpower, so don’t put yourself in the position to make unhealthy choices. When you attend the various parties and festivities happening during the holiday season, use strategies to sidestep emotional eating. These might include:Eat before you leave to ensure you have a nutritious meal instead of betting on there being healthy options on the menu.
Take only small portions if you must choose high-calorie, unhealthy foods.
Bring a healthy dish along with you. If there aren’t any other acceptable choices, you’ll know you have something to nibble on that fits your diet.
 Booze can be the devil’s advocate when it comes to making unhealthy food choices during the holidays. Pretty much every event is overflowing with wine, champagne, eggnog, and spiked cider—all primed to steal away your inhibitions and have you tearing through the dessert table like there’s no tomorrow.


Eat a balanced meal before you start drinking to cushion alcohol’s effect. Or, if it’s not all that important to you, avoid alcohol altogether to skip the added calories., Some people like to eat while watching TV, while working on a computer, or while looking at a phone or tablet screen, but these habits can lead to overeating. If you are focused on the TV, computer, tablet, or phone screen, then you will be less aware of how much you are eating. This may cause you to eat more than you normally would.If you tend to eat in front of your TV or computer, then try eating at your kitchen or dining room table instead. Eat your meals at the same time as other members of your household and use the time to socialize with them.
Put away your phone, tablet, and any other electronic devices while you are eating as well.

