  You will need a pencil, a sheet of 11" X 14" watercolor paper from a pad, an eraser, a support board, primary and secondary watercolors in tubes or a set of dry pads of paint in a tin, an assortment of watercolor brushes, a water bucket, and tissues or paper napkins.
  Go online and look at pictures of the Easter lily, which is traditionally white.  See how others have drawn the flower by looking at pictures online.
  If one isn't available, purchase a silk, artificial one.  These craft store flowers are very realistic and have good details. Bouquets from the dollar store give you the shape of the flower but lack essential details.  Just add the details from pictures you've looked at.
  Use a page or two from a sketchbook, or another piece of watercolor paper.  This will allow you to see the lily's shape and how various parts relate to each other.
  If you would like to practice how to apply color to the lily, sketches are the way to go. Use your watercolors for practice applying them, too.


If you prefer, color your sketches with colored pencils.  Artist's quality are the best.  They cost a little more but last for a long time and there is more and a better grade of pigment in them than in the child sets.
  Either orientation of your watercolor paper is fine.  Vertical will allow you to include many blossoms and some buds on one stem.  Horizontal lends itself to placing the flowers in a row, perhaps showing many different angles and views., Sketch your flower in pencil, making it life size.  Correct as you go by erasing bad lines and making new ones.,  Include the stem and make it sturdy enough to support the heavy lily blossoms.  Draw the leaves.,  One way is to immediately paint, in very thin, transparent watercolor shadow shapes on the lilies.  Mix a gray on your palette, from various amounts of the three primaries. Then, dilute a small amount of the gray with clear water and paint with that.
 Not only will you commit to a color scheme, for example, traditional Easter colors of yellow and violet, or any other three colors you desire.  Use a big brush for the background, but change to a round, pointed brush to go around the flowers., Cut their shapes from contact paper, place them on your paper and paint the background first. This is another way to achieve a liquid and fresh background.
 If there are buds, do them, too.
  Use a pale version of any of the colors in your painting for this.
  Have four or five stamens coming from the center of the flower. Do this with a liner brush and in one stroke for each.  At the top, make a short, horizontal stroke for the pistil.
 Easter can be rich and satisfying without relying on chocolate and other candies.  A painting of an Easter lily is lasting and can be enjoyed by all for many years.  Creating art can give you a feeling of accomplishment and serve as a special gift to all who view it.

