 It is important to have a single, large diaper bag that can hold everything for both of the twins instead of carrying separate bags for each. Having a single bag for both babies will make life easier and reduce your chances of forgetting something important. You already have two children to keep track of, why make it harder with two diaper bags to keep track of as well?


The set-up of the diaper bag is more of a personal choice. Some parents like to have diaper bags with lots of separate compartments for things like wipes or bottles, while other parents are content with something that has one large compartment and maybe a pocket or two.
The diaper bag needs strong handles or straps that can support the weight of its contents. The handles or straps also need to be padded so they are comfortable when the parent has to carry it for an extended period of time.;
, Usually parents have a general idea of how often their babies will need to have a fresh diaper and they can use this information to calculate how many diapers to take on an outing. However, the babies might have off days, and use fewer or more diapers than expected.


A good general rule to follow is to pack one diaper per child, for every hour of the outing, plus a few extras just in case.
Make sure to replace the diapers after each outing, so you have the same number of diapers each time. There's nothing worse than a diaper bag with no diapers!

, Even though you have two babies, you only need to include one large packet of wipes. This ensures that the wipes do not become dried out before you get to the end of the packet.
 Something that many parents forget to include in their diaper bags is plastic bags. These have many uses, including:


To store dirty diapers if you have nowhere to dispose of them at the moment.
To hold any dirty clothes and keep them separate from everything else until they can be properly taken care of at home.
To store any sterilized items like spoons or bowls.
Keep approximately ten plastic zip bags in the diaper bag at any given time.
 Carrying a small first aid kit that contains a few essentials (for both parent and babies) is always a good idea.


Include the most necessary first aid items, such as adhesive bandages, children's painkillers like Tylenol or Advil and anti-rash cream.
You should also keep a small scissors in the first aid kit - this can come in useful when you least expect it!

, It is a given fact that babies can go through quite a few outfits in a single day and there is no way to tell exactly when they will need a change of clothes due to one type of messy accident or another.


Many parents of single birth babies prefer to pack one complete outfit for every two hours that they are supposed to be away from home, in addition to at least one emergency outfit in case there is a delay.
Parents of twins can follow the same system - only doubled!

, If the twins are of the same gender, it is easy to simply pack twice as many outfits.


For example, when taking the twins on an outing that is supposed to last four hours, the parents should pack six complete outfits. Complete outfits include the outer clothes as well as under shirts, socks, and booties or shoes.
It is a good idea to have a few outfits made from articles of clothing that can be mixed and matched so that they can be combined in various ways, in case one twin messes a top and the other messes a bottom.
 When the twins are of opposite genders, there is no telling which one will need new outfits the most. This can be a bit trickier to pack for, but it is manageable.


The parent can use the same guideline of packing one complete gender specific outfit per two hours for each twin and several additional gender-neutral outfits that are neutral so they can be worn by either gender.
If there is concern about strangers not knowing the gender of the babies when they are wearing neutral outfits, the parent could always use hair bows, hats, or other accessories to distinguish the girl from the boy.
 Bibs are another important item to pack in a diaper bag. This is especially true if the babies will be out past a scheduled feeding time or if they tend to drool a lot due to teething.


A good rule of thumb is to include a bib for every outfit that is packed because the bibs will need to be changed just as often as clothes, if not more often.
 The parents should pack enough baby food or bottles to get the babies through all of the feedings that would be scheduled to occur during the time that they will be away from home as well as enough for at least one extra feeding for each baby.


For formula-fed babies, it is a good idea to fill the baby bottles with the proper amount of water and pack a container of dry formula so that the bottles can be made fresh.
If breast milk has been previously pumped and put in bottles, it will need to be kept cool with a small ice pack during warmer weather.
If possible, the babies should be fed before the outing begins. This will help them feel content so they are less likely to be fussy.
 Although many parents feed their babies the food straight from the jar or container, it is not a good idea because the saliva on the spoon could spoil any food that is saved for the next meal. Therefore, it is a good idea to pack small bowls, or even use previously emptied and cleaned baby food containers, to divide the food for separate meals.


Of course, the parents should also pack several baby spoons for each baby as well as a zippered bag to hold the used spoons until they can be washed.
Any opened jars or containers of baby food will also need to be placed in a cold pack to be kept cool in warm weather.
 If one or both babies are on any type of medication, it is important to pack enough to cover all of the doses that would be scheduled during the time that the outing is supposed to last.


Usually if a baby is on a prescription medication the pharmacy can be asked to split the medication into two containers that both have the proper pharmacy label. This way, one container can be stored in the diaper bag while the other is left at home.
It is very important that the containers have the proper labels so that the correct medication and dosage can be given to each twin if they happen to be on different medications or dosages.
If the same over-the-counter medication is being given to both babies, it is a good idea to use separate droppers or measuring spoons that are labeled with their names so that they do not cross-contaminate each other and perpetuate the illness.
 If the babies like pacifiers or will not fall asleep without one, it is a good idea to pack a few extras just in case one falls on the ground, develops a tear, or gets lost.


Along with the pacifiers, a few toys can be a great distraction when traveling. Some parents pack the babies’ favorite toys, while others prefer to have special toys for the diaper bag so they seem new and exciting to the babies.
If the parent forgets to pack toys, the best “toy” or distraction is the parent that plays peek-a-boo or other fun things. Older babies also enjoy playing with sunglasses, mirrors, and other safe things that parents might have readily available.
 Although parents are likely to remember to pack blankets during cold weather, they might not realize that blankets have many uses during the warmer weather, too. It is a good idea to pack several weather-appropriate blankets in the diaper bag for the following reasons:


They can be used on the floor to give the babies a clean place to play or used as extra padding when changing a diaper on a hard surface.
Blankets can be draped over strollers or infant car seats to keep the sun out.
They are also great for privacy if the mother is breast feeding.
 It's a good idea to pack an extra, clean shirt for yourself, in case one of the babies spits up on your clothes or you spill milk or baby food on yourself. The chances of something like this happening are doubled with twins. Opt for a shirt made from a crease-proof material, as it might be sitting at the bottom of the diaper bag for a while!

, Being hungry tends to make people more irritable and impatient, which is not a good thing when you're dealing with twins. Therefore, it's a good idea to pack some snacks for yourself that are quick and easy to eat, such as cereal bars, small packs of nuts or raisins, or a yogurt (in a cool pack).


You should also pack a bottle of water so you can stay hydrated. This is particularly important if you are breastfeeding twins.
 Choose the safest pocket of the bag that closes with a zipper and use it for storing important things like car keys, home keys, your cell phone, and money. This will prevent you from having to carry a handbag in addition to a diaper bag.
 Mothers who enjoy bringing their twin babies to the the park or for long walks will benefit from packing items like lip balm and hairpins in the diaper bag, especially if it is very windy or cold outside.

