 You may need multiple shadows to create the perfect look, or you may just need one. Beauty supply stores will have eye shadow palettes or individual colors to meet most of your boldest desires, but you can also shop online if you’re looking for something very specific. You can find anything from retro glitter to opaque, neon shadows.


First, find the main color for your lids. This is the color that is going to steal the show, whether it’s neon purple or an icy silver.
Then, decide if you want any transition colors. For example, you may want to use a light pink or a lighter purple to add dimension to your neon purple shadow, helping to blend it out. However, you may want the ultra-bold look of just having one, stark color on your lids.;
, Eyeshadows typically come in powder form, but there are also cream shadows that work particularly well for bold looks. If you are going to be using a transition color and blending multiple eyeshadows, powder shadows work excellently. With powder, you can layer as much or little as you desire. Cream shadows work best if you want a quicker application, a shimmery finish, and want to eliminate the chance of fall-out., Bold eyeshadow looks great, as long as it isn’t creased and smudged all over your face. Primer will help keep this from happening. Not only does a primer help smooth imperfections and cover discoloration of your eyelids, it gives the eyeshadow a base to stick to. A good foundation sets you up for a successful makeup look., If you are using multiple shadows, the lighter one goes first. Blend this over your entire lid, into the crease, and slightly above the crease. You can start to create the shape of your shadow with the transition color, so that you almost have an outline to follow once you apply the bold, main color.If you’re only working with one color, you can obviously skip this step.
Learn more specific information on eyeshadow shapes and techniques here.
 If you are using a powder shadow, use a soft blending brush. With cream shadows, you can use a brush or even your fingertip. Start in the middle, gradually blending it across the entire lid from outer to inner corner. Blend it upwards so that it goes a bit above your crease, continuously examining your work in the mirror. With bold colors, it’s particularly important that your application is meticulous and even.Once you’ve applied shadow to both eyes, double check that they look symmetrical in shape and color.
 Again, you may or may not choose to use a transition color depending on the look you want to achieve. Add a bit of transition around the edges of your bold color, helping to soften it out. Then, carefully dot the lighter color along the center of your lid. You want to make sure that you don’t remove any of the shadow you just applied, but simply highlight the center of your lid a bit with the transition color.If you want a starker, more intense look, you may want to skip this.
Cream shadows typically have a bit more dimension naturally, so you may not need this step if you’re working with a cream shadow.
 Nothing complements a daring eyeshadow look like bold eyeliner. While you can use whatever eyeliner you feel comfortable using, liquid eyeliner can create a very pigmented, precise line that looks beautiful with a bold shadow. Line the top lash line from inner to outer corner, thickening the line as it moves outwards. Go back and smooth out any unevenness.If you want to line the bottom lash line, you can as well. By lining just the outer half of your bottom lash line, you will open up your eye. Applying the entire lash line will create a more severe look, which may be what you are looking for to complement your bold shadow.
 Bold eyeshadow can overpower your eyelashes, so it’s important to finish your eyes with mascara. This will help open your eye and make it look bright. Begin by holding your mascara wand at the base of your lashes. As you move it down the length of your lashes, wiggle it gently to avoid clumping. After one coat dries, feel free to add another for extra volume.
 If you want even more drama than mascara can provide, glue on a pair of false eyelashes. These are sure to make your bold eyeshadow even more eye-catching. You can purchase a pair of falsies from your local pharmacy or beauty supply store, and make sure to pick up some eyelash glue too, if not included.After trimming your false lashes to fit your eye, dot the glue along the band.
Let the glue dry until it becomes tacky, and carefully press the lashes into your top waterline.
Press and hold your false lashes into your waterline while pressing your fake and natural lashes together so they blend seamlessly.

