 It's easiest to do a bun mohawk with freshly washed hair. Take a shower before assembling your mohawk, using your regular products.If you blow dry your hair, do so before starting your mohawk, If you normally let your hair air dry, wait until it's dry to start.;
, Hair that is brushed out and smooth is easier to style. Brush out your hair completely before beginning your bun mohawk.Wait until your hair is dry to brush it. Brushing wet hair can cause damage.To minimize damage when brushing your hair, start at the tips and work your way up. Work out tangles at the bottom first and then move the brush a few inches upward with each stroke.
 Use a comb and hair clips to separate your hair into three segments. The segments should be horizontal, running from one side of your head to the other, and you should hold them in place with three clips near the top of your head. When you're done, all your hair should be clipped into a segment.The segments should be more or less even, but it may not be possible to get them perfectly even. This is especially true if your hair is thinner in some places. Try to get them as even as possible, but remember you will be teasing your hair and then putting it into buns. This will make minor differences less apparent.
 Working with one segment at a time, carefully remove the hair clip with one hand while holding your hair with the other. Then, tie a ponytails around the segment near the roots using an elastic band. Tie as many loops as you need with the band to get your hair secure.Thinner hair will need more loops than thicker hair.
 Use a brush to gently back comb your hair. This means brushing your hair towards your scalp rather than away from it. Back comb each segment until your hair is a little frizzy and messy.Be gentle when backcombing. Use light, swiping motions to minimize damage like split ends.
 Once each segment is back combed, use your hands to roll your hair towards your scalp. Work with one segment at a time. Keep rolling until you have three tight, somewhat messy buns on the top of your head., When tying into a bun, its important to protect the ends. If ends are sticking, they're prone to damage to outside elements. After rolling your hair into a bun, tuck in the ends. This will protect them., Place pins in your hair to secure the buns in place. Pins should be inserted near the roots to attach your buns to your scalp.After the pins are in place, use an elastic band to further secure the buns. Use clear rubber bands, as these will be less distracting., Once you have your buns in place, mist your hair with a generous layer of hairspray. This will keep your look in place throughout the day.When you're done using hairspray, you should have a nice bun mohawk in place.

