 For many people, migraines and the subsequent symptoms—including nausea—are triggered by sources that they can control or reduce their exposure to.Keep track of what you were doing shortly before your migraine came on over the course of several attacks, and see if you can find a consistent trigger. Common ones include:Emotional or physical fatigue due to stress or exertion
Abrupt changes in weather
Altitude
Motion such as from travel
Poor sleep
Missing meals
Certain smells
Hormonal changes, such as in menstruating women
Specific foods and beverages, including aged cheese, chocolate, red wines, coffee, beer, etc. (also, certain food additives such as monosodium glutamate and nitrates)

, Your doctor will be able to provide prescriptions to a wide selection of different medications that have shown efficacy in managing nausea and other migraine symptoms. These medications often require trial and error to discover which combination works best to control your symptoms.


If you are vomiting at least three times a day, you need to see your doctor. Vomiting too much will predispose you to fluid and electrolyte imbalance.
Be sure to see your doctor if you develop a worsening headache. A bleeding blood vessel might be causing the problem.
Visit your doctor if your migraine headache is accompanied by fever, stiff neck, seizures, double vision, numbness, difficulty in speaking, and other unusual manifestations. , Triptans are some of the most common prescription drugs used to treat migraines. They constrict blood vessels and block pain pathways to your brain to alleviate various symptoms of migraines.They are available in various forms—such as pills, nasal sprays, and injections—and the medications include:Sumatriptan (Imitrex)
Rizatriptan (Maxalt)
Almotriptan (Axert)
Naratriptan (Amerge)
Zolmitriptan (Zomig)
Frovatriptan (Frova)
Eletriptan (Relpax)

, To deal directly with the nausea from your migraines, you can also ask your doctor about anti-nausea medications. He or she will likely prescribe one in combination with a drug to treat other symptoms as well. Some common anti-nausea medications include:Chlorpromazine
Metoclopramide (Reglan)
Prochlorperazine (Compro)
Ondansetron (zofran)

