 You cannot build a massive transportation company in a few years of playing. You must start with something simple, then use revenue to make it big!
, Do you want to run a cargo company, passenger transit, or both? While you never officially are required to choose a company type, it helps in the future to settle priorities in the company.

Personally, while there is more risk in running a passenger transit it is far more financially successful than cargo companies, and cities cannot "close" the way that factories can.
 Remember, you do not have unlimited funds, so keep it small for the time-being. Massive trade routes are more complicated, so they can be built later. Depending on the geography, your patience, and the scenario you are playing choosing what type of transportation mode to start with can be hard, Look at the first four tips to help with that.
 Instead, observe the station and wait for the number of passengers/cargo to increase to it's maximum, once it reaches that maximum it will start decreasing, immediately start the route, if you wait too long it will decrease indefinitely and will cost you profit., Do not feel bad for only having one route; in time, you will have tons. Airplane routes especially have only one, and while it may look small, you will generate a high revenue per flight and once the wait period is over you will have a large amount of cash at your disclosure., Look at tips 5 and 6 for ideas., If you are smart, they will not be a problem. Look at tips 7 and 9 for more information., Make sure you don't spend too much time eliminating competitors as they are not a huge threat to you and these techniques are not foolproof, it depends entirely on the opponent., Try to use one way roads to guide trucks through a "loop" This way, when the trucks leave the cargo station they won't block other trucks.

Another suggestion is to build multiple cargo loading stations right next to each other (under one station) and use one-way roads. Have many trucks go to different places. One cargo hub can service 12 trucks if done efficiently.
 Check on the vehicles you currently own and make sure that all of them are earning profit, if any aren't investigate a cause and try to resolve it (i.e. if a route is blocked or a bus,truck, or ship is "lost") if a cause is found and cannot be resolved or simply cannot be found then eliminate the route, your funds should be used somewhere profitable., If it is less than 60% (or close to reaching 60%), replace the vehicle either with the same model or (if you can afford it) a nicer newer model. On trains, only replace the engine, not the entire unit., if it is not the largest vehicle (highest capacity) of its type, see if it is carrying full loads. If it is, investigate to see how many passengers are at each station; if the route has a high surplus, purchase the larger vehicle.

This method also works vice versa. If you have a larger vehicle not running full loads, downgrade to a smaller vehicle. These small techniques will help you "cut the fat" and save a large amount of money in the long run.
 Adapt your strategy to achieve that goal. For example, if they want 10,000 units of paper delivered, do not build passenger transportation. Instead, focus only on paper.