 The first requirement for eligibility for unemployment benefits is that you are out of work. The loss of your job must not be the result of anything caused by you. You are eligible, for example, if your employer has decided to reduce the size of the work staff, or if your position is no longer needed. You would not be eligible if you participated in some wrongdoing that resulted in your getting fired for cause., While you are working, a portion of your paycheck goes toward state unemployment insurance. You must work a minimum established time to build up your eligibility to collect unemployment benefits. The labor office uses a published table to calculate eligibility and the amount of the benefits that you can receive. At a minimum, to be eligible for unemployment, you must satisfy the three following elements:You must have worked and been paid at least two calendar quarters. A quarter is three months of the year. This requirement does not need to be a consecutive six months of the year, as long as you can demonstrate that were employed for two three-month quarters.
You must have been paid at least $1,900 in one calendar quarter. This is not an overall average. You will be required to show paychecks that fall within a three-month period that total this amount.
Your total payment over four quarters must be at least 1.5 times the amount that you earned in the one highest-paying quarter. For example, if during your highest-paying three month period you earned $4,000, then the total for four quarters (a year) must be at least $6,000 ($4,000 x 1.5 = $6,000).
 If you are, for example, medically unable to work, then you are not eligible to collect unemployment benefits. You must be ready to work and actively in the process of looking for work. If, at any time during your benefits period, you are offered work and you decline it, you risk losing your unemployment benefits.If you are medically unable to work, you still have some options for support. You could file a claim for worker's compensation benefits if you were injured on the job. For this, you would need to speak with the personnel manager at your place of employment. With other medical disabilities, you may qualify for social security disability benefits. Visit the website of the New York Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance at www.otda.ny.gov., You should contact the unemployment office to file your initial claim for benefits as soon as possible, preferably within the first week after losing your employment. The sooner you file, the sooner the unemployment agency can begin checking your information, verifying your claim, and beginning the process to pay your benefits., The easiest and recommended method for submitting your claim for unemployment insurance is by doing it online. You will need to access the unemployment website at www.labor.ny.gov. From that home page, choose “Unemployment Insurance,” “File a New Claim,” and then “Create NY.gov Account.” You will be prompted with a series of questions to create your account. Part of this step will include creating a userid and password, so you can return to this site and manage your account in the future., Alternatively, if you wish or if you do not have access to the Internet, you may file your unemployment claim by telephone. You can call the telephone claim center, toll-free, during regular business hours, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. The telephone number is (888) 209-8124.Translation services are available if you file by telephone. The recording will prompt you to choose the language that you desire. Information is available in Spanish, Russian, Cantonese, Mandarin, Creole, Korean and Polish. Other languages may be available as well.
 To initiate your claim, you must have certain information available. You should gather this information and have it at hand when you either get online or call. If you do not have everything, you will still be allowed to open your account and file an initial claim, but your initial benefit payments will be delayed until you can provide all the information. The material that you need is as follows:Social Security Number
Driver’s license or motor vehicle ID card number
Complete mailing address, including zip code
Telephone number where you can be reached during weekday business hours
Alien registration card number (if you are not a U.S. citizen)
Names and addresses for all employers for the past 18 months (even if out of state)
Employer registration number or Federal Employer Identification Number (FEIN) of your latest employer (this is available on your last W-2 form)
Copies of forms SF8 and SF50, if you were a federal employee in your last job
Form DD14, for separation from military service, if applicable
A check from your bank with the routing and account numbers, if you wish to register for direct deposit.
 After you complete your application for unemployment benefits, you must wait one full week before your benefits will begin. This week is termed an “unpaid waiting week.” If you work during this week, your benefits will be delayed and you will be required to serve a second unpaid waiting week., Each week while you are collecting benefits, you must claim your benefits. This is also referred to as “certifying for benefits.” You can claim your benefits either online or by telephone. Most people claim their benefits on Sunday of each week, for the week that just ended. Whichever method you select, you will be asked a series of questions to verify your continuing eligibility. You must answer all questions truthfully.To claim your benefits online, visit www.labor.ny.gov/signin. The first time that you visit this site, you will be prompted to create an online account. You will create an online userid and password to open your private account. Thereafter, you will just need to enter the userid and password to go directly to your account.
To claim your benefits weekly by telephone, call (888) 581-5812. A telephone recording will prompt you to provide your personal identification number (PIN), and then answer the certifying questions.
 After the single unpaid waiting week, your unemployment benefits will begin to accrue. However, you will not actually receive payment for at least three or up to six weeks from the date of your initial claim. This additional time allows the state to confirm your eligibility and verify the amount of your benefits.Although you are not yet receiving payments, you do need to continue submitting claims each week.
 Unemployment benefits are no longer made by check. The only two formats for collecting your unemployment benefits are by direct deposit into your bank account or through an automatic debit card. You will need to register for one of these two methods before your payments begin.Sign up for direct deposit on the unemployment office website at www.labor.ny.gov. From that site, select “Unemployment Insurance” and “Claim Weekly Benefits.” Then enter your own account information. Once into your account, you can manage how you will receive payments by providing routing number and account information for your bank.
To claim your benefits by debit card, you will need to make your initial request by telephone or through the online account. When you file your initial claim request, you will need to inform the labor office that you wish to be paid through a debit card. You will be issued a card within seven to ten days, which will then receive automatic updates when each week’s benefits are issued.
 You can use your online account to verify each week’s payments. Log onto your account at www.labor.ny.gov/individualreg to monitor your account. You will see when your payments are deposited, either to your debit account or to your checking account. If you notice any discrepancies with payments, you can submit inquiries through a secure direct message system.