 Sometimes a braces wire can come loose from inside the bracket, which is the small metal or ceramic object attached to your tooth. If this occurs, or if the wire comes completely out, see if you can push it back in with your finger. If you can't push it back in, grab a mirror and a pair of tweezers. Grab the middle of the wire and bend it so you can stick the end back into its place in the bracket.


If you find that it still wants to slip out, use orthodontic wax to secure it in place. To apply the wax, dry off the bracket and wire with a cotton ball or q-tip. Take a pea sized amount of the wax, roll it into a ball, and place it on the edge of the bracket and the beginning of the loose wire, securing it in place.
Although this is not an emergency orthodontic situation, still call your orthodontist and let him know what happened to your braces. He will let you know if repairs can wait until your next appointment.;
, A ligature wire, which is the wire that is wrapped around the brackets of your braces, can come loose when you're eating or brushing your teeth. If this happens, the best option is to try to bend it back in place. Use a pencil eraser or q-tip to push the edge of the wire back into place. If it still continues to bother you, use orthodontic wax. Dry off the offending wire with a cotton ball or q-tip. Take a pea sized amount of the wax and place it over the dry wire, pushing it down until it covers the whole wire.


If the wire has caused a sore in your mouth, rinse your mouth with salt water or a solution of peroxide and water. Do this 2-3 times a day and keep wearing the wax over the wire. Your mouth should heal over time., There are times when a broken wire will not stay in place inside a bracket. The wire can also break off and no longer fit within the area it is supposed to fit. In this case, you may need to cut off the excess wire until you can get to the orthodontist to have the wire break repaired. Open your mouth, placing tissue or some other material under the broken wire to catch the part you cut off. Using a mirror to guide your movements, clip off the end of the wire with sharp fingernail clippers.


If you don't have sharp fingernail clippers, you can also use wire cutters or any clippers that will cut through the wire. Just be sure not to accidentally cut your lip.
Make sure you catch whatever wire you cut off. You don't want to swallow it or poke yourself with the leftover wire.
You might not be able to get all of the excess wire cut off, so be aware of the sharp edge it may leave. If the edge is still irritating your mouth, you can try use orthodontic wax on it.