 Every state has their own rules around graduated drivers that state when teen drivers can be on the road and how many passengers they can have in the car at one time. Look up the graduated driver rules in your state so you are aware of the limits around your teen driver. You and your teen should discuss these rules together so you are both informed.You can find the complete rules for graduated drivers by state online. You can also call your local American Motors Association (AMA) chapter to get more information on graduated driver rules.;
, One of the most important rules of the road is to always wear a seatbelt in the car when driving. Reinforce this rule by telling your teen they absolutely must wear their seatbelt at all times when they are driving. You may penalize them for not doing so by restricting their use of the car.You should also tell your teen that every passenger in the car must wear their seatbelt when they are driving. This means any friends, family, or acquaintances in the car must buckle up before your teen starts driving.
For example, you may tell your teen, "You must wear your seatbelt at all times when you are driving the car. Any passengers you have in the car must also wear their seatbelts at all times, no exceptions."

, Make sure your teen is not distracted when driving by banning the use of their cellphone when they are driving the car. In most states, it is also illegal to use your cellphone while driving. Remind your teen that not only do they put themselves and others at risk when they text and drive, they can also receive a hefty ticket or demerits on their driving record if they get caught.You may also tell your teen not to let their passengers use their cellphones in the car so your teen is not distracted when driving.
For example, you may tell your teen, "You cannot use your cellphone while you are driving the car and I would prefer if you limited cellphone use in the car period, especially when you have passengers in the car."

, Let your teen know that they are not allowed under any circumstances to drive while under the influence of drugs or alcohol. You may not allow the presence of drugs or alcohol in the car period when they are driving and tell them they cannot have any passengers who are under the influence in the car with them.As part of this rule, you can also outline consequences if your teen breaks this rule and allows friends who are inebriated in the car. You may revoke their driving privileges if this happens.
You should also remind your teen that it is against the law to drive while under the influence of drugs or alcohol and that doing so can put themselves and others in danger.
For example, you may tell your teen, "Under no circumstances can you drive the car when you are under the influence of drugs or alcohol. Not only does it put you and others on the road in danger, it is also against the law."

, In some states, having a graduated driver’s license means the driver can only have a certain number of passengers in the car at one time. Make sure your teen understands how many passengers are allowed and try to limit their passengers to no more than one to two people at a time. Having a lot of passengers in the car can lead to distracted driving and put your teen at risk of an accident.You may start by allowing your teen to have one to two passengers at a time that you know well. You may tell them they cannot let strangers into the car without checking with you first so you know exactly who is in the car with your teen at all times.
For example, you may tell your teen, "I would prefer if you only had one to two passengers in the car at one time. This rule may shift over time, but for now, I am limiting how many passengers you can drive around at one time."

, You should also confirm your teen understands the rules of the road before they get behind the wheel. If they passed their driver’s test and earned their license, they should be well aware of how to follow road signs, how to interact with other drivers, and how to be a proactive driver. You may still want to be sure your teen is able to follow the rules of the road by quizzing them and by taking a drive with them around the neighborhood.You may also ask your teen to drive you to an errand on a major road to confirm they can follow the rules of the road and be responsible behind the wheel. When you are in the car with them, try not to be a backseat driver and let them take control of the wheel so you can confirm they are a confident driver.
Make sure your teen follows the speed limits when they drive. Tell them it is dangerous to speed and that it puts their life and the lives of others at risk.

