 Though it will tire you out in the short term, physical exercise increases your overall energy level and stamina over a long period of time. For optimal health and increased stamina, make time in your schedule for regular exercise. For adults, the Department of Health and Human Services recommends at least 150 minutes of moderate cardiovascular exercise per week (or 75 minutes of intense cardiovascular exercise), along with strength-building exercise sessions at least twice a week.Cardiovascular exercise, such as aerobics, running, biking, and dancing, exercises your heart and lungs, increasing the efficiency with which your body supplies oxygen to its muscles. As a result, your body's endurance and stamina will gradually increase (and its fatigue levels decrease) with cardiovascular exercise.
Strength-building exercises, such as weightlifting and body weight exercises (push ups, sit ups, etc.) gradually build the stamina (not to mention the size, definition, and strength) of your muscles. Over time, you'll notice a definite difference - you'll be able to lift bigger loads for longer.
 It's easier to push yourself physically, improving your stamina, when you're doing something you genuinely enjoy, rather than something you dread. Tailor your workout to include mostly activities that you enjoy - these may be things that you're already good at, but they may also be things that you haven't tried yet. If you're not sure which types of exercise you enjoy, experiment by including many different kinds in your workout for a month or two. You may discover, for instance, that you prefer low-impact exercises, like swimming and biking, over your previous attempts running, or you may discover the opposite!

, If you're very, very busy, you may simply not have enough time every week for exercise. Luckily, you can mitigate some of the negative effects that come from the lack of a regular exercise routine by simply keeping in motion throughout the day. Avoid staying still for long periods of time - almost any type of movement is good for your cardiovascular health; the more, the better. Instead of driving to work, bike or walk. If your job has you in front of a computer all day, use a standing desk or a walking desk instead of sitting. Wear a pedometer and shoot for a goal of 10,000 steps every day. The more you're up and about, the better your overall health and stamina.
 If you find that you're not able to achieve the stamina level you'd like on your own, consider doing your physical activity of choice in the company of friends. Believe it or not, friends can make it substantially easier to push yourself physically. Friends can offer you encouragement when you're tired. They can even give you a few well-meaning verbal jabs to keep you "pumped up." Finally, in the presence of friends, you may find that you don't want to quit - that you want to impress your friends by pushing yourself to the limit.


Your exercise partners don't have to be friends or peers. Bring the kids, the dog or a neighbour when you go for your daily exercise activity. You can also join a gym that offers to pair you with exercise buddies or enroll in exercise classes where you can make new friends that you know will have similar fitness goals to your own.

