 Most electronic tuners are already set to 440 Hz, but if yours is not set to a frequency yet, you will need to do so before you use it for your bouzouki.


The display may either read "440 Hz" or "A = 440."
Each tuner will need to be adjusted in a different manner, so read the instructions that come with yours to determine how to make an adjustment to the frequency. Usually, you will do so by pressing a "Mode" or "Frequency" button on the device.
Set the frequency to 440 Hz. If you must set the frequency by instrument, choose a “bouzouki” or "guitar" setting.
 Each course will need to be tuned separately. Start with the bottom string course and gradually work upward.


Hold the bouzouki as you would while playing it.
After you tune the bottom course, tune the course directly above it. Work upward until you reach and tune the top course.
 Unless you have a "bouzouki" setting on your digital tuner, you may need to set the desired note on the digital tuner when tuning each course.


The exact method for setting the note will vary based on the digital tuner you use, so you should check the manufacturer's instructions for help. Usually, however, you can change the note by pressing a "Pitch" or similarly labeled button.
The bottom course will need to be tuned to the corresponding note just above Middle C, so that is the initial note you will need to set your tuner to.

For both trichordo and tetrachordo bouzoukis, this would be the D above Middle C (d' or D4).


The remaining courses should be adjusted accordingly to the bottom course.

For instance, on the tetrachordo bouzoukis, the lowest-pitched course has one string tuned to the Middle C (c' or C4) and one string tuned to the C an octave below it (c).
 Pluck one string of the course you are presently tuning, keeping the string open as you do. Listen to the way the note sounds and watch the screen of your tuner for a reaction.


The string should be open as you pluck it. In other words, do not press the string along any fret of the instrument. The string must vibrate without interference after being plucked.
 As you pluck the string, watch the reaction of the monitor and indicator light of your digital tuner. The device should tell you when the instrument is in tune or out of tune.When the course is out of tune, a red light will usually flash.
The display screen of your tuner should indicate which note you just played. Depending on the type of digital tuner you have, the display screen may also indicate if the note is flat or sharp.
Once the string is in tune, a green or blue indicator light will usually flash.
 Make adjustments to the string pitches of the present course by rotating the corresponding tuning peg. Test the string after each adjustment.


Tighten the string of a flat or low note by rotating the peg clockwise.
Loosen the string of a high or sharp note by rotating the peg counterclockwise.
Repeat the tuning procedure for the other string in the course.
Repeat the tuning procedure for each string in all the other courses.
 After tuning all three or four courses, check each one again.


You will need to check each course one-bye-one. Set the note on your tuner, strum the open strings, and watch for the blue or green indicator light. If the course is out of tune, check each string within that course.
After tuning all of the strings and the courses, play them together and check the sound with your ear. The notes should flow together naturally.
The completion of this step finishes the entire process.

