 Start by saying “no” in a tone that is clear, firm, and in control. Raise your voice so the child can hear you but do not yell or scream when you say “no.” Yelling and screaming can teach the child that shouting and raising your voice is okay, especially when you say “no.” Rather, you should appear calm, collected, and assertive to the child when you say “no.”You may also make a serious facial expression when you tell the child “no” and maintain eye contact with them. Try not to laugh, smile, or smirk at the child. You want to convey with the tone of your voice and your body language that they are acting inappropriately.;
, You may follow up your “no” with a short explanation on why they cannot have something or doing something. Keep the explanation simple and brief. You do not need to go into elaborate detail or provide too much context for your decision. But giving a one sentence explanation can help make your “no” a learning experience for the child.For example, if the child wants a candy before dinner, you may say, “No. You will spoil your dinner if you have a candy now.” Or if the child wants to play with a breakable object, you may say, “No. You cannot play with this object, as it is important to me and I will be sad if it is broken.”
A brief explanation may be beneficial for older children, as they tend to demand a reason for your "no." Older children may respond to your "no" with a "Why not?" or "How come I can't do that?" Providing a brief explanation can help them understand the reasoning behind your "no" and more readily accept your "no."

, The child may not enjoy hearing the word “no” and your refusal could lead to whining and tears. Try not to be swayed by any anger or frustration being directed at you, as the child will get over the issue in time. Once they get over the shock of hearing “no”, they should eventually calm down and move on.If the child starts to talk back to you, you may say, “I am done with this subject and am not talking about it any further.” This will make it clear you are not going to be swayed by the child.
 If the child starts to get upset, you should step back from the situation and give them some space. You may allow the child to go to their room or retreat to another spot in the house to whine or cry alone. You can then take some deep breaths and calm down on your own. Try not to run after the child or be swayed by their anger.You may wait several minutes to an hour to allow the child to calm down. Leave them alone and let them come to you once they have gotten over your “no.”

, Do not simply say “no” and then agree to the same request from the child later on. Try to stick with your “no” and follow through on your command. For example, if the child asks to have candy for dinner the following night, you may say, “What did I say last night? My answer is still ‘no’ and will always be ‘no’.”

, If the child disobeys your “no” and does what they want anyway, you should reprimand them for their behavior. This will teach them that there are consequences for your actions and that you do not take disobedience lightly.For example, perhaps the child decides to play with a sentimental object that belongs to you, despite your “no”, and breaks it. You should then reprimand them by telling them you are angry and upset. You may say, “I am disappointed that you disobeyed me and played with the object anyway. I am upset that you broke it and do not appreciate your disobedience.”
You should then not allow them to enter your room without your permission or near your personal items so they understand there are consequences for their actions.
 You should be clear about how you expect the child to act moving forward so they can learn from their mistake. Give them the opportunity to do better next time by outlining your expectations in a clear, firm way. This will allow the child to improve their behavior moving forward.For example, you may tell the child who broke one of your personal items, “Moving forward, I expect you to ask me before you touch any of my personal items and to ask my permission before going to my room. I also expect you to respect me when I say “no” to you.”

, Setting limits and rules for the child will ensure they have good moral judgement, understand social decorum, and learn the value of “no.” You should let the child know of your rules for them early, or as soon as they can tell the difference between a “yes” and a “no.” This will ensure they understand your expectations and are not surprised when they are not allowed to do something or have something under your supervision.For example, you may tell the child that you have clear limits and rules around dinnertime. You may tell them they must come to dinner clean, washed, and hungry. No candy or sweets before dinner is allowed and they must set the table so it is ready when dinner is served.
 As the child gets older, you may adjust your limits and rules to fit their age. You may need to add to the limits and rules, such as new limits around a curfew for an older child, or a new rule on sleepovers. Consider the limits and rules you have set for the child, and adjust them so they are suitable for the child as they grow.You may also be able to have more of a dialogue with the child as they get older and discuss their rules and limits with them in a more detailed way. You may still say “no” when necessary, but you may also provide more context for your reasoning and have more of a discussion with the child about your logic when they are older in age.
 Depending on the age and personality of the child, they may come back to you with a desire to compromise on your “no.” Though you still want to appear firm and in control, you may decide to consider a compromise on a rule or limit. Do this on your terms and still within the limits of what you think is right. Do not simply give in or compromise every time the child asks for one. Instead, be selective and make reasonable compromises with the child.For example, you may not want to compromise on allowing candy before dinner. But you may compromise allowing the child to have candy as a snack earlier in the day. This may then allow the child to have candy without spoiling their dinner. Your “no” still stands, but the child also partly gets what they want.

