 Wash your child’s bedding in hot water and hypoallergenic detergent on a weekly basis to lower their exposure to dust mites and other allergens. You can also put protective covers on your child’s mattress and pillows so they are not exposed to dust or other things that could make their allergies worse.You should also get in the habit of washing any fabric items in your child’s bedroom, such as stuffed animals and blankets they may sleep with. Throw these items in the washer to remove any dirt or dust.;
, Make a daily inspection to find and remove any mold or mildew that may be accumulating in your child's space. These elements can make their allergies worse. Check for mold and mildew in areas that are often wet, such as the bathroom. Check the windows in your child's room for mold spots as well as any areas on the ceiling.The best way to get rid of mold and mildew is by using chlorine cleaners.
Bring in professionals to remove and repair the sources of significant or recurring mold accumulations.
 Clean the carpets in your child’s room and your home on a weekly basis by vacuuming them. Carpet can hold in allergens that can make your child’s symptoms worse, such as dust mites and pet dander.You should also get the habit of wiping off dust on window sills and shelves on a regular basis so your child is not exposed to this allergen.
If possible remove carpet and install hardwood floors that don’t accumulate allergens and easier to clean than carpet.
 If you have dogs or cats at home, try to keep them out of your child’s space. Pets carry dander that can make your child’s allergies worse. You may get in the habit of keeping your child’s door closed during the day so the pets cannot get in there. Or you may create a fenced off area so your pets cannot get into other rooms in your home.You should also get in the habit of keeping the windows in your child’s room closed. This will prevent airborne allergens from getting into their room as well as any pets that may be outside.
 You can soothe a child with a runny or congested nose by adding moisture to the air with a humidifier. Set up a humidifier in their room so moisture can circulate in their space and reduce their allergy symptoms. You can find humidifiers online or at your local hardware store.Make sure you clean the filter in the humidifier on a regular basis, following the directions on the label otherwise you can make your child’s allergies worse.
If you cannot afford to buy a humidifier, use your bathroom shower to add moisture to the air. Turn on the shower to hot and let the room fill up with steam. Keep the door closed. Then, go into the bathroom with your child and sit in there with them for 15 minutes. Do this for 15 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes at night to help clear out your child’s nasal passages., To make sure your child is getting fresh, clear air indoors, you can get an air purifier. Breathing in air free of allergens can soothe your child’s symptoms. Put the air purifier in their bedroom or have several throughout the house so the air is clean indoors. You can find air purifiers that can actually filter out pollen, dust, and bacteria in the air so your home is free of allergens.You can buy air purifiers online or at your local hardware store. Look for air purifiers that are designed to filter out allergens in the air.

