 It is not just standing at the side of the road/on a ramp and sticking your thumb out or signboard(with the name of destination on it) it also involves asking people at gas stations, truck stops etc. Keep that in mind its 'Hitching rides' which involves asking rides in cars, boats, planes, cargo ships, or any other mode of transport. The methods for different modes of transport could be different but the deep basic concept is the same which is 'asking for a ride'. All these methods fall into the 'art of hitching'.


As the most common is hitchhiking . Although it is not generally considered the safest means of travel, and it is not recommended if you are someone who is not physically capable of defending yourself against potential attackers, but many people do manage to hitchhike without incident. Consider hitchhiking in pairs to improve your odds of staying safe. which is a little safer, or you could try your luck out on the road. Hitchhike during the day to stay safer and use caution when deciding whose car to get into. If your intuition tells you that a driver is trouble, it is best to listen.
 You could go onto a website that allows you pre-schedule a ride with someone. There are many sites which are available that allow people to post their travel plans like craigslist, rideshare.net etc. You can contact these people and tell them how you can help them on the way like driving their car, help in navigation(if you have GPS on your phone or good at directions), good conversationalist (most of the people who travel alone get bored while driving for hours so they are more receptive and hungry for a good conversation). You can even post your ad on these sites mentioning them that you can help driving and navigating, even help them unload if they are carrying stuff. Think of helping them in any way you can.
 It means standing at a gas station with a gas jug and asking people for fuel(mostly people who are refueling their cars). However, it comes in solicitation and panhandling. If you have a car but don't have money to pay for gas this method is quite efficient. It's a psychological phenomenon people are more likely to give you gas, when you ask them at a gas station then another place as people at a gas station are in a mental state of paying money(for their own gas) so it would be easier for them to spend some more money to pay for your gas. It's even more efficient when they are in the middle of refueling. Note: if you find it indecent then don't do it.
 If the place you want to travel is near choose the bike. Traveling by bicycle may take a little or lot longer, and you will need to pack plenty and water, but it is still a free method of travel and is a little safer than hitchhiking. To stay safe, though, it is still advisable to travel in pairs or small groups and to do the majority of your biking during daylight hours. One more thing which could be helpful is the usage of Google maps to find bike routes to your destination as provides an option for it. .
 People who move long distances often travel to their new home by airplane rather than a car, and as a result, they need someone to transport their car to their new home. Check with moving companies and car rental companies for potential job openings. You can also check the newspaper or online forums and advertisements for individuals who are in need of a driver to transport their car. Be aware of the fact that you will likely need to pass a criminal background check to take advantage of this option, however. After all, a company or individual will want to make sure that they are not hiring a convicted car thief.

