 Does your friend make you laugh? Do they help you think about the world in a different way? Do they inspire you to be a better person? Whatever your reason, your mom might be more willing to let you spend time together if she understands why you want to hang out with your friend.;
, Explain to her all the good ways you’ve changed your life or behavior due to your friendship, or the ways your friendship has made you a better person.


For instance, if your friend helps you understand your homework, your mom might be more disposed to letting you hang out with them. Likewise, if you tell her that your friend encouraged you to eat a more healthy diet, your mom might be impressed and change her mind about you hanging out with them.
If your friend is, in fact, having a negative impact on you and your life -- for instance, if they encourage you to lie, steal, or abuse illegal substances -- your mom is right that you should not hang out with that person.
 Being able to connect with someone in an authentic way is rare, especially in an era of digital technology and social media. Tell your mom that hanging out with your friend relieves stress and makes you feel as though you belong.


If your friend does not make you feel good, your mom might be right that you should not be hanging out with them.
 Your mom might have a hard time seeing your side of the argument and respond more positively to someone else. Having a third party talk to your mom on your behalf might change her mind about you and your friend, even if all they do is rehash the information and appeals that you’ve already made. Your mediator might be:


An older sibling
Your father or step-father
A family counselor, teacher, or trusted family friend, Sometimes, moms might disapprove of your friend for good reasons. If contact with your friend is causing your grades to slip, or leading you to try risky behaviors, you should take advantage of your mom’s insight and stop hanging out with that friend.Moms usually want what is best for their kids.However, if your mom disapproves of your friend for arbitrary or unfair reasons (like their religion, class, gender, or race) you should do all you can to show your mom that she is being prejudiced and bigoted.

