 This recipe features a crunchy graham cracker crust that’s spread with rich brownie batter, chocolate chips, chocolate bar pieces and mini marshmallows.

The graham cracker crust is prepared from scratch, but you will be using a store-bought brownie mix (18-20 ounces/510-567 grams).
It only takes about 20 minutes to prepare, but it won’t be complete for about 2 hours.
 You will use a 12-inch round pizza pan for this dessert. Spray or grease the pan generously before moving forward with creating the graham cracker crust., Mix the butter, graham cracker crumbs and sugar in a bowl. If you are making your own graham cracker crumbs, go ahead and mash about 24 squares until they are reduced to granular crumbs. Melt 1/3 cup (76 grams) of butter by placing it in the microwave for a few seconds until it becomes liquid. Mix the melted butter with the graham cracker crumbs and 3 tablespoons (45 grams) of sugar in a medium bowl until well-blended. This is your crust.Press the crust mixture out flat onto the pizza pan.
Bake it for about 8 to 10 minutes.
You’ll know it’s ready when it appears golden brown.
 Mix up the brownie batter by following the box directions. Once you’ve mixed the required ingredients for the brownie batter of your choice, carefully spread the brownie batter on top of your now-baked graham cracker crust. Place the dessert back into the oven.Bake it for about 23 to 25 minutes. Remove it when it’s done.
You’ll know it’s ready when you can insert a toothpick into the center and it comes out mostly clean.
 As soon as you take the dessert out of the oven, sprinkle the mini marshmallows and larger graham cracker pieces all over the top of the warm brownie. Place it back into the oven, with the oven set to broil, for about 1 to 2 minutes.You’ll know it’s ready to take out when you see that the marshmallows have turned golden brown.
Be sure to watch it carefully, since marshmallows begin to brown very quickly.
 The warm marshmallows will slightly melt the chocolate chips. Allow it to cool for about 20 minutes and then add the finishing touches – the chocolate bar pieces. Wedge them into the melted marshmallows so that they stay in place.Allow the pizza to cool completely, which will take about an hour.
Use a pizza cutter to slice the dessert into wedges and serve.

