 Looking down while running can reduce your speed substantially. It also creates tension in your shoulders and neck. Instead, look straight ahead by focusing on a point 30 to 40 meters (100 to 130 feet) ahead of you. Maintain this position throughout the run., Your shoulders should be down and back, not hunched. If you begin to feel your shoulders hunch, relax them immediately.Running with hunched shoulders can restrict your breathing.
 Your arms should be relaxed at your sides with your elbows bent at a 90-degree angle. As you run, swing your arms forward and back in a straight motion. Try not to let your arms cross in front of your chest as you run. This movement will waste energy and slow you down.Swinging your arms in a straight forward and backward motion will help propel you forward.
 Your hands should be relaxed as well. Avoid clenching them into fists while you run. Instead, keep them in a relaxed fist with your thumbs resting on top of your fingers., As you run, keep your back straight and lean forward slightly. This will not only help you propel yourself forward, but it will also help you land on the middle of your foot instead of your heel., While you run, try to avoid lifting your knees higher than your hips. Instead, keep them level at your hips. When your foot lands on the ground, try to land with a slight bend in your knee. This will help absorb some of the impact. Remember that your knees should be moving forward, not upward.
 Do this instead of landing on your heel or your toes. Landing on the middle of your foot will help you lift it faster, and thus, you may be able to run faster.Additionally, when your foot hits the ground, it should land below your hips.
 For medium intensity running, aim for two steps while breathing in and two steps while breathing out. For high intensity running (like during the final stretch of a race), aim for one step while breathing in and one step while breathing out.Make sure to use both your nose and mouth when inhaling to get the maximum amount of oxygen into your body.
Try to avoid shallow breathing. Focus on breathing deeply by pushing your stomach out as you inhale and contracting it as you exhale.

