


What are the chances that you need the travel insurance? The destination of your trip may be a big factor as some places may put you at more risk than others.
Think about the things that you will be participating in on your vacation abroad. Will you be doing physical activities that you are not normally used to and may put you at risk? Are you traveling where illnesses in travelers are common or where insects abound that may cause illness?

, Determine if it will be around awhile and can follow through on any promises made to you, especially if the vacation was bought and paid for before traveling.
 Most people are familiar with the flight and trip cancellation insurance. However, there are many other types of insurance that may provide more protection during your trip.


Medical evacuation and repatriation insurance is for international travel and allows you to be treated, stabilized, and then flown home as quickly as possible. Even though you may have health insurance in your own country, as soon as you leave the border this may not be so. Health insurance for international travel may also protect you if you become ill in a developing country and are treated there. Just like any other insurance, be sure to read the fine print to know exactly what you have to do in the event of an emergency.
Golf/adventure/extreme sports insurance may be bought at a price and may have limitations. The golf insurance can help if you travel for golf tournaments around the world and can protect your equipment and give golf fee refunds.
Insurance with "force majeure" clauses can cover a trip if the U.S. State Department issues a travel warning that covers your travel area. Limitations on coverage may be affected by how close an attack is to your destination, when the insurance was purchased, and what losses may be covered by situations caused by war or the threat of war.
Non-refundable ticket insurance covers you in the event that you will need to change your travel plans and have already purchased a non-refundable airline ticket.
Trip cancellation and interruption insurance is used in the event you miss your trip due to an illness or other reasons. This insurance is especially important if you have made a significant investment into the trip, such as a $10,000 once-in-a-lifetime vacation.
Baggage insurance is used when you're traveling oversees and can insure your luggage. The Warsaw Convention has set a limit of a liability of $9.07 per pound. This may often come as coverage on trip cancellation and interruption insurance.

