 If your baseball-themed party is held at or near a baseball diamond, you might wish to play baseball with your friends. If this is part of the party itinerary, be sure to let partygoers know ahead of time so they can bring their equipment, including baseballs, bats, hats, helmets, and so on. Bring extra equipment, too, for those who don’t have their own.If no baseball diamond is within reach, you can still play baseball safely using a wiffle ball – a lightweight plastic ball that will not shatter windows should it come in contact with them.
 Instead of regular baseball, add new rules that require everyone to run around the bases backwards or throw pitches underhanded only. These new rules will put a fun twist on a classic game., Movies like The Sandlot, Bad News Bears, or Field of Dreams will set the mood for your baseball-themed party. You might choose to conduct an informal survey of your guests before the party to discover their favorite baseball-themed films, and show one of them., Print out 20-30 images of popular baseball players. Hold an image before the assembled party guests. Award a point to the person who correctly identifies the player first. Put the image down and then show the assembled guests the next image.Instead of printing the images out, you could load them on a flash drive and plug it into a TV equipped with a USB port.
You could add bonus questions for each image. For instance, after a party guest correctly identifies the player in the image, you might ask a bonus question like, “What college team did this player play for?”

, Hang a sheet painted with a bullseye in front of a fence. Encourage partygoers to hit the center of the bullseye, which should be just slightly larger than the diameter of the baseball. Allow players three chances to hit the center.If a player hits the center of the bullseye, they win.
If you wish, you could assign each ring of the baseball a point value, with the zones closer to the center progressively higher point values. This would allow two or more players to compete against each other for the high score.
Ensure nothing breakable is nearby.
 Arrange some empty aluminum cans on a small table in a triangle shape. For instance, you might place three cans on the bottom row, then balance two cans on the first row, then balance a fifth can between the two cans on the second row. Invite partygoers to toss a baseball at the cans arranged on the table. Whoever knocks over the most cans wins., Set a hula hoop about 20 paces away. Encourage partygoers to throw a baseball through it. If they get it through, move the hoop another 10 paces away. Continue in this way to discover which partygoer has the strongest and most accurate throwing arm.