 There are many different types of plots. Some are based on real life, some are based on television shows or books, and some are simply supernatural (real life with vampires and werewolves).;
, Caution 2.0 is a good forum for this, they have lists of forums organized by type (real life, sci fi/fantasy, non-human) to make it easy to find what you're looking for.
 Make sure that the forum's layout is appealing and something you don't mind looking at for a long time. If the forum has a chat box, talk to some of the members. Above all, make sure to read the plot outline, rules, species information or member group information, anything listed front and center on the site as important. Look at the application and make sure that it is something you are willing and able to fill out.
 Each site is different in registration requirements and these will be listed in the rules. Most often you register with the first and last name of your character with normal capitalization. If you're having trouble picking a name for your character, try a random name generator, baby name website, or take inspiration from your favorite novels (just don't plagiarize).
, Most forums require a well-known/recognizable celebrity face to "look-like" the character. Make sure you check the face claims on the forum so you don't pick a face that's already been claimed.
 Be very careful with your grammar and punctuation in writing the history, most forums will use the history as a sample of your writing and a poorly written history could cause your application to be rejected.
 Most often it will be labeled "Pending Applications". Before posting make sure that you have filled out all the necessary information. There is a "preview post" button on InvisionFree forums that will allow you to see what the post will look like.
 These are pages where you say a little about your character in order to get them into plot lines or relationships with other characters. Also you should look at other plot pages and suggest relationships to others, waiting for people to come to you is not advisable.
 If you would rather create your own open thread, simply pick a spot on the forum that your character is likely to be (the administrators will have made sections of the town that are available for character interaction) and write an open-ended post that shows where they are, what they're doing, and leaves room for someone to respond. If you are simply responding to an already created open thread, pick one that looks interesting and consider what your character would do in that situation.
 Make new plots, create new characters, whatever you want!

