 Any size will do, as long as you have figurines that will fit inside them.


Pimiento jars, olive jars, artichoke heart jars and baby food jars are all good choices, but anything with a tight-fitting lid will do the trick - just take a look in your fridge.
Wash the jars inside and out. If you're having trouble removing the label, try rubbing it with hot soapy water and using a plastic card or knife to scrape it off. Dry thoroughly.;
, You can put anything you like inside your snow globe. Small children's toys are a good option, as are winter-themed figurines or cake-toppers (think snowmen, Santa Clauses and Christmas trees) from thrift and craft stores.


Just make sure the figurines are plastic or ceramic, as other materials (like metal) may start to rust or turn funny after being submerged in water.
If you want to get a little more creative, try making your own figurines from clay. You can buy clay from a craft store, shape it into any form you want (snowmen are really easy) and bake them in the oven. Paint them with water-proof paint and they're ready to use.
Another idea is to take pictures of yourself, your family or your pets and laminate them. You can then cut around the outline of each person and place their photo in the snow globe, for a really personalized touch!
Even though it's called a snow globe you don't need to limit yourself to creating a winter scene. You could create a beach scene using sea shells and sand, or something playful and fun like a dinosaur or a ballerina.
 Take the lid of your jar and cover the underside with a layer of hot glue, superglue or epoxy. If you like, you can sand the lid with some sandpaper first - this will create a rougher surface which helps the glue to stick better.


While the glue is still wet, build your scene on the underside of the jar. Stick in your figurines, your laminated photos, your clay sculptures, or anything else you want to put in there.
If the item you're sticking has a narrow base (such as the laminated photos, or a snipping from a garland or plastic Christmas tree) it might be helpful to stick a few colored pebbles to the underside of the lid. Then you can just wedge the item between the pebbles.
Keep in mind that the scene you create will need to fit inside the jar opening, so don't make it too wide. Keep your figurines in the center of the lid.
Once you have created your scene, set the jar lid aside for a while to dry. The glue needs to be completely set before you can submerge it in water.
 Fill your jar almost to the brim with water and add 2 to 3 teaspoons of glycerin (which can be found in the baking section at the supermarket). The glycerin "thickens" the water, allowing the glitter to fall more slowly. You can achieve a similar effect with baby oil.


Next, add the glitter. How much will depend on the size of the jar and personal preference. You want to add enough to make up for the fact that some will get stuck to the bottom of the jar, but not so much that it obscures the scene you've created.
Silver and gold glitter are good options for winter or Christmas scenes, but really you can choose any color you like. You can also buy special snow globe "snow" online and in craft stores.
If you have no glitter on hand, you can make pretty convincing snow from crushed up eggshell. Just use a rolling pin to crush up the shell nice and fine.
 Take the lid and carefully screw it onto the jar. Close it as tightly as you can, and wipe up any displaced water with some paper towel.


If you're worried about the lid coming loose, you can place a ring of glue around the rim of the jar before you close it. Alternatively, you can wrap some colored tape around the lid.
However, sometimes you will need to reopen the jar to fix something that's come loose or to add fresh water or more glitter, so think about that before you seal it up.
 If you want, you can finish off your snow globe by decorating the lid.


You can paint it a bright color, wrap a decorative ribbon around it, cover it in felt, or stick festive berries, holly or jingle bells to it.
Once that's done, all that's left is to give your snow globe a good shake and watch the glitter fall gently around the beautiful scene you've created!

