 If you are doing companion planting to improve the look of your garden, you should think about what time of year certain plants bloom. If you know that your roses bloom at the beginning of summer, try planting some plants around them that bloom in the spring and at the end of summer.


Planting plants that bloom at different times of year will keep your garden fun and interesting for more of the year.
Planting flowers that bloom at different times of the year is especially important if you are growing roses that are not ever-blooming. For roses that only bloom in the spring, try planting annual flowers beneath them, such as marigolds and pansies. This will give you more color throughout the summer., Adding a variety of colors to your garden will make it look dramatic and interesting. You can use companion plants to bring these different and complementary colors to your garden. For example, if your roses are all light pink, consider planting something nearby that has a drastically different color, such as blooms that are blue.You can even pick color schemes for different times of the year. If your roses are one color, such as pink, you could choose reds for spring and oranges for fall. This can be done with marigolds, zinnias, or even lilies. The change of color will add seasonal excitement.Your can bring different colors into your garden with blooms and with the foliage of companion plants. Some plants that have differing foliage colors and textures that work well in the same beds as roses include hostas, lamb's ear, and coleus., In addition to adding additional colors to your beds, companion plants can add interesting and complementary shapes. This could be the shapes of individual leaves or the shapes of the plants overall.


When using contrasting shaped plants you can use plants that enhance the look of the rose. There are some plants that can mask the weaker aspects of the rose, such as their sparse bottoms. For instance, lavender, catmint, lady’s mantle, and dianthus can all be great planted around roses.