 Before you decide to quit veganism, make sure you’re truly ready. Maybe consuming a few dairy products or egg products while you're at friends' houses or restaurants would work for you. Maybe eating only baked goods once a day is a compromise you can live with. If only dessert time is a challenge, carry some vegan chocolate bars with you so you always have a vegan option when you want something sweet.


So-called “flexitarian” diets allow you to maintain a primarily vegan or vegetarian lifestyle with a few “cheater” meals or snacks thrown in to keep you sane., If you have been vegan for a long time, it may be hard to eat meat in addition to milk, eggs, and other animal-based products. Vegetarians, unlike vegans, are permitted all these things. Perhaps you began, as many vegans do, as a vegetarian. With this diet, you’d still be meat-free and avoid the associated health risks with meat consumption. Try moving back to vegetarianism to see if it’s right for you.


Vegetarians are more successful at meeting their daily protein requirements as they have more protein-rich options.
 Free-range meat is produced outside the traditional factory farm system and allows animals to have freedom of movement, social interaction with others of their kind, and sometimes even enjoy fresh air outside. If you initially became vegan because you were disgusted by the factory farm system, you might try getting free-range meat and dairy products. Urban farms are good places to find free-range eggs, meat, and dairy. Check local farmers markets or contact your local farms directly.
Certified Humane maintains an authoritative list of humanely produced meat here: http://certifiedhumane.org/whos-certified/.
 If you kill and eat animals you’ve personally hunted, you’ll at least know that they lived a free life in the wild before they died. These are animals which might easily have been victim of bears or other wild animals. Hunting and eating them isn’t malicious; rather, it fulfills the natural circle of life. Like free-range meat, eating animals which have been hunted in the wild may relieve some of the ethical pressure associated with giving up veganism., Varieties of the pescetarian diet permit combinations of fish and eggs or fish and dairy. The diet is a variety of vegetarianism/veganism and shares many of its health benefits.

