 Fruit acids have been shown to help with acne, so choosing a cleanser that contains one of these acids may help to control your body acne. For example, you could look for a cleanser that contains citric acid, which comes from citrus fruits. Other fruit acids include gluconolactone, glycolic, gluconic, malic, and tartaric acids.Wash your skin no more than twice per day.Shampoo daily if your acne appears along or on your hairline.You can also use a mild soap to cleanse your skin, such as Dove or Cetaphil.
Cleanse your skin by taking a shower or bath. You should also wash your skin any time it becomes sweaty.
Avoid scrubbing, which may irritate your skin. Use your fingertips or a soft washcloth to wash your skin.Pat your skin dry with a clean towel after you finish.
 Aloe vera can help to keep your skin moisturized and it may also provide some anti-acne benefits.Try using aloe vera as a daily moisturizer for your skin after cleansing. For example, you could replace your usual body lotion with a layer of pure aloe vera gel.


Some people are sensitive to aloe vera. Stop using it if it causes redness, burning, a stinging sensation, or a rash., A five percent concentration tea tree oil gel may help to for some people.Its effects have even been compared to benzoyl peroxide, which is a medicine that is included in some acne-fighting skin products.You will have to apply the gel to your skin every day. Make sure that your skin is clean and dry before you apply the gel.
Test the product on a small patch of skin before you apply it over a large area. Some people experience redness and irritation from tea tree oil.
 A lotion that contains 2% green tea extract may help with mild to moderate acne.Look for a lotion that contains 2% green tea extract and apply it daily after cleansing your skin.


Make sure that you test the lotion on a small portion of your skin before you apply it over a large area.
 Ingesting CBS 5926, a specific strain of brewer's yeast, may help to reduce acne outbreaks.You can take brewer’s yeast powder, flakes, tablets, or liquid.


If using flakes or powder, then a typical dose is one to two tablespoons per day. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions for tablets or a liquid.Taking a brewer's yeast supplement may cause flatulence.If you are prone to yeast infections, these supplements may worsen your symptoms.
 A little sunlight exposure may also help to combat acne, so you may want to consider spending 10 to 15 minutes outside in the sun every day. Make sure that you do not get too much sun exposure or use tanning in an effort to combat acne. You can damage your skin from too much sun exposure or tanning. This will also increase your risk of developing skin cancer.Make sure that you are always using a sunscreen with at least SPF 30 before going out into the sun.

