 Many people put money from each paycheck toward their retirement savings, most often in the form of a 401k account through their employer. This money accrues over time earning interest without any interest having to be paid on the money until you access it at the time of your retirement. Depending on the circumstances, however, you may have the option to either permanently remove some 401k money or even take a loan from yourself from your 401k account that you repay to the account.You may also be able to borrow against other long-term investment accounts such as a life insurance account.
 Employers usually only allow withdrawals from a 401k account for unreimbursed medical expenses, to buy or repair your home, to pay for higher education, to prevent eviction from your home or foreclosure on your mortgage, and to pay for funeral expenses. Additionally, you must also pay taxes on money that you take out of your 401k, and you will be subject to a withdrawal penalty in the amount of 10% of what you take out.


Aside from the tax liability and penalty payment, another factor that you must think about when considering a hardship withdrawal is that although you do not have to pay the money back (which will be a pro for some people), you will no longer have the money in the 401k for your retirement, which is what you wanted to save it for in the first place.
If you are interested in a hardship withdrawal, contact your employer to discuss whether this is available and what your next step will be.
 If you do not want to take money from an account and not put it back, you could consider taking a loan from your 401k and paying it back at a later date.The procedure for applying for a loan from your 401k is fairly simple. All you need to do is fill out a form, choose which investments you want to sell, and wait for the cash to be transferred to your account.


Employers usually continue to contribute since it is a form of profit-sharing. While you cannot use the employer contribution to repay the loan (need after-tax funds), the employer will continue to fund as long as you remain an employee.
To obtain more details about the form that you will need, contact your employer. Your employer should be able to put you in touch with the appropriate people to walk you through the process for your particular 401k.
Pros include: Any interest from the loan is paid to yourself (because you borrowed from yourself); the loan application is easy to fill out; the loan is temporary, and won’t permanently affect your retirement savings; and there are no negative credit score repercussions since there is no credit check to borrow.
Cons include: If you lose your job or change employers while the loan is still outstanding, the entire balance becomes due within 60 days of leaving your employment. Moreover, you still must pay taxes on the amount you take from the account, and additionally, will pay taxes again on the full amount of your 401k when you withdraw the money for retirement. Finally, the interest that you pay back to yourself is not tax deductible. Usually, with other types of loans including student loans, the interest you pay is tax deductible.

