 Experts believe that eating a healthy diet could prevent up to 10% of all cancer cases in the United Kingdom.Eating more fruits and vegetables has been linked to reduced risk of cancers of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, lung, and larynx.Eating too much red meat (beef, pork, lamb) and processes meat (salami, bacon, hot dogs) has been linked to increased risk of cancer.People who eat more fiber have reduced risk of bowel cancers.Include chicken and fish in your diet. Replace some of the red or processed meat you eat with chicken or fish one to two times per week. Try replacing some of the meat in meals with beans or tofu.
Eat at least five servings of fruits and vegetables each day.Spices that have been shown to have carcinogen-blocking effects include amla, garlic, and turmeric (via the curcumin).Consume turmeric (which contains curcumin) with black pepper to boost the bioavailability.To boost fiber content in your meals, adhere to the five servings of fruits and vegetables per day. Include whole grain foods in your meals daily.
Diets high in saturated fats may increase breast cancer risk. Avoid saturated fats by reading food labels and choosing alternatives with less saturated fat., Studies have shown that women who exercise 30 minutes per day five times per week (or 150 minutes total) have a 15 – 20% reduction in breast cancer risk.Other studies have consistently demonstrated a 30 – 40% reduction in colon cancer risk when individuals increase their physical activity.Physical activity has also been shown to reduce the risk of lung and endometrial cancer.


Exercise at a moderate to vigorous intensity for 30 – 60 minutes per day. Examples of moderate intensity exercises include walking briskly, water aerobics, and bicycling at less than 10 miles per hour.Examples of vigorous intensity exercises include jogging, hiking uphill, swimming laps, and jumping rope., Infection with certain types of viruses increases the risk for certain kinds of cancer. For example, the virus that causes hepatitis B (HBV) increases the risk for liver cancer.Infection with certain strains of the human papillomavirus (HPV) increases the risk for cervical, anal, vaginal, and vulvar cancers.Vaccines are available that are effective in preventing infection with these viruses. It is important to note that the HPV and HBV vaccines are not the same as a “cancer vaccine.” Cancer vaccines are designed to stimulate the body to attack cancer cells once cancer has developed. Researchers are currently working on cancer vaccines, and many are in clinical trials as of this writing.Ask your healthcare provider which vaccines are suitable for you and your children.
 There is some evidence that disrupted circadian rhythms increases cancer risk.One study found that women who worked irregular schedules had a 30% higher risk of developing breast cancer than those who worked a more regular schedule. Shift work is also a risk factor for prostate cancer.Inadequate sleep is also a risk factor for obesity, which is itself a risk factor for cancer.Experts suggest trying the following in order to sleep more soundly at night: Create a sleep schedule. Go to bed the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning.
Have a sleep routine. Wind down the same way every night.
Create a comfortable sleeping atmosphere. For most people, this means cool temperatures, low noise, and a dark room.
Avoid certain foods and drinks in the hours before bedtime. Caffeine can keep you up for hours after you consume it. Alcohol may seem to put you to sleep initially, but it can disrupt sleep later in the night. Going to sleep overfull can create discomfort and a need to visit the restroom in the middle of the night.
Take power naps during the day, but keep them under 30 minutes. Too much sleep during the day can interfere with your ability to fall asleep and stay asleep.
Get daily exercise, but avoid exercise too close to bedtime.
Learn healthy ways to deal with stress. Worries about finances, relationships, and work can keep you up at night.

