 Improper shifting puts strain on your drive train, and your chain can only stretch so far before it slips or potentially breaks. Shifting moves the chain, and if you are cranking on the pedals up a hill this can cause it to miss the teeth of the next gear. Some tips for safe shifting include:


Shift before you get to a hill. Don't wait until you can barely pedal to shift. As a general rule of thumb, your feet should always move at the same speed -- you keep shifting to make this possible.
Use "soft pressure" when you shift. Right as you shift, ease up on your feet as if letting go of the gas. You don't want to stop pedaling, you just want less weight on the pedals. Work on timing this with your shift, then resuming normal pedaling., This is common if, when shifting to one of your "extreme gears" on the far side of either set of gears, the chain keeps going and slips off. Limit screws tell the derailleur to stop moving in one direction, and if the limit is too high, the chain will keep moving when you shift even though there is no gear to catch it. Both the front and back derailleur have tiny limit screws labeled "H" and "L" for "High" and "Low" limits.


Turn the "H" screws clockwise to prevent the chain from moving too far to the right, away from the bike.
Turn the "L" screws clockwise to prevent the chain from moving to far to the left and into your wheel.If you are in the furthest gear, you will see the derailleur moving as you adjust the screws. Make sure it lines up in the middle of the gear.
 Replacing a chain link is not actually that difficult, though you will need a special chain tool. This small tool pushes a pin out of a link, allowing you to replace it. Buy a replacement link from your local bike shop and a chain tool. Find the broken link by pedaling the bike and watching for links that don't bend as they move through the derailleur. Use your chain tool to punch out the pins on the broken link (the small circular rod in the link) and then use the tool to push the pins of the new one in its place.


Try to get the pins lined up so that nothing sticks out.
Master links are special links that can be added to any chain, and have interlocking grooves to that make them easier to install., With age, both chains and cassettes will wear down due to friction, which means the gear teeth cannot lock firmly into place in the chain. To check the chain, use a ruler to measure a 12" distance between 12 pins in the chain. The pins are the small circles in the middle of the links when you look at the chain from the side. If the twelfth pin is more than 1/8 off the one-foot mark, you need a new chain.If your chain is covered in rust or the links have trouble moving, it is best to purchase a new chain.
Chains generally wear out faster than cassettes and are much cheaper to replace., Cassettes are harder to diagnose than chains, but if you feel like you need a new one, you likely do. If your chain is constantly skipping over gears, sliding off, or skipping, you likely need a new cassette. Take your bike into the shop if there is any confusion for a personal appraisal.

After cleaning the cassette, look at the gears. Do any of them look more visibly worn down than others? If there is a disparity it is likely time to get a new cassette.