 First and foremost, no matter who you buy from, you should always ask plenty of questions to make sure that your purchase is both 100% local and 100% organic.


To find out if a product is local, ask where the cattle, pig, or poultry was raised as well as where the animals were butchered and processed.
To find out if a product is organic, ask if the meat is certified organic. The USDA certifies organic products. A product can either be labeled “100% organic,” meaning that it is completely organic, or it can be labeled “organic,” meaning that it is no less than 95% organic.
If the meat is not certified by the USDA, ask how the animals were raised and what butchering practices were used. Some ranchers, for instance, may actually raise organic cattle, but if they own a small ranch, they may opt out of going through the whole certification process or may otherwise be exempt from certification. It is your choice whether to believe the answer you are given, but you can help confirm or refute their claims by asking around and discovering what sort of reputation each seller has.;
, You can often find organic milk and cheese from dairy farmers as well as organic meat from organic cattle or poultry farms. Since you are buying from a farmers’ market, your odds of finding local products are improved. Depending on how urban or suburban your hometown is, though, “local” may include products from any farm in your county or in the counties bordering your own.
 This is especially useful if you are buying large quantities and looking for a long-term supplier, like if you have an organic restaurant. A rancher may or may be willing to sell directly to an individual, but if he senses a long-term profit, he will likely be willing to consider making a deal with an organic businessperson. Locate a local farm or ranch by searching a phone book or other directory.
 In effect, a meat processor is a butcher. Locating a meat processor who specializes in organic meats will offer you the best in terms of selection and quality, but even an ordinary meat processor or butcher may have a selection of locally produced organic meats. If not, he may know of someone who does.
 A co-op is usually set up at a storefront, and the products on the shelves are almost always local because the members are almost always local. The stock, including the stock of meat, is supplied by these members. To join a co-op, you only need to sign up and pay membership dues. Some may also require you to make your own contributions or to do volunteer work at the storefront, however.
 You can use a database for local organic goods or you can find out specifically for local organic meat. Set the search parameters to specify your location as well as the distance away from your location that you are willing to travel.
 In some instances, you may not be able to purchase organic meat from a local source directly, but that source may have an online storefront that you can purchase from. Buying online is also good for those who want to buy from an organic meat distributor somewhere in their state but who do not mind if that distributor is on the other end of the state, too far to drive to on an average afternoon.

