 To cook the inside-out cheeseburgers, you’ll want to preheat the grill so you know it’s hot enough when the burgers are ready. Set your grill to medium-high and allow it to heat fully.If you prefer, you can cook the burgers under the broiler in your oven or in a frying pan.;
, To season the meat for the burgers, place 2 pounds (907 g) of ground beef into a large bowl. Add 2 tablespoons (34 g) of Worcestershire sauce, 2 teaspoons (2 g) of paprika, and salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste to the meat. Use clean hands to gently mix the beef with the seasonings until they are thoroughly combined.Be careful not to overwork the ground beef when you’re mixing it. That can result in tough burgers.
You can add whatever your favorite burger seasonings are to the ground beef. For example, garlic powder, onion powder, and crushed red pepper are tasty options.
 After you’ve mixed the seasonings into the meat, use your hands to gently shape the ground beef into 12 thin, round patties. They should be approximately 3-inches (7.5-cm) in diameter. Set the burgers aside for a moment.If you’re have trouble forming the ground beef into round patties, you may want to use mold to help you get the shape right. The lid from a peanut butter jar or other small jar can work well., After you’ve made the patties, add 4 ounces (112 g) of shredded sharp cheddar or pepper jack cheese and 1 scallion that’s been finely chopped to a small bowl. Toss the ingredients together so they’re well blended.You can use any type of hard cheese that melts well for the burgers. Swiss, Gruyere, and Monterey jack are tasty options. You can also mix two or more types of cheese for the burgers if you like.
If you’re a fan of bacon cheeseburgers, turn these into inside-out bacon cheeseburgers by mixing 4 slices of cooked, crumbled bacon in with the cheese and scallions.
 Once you’ve mixed the cheese and the scallions, use a spoon to add 1 to 2 tablespoons (7 to 14 g) of the cheese mixture to the center of 6 of the patties that you’ve made. Make sure to leave a ½-inch border around the edges of the patties.It’s important not to overstuff the burgers with the cheese filling or it may leak out when you grill them.
 When you’ve added the cheese mixture to the 6 of the patties, cover them with the remaining 6 beef patties. Press and pinch down along the edges to ensure that they are sealed, so you form a single burger with each pair of patties.Be sure to seal the two patties together all the way around. If there are any openings, the cheese may ooze out during grilling.
 When you’re ready to grill the burgers, press down on each to flatten it to a 4-inch (10-cm) patty. Use a basting brush to lightly cover each burger with canola oil to prevent it from sticking to the grill.Remember to brush both sides of the burgers with the oil.
 Place the burgers on the preheated grill. Allow them to cook on the first side for 3 minutes.While the total overall cooking time for the burgers depends on how done you want them, you should always cook them for 3 minutes on the first side regardless of whether you want them medium-rare or well-done., Once you’ve cooked the burgers for 3 minutes on the first side, use a spatula to turn them over on the grill. Let them cook for another 4 to 7 minutes depending on how done you want the burgers.For medium-rare burgers, cook the burgers for another 4 minutes.For medium burgers, cook the burgers for another 5 minutes.
For medium-well burgers, cook the burgers for another 6 minutes.
For well-done burgers, cook the burgers for another 7 minutes.
 Once the burgers are finished cooking, transfer them from the grill to a plate. Let the burgers sit for 3 to 5 minutes to ensure that they are juicy when it’s time to eat., When you’re ready to serve the burgers, place each one on a hamburger bun or roll. Add your favorite toppings, such as lettuce and tomato, and condiments, such as ketchup or barbecue sauce, and enjoy.You may want to toast the buns on the grill before putting the burgers on them.
Serve the burgers immediately after topping them for the best flavor and texture.
