 Your lighting fixtures should complement your existing décor. Look around you and determine if your style is ornate, rustic, modern, country, minimalist, colonial, whimsical or a combination of aesthetics.;
, For amply lighting a room that has such diverse uses as does the family room, you must account for the room's multiple purposes by integrating more than 1 type of fixture into your lighting plan. Customize your family room's lighting scheme to your specific needs by choosing lighting for the each of the following purposes:


Provide general lighting. Assess how much natural light your room gets during the day, as well as how dark the room gets at night. You will want to flood the room with enough light to make it "feel" comfortable.
Accentuate decorative elements. When lighting a room that has wall art and/or architectural features that you want to highlight, it is a good idea to incorporate lighting that draws attention to those decorative elements. For example, emphasize high ceilings by pointing accent lights at the ceiling, and play up paintings by hanging art lights over them.
Create ambiance. A common function of the family room is to serve as a gathering area, where people can come together to spend time enjoying each other's company. For this purpose, bright overhead lights can feel harsh and impersonal, and too much shadow can hinder intimate conversation. Ambient lighting is indirect lighting that creates a mood.
Highlight task areas. If you choose to play chess at the game table, read a book in the lounge chair or knit a blanket from your favorite spot on the couch, you will need fixtures that provide a flood of light exactly where you need it.



Both floor lamps and table lamps are ideal for task lighting, as they provide a localized flood of light and can be turned on/off as needed.
Track lighting - a series of fixtures on a track - can be adjusted in location on the track, or can be rotated to shine light at different angles. This type of setup is great for accent lighting and/or for indirect/ambient lighting.
Pendants are singular, hanging light fixtures that provide good task lighting, as they provide a localized ring of light over a fixed work area. For family room lighting, you may choose to use pendants over a desk or a game table.
Recessed lighting is installed in the ceiling so that the housings cannot be seen, and can be used for any type of decorative style. These fixtures may be stationary, or may be set on a movable joint that allows you to adjust their angles, making them a great choice for general, ambient and/or accent lighting.
Wall sconces are decorative fixtures that direct a beam of light either upward, downward or both up and down. Therefore, they are most useful as accent lighting.

