 You'll need to raise Eevee's Friendship to 220 or above in order to evolve into Espeon or Umbreon. A Soothe Bell will help this process a lot, as it gives a 50% boost to all Friendship-raising activities.

You can get the Soothe Bell from the Pokémon Mansion (Diamond and Pearl), Eterna Forest (Platinum), or Nimbasa City in the Black, White, Black 2, and White 2 games.
 You'll get a 1 point boost in Friendship for every 256 steps that you take with Eevee in your party., There are several places to get Eevee a massage, depending on the game you are playing. You can get one massage every 24 hours.

Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - The massage girl in Veilstone City will give you a 3 point boost.
Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - A massage at the Ribbon Syndicate will give you a 20 point boost if your Friendship is less than 100.
Black and White - A massage from the lady on Castelia Street can give you up to 30 Friendship points.
Black 2 and White 2 - The massage lady can be found at the Medal Office. The bonuses are the same as in Black and White.
 Vitamins are items that give you a Friendship boost along with their regular effects.

HP Up
Protein
Iron
Calcium
Carbos
PP Up
Rare Candy
Zinc
PP Max

, Every time you level up Eevee, you'll get 1-3 points, depending on its current Friendship level. You can level up Eevee in battle or with a Rare Candy., You can get up to a 10 point boost in Friendship by giving Eevee the following EV-lowering berries:

Pomeg
Kelpsy
Qualot
Hondew
Grepa
Tamato

, Eevee will lose 1 Friendship point if it gets knocked out. Switch it out with another Pokémon before this happens, and make sure to not use any healing items on it (see the next step)., Healing items have a large negative impact on Eevee's Friendship level. Avoid all of the following items and try to do all of your healing and reviving at a Pokémon Center.

Energy Powder: -5 points
Heal Powder: -5 points
Energy Root: -10 points
Revival Herb: -15 points

, Put Eevee at the front of your party and talk to the Friendship checker at the Pokémon Fan Club in Hearthome City. The phrases the checker says will help you determine Eevee's Friendship rating:

50 - 99: "You should treat it better. It's not used to you." (D,P); "It's feeling neutral toward you. It's up to you to change that." (Pl)
100 - 149: "It's quite cute." (D,P); "It's warming up to you. That's my impression." (Pl)
150 - 199: "It's friendly towards you. It looks sort of happy." (D,P); "It's quite friendly to you. It must be happy being with you." (Pl)
200 - 254: "I get the feeling that it really trusts you." (D,P); "It's very friendly toward you. I can tell you treat it kindly." (Pl)
255: "It looks really happy! It must love you a lot." (D,P); "It simply adores you! Why, I feel like I am intruding!" (Pl)

, Put Eevee in the front of your party and talk to the Friendship checker at the Pokémon Fan Club in Icirrus City. The phrase the checker says will change depending on your Eevee's current Friendship rating:

70 - 99: "The relationship is neither good nor bad… It looks neutral."
100 - 149: "It is a little friendly to you… That's what I'm getting."
150 - 194: "It is friendly to you. It must be happy with you."
195 - 254: "It is quite friendly to you! You must be a kind person!"
255: "It is super friendly to you! I'm a bit jealous!"

, Once you think Eevee has reached 220 Friendship or higher, evolve it during the day to get Espeon or at night to get Umbreon. If it doesn't evolve, your Friendship rating is not high enough. Make sure to avoid any areas with a Moss Rock or an Ice Rock, or you'll get the wrong evolution.

In Generation IV, day time is 4:00 AM - 7:59 PM and night time is 8:00 PM - 3:59 AM.
In Generation V, day and night times vary depending on the season.

