 Whole grains can lower your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, insulin levels and triglycerides, all of which can lead to cardiovascular disease. The following are easy ways to replace refined grains with whole grains:


Eat bran flakes, shredded wheat or oats for breakfast.
Substitute whole grain breads for refined grain breads in both toast and cereals. Read the labels carefully to see what percentage of the bread was made with refined grains. For example, some brands of refined bread are colored brown to appear to be made with whole grain. White breads can be made with whole grains.;
,


Replace white rice with brown rice or bulgar wheat. Studies have shown that both men and women can reduce the risk of diabetes by at least 11 percent when they replace white rice 2 to 3 times per day with a whole grain.
 You can do this in a number of ways. Whole grains are a great way to increase fiber, but you should pay attention to increasing both insoluble and soluble fiber.


Whole grains that are insoluble forms of fiber are whole wheat, bran, seeds, barley, brown rice, bulgar and couscous. They do not dissolve in water and they have a laxative effect on the bowels. Insoluble fiber is thought to have the same effects of decreasing colorectal cancer as reducing coronary disease.
Whole grains that are soluble forms of fiber include oatmeal, flax seeds and oat flakes. This soluble fiber fills with water and forms a gel that helps food to move more easily through your colon and entire digestive system.
 Diverticular disease starts when little weak pockets are created in your intestines. They become easily inflamed and can burst.
 Cookies, cakes, some cereals and more are filled with processed foods that contain fewer nutrients than whole grains.


Avoid anything that says it contains refined sugars and grains. This switch can lead to weight loss as well as reduction in the risk of disease. The following are good ways to sneak in a few servings of less-processed whole grains into your diet:
Place barley or wild rice in soups and casseroles.
Use rolled oats and bran instead of dry bread crumbs.
Replace white flour tortillas with whole wheat versions. Make sure to read the packaging to be sure they are high in fiber and whole grains.
 Some doctors, such as Dr. Andrew Weil, have developed food pyramids that they believe help people to reduce inflammation from arthritis and other conditions. 3 to 5 servings of whole grains is included in this pyramid.

