 Stones or gravel may also be used. These materials prevent the drainage holes from getting clogged with potting mix, creating better drainage conditions as a result.


You can find most of these materials at a garden supply store, but if you are unable to locate them, you can also collect stones from a nearby creek or use a hammer to break an old clay pot into pieces. If collecting these materials from nature, though, you should sterilize them by soaking them in hot soapy water, or in a solution made with one part bleach and four parts water.
 Rotted turf can be obtained by digging up a patch of grass and soil, dumping it into a spare pot, and soaking it for several days. Place the turf upside-down on top of the crocks. Alternatively, you can also use rotted farm manure or garden compost. These materials may be easier to find at garden or farming supply stores. Regardless of what you choose, these materials should all be kept away from the clematis root ball, however, since bacteria and insect eggs could be lurking inside the rot and could cause problems to the newly growing plant.
 Loam-based compost works best because it retains moisture more effectively than loam-free compost. Moreover, clematis need a rich soil filled with nutrients, making a compost-based potting mix essential.
 Clematis roots can grow in tightly packed soil, and the firmer you pack it in, the less it will sink upon being watered. Ideally, the top of your soil will only be 2 inches (5.1 cm) below the rim of the container.
 Fill a bucket with lukewarm water and allow the root ball to soak in the water for 10 to 20 minutes. You will need to fill the bucket with around one gallon of water for every inch in diameter of the root ball. This should be done before you plant it, since you want to make sure that the root ball is thoroughly drenched.
 When the hole seems just big enough for the root ball to fit, dig out an additional 2 inches (5.1 cm) of compost. The root ball needs these extra few inches of "wiggle room" in order to thrive.
 Verify that the top of the root ball is two inches below the surface.
 Tightly pack the compost around the root ball, making sure that it remains firmly fixed in place.
 The compost does not need to be saturated to the point of puddling, but it should feel notably damp upon being touched.

