 This way, you don't have to sneak it up and risk even getting to play at all. But if you do forget to leave it in your room, you can try one of the following:


Put it your pants pocket. This is your best bet, since most people won't be looking at your pants. But if your pocket bulges a bit, try covering it with a long shirt or sweater. NEVER use a shirt pocket unless you can cover it with a loose sweater.






Use the "sneak hand" technique. To do this, hold your DS/PSP behind your back with one hand. If someone passes you, you need to swiftly move your game hand to a side where they can't see it. For example, if someone's going the opposite direction of you, you would move your game hand back, side, then front. I suggest practicing with someone you trust before attempting this.






If all else fails, put it in your underwear. As disgusting as this sounds, this will actually work better than the pocket technique. Try suggest wearing loose pants or a long shirt/sweater cover it. Just make sure it's your DS/PSP and you go to the bathroom first, for obvious reason.





;
, Obviously, you wouldn't want to start playing when a parent is in the hallway. Make sure everyone on the same floor is either gone or asleep.
 This is the hardest part because you have to focus on your game while still being aware of what's happening outside your bedroom. Here are some things to do while playing:

If you hear footsteps or voices approaching or see light coming through your door, HIDE YOUR HANDHELD IMMEDIATELY. They may come into your room to check on you.






NEVER, and I repeat NEVER TURN YOUR VOLUME UP. Even if you have something like a radio to cover, there is that occasional silence in between songs where your game can be heard. Also, don't play games that require you to listen the game's music, like "Rhythm Heaven".






Be light when you press buttons. Only press the buttons as hard as you need to because button presses can be heard. This is even harder when using the Touch Screen of a DS. Nonetheless, tap it lightly.






Don't talk out loud. I know this is hard to do when you lose or win, but this is the same at turning up your volume. Just don't.
 If you think someone is approaching your bedroom, don't hesitate or jump from surprise. Hide your handheld quickly under something like your pillow before they come in.
 Obviously, if it's a school day the next day, you wouldn't want to stay up so long you're tired and cranky at school. Even if it's a weekend, staying up so much that you wake up after say, after noon could get your parents suspicious.

