 Freshwater snails prefer water between 65–83°F with a pH of 7–8.Monitor your pH and temperature levels with an aquarium monitor. Aquarium monitors are small devices with outward-facing digital displays that you install inside your aquarium to inform you of your tank’s temperature and pH level.


If you’re having trouble getting your water warm enough, consider investing in either a heat lamp or an under-tank heater. Both are available at your local pet store.
If you’re having trouble getting your tank’s pH levels right, talk to your local aquarist or pet store proprietor. There are various compounds available to adjust pH levels
The water should be completely free of salt, and should never be treated with any copper-based compound.
 Sudden, dramatic changes to the quality or temperature of its water can result in stress. In order to make the transition from its original tank to its new tank as smooth as possible, allow your snail to adjust to the new tank over a long period.


Fill a small plastic bag with water from your snail’s tank. Float the bag in the tank you’re transferring the snail to for about 20 minutes.This will help the water in the bag adjust to the temperature in the snail’s new tank.
Pour a bit of the water in the bag out. Be careful not to pour the snail out with the water.
Fill the bag back up with water from the tank you’re transferring the snail to.
Float the bag in the tank for another 10 to 20 minutes.
Use a thermometer to check the temperature of the water in the tank against the temperature of the water in the bag. If the temperatures are the same, remove the snail from the bag and add it to the new aquarium.
If the temperatures are not the same, float the bag in the tank for another 10-20 minutes until the temperatures are aligned.
 Snails like dark places, and you may see your snails congregating in shaded areas of your tank.If you wish, provide a small overhang or a plastic fish hut (available at local pet stores) that your snail can access. You can also provide darkness with some real or artificial plants.


Your snail might also like to climb on and explore artificial rocks.
Keep in mind that your snail will probably eat live plants, so you’ll have an added expense if you wish to continually introduce new live plants to your aquarium.
 In other words, if you have six-gallon aquarium, you can comfortably house three freshwater snails in it. However, the specific spatial requirements of a freshwater snail depends on its species.Pond snails require two gallons of water per twelve individuals.
Ramshorn snails require two gallons of water per six individuals.
Mystery snails require ten gallons of water per six individuals.
Snails lay their eggs out of the water. If you want your snails to reproduce, leave at least two to four inches of air between the lid of the aquarium and the top of the water.
 They can scale almost any surface, including the vertical glass of an aquarium tank. In order to keep your snail from escaping, keep a lid or cover on it. Some portion of the cover should be composed of mesh to allow air into the tank.
 Loaches, betta fish, and gouramis are notorious for eating snails. Catfish, cichlids, and pufferfish also find snails very tasty. Other fish like Siamese fighting fish enjoy eating snail eggs.Other snails and other freshwater fish (White Cloud Mountain minnows, for instance) make good tankmates for a freshwater snail.

