 Use a gentle, non-irritating soap to wash your skin, focusing on areas that are most likely to be affected by blocked sweat glands. These areas include the groin, armpits, beneath the breast, and any other area of skin that folds against itself.Allow your skin to air-dry rather than rubbing dry with a towel.
Wash daily, or twice a day if necessary to maintain cleanliness.;
, Any clothing that presses or rubs against your skin increases your chances of developing blocked sweat glands. Wearing loose clothing of natural fibers, such as hemp, cotton or linen, is recommended to prevent blocked sweat glands.Underwire bras can block sweat glands beneath the breasts. Try to find a supportive bra that doesn't press tightly against your skin.
Tight waistbands can also block the sweat glands.
 Research shows that smoking increases your chances of developing HS, though the cause is currently unknown. Smoking is one of the key risk factors for HS. In order to prevent blocked sweat glands, try to quit smoking.If you need help to quit smoking, talk to your medical health provider or a local health organization.
Support groups, online groups, or individual coaches can help you quit smoking. Many companies have incentive programs to help their employees quit smoking. Keep trying until you find the one that works for you.
 HS is most common among people who are overweight or obese. To prevent blocked sweat glands, try to maintain a healthy body weight. If you're overweight, consider joining a weight loss program for encouragement and support in making lifestyle changes. Eat a healthy diet, avoiding sugary snacks and fatty foods, and eat plenty of fresh vegetables and fruit.Talk to your health care provider about weight loss support groups and dietary needs.
If you've already developed HS, losing weight can help prevent additional flareups.
 Shaving the armpits or groin can result in rubbing bacteria into the glands. If you want to eliminate hair in areas most likely to develop HS, talk to your doctor or dermatologist about options for hair removal.Wearing perfume or perfumed deodorants may also irritate the skin. Use unscented products designed for sensitive skin.
Because shaving the groin and armpits are culturally sensitive subjects, you may wish to talk to your doctor about finding support groups. Wearing concealing clothing is one way to navigate the social complexities of body hair.
 Wear cotton undergarments to improve air flow, and avoid tight clothing. Wearing synthetic fabric undergarments restricts air flow and increases the likeliness of blocked sweat glands.Wash groin daily or twice daily, depending on your individual needs. Use gentle antibacterial soap and allow to air dry.
Use lukewarm water to wash groin.
 Heavy sweating can cause sweat glands to become inflamed. Using saunas, hot tubs or steam rooms can cause sweating and blockage of sweat glands. Exercise in the early morning or evening hours, when the temperatures are lower. Don't do "hot" yoga, as this is designed to increase sweating.Antiperspirants can be too harsh for sensitive skin, resulting in blocked sweat glands. If you choose to wear an antiperspirant, check with your doctor for recommendations.
Exercise gently, without overheating.

