 Aim to teach the subjects you know best. You are more likely to get hired to help someone with their essays and reading comprehension if you are an English Major, for instance. If you are hired to teach something you are not an expert in, get to know it.If you are teaching something you have a strong personal knowledge of but have never learned in school, such as your own first language, take some time to study academic literature, lesson plans, and the rules your student must learn.
If you are teaching your favorite thing, understand that your student may be struggling to understand it and may therefore not share your enthusiasm.;
, Plan out each session ahead of time. Each lesson should include review of the previous lesson, introduction of a learning objective, and activities to help students practice applying what they have learned.Start with easier material, and make sure the student understands it before you move on.
Let them do the parts they seem to understand without interfering.
Move in to support them when they struggle with more difficult tasks.
Guide students towards answers, but do not give them before the student has worked them out on their own.
If a lesson doesn't go as planned, re-plan. Repeat tasks and take new angles on material that is harder for your student to learn.
 Don't try to cover everything that comes up during class. Do not try to correct every mistake that your student makes. You can quickly overwhelm a student with information. Instead, take note of mistakes, but focus on your lesson goals.If you are teaching English or a second language, never correct your student's grammar while they speak. Instead, model correct language usage.
 Ask your student to demonstrate what they have learned with you. Give quizzes, ask for verbal summaries, and check their work. You can also ask to be shown current test scores and completed class work to see if your student is demonstrating their knowledge outside of tutoring sessions.If a student does not seem to be absorbing the material, go back and re-explain from a different angle. Try starting further back, so your student can build up to the new material.
If your student is getting teary, frustrated, or seems blocked, switch activities or give them a break.

