 Use a box grater to shred the peeled, boiled potatoes into fine pieces.


Note that the potatoes should already be peeled and boiled prior to this step.
 In a large bowl, mash together the shredded potato, maida, salt, oil, and yogurt. Use a potato masher or your hands to combine the ingredients until a soft, slightly stick dough forms.


If necessary, sprinkle in a little water as you mix the dough if it seems too dry or crumbly. The dough must hold together well.
Continue kneading a few times even after the dough forms up.
 Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, a lid, or an inverted plate. Set it aside on the counter and leave it alone for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it becomes slightly inflated.
 Divide the dough into as many lemon-sized pieces as possible and roll each portion into a ball.


Note that you should put a little flour on your hands before handling the dough at this point to prevent the dough from sticking to your fingers.
 Dust each ball of dough with a little additional flour and flatten it into a circle using a rolling pin.
 Pour 2 inches (5 cm) of additional cooking oil into a deep frying pan with a sturdy bottom. Heat it on a flame or stove until the oil reaches a temperature of 350 degrees Fahrenheit (180 degrees Celsius).


If heating the oil on a stove, use high heat.
Check the temperature of the oil using a candy or oil thermometer.
If you do not have a cooking thermometer, you can test the oil by dropping a small piece of raw dough into it. When the oil is hot enough, the dough should sizzle and rise to the top immediately.
 Drop the circles into the hot oil one at a time. When the dough floats to the top, use a ladle or slotted spoon to press down on it gently, causing it to become puffy. Flip it over to the other side once you notice the bottom beginning to brown, and continue cooking until both sides are lightly browned.


To ensure that each bhatura cooks evenly, you should try to keep the temperature of the oil even throughout the entire process. You may need to manipulate the amount of heat you use as you work since the temperature of the oil will change naturally as you fry the bread.
 Remove the bhatura with a slotted spoon or ladle and drain each on on a plate covered in clean paper towels. Serve while still hot and fresh.


You can also make your own chole or chana masala to serve alongside the bhatura for a complete Indian dining experience.

