 There are many websites that provide legal information and assistance to the public free of charge.


For example, the national nonprofit organization Pro Bono Net runs websites such as http://www.lawhelp.org that provide information about various legal issues, with a focus on those that most likely affect low- and moderate-income households.Keep in mind that information you find online about the law may be general or differ among states or even among counties within a state – particularly if you are researching court procedures. Make sure the information you find actually applies to your situation.
State court websites also often have self-help information available, including guides that break down court procedures and requirements for non-attorneys.
 Most local bar associations have volunteer attorneys who provide free or reduced-fee assistance to low-income individuals.Pro bono attorneys are private attorneys who volunteer their time to assist eligible clients. #*Typically the financial threshold for bar association pro bono services is the same as that for Legal Services or legal aid programs in your state.
Some pro bono programs also assist people based on other factors regardless of financial need. This is particularly true if you are a victim of discrimination or domestic abuse.
 Depending on the nature of your legal issue, you may be able to find free or reduced-fee services from an organization that focuses on helping people in similar situations.Many of these organizations help people with higher incomes than would qualify for legal aid, but they tend to focus on specific populations, such as the elderly or LGBT people. Typically, your legal issue also must be related to your membership in that population.
However, keep in mind that charitable organizations often rely on grants and private donations, and may have limited funds as a result., Most law schools have clinics that handle cases in certain areas for free or reduced costs.Law school clinics are run by practicing attorneys and law professors and staffed by law students. The law students get class credit and the opportunity to work on real cases with supervision.
Many clinics assist low-income clients with general legal issues similar to those handled by Legal Services lawyers. If you didn't meet the income requirements for legal aid or the office couldn't take your case for other reasons, you may have better luck with a law school clinic.Some law school clinics also handle cases in more niche areas that typically aren't handled by legal services and charities, such as intellectual property, contracts, and small business issues.

