 The most natural place for a garden-themed baby shower is a garden. If you have a garden of your own that you want to show off, have the party at your house. Otherwise, you might consider booking an ivy-covered patio at a restaurant, or contacting local botanical gardens to see if they have event space.You may also consider asking close family members or friends with nice outdoor space if they would be willing to let you host the event there.If you know weather will be a concern based on the seasons where you live, consider looking for a covered patio with heat lamps, or otherwise choosing an indoor space at a venue that incorporates lots of plant life.;
, If your party is going to be in an outdoor garden, make plans in advance for non-ideal weather conditions. Rent a tent or cover in case of rain or snow, and consider renting a few outdoor heaters to prepare for dips in temperature if you live in an area that gets cold.Ask your venue if they can make any of this available to you at an additional charge.
If you are hosting at home or your venue cannot supply these items, most party rental companies can help you set up weather preparations.
 Once you know when and where you will have the party, start thinking about who you want there, and what you want to request of your guests. Decide whether you want only female friends in attendance, or if you want to welcome friends of different genders, as well as their partners. This is also the time to consider whether you want to implement a dress code, as well choosing whether you want attendees to bring gifts.For a garden-themed baby shower, requesting garden attire is not only appropriate, it can help your guests properly plan an outfit for the venue so they can avoid things like getting heels stuck in the grass.Decide in advance if you want guests to bring gifts, or if you would rather have them do something like donate to a charity. Knowing this in advance will allow you to specify on your invitations.
 Have thematic colors picked out before you start shopping for decorations or food. Pastel yellows, greens, blues, purples, and pinks, as well as ivory and cream colors are all common for garden-themed events. Consider selecting a primary color, a secondary color, and a light neutral such as cream or white to start. You may also want to bring in a dark neutral such as gray or brown, or a metallic like gold as an accent.Tradition holds that blues are typically associated with having a boy, while pinks are commonly associated with having a girl. You are welcome to follow these traditions if you would like, but making use of both blue and pink is appropriate for a garden shower, regardless of the baby’s gender.
 You may choose to cook for the shower yourself, or you may have the shower catered. You don’t need to have a menu finalized, but two to three months before the shower you should know whether you want it to be catered or home cooked. This gives you enough time to try and book a caterer, should you so choose.Garden parties lend themselves well to tea service as well as light hors d'oeuvres, both of which are easy to prepare at home if you wish., Invitations, RSVP cards, and any other paper goods including place cards and tags for gifts are an easy way to bring garden themes into your party. Look at a local craft or paper goods store to find floral, leafy, or vegetal prints for your paper goods.Working with a paper goods store generally costs a little more, but they can help you pick complimentary prints in the right sizes for different pieces. They can also typically help you design the text for and print your paper goods.
You may also be able to design and order your invitations and paper goods online and save a little money versus working with a traditional print shop.
 Centerpieces are another great way to bring plant life into your decor. For a more formal shower, you may consider arranging flowers in vases or having low-lying bouquets spread out across the table. For more of a rustic theme, you might consider putting live plants such as ferns, hydrangeas, or daisies in old watering cans or terra cotta pots with ribbons. You can even use moss to cover up any potting soil and bring more greenery into the space.You can add some artificial butterflies and dragonflies to your arrangement to bring some life into your pieces.You may also consider floating candles in flower pots and bird baths as accents around the space., Burlap is a wonderful fabric for garden parties because it is frequently used to wrap exposed roots and thus is often seen in gardens and nurseries. Purchase some burlap from your local fabric store and add lace or ribbon to the edges to create table runners and placemats.Get an easy, no-sew table runner with lace edges by folding over the frayed sides of burlap. In the crease, place a fusible webbing, and iron down the length to get clean edges. Then, use the webbing along the sides again to fuse the lace to the burlap., You may opt to keep your place settings simple by picking solids within your color scheme, or you may choose place settings with floral or leafy patterns. One simple trick to make a coordinated table is to use white or cream dishes with a plastic charger in one of your accent colors. Finish it all off with napkin holders that have flowers or leaves on them.You may decide to have small potted plants such as a single flower or a succulent in a terracotta pot with your guests’ names written on them. These can serve as place cards and favors.
Decide early whether you want to buy or rent stoneware, or whether you would prefer to use disposable dishes and flatware. If you want to use stoneware, start shopping early to make sure you can get enough to fit your whole party.
 Buntings made of scrap fabric and oversized paper flowers make excellent wall decor for garden parties. Buntings are easy to hang on fences outside, while paper flowers can help bring some of the garden indoors.You can also make garlands out of real flowers, fake flowers, or leaves to string around the space. Wrap them with fairy lights for some ambient lighting if your event will go into the evening.
If you do not want to make wall decor, you may instead choose to buy decor including already-made paper flowers and wall decals with garden themes such as florals, birds, and insects.
Look in the garden or yard section of your local home improvement store for additional yard decor you can use to give your party more personal touches., Afternoon teas and garden parties go hand-in-hand. Consider making a few types of hot or iced teas along with some finger sandwiches, fresh fruit, and pastries such as scones.For a more formal party, consider using dessert and cake stands to display your food. For a more informal gathering, you could organize your foods on cute trays and themed platters.
Consider buying or renting a beverage dispenser for large amounts of iced tea. For hot tea, you may opt for either teapots or insulated beverage dispensers, depending upon how much you anticipate needing.
Easy and delicious finger sandwich choices include cucumber sandwiches, smoked salmon on toast, herbed cream cheese and strawberry sandwiches, egg and chicken salad sandwiches, and more., Brunch also works very well with garden-themed parties. Plan your favorite brunch foods like quiche, fruit salad, fresh pastries, and more. You can even consider letting guests build their own omelettes or have a waffle bar with toppings from fruit to candy and plenty of fresh whipped cream.If you are having your event at a restaurant, they will likely be willing to work with you on a brunch-themed menu. Let them know what you want and they will let you know what they can do.
 Celebrate the season by selecting local, seasonal foods that could easily grow in your own garden. If you are having a spring shower, produce like artichoke, chives, and fennel are great to include. If your shower is in the fall, look for foods like cranberries, pumpkin, and sweet potato.Find recipes that are versatile and can be dressed to fit any season. Pasta salad, for example, can be made a fresh spring dish by including garlic flowers and sweet veggies such as bell peppers and cucumber. Or make a fall salad using dried cranberries and root vegetables.
 Work with a local baker to get a cake or desserts that brings in floral elements. You may opt to have fondant or frosting flowers, or you may ask for actual flowers to be used a part of the decorations. If you are skilled at cake decorating, this may also be something you can do at home.Cupcakes work well for garden showers because they can each be frosted as a different flower, bringing visual variety to the dessert table.
Bring the flavors of the season into desserts by asking the baker if they can incorporate fresh, seasonal fruit into the cake, cake filling or in other desserts such as mousse or cookies.

