 Make each child part of the bedtime experience. Attempt to foster nurturing and support in the home, rather than getting frustrated by their differences.Older kids may feel jealous of the attention that the younger kids get, particularly the newborns and infants that require more parental involvement at bedtime.
Show the older kids that you need their help, and that they are vital parts of the family structure. Depending on the older child's age, give them tasks to help, such as helping to read or dimming the lights. Make them feel wanted around bedtime.
Ask the older kid to help out by saying, “I could use a helper with your younger brother. Want to help me tuck him in for bed?”

, Bedtime can be a special time for kids and parents. It is a way to wind down from the day and connect with your children. You may also want to get your spouse involved with putting the children to bed. It will help show that each parent values them by providing them with equal personal attention.Give one-on-one time to each of your children around bedtime, even if one child needs more support than the other. Make sure the other child doesn't feel left-out.
Provide love and soothing words around bedtime. Remind each of your children about what makes them wonderful and special. Use bedtime as a time to feel more deeply connected with them.
You may decide to alternate nights with your spouse as to who puts both kids to bed that evening. Avoid having one spouse put one child to bed while the other puts the other to bed, unless you switch roles regularly to avoid providing unequal attention to each child.
 Some parents may need to have siblings share rooms out of necessity, and others may see it as way to foster stronger relationships with their kids. Either way, understand that there can be pluses and minuses where sleeping is concerned.If one child goes to bed earlier than the other, the latter child may disrupt the sleep of the first child. You may feel like you have to the first child to bed again, after already tucking them in. Consider having bedtimes that are closer together or at the same time for both children.
Room sharing can have benefits, such as creating stronger bonds among children. One child may actually help the other to be less fearful or scared at night. Having a sibling in the room may provide comfort and reassurance.
 If your siblings are constantly at odds, consider ways to have them in separate rooms. Constant tension between siblings could lead to poorer sleep and stress.


If your home currently has space for separate rooms, consider changing the set-up in other rooms to accommodate your children.
If it's financially feasible, consider changing apartments or homes so that there is more bedroom space available for all of your family.
It is very important to provide each child with personal space. Older siblings are more sensitive to personal space issues., If your children are sharing a room, this can be particularly tricky. Find ways to dim or turn off lights when possible. Help to reduce noise both in the room and nearby the bedroom.


Consider getting a white noise machine to help drown out sounds. This can be helpful when two siblings are sharing a room since the one who is already asleep is less likely to wake up.
Find ways to reduce lighting in the room. If your children are sharing a room, and one of them likes to read before bed, consider getting that child a reading light. This way the light is less bright or irritating for the other child.
Keep the area around the bedroom quieter. If one sibling is still up, and the other asleep, teach them to be respectful of quiet time after other child is in bed. Have the child do only quiet activities near the bedroom, or find a space that is farther away.

