 There’s nothing wrong with wanting to be your dog’s one and only owner. So if you’re deadset on raising a newborn from scratch so you can be your best friend’s ONLY best friend in life, then go for a puppy. With that said, keep in mind:


Having previous owners won’t prevent an adult dog from being just as loyal and loving toward you.An adult rescue dog’s traumatic past can often be overcome with patience, training, and love, resulting in a happy, healthy pet.
The hidden benefit of many adult dogs is that they have already been excellently trained.
There is no accurate predictor of how a dog will develop, so puppies may not mature into the adult dog that you expected.
 This may seem counter-intuitive, but if you’re worried about having to go to the vet unexpectedly and/or repeatedly, consider leaning toward an older dog. Of course, an adult dog (and especially a senior dog) may be more likely to have a definite medical condition, but take this as a positive. Instead of leaving it up to chance, know exactly what you’re getting into regarding any pre-existing issues, how often the dog will need a check-up, and what medication it will need.As with humans, puppies’ immune systems aren’t fully developed, which means they may fall ill much easier than adults. This is one of many reasons why you should pick an adult dog if you’ve never owned a dog before.
Additionally, puppies may carry genetic defects from their parents that may not be evident when they’re young. However, as they age, these defects could manifest into later medical issues.
Of course, with rescue dogs you often don’t know their full medical history. However, many if not all animal shelters routinely exam new arrivals and share the results with potential adopters.
 Whether you’re talking about a puppy or an adult, this is a little trickier than determining their medical history. There’s no foolproof way to predict exactly how a dog will behave in your home, but regardless, take the time to get a sense of a dog’s personality before deciding that this is the one for you. Get a sense of how much work you will have to devote to helping them socialize with people and other dogs and learn basic obedience training.Adult dogs are, of course, more mature than puppies and easier to assess after puberty. However, an animal shelter is a new environment for them, so they may not act as they normally would in a home environment.
Similarly, if you’re considering adopting an adult directly from its previous owner, differences between your two homes (such as noise levels, frequency and number of guests, and a lack of children and/or other dogs in one home) may cause the dog to act differently in your home.
Puppies’ behavior can be predicted in general terms by breed, as long they’re purebred. Mixed breeds, however, are much harder to predict. In either case, their behavior will be largely dependent on the amount and quality of time that you spend training and socializing them.
Always observe a potential new pet interacting with other dogs and people. Then ask the store, shelter, or owner if you can take the dog on a walk to see how it acts when it’s alone with you. If possible, arrange for a test visit in your own home to see how they react to it.
 Although there is no 100% guarantee either way, expect smaller breeds (such as miniature poodles, shih tzus, and Jack Russell terriers) to live the longest at upward of 14 years. Expect larger dogs (such as bull dogs, Great Danes, and greyhounds) to live the shortest, for as little as 7 years. If you're wary of bringing a puppy home, choosing a smaller breed can help you find a dog that still has plenty of years left. However:Although smaller dogs also typically finish puberty earlier than larger dogs, on a mental and emotional level, dogs still mature at about the same rate (by age two or three), regardless of size.Larger dogs are recommended with families with young children, since they're less likely to feel threatened or be harmed by kids who are smaller than them. However, the shorter life expectancy may be difficult to deal with.