 Before you go forward with your training, first consider whether piercing is the right option for you.


Body piercers must be at least 18 years old.
Body piercers also need to have exceptional hand-eye coordination. If you have unsteady or shaky hands, keep in mind that this could be a hurdle you may be unable to overcome.Piercers cannot be squeamish about regularly seeing body fluids and body parts, and should be able to perform well under pressure.
Finally, ideal piercers are outgoing and have great customer service.;
, If you aren’t very familiar with piercing tools and procedure, take some time to learn more about body piercing. It’s important to have some familiarity with piercing before going on to do training or look for an apprenticeship.Use the Internet to find reputable articles and videos that discuss piercing basics.
Make sure that the Internet resources are up to date and reputable so that you don’t get any misinformation.
 Different states and countries have slightly different requirements for becoming a piercer. Though the requirements are generally similar, read over the requirements in your area to make sure that you are on the right path before enrolling in training classes or starting an apprenticeship.
 Before you get licensed to be a body piercer, you will need to attend several training classes. One of these is a bloodborne pathogens class, which will teach you how to protect yourself and your patrons from diseases that can be passed through needles.Make sure that the class you’re taking is given by the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration), or meets their regulations.
Technically you can take this course after your apprenticeship, but you may want to take it before because you will be put in situations where this type of knowledge is useful.
 Body piercers sometimes encounter stressful situations where patrons need medical assistance. Because of this, anyone who wishes to be a piercer is required to take a First Aid/CPR class. Try to take one given by Red Cross, the YMCA, or another reputable organization.You may decide to take this course after your apprenticeship. Do whatever works best for you.
 Before you do any kind of piercings, so need to get several injections against different kinds of diseases. These injections will help keep you safe and out of harms way once you start your apprenticeship.