 To prepare it for smoking, you must line the wok with a heavy-duty foil. Make sure that there are at least 5- to 6-inches of foil hanging over the edge of the wok -- it should be long enough that it can cover the edge of the metal rack that you’ll insert to set the food on for smoking. To ensure that the foil is secure in the wok, press it firmly into the base.Make sure that your wok is thoroughly cleaned before smoking in it. If there are any bits of food stuck to it, they’ll burn during the process.
 To give create a delicious smoky flavor, you need to add ingredients to the bottom of the wok to infuse the food. For the best results, try a mixture of tea leaves, sugar, and rice. The tea will provide a flavorful smoke, the sugar will caramelize to give the food color and sweeten it, and the rice helps to keep the set-up smoking.Depending on the food that you’re smoking, you can also add spices to your smoking ingredients. Rosemary, star anise, coriander seeds, bay leaves, garlic, mint, cinnamon sticks, and whole nutmeg are all good options. Citrus peels can also add interesting flavor.
 To get the smoke started, you need to heat up on the materials in the bottom of the wok. Turn your burner to medium-heat and it sit until you see smoke coming from the wok -- it usually takes approximately five minutes. The sugar is typically the first ingredient to burn, but the others soon follow.Make sure to work quickly after the wok starts producing smoke, so your kitchen doesn’t become filled.
Turn on your kitchen's exhaust or vent fan to help with the smoke. If you don't have a fan, it may help to open a window or two.
 Once your wok is smoking, place a metal rack above the rim of the wok -- a cooling rack works well. If you have circular rack that fits inside the wok, check that it’s at least three inches above the bottom. Set the food that you’re smoking on the rack, making sure that none of the pieces hang over the edge of the rack. The items should be spaced out, so there’s room for the smoke to circulate.Place the food on the rack as close to the center of the wok as you can. That will ensure even cooking because the edges of the rack will get hotter than the center.
 Take another piece of heavy-duty foil and place it over the top of the food to trap the smoke. To create an air-tight seal, crimp the edge of the top foil to the edge of the piece lining the bottom. It’s a good idea to wear oven mitts while sealing the foil because it can get very hot. You should heat most foods on medium heat for about 10 minutes. After you turn off the heat, allow the food to sit for another 20 minutes so the smoke has time to die down.Don’t smoke your food for too long or it may develop a bitter flavor.
Keep in mind that some foods need to be cooked with another method after smoking for best results. For example, if you smoke chicken wings, you’ll want to finish them off with broiling.

