 Before you make a decision, it is important to have a really good understanding of what your problem is.Even if it is a small problem, such as choosing what to wear for work, taking the time to say the problem out loud or to write it down can help.

For example, you might say or write, “My problem is that I don’t know what to wear to work tomorrow.”
Or, you might say or write, “I don’t know what I am going to do about my credit card bill this month.”;
, After you have defined the problem for yourself, you can start to identify solutions to the problem.There might be lots of different options to choose from, or just a few. Either way, list your options and review them.

For example, if you are trying to choose what to wear, then you might say or write, “My options are black pants and a sweater, a skirt and blouse, or a work dress with a cardigan.”
If you are concerned about how to pay your credit card bill this month, then you might say or write, “I can either ask to borrow money from my parents, call the credit card company and tell them I can’t afford the bill this month, or pay it late and accept the late fee.”

, Next, it is important to evaluate your options so that you can choose the best one. Look at your options and weigh them against each other before you decide.For example, if you are having a hard time choosing what to wear, then you might consider things like comfort and appropriateness for what you will be doing.
If you are trying to decide what to do about your credit card bill, then you might consider which option will result in the best result. For example, will you be better off if you call the credit card company and ask to pay late or if you just pay late and deal with the late fee later?

, After you weigh your options and choose the best option for you, put your plan into action.Do what you have decided is best for your situation. After you follow through on your plan, reflect on the outcome and consider if it turned out how you had hoped. If not, then use this information to help you the next time you have to make a similar decision.