 Scream unintelligibly and thrash around so that you’ll look unkempt and sweaty when someone inevitably comes to check on you. Open your eyes as wide as you can and make sure your facial expression shows that you are terrified.


When asked about the nature of your nightmares, get upset and shake your head hysterically, as though you can’t even fathom verbalizing what you’ve seen.
The most effective time to do this is between midnight and around 2am. Others in the house won’t be deeply asleep yet, so they will be easier to wake and more on edge when they do.
 Possessed people are often depicted in popular cinema as being able to contort their bodies.It is also common for them to display superhuman strength. You can increase your strength and flexibility through yoga, light stretching and weight training.


Arrange yourself in contorted looking positions after your “nightmares." Maintain a completely straight face.
To prevent injury, stretch your muscles out in private before attempting a contortion incident.
Keep your contortions simple. It won’t take much on your part to unnerve the person that witnesses this.


When others attempt to talk to you or move you, remain silent, keep your body rigid and your eyes unfocused. Make it difficult for anyone to physically move you while you’re “catatonic.” Pretend to black out.

Once you snap out of it, act as though nothing happened. Argue defensively with anyone who wants to talk about it.
Show signs of memory loss around others, and hint that you’ve been losing stretches of time.
 Keep your head facing forward, then look up as far as you can using only your eyes — don’t move your head. Move your eyes upward until you can’t move them any further, then lower your eyelids slightly to hide whatever is left of your iris.


Make sure you aren’t completely closing your eyes when you do this. Practice getting it right with the camera on your phone. Take video and stills.
Some people find it helpful to close their eyes first. Close your eyes, look up at the ceiling (with your eyes still closed), then open your eyes while still looking upward.
 Exorcists say that possessed people often contort their faces in extreme, frightening ways. Their facial expressions also communicate that they are in pain. Sit in front of a mirror and practice contorted and pained facial expressions.Once you get a few choice facial expressions down, use them after your “nightmares” and other weird incidents that you’ve staged.
If possible, use props to enhance your contortions and expressions.
The classic vomiting scene in The Exorcist movie is widely recognized, so it would be pretty hilarious to incorporate some thick pea soup into one of your incidents.
 In horror movies, possessed people often speak in Latin, but any foreign language will probably disturb your friends and family if you suddenly start speaking it. If you don't have time to learn a new language, simply learn a few Latin phrases.


A common phrase the possessed use in horror movies is “Legio mihi nomen est, quia multi sumus” which means “I am Legion, for we are many.”Even saying this in English will probably be extremely scary to others.
Be cautious about foreign languages if your loved ones study them. You don't want your sister announcing that your Latin has a very poor accent, with bad grammar.
Another option is simply incoherent babbling. If you go this route, try to make it sound like you are speaking another language but inserting pauses and using inflection on some of your “words”.
 In film, when a demon speaks through the possessed person, its voice is often very low, sinister and a bit raspy. Play around with your voice to see what sorts of strange and frightening sounds you can make. Check out a few online instructional videos to increase your vocal range — particularly moving into deeper registers.


Record yourself speaking in your creepy voice with your phone. Use an app to make your voice sound deeper and scarier, then play the recording late at night or when you’re around other people.
Incorporate other vocalizations like wheezing, hissing, growling, and screaming. Use these sounds in between sentences or words.

