 In addition to keeping your eyes on the road, stay alert by checking your rear view and side mirrors often. Check for speeding cars or cars that are driving too close to you. Also, be aware of your blind spots and make sure to check them before switching lanes.Make sure to watch for kids and animals, especially in parking lots and residential areas.;
, Speed limits are generally posted every three to five miles. Make sure to watch for speed limits signs and adjust your speed accordingly. If you do not know the speed limit, then limit your speed to 30 mph (48 kph) if you are driving on the street and 60 mph (96 kph) if you are driving on the highway.Remember that the faster you drive, the less reaction time you have to avoid accidents.
 Watch for traffic lights, pedestrian crossing, school zone, and stop signs. Additionally, heed warning signs such as merging traffic, winding road, and sharp turn ahead, to name a few. This way you can avoid potential collisions, as well as traffic tickets., Turn your signal on at least a block (100 feet/30 meters) before making a turn. This way, the other cars behind you will have enough time to slow their speed or switch lanes before you make your turn.Additionally, make sure to turn your signal off after you have turned or switched lanes so you can avoid confusing other cars.
 Aggressive drivers will speed, honk, tailgate, and cut you off. The best thing to do in this situation is to slow down and let them pass you or go around you. The idea is to create distance between you and an aggressive driver.The more distance there is between you and an aggressive driver, the safer you will be.
 This way, you will have enough time to react if something goes wrong, like a tire blowout. Additionally, by giving yourself enough time to get to the places you need to go, you can avoid having to speed and tailgate other cars., If you know that an area on your way to work or school is under construction, then try to find an alternate route until the construction is complete. If construction zones are unavoidable, then make sure to drive the speed limit and pay attention to other road signs, like detour signs, to avoid accidents.The speed limits in construction zones are dramatically reduced for you and the workers' safety. Make sure to pay attention to these signs to avoid accidents and traffic tickets.
 Rain, snow, fog, sleet, high winds, and other poor weather conditions can increase your chances of an accident. Therefore, make sure to drive slowly, turn your headlights on, and increase the distance between you and other cars to avoid accidents.Keep both hands on the wheel and limit lane changes, i.e., stay in one lane.
Make sure your car is equipped to deal with poor weather conditions; for example, make sure your windshield wipers and headlights work properly.

