 Begin making these healthy hush puppies by preheating the oven to 350 degrees F (176.6 C). Prepare a baking sheet by spraying it with cooking oil or greasing it with butter., Use a large knife to cut the squash into 1 inch (2.54 cm) cubes. The cubes don’t have to be precise, as you will later puree the squash. Using squash in place of flour is an excellent way to get in a serving of vegetables and improve the nutritional content of these hush puppies.

Squash has been shown to increase the heart health and health of the immune system, increase your body’s circulation, and improve vision and bone health. It also is a great food for those who suffer from asthma and diabetes., Place a large pot of water on the stove and bring it to a boil. When it begins to boil, drop in the chopped squash and allow the squash to boil for 10 minutes.While the squash boils, you can work on mixing and preparing the other ingredients.
 In a small mixing bowl, add the cornmeal, sugar, salt and pepper. Mix using a spoon, whisk or fork until all ingredients are fully combined., Dice ½ of an onion and set it aside. In a large mixing bowl, combine the eggs and milk and whisk until the egg whites and yolk are fully incorporated with the milk. Then add the butter and diced onion and mix.Use softened butter so that it is easier to mix in with the other ingredients.
If you want your hush puppies to have an extra kick, slice open a jalapeno, remove the seeds, and add it into the egg mixture.
 Once the squash has boiled for 10 minutes, drain the squash into a colander. Allow the squash to cool for around 10 minutes, then add the squash into the large mixing bowl with the egg mixture. Stir until the squash is coated with the mixture., Pour the squash and egg mixture into a food processor. Puree on high until the squash breaks down and forms a pulpy mixture. Then pour in the mixture of cornmeal, sugar, salt and pepper. Puree for around 15 more seconds until all ingredients are combined in a gritty batter., One the ingredients have made a batter, scoop the batter into small balls about the size of golf balls and place them evenly spaced out on the baking tray. Place the tray of hush puppies in the oven and bake for 30-35 minutes, until the tops are firm., After the hush puppies finish cooking, take them out of the oven and serve them while they’re warm! Enjoy the hush puppies by themselves, or eat them with a dipping sauce or served as a side dish for any of your Southern favorites!