 Draw a simple shape on a thin piece of cardboard. Great starter shapes include circles, triangles, hearts, and leaves. Cut the shape out using a craft blade or a sharp pair of scissors., Set your fabric right-side-down on the ironing board. Place the double-sided interfacing face-down on top. Iron the interfacing according to the manufacturer's instructions.Double-sided interfacing has a shiny side and a matte side. Place it shiny-side down.
Each brand will be a little different. Typically, you will need to iron the interfacing using a low-heat, no-steam setting for a few seconds.
 Each piece should be a little bit bigger than your template. Don't cut it into your final shape just yet, however.
 Go through each of your fabric pieces, and peel the backing of the double-sided interfacing off. You should now have four small pieces of fabric, with the right-side on one side, and the adhesive side on the other., Take two of your fabric scraps, and place them together, right sides facing out. Place the stack on the ironing board, and iron it for a few seconds. Repeat this step with the remaining set of fabric scraps.You should now have two pieces of stiff fabric, with the right side on both sides.


Follow the manufacturer's instructions for the fusing. Typically, you will need to use the same heat setting, but iron it for a little longer.
 The fabric scraps will be very hot and flimsy at first, but they will stiffen as they cool. Once they cool, trace your template onto them. Use a pen to trace the template if your fabric is light-colored. Use chalk if the fabric is dark-colored. Discard the template when you are done, or save it for another project.
 Try to cut just inside the lines that you dress. This way, you won't have to worry about the lines showing. Don't worry about the fabric fraying; the fusible interfacing will prevent that from happening.
 If you want to make statement earrings, consider making a larger hole, and inserting a small grommet or eyelet into the hole.


This method is for hook earrings. If you don't like hook earrings, simple glue the top of each earring to a blank post earring., Use a pair of needle nose pliers to twist open the loop at the bottom of the earring. Do not pull the loop open, or you will warp it. Think of it as opening a door.


Consider inserting a jump ring first. Keep the earring hook intact. Instead, open up a jump ring using the same technique. , Close the loop by twisting it shut with your needle nose pliers. If there is a small gap in the loop, pinch it shut with your needle nose pliers.


If you are adding a jump ring: slip the jump ring into the hole, then add the earring hook. Close the jump ring using the same technique.

