 Since the symptoms of dementia and depression can look similarly, you will want to particularly search for signs of pre-existing symptoms getting worse. This can help you distinguish between dementia and a newer episode of depression. Typically, at least two symptoms should be present for at least two weeks to be considered depression. Specific symptoms of depression may include:Depressed or sorrowful mood
Loss of interest and enjoyment in regular activities
Reduced energy
A sense of emptiness or emotional numbness
Social isolation or withdrawal
Lethargy
Reduced eating and sleeping
Oversleeping and overeating
Recurring feelings of worthlessness, hopelessness, or guilt
Aggressive outbursts including hitting, pinching, or shouting;
, Only a doctor can thoroughly diagnose your loved one’s dementia. However, you can expedite a diagnosis by learning more about the relationship between dementia and depression, and keeping track of how long you have noticed symptoms.Typically, symptoms must be present for at least two weeks to be considered a depressive episode. However, episodes may be shorter in some patients with dementia, so early assessment is advisable.
 If you suspect depression in a loved one who has recently experienced a major life change, delay getting a professional assessment for a while. A change in routine will generally result in confusion and a negative emotional response in a person with dementia, so this won’t necessarily point to depression.For example, if your loved one has recently had to move or cope with a sudden change, wait until they are stable for an assessment of depression. Mood and behavioral changes may fade after their routine has become regulated.
 Dementia can impact how depression manifests in certain patients. Those with dementia may have symptoms that are less severe, or may have episodes that do not last as long. This does not mean that their depression should be ignored.Depression has a clear link to lower quality of life in dementia patients. It can increase dependence on caregivers, enhance cognitive decline, and create greater disability in performing daily tasks.
If someone with dementia is showing even some signs of depression, it may be helpful to have them assessed by a doctor or psychiatrist specializing in such patients. The sooner depression can be assessed, the sooner treatment can begin.
 Although suicide is common in elderly populations, you may not see evidence of suicidal thoughts in a person with dementia. These individuals are much less likely to discuss suicidal thoughts or feelings, or make an attempt on their lives.Those with dementia may be less likely to talk of suicide and may attempt suicide less often. Look for signs of self-harm including irregular marking and bruising, but do not assume depression will immediately make a person with dementia suicidal., Choose a doctor for which the person has an existing rapport and relationship with and who has some knowledge of your loved one’s typical mood and behaviors.


Give an honest explanation of what you think is going on and support your loved one through the subsequent examination and tests required to diagnose this condition. The doctor will review your loved one’s medical history, conduct a physical and mental examination, and carry out interviews with key family members who are able to report on the person’s functioning
Your loved one with dementia probably won’t be able to describe their own symptoms, so it’s important that you are there to provide details and answer any questions that the doctor may have.
 Once the doctor has developed a clearer sense of your loved one’s conditions, he or she will probably request specialized diagnostic testing. Ask specifically that your doctor refer you to a specialist who has experience working with the elderly population and dementia patients.A thorough evaluation by a mental health provider is significant as there are certain medications and medical conditions that can produce symptoms similar to depression., Medications are generally the first line of treatment in older adults with depression and dementia. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, are especially favored by geriatric doctors because these drugs help treat some of the overlapping symptoms of dementia and depression while minimizing interactions with other drugs your loved one may be taking.Still all medications come with various benefits and risks. Work closely with your loved one and their doctor to determine the right course of treatment for dementia and depression.
 Instead, your mental health provider may recommend getting your loved one involved in a self-help or support group.


Such groups allow your loved one with dementia to talk with others who are also experiencing the same symptoms. This can help them feel less alone and, in meetings, your loved one may learn tips on how to better cope with the two conditions., Since routine is a major factor that influences your loved one’s mood and behavior, you can help them manage depression by creating a predictable and practical daily routine.Think about the person’s usual “best” time of day and build around it.


For example, if your loved one is at his or her best in the morning, choose that time to perform hygiene like bathing and social activities. You may also help the person feel productive by giving them minor responsibilities to do daily or weekly when they are at peak functioning.
Avoid rocking the boat too much by exposing them to too many new people, loud crowds, bright lights, or basically any amount of excessive stimuli, which could exacerbate symptoms.
 Engagement is central to the health and well-being of all elderly individuals, especially those suffering from dementia and depression. Suggesting that the stay engaged with life and not allowing them to isolate can work magic on their mood. They may have a more upbeat attitude and have better resilience to fight depression.


Talk to your loved one about choosing a few social activities to commit to. These may include going to an exercise class, volunteering, learning a new skill, or getting outside the house and visiting the local park., A bad diet and use of alcohol and caffeine can worse symptoms of depression in your loved one with dementia.Have your loved one lead a healthy lifestyle by consuming a balanced diet rich in whole foods that support brain functioning and mood. Suggest that they avoid caffeine and alcohol.


In addition to making healthy dietary choices, encourage your loved one to get adequate physical activity (according to their abilities) in the mornings to relieve feelings of depression and improve their mood.
Sleep is also essential for elderly people with dementia and depression. So strive to help your loved one aim for 7 to 9 hours of shut-eye each night. You can increase the likelihood of them getting good quality sleep by making the environment as comfortable as possible: turning down the temperature and decreasing noise and light stimuli.