 If you're having difficulty stabilizing your blood sugars or are making changes to your diet or lifestyle to help improve your blood sugars, it's always important to talk to your doctor first.


If you're having difficulty keeping blood sugars stable, you should contact your doctor immediately. They may need to change medications to help you control your blood sugar.
If you're interested in better managing your diabetes or blood sugar, talk to your doctor. Ask them if there is anything specific he or she thinks you should do.
Also talk to him or her about your ideas regarding diet and lifestyle and if these changes will be safe and appropriate for you.
 Another crucial part to being able to stabilize your blood sugars more effectively is by measuring and tracking your blood sugars regularly.Even if you don't have diabetes, but still have difficulty stabilizing your blood sugar, make sure to test yourself regularly. Follow your doctor's advice regarding how often and when to test your sugar.
It's also a good idea to start a blood sugar journal or log. Write down the dates, times and your blood sugar readings. This will allow you to see any trends.
If you notice that you're having highs or lows at specific times of the day or types of meals, you can start to work on making alternate choices to better stabilize your sugar.
 Regular and consistent exercise is important to overall health. In addition, regular exercise can also help you manage your blood sugar.


Studies have shown that regular exercise during the week - including both aerobic and strength training - helped stabilize and manage blood sugars in those with diabetes.Include at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity each week in addition to 1-2 days of strength training.Try yoga. Studies have shown that yoga in particular can help manage diabetes and blood sugar in addition to lowering blood pressure as well., Maintaining a healthy weight improves your ability to stabilize blood sugars. Determine whether or not you need to lose weight to help you stabilize your blood sugars.


If you're overweight, losing weight will help your body stabilize blood sugar more effectively. Sometimes, excess fat causes insulin resistance and an inability to use insulin correctly.Determine what your BMI is using an online calculator. This will help you determine whether or not you're overweight and need to lose weight.
If you're BMI is between 20.0 to 24.9 you're at a healthy weight for your height. If you're BMI is 25.0 to 29.9 you're considered overweight. If your BMI is over 30.0 you're considered obese., If you're chronically stressed, you may find it more difficult to stabilize your blood sugar. Work on managing stress in your life so your blood sugars remain normal.


When you're stressed - either by illness or lifestyle - your body produces hormones that cause your blood sugar to rise.If you're chronically stressed, consider finding ways to relax and calm yourself. You can try: talking to friends and family, going for a walk, doing a relaxing meditation or listening to music.
If you're having difficulty managing your stress, consider talking to a behavioral specialist or therapist. They'll be able to give you more techniques and advice regarding stress management.

