 People are attracted to someone who can make them feel great. It’s scientifically measurable based on the release of dopamine. If you’re able to be the guy who makes others feel appreciated, you’ll draw plenty of attention. Being a guy who is fun to hang around, who makes people feel good about themselves, someone who is everyone’s favorite, is how you single yourself out.At bars, tip well and get to know the servers and bartenders.
Learn personal details about doormen and take an active interest in their lives.
Adjust your response to the other person’s moods. If they’re happy, yuck it up. If they’re down, genuinely show interest in their pain.
 Show the ladies that you care about them without noting their appearance. It’s not just about being physical. Compliment something other than her looks. You also need to appeal to her emotional and spiritual sides. Get in her head with a multi-faceted approach:"Your kindness is something that really draws attention."
"I can’t believe how great a photographer you are!"
"When I’m around you it makes me want to strive for greatness.", Don't come on too strong right away. Studies show that if you have the interest of another person, being a little aloof may not make them like you necessarily, but it does make them more likely to pursue you. If she perceives you as a challenge of sorts, she’ll likely want to win you over. Someone who hinges on her every wish is not a challenge.Take your time in conversation with her. Don’t feel like you need to jump at every text message.
Be slow to show emotion and think about how you really feel.Do for her as much as you want, but be sure not to be the guy who jumps at her wishes.
In order for this to work, you also have to show a certain amount of interest. Women want to gain your favor, not grow frustrated., Being a good listener is a sure-fire way to attract women.Face her and be attentive. Try to listen to what she’s saying without judging and while trying to empathize.Cease all other activities. Put up your phone and really pay attention.
Do not interrupt. Listen until the entire message is delivered.
Rephrase what she just said to show you heard her.Ask follow up questions.
If you’re teaching her something, try to stay patient.

