 Financial abuse involves taking over a woman’s finances and properties without her consent. The abuser may forcefully take the woman’s financial and identification information in order to gain access to her finances. Financial abuse can also include:


Stealing money from the woman or woman’s family.
Forcing the woman to give up information about her bank accounts.
Controlling what the woman is allowed to buy, or putting her on an “allowance” against her will.
Not giving the woman enough money to properly care for herself or her family.
Forcing the woman to cash in bonds, stocks and other assets.
 While financial abuse is harder to recognize that other forms of abuse, there are some signs that you can look for if you think a woman is being abused financially.


If a woman has a well-paying job but has old, tattered clothes, or looks like she is malnourished, she may be the victim of financial abuse.
Notice if the woman is very careful with her money, saves all of her receipts, and very rarely buys things. Note that this could just be the signs of someone who is trying to save money. You may want to bring up the topic by lightly saying something like “Saving up for a big trip?” or something that broaches the topic.
Take note of broken or damaged property, or if the woman has suddenly lost a great deal of property.
Pay attention if you notice that the woman is unable to access her accounts or go to the bank.
 This can also be called sexual harassment. Workplace abuse is when a woman is confronted with sexual advancements, verbal or physical actions that insult or bully the woman, or is threatened by co workers, both physically and verbally. Workplace abuse is taking place if:


The woman’s employment is affected by the sexual advancements or abuse of her coworkers.
The woman’s ability to get work done is hindered by the sexual harassment or verbal threats she receives.
She feels intimidated, scared, or offended by the people doing these actions.
 If you think a woman is being abused in your workplace, but she has not stepped forward or said anything, look out for signs that may include:


The woman looks scared when she gets to work and avoids the office as much as possible.
She is often absent or late to work.
She has a low performance level even though her past work has shown that she is more than capable of doing the work.

