 Children with stomach virus should not be given plain water in the early stages of the virus. Water will not help children rehydrate as it is not absorbed well by a child's body when suffering from the stomach virus., You do not want to give a child sports drinks like Gatorade if he or she is sick with the stomach flu. To replace lost electrolytes, you can find rehydration solutions at a drugstore or supermarket.You can feed a very small child or an infant using a syringe or teaspoon.
Rehydration solutions are often put in popsicles. This may be a good route for a younger child, as he or she will be more likely to eat a treat than medicine.
If you have a baby, only give the baby small amounts 15 to 20 minutes after the child experiences vomiting or diarrhea.
 Bland foods are unlikely to make symptoms worse. It's important to provide your child with the nutrients her or she needs to fight off the virus.Foods like soups, rices, pastas, and breads are a good option when your child is fighting a stomach virus.
Yogurts, bananas, and fresh apples can also be helpful to a child with a stomach virus.
Soups and soup broths may also help rehydrate your child.
 You may be tempted to give your child a treat if he or she is feeling ill. However, many favorite childhood snacks can worsen symptoms of the stomach virus. Stick to healthy foods and find other ways to treat your child, such as watching his or her favorite show or reading your child a book.Fizzy drinks and fruit juices are high in sugar, and can make symptoms worse. Other high sugar foods, like ice cream and candy, should also be avoided.
Dairy products can also make diarrhea worse, so cut back on milk and cheese until your child is feeling better. However, infants can continue to drink breast milk and formula when they have stomach virus. You do not need to switch to soy formula or milk.
 Bed rest is vital to a healthy immune system. You want to make sure your child gets adequate rest as symptoms persist. Try to entertain your child while he or she is resting. This can encourage your child to stay in bed, as well as distract him or her from the symptoms.Watch movies or TV shows with your child that he or she likes. Read your child a book. Play simple games, like card games, with your child.
 Antidiarrheal medications are not safe for young children. In some cases, a doctor may advise you use such medications, but you should not use them unless you receive specific instructions from your doctor to do so. Antidiarrheal medications can prevent your child from fighting the virus.