 Think about what he likes and dislikes and where he spends his time. Without going overboard, try to arrange a meeting that seems like a random coincidence. Show interest in the things that he's interested in, and he may take notice.For example, if you know he likes to rock climb, plan a trip to the local climbing gym at a time he's likely to be there. You might even tell him it's your first time and see if he can help you get started. This might give you the opportunity to flirt and invites casual physical contact.
Find out when he plans to study at the library, and what the subject is, then randomly show up at the same time with the similar material.;
, Having shared friends and being in his social circle increases the likelihood you’ll be spending time with one another. His friends will be the biggest sounding board for your positive qualities. He may know you, but let his friends sell him on your positive qualities and shared interests., He may not initiate the conversation because he is shy, or has a hard time talking to girls. Whenever you're around him, be sure his focus and attention is on you, and what you have in common. Try a few different approaches to break the ice."Can you show me how you do the card trick you did at the party?"
"I'm thinking about going to the mall to get a bite to eat. Care to show me your favorite food in the area?"
"Hey, you're pretty good with computers. Can you teach me some of your skills?"

, Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, etc.). Like his posts. Retweet his Twitter content. Show him your similarities are so linked that he sees you as more than just a friend., Help him get to know you better as someone who cares about him. Be the shoulder he leans on when he needs a pick-me-up. You'll soon be the person who he thinks of as always making him happy, and it will lead to plenty of alone time.


Make time to fit into his schedule. You may have to sacrifice some time. Listening to his issues is key.
See if he’s having issues in any classes. Ask if he’d like to study or do classwork together.

