 If the boy or girl you have a crush on hasn't noticed you, you might be tempted to just tell them how you feel. If your crush hasn't taken notice of you yet though, this can be creepy. It can also lead them to take you for granted.Don't stalk your crush. You will seem creepy! To get your crush to notice you, you'll definitely need to be around them sometimes. But, if it seems like you're following them all the time, this can also seem creepy.
Make sure when you are around your crush, you are busy with something. You want to look like you have a life of your own, not like you're just hanging around waiting for attention.;
, When your crush is around, try to behave like the life of the party. Laugh, talk to others, and be noisy (but not irritating). You want to look like a happy person with an active social life.


Be approachable when your crush is around. A lot of people get tense trying to look calm and cool around their crush. Instead of looking calm, they end up looking closed-off. Try to avoid this and look like you're friendly and open to talking.
 Look for an opportunity to show off something you're good at in front of crush. Do you play an instrument well? Look for an opportunity to show off your talent when your crush is around! Are you good at baseball? If you notice your crush is around, ask your friends to play catch.


It's good to look successful, but you don't want to look full of your self. You definitely don't want to look mean. So, show off what you're good at without putting other people down.
 Sneak some peeks at your crush, but don't stare. You want to let your crush see you've noticed them, but don't just keep gazing at them to get their attention.


You want to just glance at your crush, every once in a while, for less than a second.
 When you know your crush will be around, try to look your best. Wear nice clothes, and keep your hair and nails neat and clean.


You want to smell nice, too. Keep your body clean. You might want to wear a little perfume or cologne so you have a distinctive smell. Don't overdo it though. Scientific studies show subtle smells are more attractive. In fact, many people find too much perfume very unpleasant.
 Once you've caught your crush's eye, say hello. Introduce yourself and find something to talk about.