 You may be overwhelmed when selecting a peanut butter, since there are so many options. Read the ingredient label and avoid peanut butters that have added oils (especially hydrogenated oils) and sugars. Try to buy a natural peanut butter that just contains peanuts (and possibly salt). Peanut butter is a great source of protein.Hydrogenated oils contain trans fats which can be harmful to your heart.;
, Even if your grocery store has a limited selection of nut and seed butters, you'll probably find almond butter. Almond butter has a mellow and slightly sweet flavor. It's easy to stir into dressings, sauces, and baked goods. Since some brands will add honey or other sweeteners, it's important to read the label.


Almond butter contains vitamin E, calcium, magnesium, potassium, phosphorous, and iron., If you want a rich tasting nut butter that's a little sweet and buttery, use cashew butter. The natural sweetness makes it a great addition to fruit smoothies. You can easily replace peanut butter or even heavy cream with cashew butter in baked good recipes. It's also great in curries or savory dishes.


Cashew butter is a good source of copper, manganese, and magnesium., Soy nut butter is often sold as a peanut butter substitute which is useful if you or someone in your home has a peanut allergy. It has the same texture as peanut butter and a similar flavor, but it has less fat than peanut butter. Since it has a mild flavor, you can easily add it to meals or baked goods.Soy nut butter is high in protein, omega-3s, protein, and amino acids., Sunflower seed butter is a little thinner than peanut butter and distinctly tastes like sunflower seeds, so you may need to plan on how you incorporate it in your food. For example, sunflower seed works well in savory recipes that call for tahini. You could also add it to vegetables or sauces.


Sunflower seed butter is a little higher in fat than peanut butter, but it contains more vitamin E, iron, magnesium, phosphorus and zinc., As the seasons change, many people enjoy adding seasonal dishes to their menu. Pumpkin seed butter is a great addition to your diet and helps you enjoy the tastes of the season. If you can't find it in the store, you can easily make it at home by mashing up some pumpkin seeds. They taste best mixed with almonds or walnuts.

Pumpkin seed butter is very high in zinc., Walnut butter can help you reach your Omega-3 goals through your diet. It's also packed with other nutrients. If you like dense, earthy flavors or are looking for something to balance a sweet bread, roll, or fruit, walnut butter can be a great option., Tahini is made by grinding toasted sesame seeds into a thin butter. This makes it a good choice for stirring into sauces, dressings, or glazes. Traditionally, tahini is an important ingredient in hummus, the Middle Eastern garbanzo bean spread.Tahini contains unsaturated fat and lignans that have been shown to lower cholesterol. It's also a good source of iron and magnesium.

