 Description in a screenplay offers more info than does the simple scene heading. It might offer details about the type of lighting, weather conditions, or other descriptions of the physical location of the scene and its characters.Description is located two lines below the scene heading in a standard sentence format, with the first letter capitalized and a period at the end. For instance, below a scene heading like “INT. OFFICE - DAY” we might read descriptive info such as “The window is open and the lights are flickering on and off.”

, In the bottom right corner of the Paragraph section, click the little icon that opens the dialog box. Set 1’’ indents before text and 1.5’’ after text under the Indentation section.


In Word 2007, display the Developer tab. Click the Office button at the top left, then go to Word Options (at the bottom), then under Popular, check “Show Developer tab in the Ribbon.”, Type a name for the macro. Since this macro is for description, assigning the name “Description” to this macro is a logical choice. Ensure you’ve selected “All documents” at the bottom of the drop-down menu reading “Store macro in.”

, Click “Assign” or press Enter, then click “Close.”


In Word 2007, click Record Macro on the left side of the ribbon. Store the macro in the same place you stored the other macro you created, and name it “Description.” Click the keyboard icon and assign the macro to F3.
 Hit Enter twice on your keyboard to skip a couple lines, then go to the Layout tab (Page Layout tab in Word 2007) and move both indentations to 0. Next, click on the Home tab. In the bottom right corner of the Font section, select the little icon which opens the dialog box to open it. Look under the Effects section, then deselect All Caps. Click OK.


In word 2007, after deselecting All Caps, return to the Developer tab and press Stop Recording before continuing with the rest of the above directions.
 Click Macros > Stop Recording. F3 will now skip two lines down the page and be lowercase. If you do not bind the macro to the F3 key, F3 will not be useful as a hotkey to setup descriptive passages in your screenplay.


In Word 2007, return to the Developer tab and press Stop Recording instead of clicking Macros > Stop Recording.

