 Exercise is one of the most well-known ways to experience a drunk-like feeling without imbibing in alcohol. Getting a regular cardio session in releases your body's endorphins, seratonin, and dopamine, which are chemicals in your brain. When released, these chemicals can create a sort of euphoric feeling, not unlike the feeling of being drunk.Exercising regularly can make a lasting impact on your mood. Find an exercise plan that suits you. If you're social, try joining a group class, such as cardio dance or boot camp. If you value some solitude, consider taking up running.;
, For a lot of people, the rush that comes from extreme sports is the best kind of high you can get. If you're looking for a mind-altering experience that does not involve drinking, there are a lot of options for you. For example, you could try sky-diving, white water rafting, or snowboarding. All of these activities have a significant impact on your mental state, as well as being physical exercise.Try looking for local adventure groups in your area. Often, you can join a group excursion for something like rock climbing or hang gliding. This can cut down on the cost of extreme sports, and also help you to make new friends who share this interest with you.
 People who have been in love have described themselves as feeling giddy and out of control. Being in love--or lust--can actually affect the human brain in the same way that alcohol, or drugs can. When you're in love, your dopamine levels spike, creating a euphoric feeling. Besides euphoria, love can also make people feel less inhibited, more generous, and reduced stress levels., Do you ever notice that you feel like a different person when you're on vacation? That is probably because many of us choose to take our breaks away from our typical environments--and for many people, your typical environment is an urban one. When you're on a beach, in the mountains, or hiking in a forest, the brain seems to process information differently. Sounds are louder, colors more vibrant, and the air feels different. This is not unlike the feeling of being drunk. Go outside!, Your local amusement park can be a great place to find that exciting feeling you have been looking for. Whether you try out the latest super coaster, or take a thrilling water ride, there are plenty of attractions that can leave you feeling exhilarated. Roller coasters can definitely provide some of the same feelings you would get from drinking alcohol. You can expect to feel dizzy, wobbly, and disoriented. And often, immediately ready to move on to the next ride!