 Your skin cells are stimulated to make vitamin D after they are exposed to ultraviolet B (UVB) rays from the sun. To stimulate this process, you should spend five to 30 minutes in the sun without sunscreen between 10 in the morning and three in the afternoon. Do this at least twice a week and try to expose your face, arms, legs, and back to the sun.Your location on the planet, such as your latitude, doesn’t make a significant difference in terms of the amount of UVB rays you are getting when you sit out in the sun. However, factors like the season, the time of day, the amount of cloud cover, air pollution, and the melanin content in your skin can affect your body’s ability to absorb vitamin D.
In the winter time, it can be more difficult to get five to 30 minutes of sun on your face and arms. Try to still spend time outside during the winter months, even if it is cold outside.
Keep in mind sun that is filtered through glass does not have very strong UVB rays, so getting sun indoors behind a window will not give you necessary amount of exposure to the sun. You will need to go outside and expose your face, arms, legs, and back to direct sunlight.;
, After you have spent five to 30 minutes in the sun, you should apply sunscreen that contains at least SPF 8 or higher on any exposed skin. The UVB radiation from the sun will increase your risk of skin cancer if you do not protect your skin.You should make sure your skin does not feel like it is burning, too hot to the touch, tight, dry, or painful when you are in the sun. If you feel any of these symptoms, you should get out of the sun.
The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a broad-spectrum sunscreen that protects against UVA and UVB exposure. They recommend SPF 30 or higher. If you will be sweating or going in the water, look for a water-resistant sunscreen., If you have a darker skin tone, your skin contains more melanin and you may need to spend more time in the sun to get the required amount of vitamin D. You should spend 10–40 minutes in the sun between 10 am and three pm at least two times a week or 15 minutes at a time three times a week. After enough time in the sun, you should put on sunscreen.Vitamin D deficiency can lead to a higher risk of osteoporosis, heart disease, diabetes, autoimmune disease and cancer including colorectal, breast and prostate cancer. Individuals of African, Hispanic, and Indian descent are at a greater risk for these issues. So it is important that individuals with these backgrounds spend enough time in the sun and have sufficient vitamin D levels.
 Though you may think you can get enough exposure to sun-like rays in a tanning bed, tanning beds do not help your body create vitamin D and can greatly increase your risk of skin cancer. Tanning beds can also cause premature aging, a weak immune system, eye damage, and an allergic reaction to artificial UVB rays.Avoid using a tanning bed, even if you do not have time to go outside and sit in the sun during the day, or the weather outside prevents you from doing this. If you are unable to spend at least five to 30 minutes outside in the sun, you may want to consider taking vitamin D supplements to ensure your vitamin D levels are sufficient.

