 Show up at her work with her favorite coffee drink. Have a new set of sexy lingerie waiting for her on the bed when she gets home. Send a bouquet of flowers to her. No matter how small the gift is, it will remind her that she is appreciated and that you are thinking of her, and that you care enough to go out of your way to do something thoughtful for her.Studies have shown that lingerie is one of the top things that make women feel sexy. Simply buying her a sexy bra or pair of panties is a sexy gesture in itself. You’ll be showing her that you want to see her in them, which will make her feel sexy and wanted., The “honeymoon phase” of any relationship doesn’t always have to come to an end. Rather than allowing your relationship to fall into a routine or a rut, make sure you don’t lose sight of what made you fall for her in the first place. Remind her consistently that you want her and desire her, no matter how long you’ve been in a relationship., If you want a woman to feel sexy, build up to it with flirting and touching. Even if you’ve been with her for a long time and feel comfortable just telling her you want sex, she probably won’t feel too sexy just being asked outright. If you get too comfortable and take this comfortability for granted, she might begin to feel less valued and appreciated, even if that's not your intention., Go on dates in new places. If you always go to a certain place for date night, switch it up and go somewhere else. Ask her to get dressed up and take her someplace fancy, or out dancing. Pack a picnic for the park, or even just for the backyard. Take a weekend trip away together. By keeping things interesting and new, you’ll be less likely to lose the spark you had at the start of your relationship., Women are more likely to be turned on by people who take care of themselves, and carry themselves with confidence. Simple things like bad breath or body odor can be huge turn-offs for women, which might make them feel less interested in sex, or feeling sexy themselves. By taking care of your own personal hygiene and putting a good image forward, you’re more likely to keep her attracted and drawn to you.For you to make a woman feel sexy, she has to feel like she wants you, to some degree.

