 Blood drives are generally organized on behalf of an organization that serves approximately 200 or more people, such as a corporation, school, or religious group. If you are taking the initiative on your own, approach one of these groups, or a community group or local representatives, to propose the idea. If the organization you affiliate with does not have a location to hold the blood drive in, look for one that is safe, clean, easily-accessible, and large enough to provide a comfortable waiting area for donors. Some suitable venues might be:School gymnasiums
Church basements
Community centers
A public square

, To start planning a blood drive in your area, register with the American Red Cross to get free information about the process. Visit http://www.redcrossblood.org/forms/register-host-blood-drive-0 to fill out a questionnaire requiring your basic contact information, the name and nature of the organization you are planning on behalf of, and whether you were referred by someone. You will also be asked to indicate if you have held a blood drive before.


Upon receipt and consideration of your application, a Red Cross representative will contact you to discuss the blood drive.
 Try approaching a local business for support for your blood drive. An affiliated business could donate to the cause (e.g. a local grocery store donating snacks and juice) or offer discounts or deals to the donors who participate in your blood drive. In exchange, the business will receive the kind of exposure that comes with local sponsorship.Visit a business that you have in mind, ask to speak to the owner or manager, and say something like: "I am organizing a blood drive on behalf of the local community centre to benefit our city. I was wondering if you would be willing to join our cause?"

, Advertise the blood drive to recruit donors. Tell friends, family, and colleagues about the event, and share it on social media (e.g. creating a publicly-shared event on Facebook). Visit the Red Cross website at http://www.redcrossblood.org/hosting-blood-drive/-coordinators-toolkit/flyers-and-tools for templates for flyers and posters that you can print out and hang up around your area.