 This will remove any dust or particles that may be lingering on the surface, making it easier for the sheetrock tape to adhere properly. If a brush isn't handy, a clean dry cloth or even a whisk broom will also remove the dust particles with ease. Wear a face mask during this process.;
, Using the drywall knife, fill in the small seam between the 2 sections of sheetrock. Apply small amounts of the mud at a time, making sure that there is as little extra mud left on the surface as possible. Spread the mud as evenly across the surface of the seam and the immediate area, helping to ensure there are no raised areas or clumps of mud along the surface of the drywall. Clean the knife after the mud is in position.
 Using the tape measure, determine the length of the seam between the 2 sheetrock sections, and then cut the correct length of tape with the cleaned drywall knife. When taping a wall seam in a room with a high ceiling, it is fine to cut 2 sections of tape, if that will make the task more manageable.
 Starting at the top of the seam, gently maneuver the tape into position, pressing lightly on the tape surface with 1 hand while using the other to guide the tape as you move downward. This will squeeze a small portion of the mud from under the tape while leaving the area underneath smooth and flush with the surface of the sheetrock sections. If using 2 pieces of tape to cover a seam in a wall that is taller, make sure that the edge of the second piece laps under the first piece, as this will minimize the chances of the tape being noticeable.
 Use the blade of the drywall knife to apply a thin layer of mud to the surface of the tape, helping to hide the edges of the taped seam. Smooth the area so that the mud blends into the sheetrock surface with ease.
 Wet the sponge with a little water and gently wipe away any excess mud from the surface of the sheetrock. After allowing the seam to dry, lightly go over the area with a piece of sandpaper, creating a smooth surface. Brush the area to remove any lingering particles before painting.

