 Get a family member or friend to cook the recipe that you wrote. This will give you a good idea if your instructions are easy to understand, flow, and are intuitive. It's important that during this time you don't give any tips or input on what they should do next because your recipe needs to stand on its own.Having a novice try your recipe will give you an idea if it's easy to execute for those with little kitchen experience.
A professional or another recipe developer could give you advice or tips on how to improve your recipe.
 It's important that you expand your horizons and cook with different methods, regional ingredients, and handle food that you're not used to using. Experimenting with different ingredients will give you knowledge over different types of cuisine and will help you develop more authentic recipes.


For example, if you usually cook Mediterranean cuisine then consider going out of your comfort zone and start cooking with Asian ingredients like soy sauce and curry paste., Reading the work of other recipe developers may give you insight on how to improve your recipe development skills. It may also help you develop your own style when writing recipes. Find widely distributed or popular cookbooks, and determine what makes them popular. Integrate these tactics into your own recipes to improve the quality of your writing.


If you are unfamiliar with a certain cuisine, taking a culinary class for that specific type of food may help you hone your skills., Cooking is important, but so is trying different cuisine. Eating your own food may have you missing out on spices or flavors that you don't typically implement in your own recipes. Eating out at culturally different restaurants can inspire you and motivate you to create completely different recipes. Try to mix up the types of food you are eating to get more information on what you can create.
 Talking to other people in your industry may make you aware of potential job opportunities as well as give you insight into the methodology of other recipe developers. Become friends with people in the industry who can help you expand your boundaries and become a better developer. You can meet other chefs by visiting restaurants and attending networking events for those in the industry.

