 The decision to explore your sexual orientation should be a personal choice. Question your sexuality because it is a process you need to complete, not because members of society are telling you that you are a lesbian. Devote time to self-reflection. Keeping a journal, private blog, or personal video diary can provide outlets for self-exploration and discovery., Sexually experimenting with members of the same sex is healthy, normal, and does not mean that you are a lesbian. However, experiencing a frequent or consistent desire to be with women instead of men may indicate that you are a lesbian.


Do you check out women? Do you notice a woman’s smile, quirks, and features?
Does your heart race and your stomach flutter when you see an attractive woman?
Are you constantly daydreaming about a specific woman?
Are you sexually aroused by women?
Do you prefer to kiss and have sex with women?, If you are struggling to identify your sexual preferences, taking a sexual orientation test may reveal new truths about your sexual preferences. If you are fairly confident in your ability to identify your sexual preferences, the test results may confirm your self-assessment.


Take the Kinsey Scale test. The Kinsey Scale assesses sexual orientation. A test was created to measure where you fall on the scale—from heterosexual (straight) to homosexual (gay). You will not be labeled heterosexual, bisexual, or homosexual. The test is composed of 13 true/false questions and asks very little demographic information.Take the Epstein Sexual Orientation Inventory (ESOI) test. Created by Robert Epstein, one of America’s most distinguished psychologists, the ESOI test evaluates an individual’s sexual orientation. Instead of labeling your sexual orientation, the test results reveal you where you fall on a sexual orientation continuum. This 18 question test only requires 5 minutes of your time., It is natural to avoid or overcompensate for your sexual desires—it is normal to feel scared and overwhelmed! In order to move forward, you must be vulnerable and honest with yourself. Once you stop suppressing your sexual preferences and start acknowledging that they exist, you can work towards self-acceptance.Sexual preference exists along a continuum. It is fluid, not static. Your sexual preference may not align with the standard definitions and that is more than O.K. It is extremely common and normal.Bisexuals may not be equally attracted to members of both sexes. They may prefer men to women or women to men.
Women who identify as lesbians may occasionally find men attractive.
 On the journey towards self-acceptance, acknowledging that you are a lesbian is the first step in a gradual process. Acceptance often does not occur overnight. As you become more comfortable with your sexual orientation, you will recognize that it does not define you as an individual. Strive to live your life unapologetically—rid yourself of guilt and shame., If you were raised in a highly conservative household or brought up in an intolerant community, your sexual identity may conflict with the morals or religious beliefs instilled in you as a child. Intentionally altering your language and thoughts are highly effective methods of shifting your perception of right and wrong. Stop telling yourself that you are unworthy of love and happiness and start believing in your value as a human being. Instead of telling yourself that lesbianism is a sin, acknowledge that your sexual preference is natural, healthy, and acceptable.


Start identifying your negative self-talk tendencies. What harmful lies are you telling yourself? Do these thoughts arise due to specific situations, like a conversation with a family member?
Replace these negative phrases with personally crafted, positive mantras. When you catch yourself saying, "I am not worthy" or "I don't deserve happiness," take a deep breath, put a smile on your face and tell yourself that you are "valuable, loved, and entitled to lead an authentic life that makes you happy!"

, Deciding when to come out is often an emotionally agonizing decision with potential consequences. Before coming out to your family, friends, and classmates, determine if it is safe to do so.Meet with a pediatrician or counselor to theorize about how your parents and peers may react. Consider how your parents and peers discuss and treat gay men and women. Think about how they react to difficult news.If your parents or peers are openly hostile towards gay men and women, be cautious and selective., While discovering and accepting your sexual orientation is an extremely personal journey, it is necessary to accept that it will impact your relationship with others. Coming out to friends, family members, and colleagues is stress-inducing! It is not necessary to come out to everyone you know or meet.When you feel comfortable and confident, breach the subject with those you feel comfortable with first. Be prepared for negative responses and value positive reactions., Processing your sexual identity and accepting yourself is a long, complex process. Coping with the social stigma is mentally and emotionally draining. Meeting with a qualified therapist—a professional experienced in counseling members of the LGBTQ community—can help you navigate this process. A therapist can help you accept your sexual orientation and assist you through the process of coming out to your family and peers.
 Although society portrays a stereotypical lesbian, the lesbian community is made up of diverse women from a multitude of backgrounds. As you explore and experience the lesbian community, make an effort to learn anything and everything there is to know about your new community. Over time, you will discover where you fit in the community. You will personally define what it means to be a lesbian and live your life accordingly., Establishing a foundation of knowledge about the LGBTQ community—its past, present, and future—will enlighten you. It will make you aware of potential obstacles and provide you with insight into how to overcome the barriers.


Learn how to distinguish between sex and gender; familiarize yourself with the spectrum of sexual orientation.
Read academic literature—scholarship on LGBTQ topics is burgeoning!
Stay up-to-date on LGBTQ issues covered in news.
 There is no worse pain than that of isolation. Throughout your journey of self-acceptance, it is essential to have a reliable friend or a receptive support group. These men and women will provide you with advice and comfort when the journey gets difficult.


Confide in friends and family members you can trust.
Join a local support group or become a member of an online support community.Attending a LGBTQI-affirming church, temple, or house of worship will place you in contact with supportive men and women that share your religious values.


gaychurch.org provides a list of LGBTQI-affirming Christian churches.
A quick internet search will provide you with a list of LGBTQI-affirming churches, temples, or houses of worship in your area.
 Gay-Straight Alliances (GSA) provide high schoolers and middle schoolers with a safe place to discuss and discover their sexual orientation and identity. GSAs provide teens with a support group and a social network. If your school does not have a GSA, work with school administrators to establish a club., LGBTQ Resource Centers are found in cities and on college campuses. Resource centers connect students with helpful tools and trustworthy services. They provide LGBTQ students with a safe, inclusive place to explore their sexual orientation and identity.