 Picking a trainer may go hand-in-hand with determining what gym to join. Ideally, you will join a gym because you find a trainer that you like. A trainer will put you on a workout regimen and help you hone your technique. They are essential to your progression as a fighter.Observe different trainers at the gym and see if you think any of them would work with your boxing style. If so, ask them if they could be your trainer or sign up for training sessions with them at the front desk.
 Once you have a boxing home and some instruction, you should get the appropriate gear. You will need a quality pair of boxing gloves, a good jump rope, and some hand wraps. If you are sparring, you will also need head gear, a groin guard, and a gum shield. Finally, you may also want to invest in a good pair of boxing shoes.Many gyms have gear available for their clients to use. However, it is often worn out and unhygienic to use.
Talk with your trainer about what gear they think you should get.
 Applying boxing wraps will help you avoid seriously injuring your hands. Your trainer will likely teach you how to apply your wraps. In fact, you should have an experienced person wrap your hands for you until you are competent at the task.Wearing hand wraps gives your bones and joints extra support when you punch solid objects.
 After you have spent some time at the gym, look for people that are at your skill level. You should get to know these people and practice sparring with them. Sparring is a great way to get some in-ring experience while working on your speed, accuracy, timing, and technique.Your trainer may also hook you up with people to spar with.
Sparring with a significantly more experienced fighter may be an unpleasant experience. They will likely wear you out and beat you up a little.
 The professional fighters in your gym are a great resource for learning more about the sport. Pros will demonstrate their elite skill and knowledge of the sport. Take every advantage you have to watch them spar, work the bags, and practice their footwork. Watching them move will help you hone your own technique., You can practice your footwork and shadowbox anywhere, as long as you have enough space. If you want to get serious about boxing at home, you should buy a 75- to 100-pound punching bag. This will allow you to do some basic punching and footwork when you are not at the gym.If you are already participating in training sessions multiple times a week, do not do extra bag training at home. You can overwork your hands, resulting in injuries. Instead, emphasize cardio workouts and strength training.

