 If you've got long, luxurious hair, you may be able to help someone in need of hair and make money in the process. Many wig manufacturers pay good money for real human hair, and if it's in good condition you may get more money than you expected.Your hair can earn you anywhere from $100 to $4,000, depending on the length, condition, and market you sell it in.Hair typically needs to be at least 10 inches long in order to qualify. It should be uncolored, and if it's in good condition (hair that isn't overly-processed, damaged by the sun, or riddled with split ends) you can earn even more money.
You can search online for places that buy human hair near you, or try posting an ad on a specialty site like Hairwork.com., Lactating women can earn decent money by selling excess breast milk to online buyers.There is a large market, both for people looking to give babies real milk and for adults who believe breast milk may offer additional nutrients that store-bought milk doesn't. Ask your doctor whether you're healthy enough to sell your excess breast milk, and find out how long it will be safe for you to continue collecting and selling your milk.


Breast milk can fetch around $1 to $2 per ounce. If you keep pumping and selling your breast milk, you could potentially earn up to $20,000 a year in milk sales alone.
You can search online for buyers looking for breast milk, or place an ad on a specialty site like OnlyTheBreast.com.
 Selling your sperm or eggs can get you a decent (and potentially steady) supplement to your income. Different fertility clinics offer different rates for sperm and eggs, so it may be worth shopping around online to find the best rates. However, be aware that there are many restrictions on who can donate, and there may be stipulations on how often or how many times you are eligible to donate.Sperm donations can earn you around $100 for every donation, and you're eligible to donate two or three times each week. This can earn an average income of $1,200 every month.
Egg donations can earn you up to $8,000 per egg, but it's much more complicated and difficult than sperm donations. You'll need to see a doctor and take daily hormones over the course of several weeks.
You can donate eggs up to six times throughout your lifetime, though some fertility clinics may accept more than six donations.Be aware that donating eggs is a very serious medical procedure, and should not be undertaken lightly.
There is no limit to how many times a man may donate sperm throughout his life.
In order to donate either sperm or eggs, you must pass a comprehensive personal and family history. Donors should be in good health and are typically required to be a college graduate or current college student.Be aware that you may have to pay taxes on income earned through selling eggs or sperm. Check with a tax preparer or go online to review your state's tax laws.
Only sell your sperm or eggs through a licensed clinic that uses licensed doctors. Selling your sperm to an individual without involving a medical clinic may leave you liable to pay for child support if a child is conceived., Many people donate blood without any compensation, but you may not realize that you can actually get money for your plasma. Plasma is extracted from your blood, with the whole process taking around an hour to an hour and a half. It's worth noting that technically you aren't getting paid for the plasma itself, but for the time you spend during the "donation" process.You can earn between $15 to $40 for plasma and can usually donate twice a week. Search online or in the phone book for a plasma clinic near you.
To sell your plasma, you'll need to be in relatively good health. You will also need to be drug free to ensure that your blood is safe to use.
Search online or in the phone book to find a plasma donation site near you, and call to find out whether they pay you for your time (and how much).
Talk to your doctor to see if you're eligible to safely donate plasma.

