 A funeral or memorial service will provide much-needed closure to the child. You can ask the child to help you plan the funeral. At the funeral, everyone can share their favorite story of the dog. The child can then help you spread the ashes or bury the remains.If you are religious, you can ask the child to help you write or find a prayer for the dog.
If you have multiple children, each should have their own part in the funeral. Perhaps one can bring flowers, one can sing a song, and one can carry the urn.
 Creative activities can help your child process emotions, and a pet memorial will give them something concrete to remember their dog by. There are many different types of memorials that your child can create for their dog.These include:


A scrapbook of all of their memories with their dog
A drawing of their dog that you can hang on their wall
A letter to their dog
A plaster paw print or bone with the dog’s name
A shadowbox filled with the dog’s pictures, toys, or collar
A story about the dog as written by the child

, The death of a beloved dog can be a major disruption in your child’s life. It is important during this time that they have a familiar routine and structure in the household. This will teach the children that life goes on despite death, and it will help them return to a sense of normalcy more quickly.This is probably not the best time to take a family vacation.
In most cases, you should probably not let a child miss school because they are grieving for the dog. If the child is inconsolable or traumatized, however, you might consider staying home with them for a day.
If you find that your own grief is too strong, you might ask a friend, spouse, or family member to help out with the children for a while so that you have your own space to grieve.
 A new dog will not replace the old one. Every dog has their own personality and characteristics, even if they are the same breed as your old dog. Give your entire family time to mourn your dog. Make sure that you do not rush into adopting a new dog until you are absolutely ready.Your children may start asking when you will get a new dog. You can say, “We will adopt a new dog in the future, but now is not the right time.”

