 This is perhaps the most important part of the process. Before you begin, determine how much money you can reasonably spend on clothing. This can be anything from a few dollars to several hundred. It should be small enough that you have no problems buying the things you need (food, shelter, textbooks, etc.). Write this number down and stick to it as you are choosing clothing.


See our budgeting article for help if you're unsure how much money to set aside.;
, Since you're looking to save money, avoid expensive malls and boutiques. Head to the outlets, which tend to have clothing that's just as good for a cheaper price.


Note that some outlet stores have the word "outlet" in their name (e.g., Gap Outlet) while others don't (e.g. Nordstrom Rack).
 Don't get too attached to the idea that "good" clothes must be new. Often, unique, retro, and one-of-a-kind pieces are available for cheap at your local thrift shop. It can take a little "hunting" around to find clothes that work for you, but you'll save lots.


Second-hand stores include charitable organizations like Goodwill and the Salvation Army as well as non-charitable "thrift" stores.
 The cheapest clothes of all are the ones you pay nothing for. Try organizing a clothes swap with your friends and family members. This is a great way to find clothes you wouldn't have thought of buying normally.
 Online shopping makes it especially easy to find good deals on clothes. Today, most big-name clothing retailers allow you to research search results by price so you can find cheap options quick. You can even try sites like Ebay and Craigslist if you're comfortable wearing other peoples' clothes (which you are if you've been shopping at thrift stores).


Though you might be used to automatically saying "no" to online mailing lists, it can actually pay to sign up for lists at your favorite stores. This way, when a new sale or discount is offered, you'll know about it right away.
 Great bargains are rare. You may not see an exceptionally good deal every time you go shopping. This is fine. Be willing to occasionally go home empty-handed, knowing that you saved yourself from wasting money on something that wasn't right for you.

