 The most common way to write in a diary is to talk about your day. But don’t feel like you need to start at the beginning and discuss every single aspect of your day. Try simply describing your present moment in as much detail as possible. Staying present is a great way to keep from getting bored.What is the weather like? Is it warm or cold?
Where are you? What people do you see?
How are you feeling? Are you daydreaming about anything?;
, You can use your journal to work on generating gratitude in your life, and building a positive outlook. Create a list of things you are grateful for each day (aim for five). Your list can be a simple set of phrases, or you can expand on any item in more detail. Gratitude can give you new things to contemplate and write about. Stay grateful and keep boredom at bay.You might be grateful for your friends and family.
You might be grateful for your health and abilities.
You might be grateful for a new opportunity.
 A fun way to record your life and keep it interesting is to create daily (or weekly) self-portraits. You can generate a portrait of yourself using a photograph, drawing, or even using words. By creating an artistic snapshot of yourself, you can capture your life at this moment. This fun activity will keep you interested in your diary and stave off feelings of tedium.You can take a selfie with your phone, print it out, and glue it into your diary.
You can look in the mirror and use colored pencils to draw your face.
You can draw a simple picture of the outfit you are wearing. Include arrows to different clothing pieces and talk about where you got them.
 Another way to cultivate a positive outlook and keep yourself interested in your diary is to create a success log. We often make lists of all the things we need to do, but rarely do we make them for what we’ve done. Use your diary to create a list of your accomplishments, both big and small, and maintain your enthusiasm for journaling. These can be anything from going to the gym five times in one week to winning an important scholarship.
This may be a cohesive list on the inside cover of your diary, or you can create an individual post for each success.
 A diary is an excellent place to work out negative emotions. If you feel anger, frustration, shame, or disappointment, writing in your diary is a private way to process what you are going through. It may also be a good way to plan what you will say to someone else, so that you can talk to them calmly. Plus, this is never boring!


You might say, "I am burning up with rage right now. Jennifer is supposed to be my friend, but she doesn't act like it."
You might say, "I am really disappointing. I thought I would get an A on my essay, but I actually got a B-. I did my best, but it wasn't good enough."

