 Press the gear icon on the home screen of your phone to go to the Settings screen.;
, You will have to scroll down the Settings menu a bit to find the “Lock Screen” option. Once you do, tap it to open the Lock Screen menu.
 When you tap it, you will see three items you can set your screen lock to: “Pattern,” “Pin,” and “Password.” You can set either of these to prevent unauthorised people from accessing your phone when the screen is locked.
 A lock pattern will offer medium security. If you want to this, choose the “Pattern” option to go to the screen for setting the lock pattern. On the Lock Pattern screen, you’ll see 3 rows and columns of dots. Draw the unlock pattern by connecting dots to form the pattern you want to set, and then press “Continue” at the bottom right to continue.


On the next screen, you will see the same dots; redraw the same pattern to confirm. Once you’re done, press “Confirm” at the bottom.
You will then be asked for a 4-digit (or more) backup PIN. In case you forget the pattern when unlocking your screen, you can use this backup PIN instead. Tap in the numbers and press “Continue.” Retype the PIN and press “OK” to save all your changes.
 Having a PIN for a screen lock will provide medium to high security, depending on the PIN combination you created. If you want to set this as your screen lock, select “PIN.” Enter a numeric combination of at least 4 digits, and press “Continue.”


In the next screen, reenter the PIN to confirm, and then press “OK” to save the new lock screen security.
 This type of lock screen offers the highest security. If you want this, tap “Password” from the Lock Screen options. Enter the password in the field provided. It must be at least 4 characters long, but of course, you should have a password that’s longer for better security. Make sure that it’s a strong password, with a combination of numbers, special characters, and letters.


Once you’re done, tap “Continue” and reenter the password for confirmation. Tap “OK” to save.
 To test screen lock, press the ON/OFF button of your phone once to lock the screen. Press the button again to turn on the screen. You will now have to enter the security pattern/PIN/password you set to unlock the screen.


If you set a pattern, the dots will appear on the lock screen. Draw your pattern by connecting the dots. For both PIN and password, a text field will appear where you can enter the PIN or password. Tap “OK” or “Done” at the bottom when you’re finished.
Android offers you five tries to unlock the screen. If you exceed this, your Android will be blocked. You will be allowed to try again after a few minutes (3 to 5 minutes).

