 This applies when you plan on hanging multiple pieces of wall art together, as a group. The size, shape, type and number of objects in your display will determine how they should be arranged. Here are some suggestions:


Lay art pieces on the floor in order to get a visual of how they relate to each other in size, form, subject, theme and color. Depending on the desired effect, you may want to keep similar colors grouped together, or you may want to scatter colors in a random pattern. Pay special attention to how different sized pieces relate to each other; Large, predominant pieces should be balanced with smaller, minor pieces. Additionally, it makes sense to group pieces according to subject and theme.
Rearrange the objects as necessary, until you feel that they are pleasing to the eye and that they make sense logically, according to their characteristics.
Make sure there are equal amounts of space between each piece. For displaying art on the wall, a good rule of thumb is to space art pieces 3 inches (7.62 cm) to 4 inches (10.16 cm) apart.;
, Whether your art display is a single piece, multiple pieces, a focal point or an accentuation of the room's other features, it is important that you hang it in a way that stays in line with the room's size and layout. For example, a very high and narrow wall in a bathroom may be a good place to hang a vertical arrangement of three framed pictures, but not a good place to hang an over-sized, panoramic painting.



Hang art at eye level. If you are displaying art in a group, then the center-point of the group should be at eye level. To determine a relative eye level, measure between 60 inches (152.4 cm) and 66 inches (167.64 cm) up from the floor.
To display artwork at eye level in a sitting area, as in a dining room, hang the pieces at the eye level of the sitter.
If you are using artwork to frame an architectural element or a piece of furniture, you should hang wall art within 10 inches (25.4 cm) of the object.
 Use soft lighting sources, such as specially-designed wall art lighting fixtures, in order to diffuse spot lighting and reduce glare. Wall art lighting fixtures come in a variety of forms, such as recessed overhead lighting, track lighting and stick lighting that mounts directly to a picture frame.

