 The game can be played online on Facebook or on your mobile devices. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game loads, go through the map until you see ”238.” Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, look how your board is laid out. Do you see easy moves to break the mystery eggs? Do you have moves that can get you special candies?

, If you don’t like your board, you can exit. As long as you haven’t done anything yet, you won’t lose a life., There are some colored mystery eggs scattered on the board. Mystery eggs can give you special candies, but they can also contain chocolate and other blocks. It’s really a game of chance. See what’s inside by making matches with them just like how you will match similar-colored candies. If you’re fortunate, you may get some Striped candies from them.
 The ingredient will be in an alternate column. Move them to the correct drop column early on so you can just focus on clearing their vertical path down.
 A Striped candy is a special candy created by matching four candies in a row. When you use a Striped candy as part of a match, it will clear out a whole row or column from the board. If you can, go for vertically Striped candies. With the proper column placement, you can easily drop an ingredient to the bottom in a single move. Position the Striped candy in the column where the ingredient is before using it.
 A Wrapped candy is a special candy created by matching at least three vertical and three horizontal candies forming a plus, T-shape, or corner-shape. When you use a Wrapped candy as part of a match, it will first explode and knock out the nine candies surrounding it, and then it will drop and explode again, knocking out another nine candies the same way. Position the Wrapped candy in the areas under the ingredient before using it. You will be able to drop the ingredient quickly with this.
 A Candy Bomb is a special candy created by matching five candies in a row. You have to work on getting the right candies in place to swap with to form the five-in-a-row. Color bombs do not need to be matched in order to be used. You can just swap it with another candy, and all similar-colored candies will be removed from the board. Take out candies of the same color that’s under the ingredient.


You should also combine the Candy Bomb with a Striped candy to multiply the effects of the Striped candy. That will definitely make it easy to drop the ingredient.
 There are five arrow marks at the bottom row where the ingredients should fall. Once you get an ingredient in the right columns, focus on clearing the path to get it to the bottom. Use any of the special candies you made to make it easier.
 You are required to bring down 2 chestnuts and 2 cherries. You can only have one ingredient at a time on your board, so once one has been cleared, a new one will appear at the top again. Repeat the same strategy for the next ingredient.