 Wild garlic grows in spring around areas partially shaded. The plant also prefers damp ground, so follow water runoff. Common locations include woodlands, riverbanks, and country lanes., Wild garlic will have a cluster of flowers at the end of a single stem. The flowers look like white stars with six petals each. Lily of the valley is closest in appearance to wild garlic, but can be distinguished by careful observation. Lily of the valley flowers are bell-shaped and droop downwards from the stem.Lily of the valley is poisonous, so take your time while harvesting to make sure you pick the right plant.
 Wild garlic has clusters of stems coming out of the ground. The stems are green and white. Leaves grow near the ground and are long, flat, and have a single vein down the middle. The leaves grow one per stem.Lily of the valley has one stem colored green and purple with two or three leaves.
 When you are near wild garlic, you will likely already detect a garlic and chive smell. You can double-check by picking up and rubbing a garlic leaf between your fingers. This will release the same odor.Lily of the valley and other plants won’t have this odor and may smell sweet instead.
 The leaves will be near the ground. Pick or cut off mid-sized and large ones that look full and green. Leave the small leaves to replenish the plant.The entire plant can be used, but the underground bulbs tend to be small. Removing the bulb should only be done if you have the landowner’s permission or don’t mind removing your own plant.
 Try to cut the stems close to the ground using a knife or scissors. If you have a difficult time removing them, they will also be tough to eat unless cooked for a long time., Unopened flowers can be used, but flowers that have bloomed have an even stronger taste than the leaves. Pluck them or snip them off with scissors. As spring passes, the flowers turn into seed pods which also have a strong flavor and can be eaten., Wild garlic clippings are delicate and leave a strong smell when damaged. While you can stuff them into a jacket, it is better to give them space. Line them in your basket and don’t press down.You may also put clippings into a plastic bag or water bottle. Keep them loosely packed and don’t squish them.
 Shake flowers to remove insects. At the very least, wash off the plant under cold, running water. You can fill a bowl with cold water and submerge the clippings for five minutes to prepare them for refrigeration., Anything you won’t use immediately can be stored for about a week. You may wrap the washed clippings in a damp paper towel first to help them stay preserved. Place them in sealed plastic bags or covered containers., Boil a pot of water. Add the garlic. After a minute, remove the garlic to a bowl of ice cold water. Once the clippings are all in the water, begin moving them to freezer bags. Squeeze out as much air from the bags as possible. This garlic will last for months but will not be crisp.You can remove more air from the bag by using a soda straw. Close the bag around the straw. Suck out as much air as possible, then quickly remove the straw and close the bag.
 Spread the leaves out on baking sheets. Set the oven to the lowest possible heat setting. You may leave the oven door open if you are worried about them drying out too quickly. After about four hours, or when the leaves feel brittle, place them in airtight jars., Oil-preserving is good for sauces such as pesto. Simply chop or blend leaves in a food processor. Place them in jars, making sure they are covered by olive oil. Alternatively, cover the leaves with vinegar mixed with your favorite spice combination.Oil-preserve garlic should be refrigerated and will last up to three weeks. Raw garlic pickled in vinegar can be left at room temperature but will last almost indefinitely in the refrigerator.

