 The key terms in the debate need to be explained and defined by the first speaker. Also, define key terms that the audience might not know very well.Identify the key terms in your argument and look up their definitions in a range of dictionaries. Choose the most appropriate definition for each word. You want to pick a definition that is neutral and conventional.Your definitions can be literal, as well as contextualized. Contextualized definitions add examples of how the concept applies to the real world. For example, a contextualized definition of money would show that money is used to buy services, such as food and gas., After defining the key terms, you need to tell the audience what you and your group will be arguing and why. Reinforce your arguments by reiterating your position in various ways.For example, “My team and I will show you the need, practicality, and benefits of medicinal marijuana. Together we will show that thousands of patients, including young children, who suffer from seizures, find relief in medicinal marijuana. Studies show that medicinal marijuana reduces instances of seizures by 80%. Furthermore, the side effects of medicinal marijuana are not as severe as the side effects that come with conventional forms of medication used to treat seizures, particularly for children. We will show that medicinal marijuana is a practical, safe, and cost effective solution for patients and their families.”

, Your team's argument should include a proposition on how to address the problem you are debating about. Debating teams do this by defining a policy they wish to enact. The first speaker should outline the core component of the policy, as opposed to a detailed explanation of it.In order to demonstrate that your team's policy will work, use policies that have already been enacted as the basis of your policy. For example, you can highlight that a ban on using cellphones while driving is similar to the ban on drinking while driving.
Try to focus on three important reasons for why the policy is needed or needs to change.