 Before getting started, you’ll need to gather the tools and equipment necessary to properly clean your cylinder heads. Much of what you’ll need can be found around the house, though you will also need to use a chemical parts or brake cleaner that can be purchased from your local auto parts store. You will also need access to warm water to soak the heads. Gather the following supplies before getting started:Brake or parts cleaner
Canned air or access to an air compressor
Two large tubs or buckets
Paper towels or rags
Plastic scraper;
, When fully assembled, cylinder heads contain numerous small parts that need to be removed before the cleaning process can begin. Most cylinder heads contain one or two camshafts, intake and exhaust valves with supporting hardware, and likely some ignition components such as spark plugs or ignition coils. All of these parts must be removed and stored safely while cleaning the cylinder head.Use care when removing the valve cover on the top of the cylinder head to prevent it from warping. Loosen all of the bolts first, then proceed to unscrew them the rest of the way.
Be careful not to lose any of the small pieces you removed.
Some components of the cylinder head may need to be pressed out of the head using a machine press. If you don’t have access to one, you may need to enlist the help of a machine shop.
 The process of cleaning your cylinder heads includes the use of chemical cleaning agents that are a serious hazard to your eyes and may irritate your skin due to prolonged contact. In order to protect yourself, make sure to wear appropriate safety equipment at all times while cleaning your cylinder heads.Eye protection such as safety glasses or goggles should be worn at all times when working with chemical cleaning agents.
Chemical resistant gloves will protect your hands from being irritated by the brake or parts cleaner. If you use a non-spray parts cleaner that you fill the tub with, you may want to use gloves that extend to your elbow if possible.
 Most cylinder heads are made of either iron or an aluminum alloy. Each material has its advantages and disadvantages in terms of the performance and lifetime of your vehicle, but more importantly, aluminum is a softer metal and may be more prone to damage in the cleaning process. To determine what kind of metal your cylinder heads are made out of, check in the service manual for your vehicle or use the following factors to help you decide:Aluminum heads are much lighter than iron ones, both in weight and in color. Light grey heads are likely made of aluminum while darker colors may indicate iron.
Iron is prone to rusting, while aluminum is not. If there are signs of surface rust on the heads, they are made of iron.
A magnet will not stick to an aluminum cylinder head, but it will stick to an iron one.

