 When using skullcap herb to soothe the symptoms of psoriasis, you should purchase it in cream form. According to an anecdotal study, psoriasis was soothed using an ointment that consisted of skullcap herb as well as phellodendron and isatis. You can purchase skullcap herb as a cream or ointment at any local store that specializes in natural, herbal, and organic products.For example, Whole Foods will carry a variety of products that contain skullcap herb.
More research is necessary to see if the benefits of skullcap herb on psoriasis will extend to a larger population.;
, When shopping for skullcap herb, you should carefully read the list of ingredients on the label. In order to select a product that will be beneficial in soothing psoriasis, you want to find a cream with few ingredients. Skullcap herb should be listed as the first ingredient, and the fewer the ingredients the more powerful the skullcap herb will be.In many instances skullcap herb is diluted with out ingredients, making less helpful in treating the inflammation associated with psoriasis.
 Although topical treatments are likely best for soothing psoriasis, you can also ingest skullcap herb as a tea or supplement. Typically, you can take one to two grams of the herb three times per day, but you should always read the directions carefully to determine a proper daily dosage. In order to use skullcap herb as a tea, you should pour 250 milliliters (1 cup) of boiling water over 5 to 10 milliliters (2 teaspoons) of dried herb and steep for 10-15 minutes.Drink the tea once a day.
Skullcap herb has only recently been considered a treatment for psoriasis, and the study conducted focused solely on topical treatments. As a result, more research is needed to understand the benefits of skullcap herb on psoriasis when ingested., Before using skullcap herb to soothe your psoriasis, you should consult your doctor or dermatologist. Even though skullcap herb is a natural herbal remedy, it can have some side effects. The herb may also interact with other treatments prescribed by your physician leading to negative results.Ask your doctor if skullcap herb is a suitable treatment for you.
You should not use skullcap herb during pregnancy. If you are pregnant consult your doctor about alternative ways to soothe psoriasis.
 Skullcap herb has been linked to helping reduce some of the symptoms associated with psoriasis. For example, skullcap herb can ease the itching, swelling, and inflammation that develops on the surface of the skin. In order to achieve the best results, you should use skullcap herb as a form of topical treatment rather than as an oral supplement., In order to help soothe the symptoms of psoriasis, you should apply the skullcap cream or gel directly onto the psoriasis plaques that develop on your skin. For the best results, apply skullcap cream to the plaques after bathing. You can reapply the cream throughout the day as needed.

