 While you may be tempted to use the “secret admirer” path as a way to ask a girl out without talking to her first, doing so is a bad idea. You need to make sure that she knows who you are in person before you can drop her secret hints about your feelings.


Make sure that the two of you get along fairly well before using this approach. You can still be in the beginning stages of acquaintanceship or friendship, but when you converse, you should be able to do so while smiling and maintaining a comfortable atmosphere.
The ideal situation is to begin your approach as soon as you realize your feelings for her.
It works even better if you can time things out so that, as the two of you talk more and get to know each other better, she begins to suspect and even hope that you are the one responsible for the mysterious signs of affection.
 These secret notes are a good way to inject a little mystery into the situation, and if the girl you have your eye on has a curious nature, this can also be a good way to pique her interest.Address the girl by name so that she knows, without a doubt, that the note is meant for her. Do not sign the note if you want to keep it a secret, though.
Keep things light. Avoid heavy sentiments or language that sounds “stalkerish.” Instead, opt for cute, light-hearted expressions of affection with no hint of pressure.
Don't be afraid to be a little cheesy. It may not work quite as well in person, but for a note like this, a few cheesy lines can help keep things light.
Elaborate a little. You do not need to write an essay about your love for her, but it helps to talk about your feelings a little so that she actually knows that your note is the real deal.
Good example: “To Jane Doe, This is just a little note to let you know you have a secret admirer—me! Of course, you probably don't know who I am yet, but still. You're a sweet girl. I admire your kindness and your wit, and I thought I should let you know that there's someone who really appreciates you.”
Good example: “Dear Jane Doe, Roses are red, violets are blue, here's a little note to say that I “like” like you! Sincerely, Your Secret Admirer”
Bad example: “My dearest, sweet Jane, I love you more than words can say. I watch you every day. I've looked at all of your Facebook photos and tweets, and I know more about you than you can imagine. Last week, when you were on your way home after dark, I even followed you from a distance to make sure you got back safe, because I love you so much and would die if anything happened to you. If I could, I'd watch you 24/7. With great and sincere love, Your Secret Admirer.”
Bad example: “Hey girl! I like you.”

, If you end up sending the object of your affection several secret notes, you can get creative and attach a small gift to a few of them. Keep the gifts “cute” and inexpensive, though.


Instead of giving her a box of chocolates, attach a small piece of foil-wrapped chocolate to a note reading something along the lines of, “A little sweet for a real sweetie! Signed, Your Secret Admirer”
Instead of sending her a bouquet of roses, attach a small clover flower or wildflower that you picked yourself.
Avoid gifts like CDs, movies, jewelry, or perfume.
 Even if you take every precaution possible to avoid making her feel paranoid or on edge, there still remains some chance that the girl in question will feel uncomfortable with someone leaving her anonymous notes. If you get the idea that she feels uncomfortable, stop immediately.


An obvious sign would be if she tears up the notes or throws them out upon receiving them.
If she suspects that you might be behind the notes and starts to ignore you or avoid you, you can take that as a sign that she feels uncomfortable about the situation.
If she does not suspect you and ends up confiding in you about the notes and about her uneasiness about the sender, confess that you were behind them and that you will stop now that you know how uncomfortable they made her feel.
 The best mysteries are the ones that seem as though they could be solved. Even though this is supposed to be a secret, drop hints without directly stating who you are so that she has some idea of who to expect once you reveal your feelings. You can drop hints through your notes and in person.


To drop a hint in one of your notes, make a remark that only you and a few others might be able to make. For instance, if only a few people know that the girl in question is obsessed with a certain band, write that you were listening to one of their songs or albums when you thought of her.
To drop a hint in person, flirt without directly stating your feelings. If your presence in her life increases as the notes continues, she will begin to think of you as a likely possibility.
 Send her a few notes over the course of a few weeks before you let her know who you are. Secret admirers can be cute and fun at first, but they can get creepy if they drag on for months or years.
 Instead of randomly revealing your identity, make a show of it and give her the option of playing along. As you reveal your identity, you should also state very clearly that you would like for her to be your girlfriend.


Do not write something like, “PS – I decided to tell you that this is John Smith.”
Instead, ask her to meet somewhere if she wants to know who you are. Choose a public location on neutral ground, and make sure she knows where the location is at.
Give her a heads up about your intentions by telling her, in the note, that you would like her to be your girlfriend.
Good example: “I think it's about time to stop this secrecy and finally ask you out. If you want to know who I am, I'll be waiting for your answer in front of the coffee shop near the office/school Tuesday at noon.”
Bad example: “I can't stand it anymore—I really want you to be mine. I'll be waiting outside your house tomorrow morning for your answer.”
Give her one last surprise when she meets you. An inexpensive bouquet of flowers or a few of her favorite candy bars can be a sweet gesture.
 You may have successfully wooed her. Then again, you may not have. Even if the girl is flattered by your affections, she may still tell you that she doesn't feel the same way.


If she agrees to be your girlfriend, stay calm but make sure she knows how happy you are.
If she does not agree to it, do not throw a tantrum, pout, or try to make her feel guilty about your wasted efforts.

