, Coat a 10 by 15-inch (25 by 38-centimeter) jelly roll pan with cooking spray. Line it with wax paper, then coat it with more cooking spray. Set down a thin towel (ie: tea towel) on a flat surface, then sprinkle it liberally with powdered sugar.You will need about 1 cup (125 grams) of powdered sugar.The powdered sugar will stick to the cake roll. If you don't want a powdered sugar coating, cover the towel with a sheet of wax paper instead., Sift the ingredients into a mixing bowl, whisk together, then set the bowl aside. Combining all of these ingredients together ahead of time ensures that everything gets evenly distributed when you add the wet ingredients., Do this using a medium speed setting on an electric mixer. If you don't have one, use a food processor fitted with whisks or a handheld mixer instead. This will take about 2 to 3 minutes., Pour the sugar and oil into the beaten eggs, and continue mixing until they are just combined. If you can't find any canola oil, you can use another light or flavorless cooking oil, such as sunflower, safflower, and light olive oil., Mix the batter again until everything is combined and the color is consistent. You can use less food coloring for a less vibrant cake, if you'd prefer. If you can't find any liquid food coloring, you can use 1 teaspoon of gel frosting coloring instead., Reduce the speed on your mixer to low. Add in the dry ingredients a little bit at a time. Keep mixing until the ingredients are just combined. Do not over-mix., Use a rubber spatula to help guide the batter across the pan so that it spreads to the edges and corners., It is ready when the cake springs back then you lightly touch the center.You can also insert a toothpick into the middle; if it comes out clean, the cake is done. Do not wait for the cake to cool., Run a blunt knife around the inside edges of the pan first to loosen the cake. Then, flip the pan over the prepared towel. Make sure that the pan is oriented the same way as the towel.Again, do not wait for the cake to cool. You want to invert it onto the towel while it is still warm. This will make it easier to roll and keep it from breaking.
 Lift the pan off of the towel so that the cake remains. If the wax paper is still stuck to the cake, carefully peel it away. Work quickly; you want the cake to still be warm for this process., Fold the edge of the towel over one of the cake's narrow ends. Slowly roll the cake up, along with the towel, to the other end., You want the cake to be completely cool by the time you apply the frosting. If the cake is too warm, it will make the frosting. If you want to, you can place the cake into the fridge to help it cool faster.If you cooled the cake in the fridge, let it sit on the counter for a few minutes while you prepare the frosting so that it comes down to room temperature.
 Place the cream cheese and butter into a bowl. Beat them together using an electric handheld mixer until they blend together and turn smooth.If you do not own a handheld mixer, you can use an electric mixer or a food processor fitted with whisks instead.
 Reduce the speed to low. Add in the powdered sugar bit by bit, until everything is mixed together. Start with 2 cups (250 grams), then add more as needed. The frosting should be thick and creamy.

If the frosting is too thin, add more powdered sugar.
 Once the cake is cool to the touch, set it down on a flat surface. Carefully unroll the cake. The edges will curl up naturally, which is fine. Do not attempt to flatten them out.

Do not attempt to frost the cake if it is still warm, or the frosting will melt.
 Use a cake decorating spatula or a rubber spatula to evenly spread the frosting across the top of the cake. Be sure to cover the cake from edge-to-edge, corner-to-corner. You want a nice, thick layer of frosting., Start rolling at the end with the smaller or tighter curl. Avoid pressing down on the cake too hard, or the frosting will come out the sides. If the frosting does come out the sides, simply wipe it away with your spatula., This allows the frosting to firm up so that you can cut the cake.If the cake keeps unrolling, wrap it in a sheet of plastic wrap. 