 Dermatitis is the most common type of skin inflammation, and is also known as a rash. Rashes are a swelling or irritation of the skin, and can be itchy, blistered, or bumpy. A lot of times, you can treat rashes at home, but if your rash appears frequently or lasts more than two days, it is time to consult your physician. If your rash is so uncomfortable that you are constantly distracted, contact your doctor right away.Dermatitis is not contagious.
When you call your doctor's office be sure to describe your symptoms in detail, especially any vomiting or fever. Be sure to mention if you have been exposed to a new environment, new foods or new products, such as soaps or lotions.
If your doctor cannot see you within a day or so, you can try going to a walk-in clinic. Many pharmacies offer in store clinics. A doctor or nurse practitioner can examine your skin and help you figure out a treatment plan.;
, If you have a chronic (recurring or persistent) case of skin inflammation, it is probably time to visit a dermatologist. A dermatologist is a doctor specializing in treatment of the skin. They can help you figure out the underlying cause of your skin issue and prescribe any necessary medication.Ask your primary care physician to recommend a dermatologist that they trust.
Make sure your insurance plan covers the dermatologist that you choose.
 There are many over-the-counter medications that can help heal your skin inflammation; however, it can be overwhelming to try to select the product that will be most beneficial to your individual problem. Your local pharmacist is a great resource. They are familiar with the active ingredients in many products, so ask for advice on which one to purchase.Remember that a pharmacist is a medical professional. Don't be afraid to describe your rash in detail and describe your symptoms.
You can also ask the pharmacist to recommend a generic alternative to some of the name brand products. You'll get the same health benefits and save some money.

