 A 70% alcohol solution is an effective way to kill Aspergillus.


Alcohol is an effective fungicide because it is able to penetrate the cell walls and spores of Aspergillus niger, killing it in the process.
To use alcohol, apply a liberal amount of a 70% solution to all visible areas of fungus, and let it sit for ten minutes.
After 10 minutes of contact time with alcohol, you can wipe the treated area clean and dry it with a clean rag, cloth, or mop.
Alcohol is safe for use in the home and in most settings, bearing in mind its highly flammable property.
Make sure to avoid using it near any flame or fire source.;
, Use phenols, a class of chemical disinfectant that is usually found in mouthwashes, scrub soaps, and surface disinfectants, to kill Aspergillus spores.


Phenols become good fungicidal agents at a concentration of 0.4% to 0.5%, because this concentration allows phenols to seep into the core of the fungus’s cell wall and spores, eventually killing it.
Phenols can be applied liberally to any surface where you suspect that Aspergillus niger colonies are thriving.
Let the phenols sit for about 20 minutes of contact time, then wipe the treated area clean, and dry it with a clean rag, cloth, mop or other preferred method.
However, use phenols with caution if you have infants, because it is toxic to them.
For adults, phenols are generally safe, but long term exposure can cause skin irritations.
 Hypochlorite is a chemical disinfectant with a chlorine base and a 1% chlorine solution that is known to rapidly inactivate fungus such as Aspergillus niger.


A concentrations of 4-6% of hypochlorite, found in household bleach, not only inhibits the growth of molds, but also kills fungal colonies of Aspergillus niger.
A 4-6% hypochlorite solution can be diluted with water in a 1:50 ratio for general surface disinfection and left to dry on the surface.
For surfaces that are visibly infected with Aspergillus niger, an undiluted 4-6% solution is ideal to kill the mold.
If it is applied in an adequate amount, a contact time of 5-10 minutes can immediately kill Aspergillus niger.
After application, the disinfected area can be left to dry or can be wiped clean with a clean rag, cloth, or mop.
Note that hypochlorite can cause skin irritations and produces toxic fumes when combined with ammonium compounds or an acid.
 Aldehyde is a group of chemical disinfectant that is commercially available as a 2% solution of glutaraldehyde.


This substance is used for high strength disinfection and has great fungicidal effects, as it can destroy the fungus and its spores in a very short period of time.
Aldehydes can kill Aspergillus niger with a contact time of around 5 minutes.
Wipe down and dry the area treated with aldehyde with a clean rag, cloth, mop or any method you prefer.
Unfortunately, long term exposure and contact with this compound is discouraged, because glutaraldehyde is highly carcinogenic.

