 It is easier to enjoy something if you understand it, and it is easier to understand something if you can see a purpose for it. Calculus has many real world applications every day. You may not personally be called on to calculate a derivative or an integral, but you can still see and appreciate the application of calculus in anything that changes.


For example, consider the speed of a car on the road. As cars speed up or slow down, they are changing their location, and they change their rate of speed (acceleration). Recognizing and measuring change is part of the field of calculus., Almost anyone who has passed about third or fourth grade can tell you the area of a simple box, square or rectangle. But if the shape gets more complicated, with angles or curves, you may not have a simple formula to measure its size. Using calculus, however, and integrating a function, can help you determine the area that is held within.For example, if you have a specific amount of fencing material, and you need to design a pasture, a simple calculus problem will help you decide the best shape and size to maximize the size of your pasture while conserving your building materials., The study of calculus is ultimately the study of limits - that is, measurements that get infinitely small or infinitely close together, without ever actually reaching a particular point. If you enjoy mental brain teasers, you can find applications in limits - and therefore, in calculus - that are especially challenging and enjoyable.


Consider the ancient problem of Achilles and the Tortoise. The concept behind this paradox is that Achilles, the fastest man in the world at that time, was to race a tortoise. He offered the tortoise a head start of half the distance to the goal. The tortoise argued that there was no reason to race, because Achilles could never win. Once they start running, Achilles would run up to the point where the tortoise began. But in that time, the tortoise would have moved ahead by some distance. So Achilles would try to catch up. But in that time that he caught up, the tortoise would have moved ahead again. In each moment of time, as Achilles covers the ground between them, the tortoise would move ahead by some amount. Calculus addresses this conundrum and provides an explanation.