 Look for undertones of browns and taupes. Pick a muted sage green for an everyday green eyeshadow look.This works with different skin tones and eye colors. It will simply have a slightly different look. For example, darker skin brings out the blue tone in the shadow, while yellow undertones bring out the green’s golden hues, and lighter, pink skin accentuates the darker pigments in the green.
Using only one eyeshadow color in your look adds subtlety and sophistication to a standout color.
If you only have a bright green eyeshadow, try mixing it or layering it with a brown eyeshadow for a muting effect.
 This will prevent your eyeshadow from creasing. With primer, your eyeshadow look will stay in place and crisp all day.









Using a clean concealer brush or eyeshadow brush, sweep the primer all over your eye area.
You can use neutral cream eyeshadow or concealer in place of a primer, if you don’t have one.
 Take it up slightly past your crease. This outer section is where the color should be the darkest and most pronounced.









For definition, brush on your eyeshadow to come to a point near the corner of your eyebrow, almost like you would draw on a liquid winged liner.
This shape opens up your eye area and adds sophistication.
 Extend it up past your crease. The inner corners of your eyes should be a lighter shade than the outer corners.









Remember that it’s easier to build up your eyeshadow than to get the right shade on the first try.
Add layers of color until you are happy with the darkness.
 Use the same green eyeshadow you used on your lid. Use a small eyeliner brush to extend this color from the middle of your bottom lash line to the outer corner of your eye.









To make this shadow almost like a light eyeliner, dampen the tip of your eyeliner brush before tapping it in your eyeshadow.
Using the shadow damp will give you a cleaner line.
 Sweep this brush in light circles back and forth across your eyelids until the two shades of the same shadow blend into each other seamlessly.


Take your time in blending. The longer you spend, the more polished your finished look with be.
 You don’t want to use black eyeliner for this natural green eyeshadow look, as it can be too harsh. Use pencil liner for a softer look.









Use your brown eyeliner pencil to line above your lash line and along your water line.Don’t extend your eyeliner into a flick.
For an even more natural look, skip the eyeliner all together.
 Use one or two coats. Wiggle the mascara back and forth at your lash line to prevent clumping.


Consider using dark brown mascara, instead of black, for a more natural, soft look.
Use a lengthening mascara for a delicate look.

