 Staying at home with your child can be very hard. Studies show that stay-at-home-moms may experience more depression, worry, sadness, and anger than working moms. This is partly due to isolation, under-appreciation and little contact with adults during the day. The schedule for a stay-at-home mom is intense as well, with no time off, no sick leave, and no vacation time.Know that these feelings are common. If you’re feeling this way, you’re not the only one. You should be honest with yourself so that you are making the healthiest choice for yourself and your family.
 Just because you are the stay-at-home parent, this doesn’t mean that you should have to do all the household chores. Work with the other parent to assign tasks fairly. For example, your partner can make dinner some nights, or do the dishes, or put in a load of laundry.


It can be common to think that you haven’t done any “work” just because you’ve been at home all day. Remember, taking care of children and the home is very hard work. Plus, you get no breaks and very little time for yourself. Make sure you aren’t carrying all the weight at home.
 Treat yourself to a movie, schedule time for a massage, and meet up with a friend for coffee. Don’t feel guilty about nurturing yourself. You will be a better parent and person when you take care of yourself too.
 While you intend to save money on childcare by not working, this doesn’t mean that you have to be at home with the kids 100% of the time. You and your partner still need time together without the kids. Make time every few weeks to have a date.
 Schedule regular times after your partner comes home from work when you can go out by yourself. You might use this time to run errands without kids, see a movie, or visit a friend.
 Exercise can help relieve stress and tension that may build up when you spend your days with children. You may need to schedule exercise time when your partner is home with the kids, or when your kids are at school. You can also schedule time when your kids need to be quiet so that you can do a yoga video in your living room. Whatever you choose, make it a priority for yourself.


Take the kids for a bike ride, or buy a jogging stroller so you can go for a run with the baby.
Some communities have mommy exercise classes, such as Baby Boot Camp or Fit4Mom. In these classes, you exercise with other parents while your child sits in a jogging stroller.
 Just because you’re at home with your children doesn’t mean that everything you do must be child-focused. Find some hobbies that you can do while your children play.


You might take up gardening, sewing, playing a musical instrument, building something, painting, photography, and so on.
Spend some time reading. Taking quiet time for yourself may encourage your kids to spend the time reading as well.

