 If you have something to say, like "Oh you screwed up my life, you're such a horrible person (insert slew of curse words and the rest of your paragraph here), just think. Does the rest of Facebook want to see this? Most of the people on your friends list aren't even your real friends, so why would you want them knowing your business? And why would you post a status sounding like you're directing it at one person when obviously you just want attention? Do everyone on your Facebook list a favor and send that message to the person who deserves it.;
, You know him from school but you haven't seen him for a few years but he won't leave you alone. It's fine to write the casual "Hey what's up?" to someone once in a while, but what's the point of starting a bunch of pointless conversations with someone? If you're trying to make friends with them, ask if you can hang out in person some time. Otherwise, leave them alone.
 There are two sides to the spectrum: annoying and distant. If you go on Facebook every day but hardly ever message people back, what's the point of having a Facebook? If you think you're "too cool" to ever be available then you're not. You're just annoying people.
 Selfies are great... to an extent. Until you start posting them every day. Your friends can all tell you're incredibly attractive and have probably already bowed down and worshipped you with ten likes. That's enough––any more and you'll be unfriended.
 No one cares about what you're eating, it's hard enough keeping up with one's own meals, let alone anyone else's.
 Why not just say something silly instead of saying "you've been hacked?" Hacking requires skill. Going on your friend's already logged-in Facebook isn't skilled. Equally, stop excusing silly statements by claiming "I've been hacked". Own up to your slip-ups and don't repeat them.
 Here's an example:


Day one – Person 1: Hey. Person 2: Sup? Person 1: Chilling, listening to music Person 2: Cool
Day two – Person 1: Hi! Person 2: Hey. Person 1: What's up? Person 2: Nm, you? Person 1: Listening to music
Day three – Person 1: Hey what's up? Person 2: Thinking of going for a walk soon.. you? Person 1: About to take a shower Person 2: K.
 Just don't do it. Sharing a picture of a kid with cancer sadly won't do that kid any good and it won't cure him. It will just make people sad. And just because you don't share it doesn't mean you're a horrible person; it's really not that different from forcing people to pass on chain letters for fear of something bad happening––it's peer pressured guilt and fear and that's not much fun for anyone. If that child's illness really grabs you, donate or go and visit the kid, then you've got a genuine story to share.

