 The psychic medium ship is about being open to communication from the "other side." Try the following methods for raising your awareness and opening your third eye:


Pay attention to your intuition. Don't dismiss your dreams. Acknowledge the odd feelings and urges you feel. Recognize the various energies that affect you throughout the day.
Spend quiet time by yourself every morning. After you wake in the morning, before starting your day, spend time allowing thoughts and emotions to wash over you. Don't control what comes; welcome and absorb it. Open your mind to the possibility of receiving communications from energies generated outside yourself.
Try free writing. Write what comes to your mind the moment it arrives. Don't judge the words, and avoid editing them. Read back over what you wrote a few hours later. The messages you receive from other beings won't always be clear, but writing them down may help you find patterns.
 A good way to start is by finding a medium ship circle, a group of mediums who gather to receive messages from the other side. This will give you an introduction to the setting that should be arranged for effective communication. Once you're comfortable with the process, try it on your own, or invite other mediums to join you.


Set up a room in a quiet part of your house. Dim or turn off the lights. A few candles may help create a spiritual setting.
Say a prayer or chant to ready the space for communication and call on spirits to join the circle.
Recognize the presence of the spirit or spirits that join you. Allow yourself to receive images, words, feelings, smells - whatever the spirits wish to communicate.
Ask the spirit to identify itself. When you receive an answer, confirm it out loud. Continue communicating with the spirit by asking questions and receiving answers.
Know that at this early stage you will not be able to control the effect the communication has on you. You may feel frightened, or you may experience pain. As you develop your skills as a medium, you'll be better able to control the way you communicate with the other side.
 Bookstores and spiritual centers in your area may offer educational resources. Do online research and attend psychic fairs and conferences to find out more about workshops, classes and even certifications for new psychic mediums.

