 Regardless of which version of Word you are using, this will make creating the proper header that much simpler.Choose 1-inch (2.54 cm) margins. Also select a commonly used font, like Times New Roman in 12-point size. Lastly, choose double spacing for the entire document.
There are slight differences in the process of making these changes in the various versions of Word, but each is easily accomplished by using the labeled tabs along the top of the document., This is a streamlined, web-based version of the word processor.Click the Insert tab along the top of the page.
Click the Page Numbers button. A drop-down will appear with options for "Add to Header or Footer."
Choose the option that places the page number at the top right of the page.
The inserted page number will be shaded. Type your last name and add one space. Highlight your name and page number and change the font to Times New Roman 12-point, if this has not already been done.
Click the shaded area below the header to move back to the main body of the document. The completed header will be hidden.
 This is the most recent fully-functional version of the word processor.In addition to the directions in this step, you can follow those in the subsequent steps for Word 2007 and 2010. The images and some minor details will be slightly different with Word 2013, but the process is essentially the same.
Click the Insert tab along the top of the page.
Click the Page Number button. A drop-down will appear.
Choose "Top of Page," then "Plain Header 3" as your header format selection.
The page number will appear and be shaded. Type your last name and the space bar. Highlight your name and the page number and change the font to Times New Roman 12-point, if not already done.
Click in the text area below the dotted line to return to the main body of the text.
 The remainder of the steps in this section refer specifically to older, but still widely used, versions of the word processor.
 The header is not automatically visible in a blank document, unless it is in Print View mode.In Microsoft Word, the Header and Footer option is found under the View menu. While there are options for adding images, symbols, and the like, remember that for MLA formatting, you will only need to use text (your last name) and page numbers.
 Set the header to appear in the upper right hand corner, one-half inch (1.27 cm) from the top of the page and against the edge of the right margin.You can accomplish this by selecting from the pop up menu options or by using your alignment options to select right alignment.
 Select the "Insert" menu and select Page Numbers. Choose the position, format and alignment in the menu.Once the page number appears, it will be shaded and the cursor will be to its left. Simply type in your last name and add a space between it and the page number.
As allowed by MLA style, some instructors prefer that the first page not have a visible number. There is an optional box in the Page Numbers menu to choose whether the number "1" will appear on your first page.
 Your last name and page number should appear sequentially in every page that you use as you write your document.Move your cursor to a spot outside of the header area. You should now be able to continue writing the rest of your document.

