 A nutritious diet will help keep your cat healthy, which may lead to less shedding.


Look for wet cat food that lists specific meats (like chicken, beef, or fish) as the first two or three ingredients. Because cats need animal-based protein, these are vital to a healthy cat’s diet.Dry cat foods and low-quality wet foods contain a lot of grains or other carbohydrates like wheat, corn, and soy. These ingredients are not as nutritious for cats as meat-based proteins. They may even cause allergic or digestive issues that lead to dry skin and shedding.
 Overweight cats have more difficulty grooming themselves and are prone to having more loose fur.


You can tell if you cat is overweight if you can’t feel its ribs without pressing. If you don’t see a narrowing waist in front of the hips when looking at the cat from above, this is another warning sign.A veterinarian can give your cat a specific diet plan if needed.
You can also try reducing your cat’s intake to the recommended amounts and refraining from giving treats.
Play with your cat regularly so it gets enough exercise.
 Omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids are particularly important to keeping a cat’s skin and fur healthy. This can help reduce shedding.You can find omega fatty acids in wet cat foods that contain salmon oil or flax oil.
You can also buy omega fatty acid supplements that you can feed your cat separately or mix into its food.
Your vet is best able to judge appropriate diet modifications. But, adding omega fatty acids should be safe if you choose a supplement made for cats and don’t go beyond the recommended amount.
 If your cat is scratching vigorously (and thus perhaps shedding more), it could be the result of fleas or parasites.


Look for dark flea feces near the base of the tail. If you discover fleas or flea feces, treat your cat for fleas. Then, keep your cat on a monthly flea-control regimen. Ask your veterinarian to help you choose a flea-control product.
If you’re unable to trace the source of the itching, take your cat to the vet. In addition to ectoparasites, your cat could have hypersensitivity to pollens, molds, or grasses. It could also have food allergies. All of these can contribute to itching and shedding.