 What you need will depend on the natural texture and thickness of your hair. However, here are some items that can be used to create scene hairstyles:


Blow-dryer: Blow out curly or wavy hair to make it mostly straight before flat ironing.
Flat iron: Necessary to achieve the silky-straight look on the bottom of hair, as well as flattened bangs; can also be used to add curl to the ends of hair.
Curling iron or wand: Use it to make bottom strands curly or wavy.
Rat-tail or fine-toothed comb: Use to tease, backcomb or "rat" hair for volume on top.
Hairspray: You'll need this to tease your hair, as well as to set the style.
Heat protectant: It's necessary to apply this before blow drying or straightening hair, especially if you do it often.
Root lifter or volumizer: If you have thin hair, you can use this to add a bit of volume. Follow the directions on the bottle.
Dry shampoo: This can help re-volumize dirty or oily hair if you don't have time to wash it.
 Scene hair is centered on sleek, straight locks that can be thinned down or ratted out. Even if you plan on curling the bottom parts of your hair, you probably want to straighten them first, then curl. Here are some things to keep in mind:


If you have curly or wavy hair, blow dry it 10 or 15 minutes after you get out of the shower. Use a round brush or paddle brush to separate sections, and spray on a heat protectant before you start.
After you've blow dried your hair (or if you have mostly straight hair to begin with), spritz on another layer of heat protectant and smooth it out with a flat iron.
Work in sections - if your hair is thick, clip up the top portion and work out the bottom first. (You might have to work in 4 or 5 stages if you have ultra-thick hair. Just start from the bottom and keep moving up in manageable sections.)

, Once your hair is straight, you can focus on teasing the top portions so they'll look volumized and big. Here's how to do it.


Put hairspray on the section you want to tease. Don't totally soak your hair with hairspray - one spritz per area should be enough.
Grab a section of hair, and backcomb it with a rat-tail or fine-toothed comb. Pull the bottom of the section out and away from your hair, so that it's somewhat horizontal. Then, starting at the end, comb backwards toward the scalp in small sections. Do 3 or 4 combs over one part, then move up. Keep doing this for each piece you want to tease.
After you've teased every section you want, set with hairspray.
 Because the hair that you teased is probably sticking straight up by now, you'll want to smooth it back down so that you have the volume without looking crazy. Use a regular comb to gently comb each section downward.
 If you want to curl up the ends of your layers (using a flat iron or curling iron), do it after you're finished teasing. You can flip up the ends of your layers, or even curl the longer sections at the bottom of your hair. Do whatever you think looks good!

, If you want to add bows, bobby pins, headbands or other accessories to your hair, now's the time. A lot of girls like to put a cute bow on the side of their bangs, or use bobby pins to put up random sections of hair.


Look around the internet for ideas on how to use accessories. See if you can find any blogs or Tumblers that feature scene hair.
 Split the hair in parts and clip them up. Put hairspray right on your scalp and then tease each section. Don't fully brush your hair but brush it swiftly and easy. Add more hairspray and you'll be done.

If you want your hair to be bigger, use a crimper on the layers you are teasing, but don't crimp the top layer of your hair. Don't crimp a lot but do remember to tease the back too.

