 Antibacterial soap and other antibacterial products do not actually protect your baby. In fact, they increasingly put people at risk. Many baby products - generic or otherwise - that are labeled as antibacterial contain a chemical called triclosan. This is not only carcinogenic, but it will mess with your child’s hormonal balance, as well as their ability to fight off sickness naturally., With any baby cosmetic product - generic or branded - there are certain ingredients that you should avoid altogether. For instance, several toxic chemicals, including octinoxate, oxybenzone, benzone, and homosalate are commonly included in baby sunscreens, generic or otherwise. Whenever chemicals known to be toxic are present, do not use the product.Talc is another ingredient that may be wise to avoid, as it can irritate your baby’s lungs and may even be carcinogenic. You can commonly find generic baby powder without talc., Fragrances are often comprised of unlisted chemicals that are known to be harmful. In fact, “fragrance” is best seen as an umbrella term that obscures the presence of chemicals that have been tied to allergies, hormone disruption, and neurotoxicity. Unfortunately, fragrances are often present in items - both generic and branded - from wipes to cleaning materials.Use the website GoodGuide to search baby products by category and filter out those with fragrances.
 These especially common ingredients are in many cosmetics ingredients, including those for babies. These include both branded and generic options. They can be toxic to both your baby’s nervous and reproductive systems, not to mention other potential harmful effects.Do not use products with any ingredients that contain the word “paraben”, nor the ingredients benzoic acid or propyl ester.
 More than half of baby soaps contain 1,4-dioxane, a known carcinogen. It is a byproduct of adding ethylene oxide to other chemicals. Pretty much, avoid any ingredients that contain the letters “eth”.Look closely at each ingredient. For instance, “sodium laur(eth) sulfate”.
Ingredients that include “ceteareth”, “oleth”, “oxynol”, and “-xynol” should also be avoided.
 Whenever you’re unsure of the safety of a particular product, don’t hesitate to ask a medical professional that knows you and your baby. They will likely be able to recommend the safest option for any type of product you’re looking for.More specifically, ask them something like, “What should I watch out for in products of this type?” That way, you’ll know how to look for the best option yourself, which may be the cheaper, but equally safe, generic option.

