 One way of taking your mind off things is to be with other people. Don't let yourself spend time being distracted and depressed alone.


Call some friends and plan to do something together, or get some close friends to come over and have a movie night, a dinner party, or play a game of some sort.
You may want to take your mind off things, but you may also want to talk out the thing that's bothering you or distracting you. If you're feeling upset over a break-up, a recent disappointment, or some other issue, it might be a good idea to have some sympathetic friends to talk with instead, rather than distract.
 Whether you live at home or not, whether you have a big family or a small family, whether you are close with your family or not, spending some quality time with your family can help take your mind off other things.


Organize plans to do something out with your family, or you could just head to the homestead and spend time at home. Even if you're just eating dinner and watching television, doing it with your family can be more relaxing and comforting than anything else.
 If your family and friends are busy, consider heading to a public place and just being around people. Even if you don't want to sit somewhere and try to talk to strangers, people watching can be a nice way of keeping your mind off things.


Head to the library, a coffee house, a bar, a local park, or a record store to socialize or people-watch.
While it's true that bars can be great neighborhood hangouts and places to socialize over a few drinks, drinking is not recommended as a way to distract your mind, as it can lead to serious problems with alcohol dependency. Go to the bar to socialize, not to drink your trouble away.
 If you can't have your friends come to you, send something to your friends. Write up a letter to get in touch, asking questions to help catch up and filling your friend in on your own life.


Want to go really old school? Make a mix tape and send it to a friend in the mail.

