 No matter what you drive, you’ll want to get the most of its storage potential. Clear anything you don’t need out of the seats and floorboards and fill every available nook and cranny with important equipment. And, of course, use your trunk space. The more you’re able to bring along, the less likely you are to run into trouble and discomfort.


Do a little planning ahead before you start loading up your car. Every item you pack should have a specific purpose.Use roof racks to hold as much gear as you can so you’ll have more room inside the cabin.;
, Depending on your location, you may not have the luxury of stopping into a supermarket or department store for a supply run. Fill a backpack or duffel bag with items like a flashlight, batteries, road flares, duct tape, jumper cables, a first aid kit, spending cash and reserve water and rations. Know where you emergency bag is at all times and always take inventory before you set off for your next checkpoint.Some other tools worth making room for include a utility knife, binoculars, bungee cords, chemical hand warmers, a flint for starting fires and a map of major interstate and highway routes.Keep your cell phone charged and protected from the elements in case you need to place an urgent call.
Don't forget basic hygiene necessities, like a toothbrush and toothpaste, mouthwash, antibacterial soap, deodorant and toilet paper.
 It’s not necessary to prepare and eat every meal out of your car, but it won’t hurt to have a camp stove or some Sterno with you to heat up something if you’re far from civilization, get in a jam or don’t have time to stop. Stow some bottled water and non-perishable food items in your car, or at the very least load a cooler with granola bars and canned drinks in case you need a quick pick-me-up.For longer trips, stock up on more food than you think you’ll realistically need to be on the safe side.
What you save on accommodations, you can spend on an occasional hot meal.
 Know what the weather is like where you’re headed and at any necessary stops along the way. If you’re camping or passing through somewhere cold, wear a warm jacket and be sure to pack lots of layers. If you’re destined for someplace with a hotter climate, you’d be wise to include a few pairs of shorts or some tank tops. Bring a few changes of clothes to replace garments that get wet, damaged or dirty.Select your accessories to match your needs. For instance, you’ll want to have a pair of warm, waterproof boots, a hat, scarf and gloves in the winter, sunscreen and bug spray in the summer, a slicker for rain, etc.
Avoid the temptation to overpack clothes. You probably won’t end up wearing most of them on shorter trips.