 Windows 10 has a new a simplified Settings menu. Click Start >> Settings to open it. You should now see a series of nine different categories available to you.;
, From the list given, click the “Personalization” option. You should now see a new page with a series of five different menu options down the left-hand side of the window.
 Once the Themes option is clicked, you should see an option at the top of the page, in blue text, that says “Theme settings.”

, A new window should open. Inside this window there should be another box with a couple of different subheadings in it. You are looking for the top section that says “My Themes (#)”. The # is the current number of available themes. Under this subheading, you should see an option, with blue text, that says “Get more themes online.”

, Click the “Get more themes online” to open a web page that will display available themes for your PC.


The page you will be taken to is the Featured themes section. You can browse through different types of themes by clicking through the different options running down the left-hand side of the page (e.g., Animals, Art, Automotive, Games, etc.).
 Once you find a theme that you are interested in downloading, notice the two little green options below each theme preview image. These are “Details” and “Download.” Click the “Download” button and the theme should begin downloading. Once the download finishes, continue on to the next step.
 If you are downloading with an Edge browser, you should see a little gray box at the bottom of your browser window. Once the download has finished, you should see an option that says “Open.” Clicking this will automatically apply the theme to your device.


If you are running a different web browser, like Chrome or Firefox, you will need to open a file explorer and navigate to your Downloads folder. You should be able to do this easily by looking at the left-hand side of the file explorer window. Near the top, under “Quick Access,” you should see your Downloads folder. Click this and then double-click the downloaded theme to apply it to your device.

