 By high school, you should have years of playing under your belt. Most soccer players begin playing in children’s leagues and progress through playing on school teams and for private clubs.


It is rare that a skilled soccer player will begin playing the sport for the first time in their teenage years, but it is not impossible.
The more that you are able to train and practice, the better you will get. Some people are naturally talented at soccer, but becoming a skilled player requires hard work.;
, Many soccer athletes grew up playing other sports and continue to play on teams when soccer is not in season. You have the ability to decide whether you want to specialize in soccer (and not play other sports) or continue to be a multi-sport athlete.There are benefits to playing other sports while seeking a soccer scholarship. Practicing and training during the soccer offseason can keep you in good physical shape and can strengthen certain skills. For example, running on the track team can be a beneficial way to strengthen your running abilities on the soccer field.
You do run the risk of injury when you play a physical sport (like football) during the soccer offseason.
By playing multiple sports, you may begin to feel overworked and become distracted in the scholarship process.
 When you enter high school, you will need to try out for the school’s team. Most schools will have a junior varsity and a varsity team. High school teams will host tryouts and determine which team a player will participate on. It is best to begin playing at the varsity level as early as you can. You are more attractive to recruiters and college coaches if you’ve played on the varsity team for four years rather than one or two.


Tryouts are open to all grades and to all skill levels. As a skilled player, you need to stand out from these other players to be selected.
Varsity level soccer teams can vary greatly in their skill levels and competitiveness. Your high school may not have a very strong soccer program or they may be well known as a competitive team.
It is easier to standout if you are on a less competitive team, but you are less likely to be noticed by recruiters if you do not play for a well-known and competitive high school.
 If you go through tryouts and are selected for the junior varsity team, you can still be a competitive recruit for a soccer scholarship. Use this as an opportunity build a relationship with your coach and to fine tune your skills.


Junior varsity players have room to grow and develop their skills before they are ready to play at the varsity level.
Play at your best level on the junior varsity team to improve your chances of making the varsity team the next year.
 Club soccer leagues are available in most areas. They give athletes an opportunity to play soccer competitively during the offseason when they do not play for a school team.Club soccer is a good way to increase your visibility to recruiters, especially if your high school team is not very competitive.
Club soccer coaches often have connections to college coaches, just as your high school coach would. Use them as a resource to make connections with college coaches and to get your name out.

