 Blanching the spinach quickly cooks it while leaving the bright, attractive color intact. Once the water is boiling in a big saucepot, drop the spinach in and stir it once. After two minutes, remove it and drain off the boiling water.Add a tablespoon of salt to the water, like making pasta, for stronger flavored spinach.
The timing here is important. Do not leave the spinach on for more than 3 minutes.;
, This immediately removes the heat from the spinach, halting the cooking process to keep the spinach nice and green.
 Some people like a few chunks of spinach in their dish, while others want a completely smooth green curry. You can blend the spinach for as long as you want to get your desired consistency. If you didn't salt the water when blanching, add a pinch of salt now., Turn the stove on medium and plop in a tablespoon of ghee. Chop one large onion finely and get it cooking once the oil is hot. Add a pinch of salt as soon as the onions hit the pan, and stir occasionally to prevent burning.
 Add them to the onions shortly after they start cooking, then stir well to make sure everything is coated. Cook for 2-3 minutes, until the raw smell is gone and the onions are starting to turn clear., Some recipes call for one can of crushed tomatoes, or freshly cut tomatoes, and some Indian chefs like to spice their curry with a few different flavors. If you want a simple, but still delicious curry, just move on. If you're a little more adventurous, now is the time to add the following ingredients. Cook for about a minute, stirring constantly.


1 12oz can crushed red tomatoes OR 1 cup chopped cherry tomatoes.
1 teaspoon dry fenugreek leaves (sold sometimes as "kasuri methi; highly recommended)1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper and/or cayenne
1/2 teaspoon turmeric and/or ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamon, Keep the heat on medium and add in your spinach mixture. The cream or milk will help cut some of the spice and lead to a richer, fuller dish, but you could also use coconut milk, water, or chicken stock for a lighter dish.


The mixture should be brought to a light simmer, with small bubbles breaking the surface.
 This is the point where you should be sampling heavily. If it tastes great, leave it alone as it cooks. More likely than not, you'll want to play with the seasonings, and garam masala is highly recommended to get a subtle, rich, and restaurant-quality taste.
 The paneer just needs to get hot, and the dish is ready to serve. For an even tastier dish, fry the paneer cubes until the edges are golden brown in a separate dish, cooking them in a little bit of ghee or olive oil.Then toss them in the paneer for 2-3 minutes and serve!

