 This works best for spiders on the floor or on the wall. Approach the spider slowly, so that it doesn’t get scared and start running. Quickly, take a small cup and place it directly over the spider, so that the spider is trapped inside.Preferably the cup should be clear so that when you trap the spider, you can see it inside the cup. However, you can use any cup that you have in your house.
Make sure to aim correctly so that the spider is unharmed. You don’t want to crush the spider or any of its legs with the rim of the cup.
 Take a sheet of paper and slide it underneath the cup. Make sure that the piece of paper is under the entire cup. This will make sure that the spider won’t be able to escape when you lift up the cup.The paper should be just one sheet, as opposed to a book or notebook. A stiff piece of paper like a notecard or index card works best.
If the spider is dangling from a web, you will want to place the cup under the spider, and then either cut the web using scissors or use the piece of paper to break the web. The web and spider will stick to the piece of paper, and you will be able to bring the cup up to the paper and trap the spider.
 You want to lift up the piece of paper and the cup so that the spider is still trapped inside. Make sure that as you are lifting, the rim of the cup and the paper are always against each other so that the spider does not escape. One way to lift the cup and paper is to hold the edge of the piece of paper with your left hand, with your right over the bottom of the cup.
Lift the edge of the piece of paper, still holding the cup over the paper. Slip the fingers of your left hand under the piece of paper so that your hand is on the part of the piece of paper underneath the cup.
Now with your hand underneath the paper and cup, you can lift up the trap and carry it to your door.
 Carry the spider over to the door. Open the door and step outside. Place the trap on the ground, and take the cup off the spider. The spider should run away. If the spider is not moving, try gently blowing on the spider. You can also brush the spider off with your hand if you’re feeling brave! 