 You can buy one for just a few dollars. You can start with one that's just 8"x10" to practice. Pick a canvas that is gallery wrapped -- meaning it has staples in the back, not the front. Make sure it's a stretched canvas as well.;
, To do this, you'll need a thick acrylic paintbrush to cover the entire canvas with one solid color. Acrylic paints dry fast, so you may want to keep them wet by spraying them with a spray bottle of water, or just by mixing a bit of water with the paint. Once you've painted the canvas with acrylic paints, you can gently shake the glitter onto the canvas so it will harden into the paint. It will stick when the paint is not too wet and not too dry.


You can shake the glitter on using a shaker or by scooping it up with a spoon and gently spreading it out over the paint.
You can also paint a section of acrylic paint, add on the glitter, and then move on to paint and glitter another section. This will distribute the glitter more evenly.
When you're done adding the layer of glitter, smooth it down with a pencil, and then shake out the excess glitter onto a piece of paper.
Wait 24 hours for the glitter to dry before moving on to the next step.
 Once the glitter is dry, use a brush to paint the outline you've chosen for your painting over the dried glittered surface. Pick a color of acrylic paint that contrasts with the background instead of blending in.
 Paint the background outside of the image, so that only the inside of the image remains covered in glitter.
 Paint inside the glittered image with acrylic paints. You can create any design you want, using a thin or a thick brush to create a pattern. You can paint circles, add to the features on a face, or create entirely new images.
 Once the first layer dries, you can paint over the same parts with acrylic paints again, using a different color of paint this time. You can also water down these paints a bit more to create a lighter, less solid look.
 Once the two layers of glitter fill dry, use a solid color to paint over the initial glitter layer entirely. You'll still be able to see it peeking and shining underneath, but it should be completely covered.
 Paint inside the glittered parts inside the images to create starker contrast. Use black paint with a thin black brush to do this. Notice how the man's blue eyes become black with a little reinforcement.
 Give the paint a few hours to dry. Since you haven't added a new layer of glitter, you don't need to wait 24 hours.
 For a final touch, repeat the process of glittering to the background of the painting. Pick a new color of glitter this time to add a new dimension to the painting. You can glitter the entire background, or just part of the background, to create a new image, such as adding hair to a face. After 24 hours, rub or shake off the excess glitter again.

