 One of the great things about the Metaconda workout (besides the high calorie burn) is that it can be done anywhere. It requires very minimal equipment or space.


If you don't belong to a gym or don't have a lot of home equipment, the Metaconda workout is great to include in your weekly exercise routine.
You'll need: a yoga mat or a carpeted floor, a stopwatch or timer and one dumbbell.
You might want to have a few sets of different weights so that as you increase your strength, you'll have some heavier dumbbells available.
When you're ready to start the Metaconda workout, set up your dumbbells, timer and mat so that you'll have everything ready and nearby for your workout.;
, If you search for the Metaconda workout online, you'll see there are written versions of it and video versions. You might want to review both so you know exactly how to do this routine.


The Metaconda workout isn't all that hard to follow. However, if you're not familiar with some of the exercises or are a visual learner, you might want to consider watching a video.
There are a variety of videos online of this workout. Some are tutorials that will explain how to do the exercises, while others are just videos of other people performing the workout.Consider watching the entire workout first, so that you're aware of how to do each exercise.
You may also want to have the video play along with you the first few times you do this workout. You can watch it being performed and have the timer on the video help you stick to the timeline.
 If you do some research on the Metaconda workout, you will see that one of the things listed about this routine is that it can be very difficult to perform.


The theory behind the high level of difficulty is that you need to push your limits in order to see serious results.
Many people who start the Metaconda workout will notice that the first few times completing the entire routine will be very difficult.
The creator of this workout urges you not to get discouraged. This routine is meant to be tough. However, after a few times, your body will get more used to this intense routine and you'll notice improvements soon.
Also, after the first time or two, you may be sore afterwards. This is OK and no reason to give up. Stretch, do foam rolling and include rest days to allow your body to cope with this workout.
 To start out with the Metaconda workout, do dumbbell swings. This is a good exercise to start with since it uses many muscles in your body and can help loosen up your muscles and joints.To start this exercise, stand with your feet just slightly wider than hip width apart. Hold a heavy dumbbell in both of your hands.
While keeping your arms straight, squat slightly and swing the dumbbell down in between your legs.
Powerfully push your body up to standing and swing the dumbbell up so that your arms are parallel to the floor. Do not swing the dumbbell all the way up to the ceiling.
Keep your back, shoulders, arms and abs tight and strong. You want to use your muscles to perform this exercise not momentum.
Repeat this exercise as fast as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 The blast-off push-up is a variation of a traditional push-up that puts additional stress on your legs, shoulder and abs. It's a great full body move that's specifically great for a strong core.Get down on your hands and knees and move into a standard or traditional push-up position. Your palms should be flat on the floor just a little wider than shoulder width apart.
Perform one push-up by bending your elbows out to the side and lower your body down towards the floor.
Instead of pushing straight back up, push yourself backwards so that your knees bend and your arms are straight and fully extended in front of you.
Then, using your legs, push yourself back into a straight push-up position and lower down again for another push-up.
Repeat this push-up as many times as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 After you complete the blast-off push-ups, move onto bodyweight squats. These may feel a bit easier, but when you perform them as fast as you can, they will work your legs at a high intensity.Start these squats by positioning your feet slightly wider than hip width apart. Your toes should be angled away from your body at a 45 degree angle.
Squat down - almost as if you were sitting down in a chair - with your butt pointing backwards.
Squat down until your thighs are parallel to the floor. As you're squatting down, lift your arms straight out in front of you.
Forcefully push yourself back up to standing and drop your arms back down to your sides.
Do as many squats as you can as fast as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 For this next exercise, you'll need to grab your dumbbell or kettle bell again. This particular exercise will really focus on your back, shoulders and arms.To start, position your body as if you were going to do squats. Your feet should be slightly farther than shoulder width apart. Hold a dumbbell with both hands in between your legs.
Bend your knees slightly and lean your upper body forward at the hips. Allow the dumbbell to fall in between your legs in front of you.
Pull the dumbbell towards your chest as forcefully as you can. Stop when the dumbbell meets your chest.
Push the dumbbell back out in front of you until your arms are completely straight again.
Repeat this exercise as fast as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 Mountain climbers are a great exercise since they strengthen your muscles but also increase your heart rate.Get down on the floor almost as if you were going to do a push-up. Your palms should be flat on the floor about shoulder width apart. Your legs should be extended back behind you.
As quickly as you can while keep your upper body and arms stationary, pull your knees up to your chest.
Alternate between both of your legs. It should almost look like you're running in place.
Repeat this exercise as fast as you can for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 Although the hollow body hold specifically targets your abs, this exercise will strengthen your entire core including your back, abs and glutes.To start this exercise, lay on the floor with the front of your body facing upwards towards the ceiling.
Lift your head and shoulders off the floor and swing your arms above your head and keep them straight.
Squeezing your abs, lift your legs off the ground so your feet are about a foot off the ground. Press your legs together. Your body should form a "U" shape.
Hold steady in this position for 30 seconds. Rest for a few seconds and then start the next move.
 Although there are only 6 exercises included in the Metaconda workout, the routine is repeated 8 times. In addition, the period of rest in between these exercises changes with each round.In order to complete the entire Metaconda workout completely, you need to complete each round (a total of 6 exercises) 8 times.
If you can't complete the full 8 rounds initially that's OK. Try to complete each round as many times as you can. Over time, you'll be able to do the full 8 rounds.
In between each exercise there is a period of rest. During round 1, you can rest for 30 seconds between each exercise and in-between the first and second round.
However, with each completed round you need to decrease the amount of rest between exercises by 5 seconds.
For example, since the first round allows for a 30 second rest, the second round will only have a 25 second rest between exercises and the third round will only have 20 seconds of rest between exercise. The last set will have no rest between exercises.
 When you're starting the Metaconda workout, you'll need to figure out when you're going to do it during the week. Schedule this into your weekly exercise routine so you'll stay on track.The Metaconda workout is both cardio and strength training, however most heavy on the strength training component. When you're scheduling this into your routine, count this as a resistance or strength training workout.
Write out your exercise schedule each week or for the entire month. Write in which days you're doing cardio, strength or which days you'll be doing the Metaconda workout.
 Since the Metaconda workout focuses primarily on strength training, it'd be a good idea to also include some steady-state cardiovascular exercise as well.


Health professionals recommend that you include about 150 minutes of steady-state cardio or aerobic exercise each week.Steady-state exercises are aerobic activities that keep your heart rate elevated and you do the exercises for at least 10 minutes at a steady state or intensity. However, you need to work out for at least 30 minutes at a moderate intensity to burn fat.
Try to work out at an intensity that is equal to about 70 or 75% or your heart rate maximum. A sustained 60 to 80% heart rate maximum is considered the cardio training zone.
Exercises you can do include: walking, jogging, cycling, swimming, taking an aerobics class or using the elliptical.
 The Metaconda workout is a great routine to include to help change up your typical strength training routine. However, if you want to, you can also include other forms of strength training as well.


Health professionals recommend that you include one to two days of strength training exercises each week.These exercises need to be done for at least 20 minutes and focus on every major muscle group in your body. The Metaconda workout meets all of these guidelines.
In addition to the Metaconda workout, you can also use weight machines, lift free weights, do other body weight exercises or try out a yoga or pilates class. These all count as strength training exercises.
 The Metaconda workout will really help build muscle mass, decrease body fat and strengthen your entire body. However, without adequate rest, you will not see these results.


Every fitness and health professional recommend that you include at least one rest day each week.It's during rest that your muscles perform a significant amount of recovery and repair activities. They will heal and grow in size and strength during rest.
Since the Metaconda workout is high intensity and high impact, you should include a rest day after performing this routine.
You can do something gentle or easy like walking or an easy swim class, but try to keep it low intensity and low impact for the best benefit.

