 This doesn't necessarily mean the bag with the most space or the largest number of compartments. Weekend trips should suffice with a single tote or knapsack. Longer vacations should comprise a couple of suitcases, with at least one smaller bag included within the luggage itself. That way, you'll have something to carry around if you're going on walking trips once you've reached your destination.


Compression bags are specially designed to maximize the space therein. You might consider buying one if you travel a lot and have trouble packing the clothes you want into your current bags.Try to make your luggage look visually unique. A lot of travellers have very similar-looking luggage, and something as simple as a brightly-coloured sticker will make yours stand out in a baggage carousel.
 Seasoned travellers may debate between neatly folding clothing into luggage, or rolling them up tightly. Neat folds will spare the inevitable creases, but rolling your clothing will save up on precious space, which is arguably more important when you'll need to be carrying everything around.Rolling socks together is especially helpful, as it helps keep pairs of socks together.
 Something as basic as a roll of duct tape can be used to solve a number of potential problems you may come across.If you're travelling as a party, bring items that more than one of you will use, and share it. In this manner, you'll minimize the amount of stuff you need to bring, all the while maximizing the utility you're getting out of the stuff you do take with you.


Convertible clothing, like pants that can be converted into shorts, is also recommended for this reason.
Shoes are very space-consuming and only serve one purpose. Unless you are bringing multiple pairs of shoes for a specific purpose (such as attending a formal event) it's best to bring a casual pair of shoes and wear them throughout your vacation., Things like books and maps are very helpful to have on a vacation, but they're going to take up an inordinate amount of space in your luggage. Wherever possible, it's best to go digital. If you're planning on reading a lot during your vacation, an e-reader will let you bring hundreds of texts with you at a minimum of space cost. If you have a smartphone, you can use that in lieu of carrying maps and print manuals.It's good to keep a credit card on you with at least a 1000 dollar limit in case you get into an emergency. However, you're best off keeping the local currency on you in order to save on potential transaction fees from your bank.
Try to minimize the amount of devices you bring. Bringing a phone with movies and music saves you having to bring items specifically intended for those purposes.