 Side bends can work your abdominals as well as your back and side core muscles when properly executed. If you feel capable, you can do side bends with a barbell (but don't add any weights). Otherwise you can just use a broom or some other long, straight stick.









Tighten up your abdominal muscles and stand straight with your feet shoulder-width apart. Keep your toes pointed forward and sling the broom (or barbell) across your shoulders.While holding the broom/barbell with both hands a little past your shoulders, lean to one side as far as you can comfortably go. Keep your feet planted on the ground throughout the workout.
Hold the side bend for three breaths, then return to your starting position. Bend to the other side, hold for three breaths, and repeat.
Try to complete two or three sets of 15 to 20 reps each.
 Squats are a great way to strengthen your core muscles in your abdomen and your back. Start out by standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and your toes pointed forward. Make sure your knees are also pointed forward, and slowly bend your knees while simultaneously bending forward at the waist.








Tighten your abdominal muscles as you dip into a squat. Extend your arms slightly forward, but don't overextend them (aim for your hands to be about 1 to 1.5 feet, or 0.3 to 0.45 meters, out in front of your face).
Do not bend your back. It's important that you keep your back in a neutral position (not rigid, but not arched either).
Keep your chest lifted and your shoulders down and drawn back as you squat. Make sure your knees don't extend past your toes.
Hold each squat for three breaths, then return to your starting position.
Aim for two to three sets of 15 to 20 reps., Lunges will help you build core strength while also working your leg muscles. Begin by standing with your feet shoulder-width apart and your toes pointed forward. Keep your arms at your sides and make sure you have enough room in front of you and behind you so you can take a huge step forward or backwards without bumping into anything.








Tighten your abdominal muscles as you bend one knee and extend the other leg behind you. Let your back leg and ankle bend as though you were going to kneel directly onto the floor with your toes planted behind you.
Your front knee should be aligned with your ankle. Your back knee should be bent enough that a straight line forms from your shoulder to your hip to your back knee.
Do not lean forward. Try to keep your upper body as straight as possible.
Hold the lunge for three breaths, then stand back up. Switch to the other side and repeat.
Try to do two to three sets of 15 to 20 reps each. If you have joint problems, hip, knee, ankle foot, or spine issues, reduce the number of reps. Instead hold the position a little longer when you want to increase the intensity.

