 The Leo sign is associated with the element of fire.Because of this, Leos tend to be high spirited and quick tempered.If you’ve upset a Leo so much that an apology is in order, give them a chance to cool down first. A Leo’s fiery temperament makes it very difficult to approach them immediately after they’ve been angered. Once they calm down a bit, Leos think more clearly and logically.


If you attempt to rationally engage too quickly, Leos are likely to lash out.
At minimum, give a Leo about 20 minutes or so after an incident before you approach them to apologize. By then, you should be able to have a logical conversation with them.;
, It might be unpleasant to sit through, but let it happen. They’ll burn off some of their initial anger and reduce a lot of their frustration this way. After venting their frustration, Leos will become more receptive to rational thought.


Avoid interrupting a Leo who is venting.
Give them the spotlight and allow them to say what they need to say.
 Instead, they reflect what an angry person is saying back to them in a non-threatening way. During the venting process, start using empathetic statements to calm the person down. The venting will begin to slow down and then eventually stop as the person runs out of steam. These statements usually being with “So you…”


Example: A Leo might say, “I was trying to get your attention because I needed your help upstairs. But you just sat there talking on the telephone.”
You should reply with, “So you felt that I ignored you when you needed help.”
Example: A Leo might say, “I wouldn’t have interrupted your phone call unless it was important. I expected you to pay attention and come help me.”
You should reply with, “So you felt the interruption was necessary and I should have recognized that.”

, Their fiery temperament is the source of many good qualities, but they do tend to act a bit like a spoiled child when they feel they’ve been slighted. What they need most, in order to forgive you, is the reassurance that you love and appreciate them.


Leos do not like to be ignored.After the initial cool down, step in as soon as possible.
Once you diffuse the worst of the situation, go to great lengths to reassure them of your appreciation and affection.

