"This is a basic, formal greeting you can use with men and women and in the vast majority of social situations.


Translated literally, this is a blessing that means "peace be upon you."
It is most commonly used by Muslims greeting other Muslims, but it has also been used in other circumstances and situations, as well.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: السلام عليكم
This phrase should be pronounced as Ahl sah-LAHM ah-LAY-koom.;
, If someone says “as-salam alaykom” to you first, this is the phrase you should reply back with.


Translated literally, this is a return blessing meaning “peace be upon you, as well” or “and peace to you.”
Again, it is most frequently used by Muslims greeting other Muslims, but it can and has been used in other contexts, too.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: وعليكم السلام
This greeting should be pronounced as Wah ah-LAY-koom ahl sah-LAHM.
 This is the Arabic equivalent of the English “good morning.”


The most direct translation available for this Arabic phrase is "good morning," and is generally only used to greet someone before noon or so.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: صباح الخير
Pronounce this greeting as sah-bah-heu ahl-kha-ir.
 If someone greeted you with “Sabaḥu Al-khair” first, this is the proper way to say “hello” back.


In practical terms, this phrase essentially means “good morning, too.” More directly, though, the greeting translates to something along the lines of “morning light.”
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: صباح النور
You should pronounce this greeting as sah-bah-heu ahn-nuhr.

In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: مساء الخير
Pronounce this phrase as mah-sah-uh ahl-kha-ir.
 If someone greets you with “ Masa’u Al-khair” first, this is the correct way to say “hello” back.


In practical terms, this phrase essentially means “good evening, too,” but more directly, the greeting translates into something along the lines of “evening light.”
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: مساء النور
This phrase should be pronounced as ahl-kha-ir ahn-nuhr.
 This is a fairly casual, easy-going way to tell someone “hi” in Arabic.


Translated directly, this term means “peace.” When you say this phrase, you are making a nod to the full phrase “as-salam alaykom,” or “peace upon you,” yet shortening it for the sake of ease. As a shortened form, however, you would generally only use it with family or friends with whom you can speak informally.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: سلام
Pronounce this Arabic greeting as sah-LAHM.
 This is another casual way to say “hi” to someone with whom you are on close terms.


This interjection can be translated either as "hello" or "hi." It's a more secular greeting, so it is most common among non-religious speakers of Arabic or speakers who are greeting non-religious people.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: مرحبا
This greeting should be pronounced as MARR-hah-bah.
 If someone meets you at your home, work, or another location, you should use this greeting to offer a welcoming "hello."


This greeting translates into “welcome,” but this “welcome” is usually used as an interjection rather than any other part of speech. As such, you would use it to say “Welcome!” to someone as he or she walks through the door.
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: أَهلا
Pronounce this greeting as ah-lahn.
 If someone greets and welcomes you with “Ahlan” first, this is the most appropriate way to greet that person in reply.


In essence, you are saying “welcome to you, too.” Use it in response to “ahlan” or “marḥaban.”
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: أهلا وسهلا
You should pronounce this Arabic phrase as ah-lahn wah sah-lahn.
"The former is a way to say “Hey, friend!” to a male, while the latter should be used to say the same thing to a female friend.


“Ahlan sadiqi” translates into “hey, male friend,” and “Ahlan sadiqati” translates into “hey, female friend.” The former greeting is only given to males while the latter is only given to females.
In Arabic script, “ Ahlan sadiqi” is written from right to left as: أهلا صديقي
Pronounce this greeting as ah-lahn sah-dii-kii.
In Arabic script, “Ahlan sadiqati: is written from right to left as: أهلا صديقتي
Pronounce this greeting as ah-lahn sah-dii-kah-tii.
"This greeting is a common way to say “hello” on the telephone, but it is almost exclusively used for telephone conversations.


This Arabic interjection translates most directly into the English “hello.”
In Arabic script, this greeting is written from right to left as: آلو
Pronounce the greeting as ahl-loh.

