 This helps you to effectively size up your competition and discern what is considered ‘attractive’ and ‘likable’ among both your immediate peer group and wider society as a whole. This may include, but is not limited to, the strategic utilization of social media networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and Instagram, as well as any number of celebrity gossip columns and reality shows.


It can be helpful to take copious notes on your findings from this step, as they will likely come in handy later.;
, Set up accounts on no less than three of these websites (especially if you are under age 25). Make sure to amass a sufficient number of ‘friends’, ‘followers’, and the like on each site as quickly as possible, so as to impress others and attract larger numbers of people to your profiles. This multi-faceted approach will allow you to cultivate the illusion of physical attractiveness, humor, and popularity, which is almost certain to lend you a competitive edge in terms of so-called ‘likeability’.


Be sure that the photographs you post on these websites are properly edited and filtered. Use photos to emphasize your connections with other ‘attractive’ individuals. Being featured on their profiles can help to create a socially effective symbiotic relationship.
Include picture descriptions and other text- based updates that simultaneously communicate how witty, funny and deep you are.
 This practice of strategically attractive photo-posting can be extended to pictures of you alone (often termed ‘selfies’ ), which will ideally feature excellent lighting and possibly heavy filtering using a photo-editing interface such as Instagram or Pixtr.


Note that the over-posting of these so-called ‘selfies’ can actually decrease your popularity among your peers, so proceed with caution in this particular area.
, However, do not proceed to this additional step before successfully completing the preceding ones, as things often become substantially more competitive and personally hurtful at this stage.
 For an example of what can be achieved by playing this attractiveness game, simply consider Kim Kardashian, an American female celebrity who achieved stardom almost exclusively through her physical 'attractiveness' according to today's societal standards. Kardashian (and the rest of her family, which has since built a lucrative media empire on her initial success) serves as a constant reminder that popularity, and financial security can be achieved solely based on looks, even if an individual lacks any discernible talent. Overall, this new breed of celebrity (whose fame is based solely on their looks and popularity) gives hope to a generation of young people hoping to promote themselves online based on their attractiveness without the hassle of attaining success through skill development, education, or hard work.


Remember: in this modern era, image is everything, so plan accordingly and don't fall behind!

