 You'll need people who can help you film, as making an action movie will be impossible by yourself. Whenever possible, get a crew that will be consistent and there every day you shoot so that you can develop a rhythm together. Positions you need to consider include:



Director of Photography (DP): Arguably the most important job, your DP is in charge of cameras and lights. It is incredibly difficult to effectively light a scene, set up the cameras and angles, and direct the camera man if you're also coaching actors, checking the set design, reading the script, and otherwise directing the movie. Even a friend with a background in photography is better than nothing.

Camera and microphone operators: Self-explanatory, but essential crew members. Look for friends or people online who have at least a little experience.

Make-up Artist: While anyone can do this, their main job is continuity. Unless a lot of time goes by in your film, you need the actor's face and costumes to look identical in every single scene, otherwise the audience will notice the changes. Take pictures every day of the costume, make-up and scenes to make sure it looks the same.

Sound Engineer: Listen to all the sound as it is being recorded, ensuring that it is right. Like the DP, the sound engineer deals with the nitty-gritty of audio recording so that you don't have to.

Production Assistant: These people (known as PAs) do whatever needs to be done-- preparing food and coffee, wiping memory cards, and helping set up or trigger special effects.
 A shot list is simply every angle that you need to capture each day you're shooting. This helps you work effectively and make sure all the relevant details are on film for the final movie. To make one, simply draw out the scene in basic comic book form. Show every shot that you need to capture, even if it is with stick figures.


Get every single detail you need, from important props (the gun on the table your hero notices) to the structure of the action scenes.
Movies are not shot like plays, where every scene is captured in real time. Frequently you'll shoot a 2-second clip, like a reveal of the gun on the table, all by itself. It is then edited into the final scene later.
 You need to be the first one on set and the last one to leave every day you're shooting. Things are going to go wrong when actors get sick or the weather won't cooperate, so you need to be flexible with every decision you make. That flexibility is only possible if you show up prepared.


Review the day's shot list so that you know in advance what you need to get. If something goes wrong you should know what scenes you can cut, move to another day, or shoot quickly.
Rehearse with the actors several days in advance. Fight scenes, in particular, need to be choreographed and rehearsed well in advance.
Review lighting and camera positions. No one wants to sit around while you fiddle with lights. You and your camera crew should have them ready before they arrive., This is the number one mistake of young filmmakers. You believe that to get dark, moody lighting effects you need a dark set. This will always lead to grainy, ugly footage. Instead, focus on making good, clear shadows and nice, fully clear light spots -- most of the styling (like dark and grimy, or vibrant and energetic) is done in post-production.


Cameras need light to take smooth video. This is why you always darken the footage while editing instead of trying to shoot in the dark.
Use natural light whenever possible, especially the hour after sunrise and before sunset. These are the "golden hours," and it's hard to make a film look bad when shot at this time. Even overcast days are great for even, no-nonsense lighting.Colored lights, specifically greens, reds, and blues, can create a wonderfully unique atmosphere for your scenes, like those used in the recent action flick John Wick., Blocking is where the actors are and where they go, and having movement carefully choreographed is essential in an action movie. Most importantly, it needs to be consistent. This is because most of your scenes can't be shot right in a row -- you may shoot the actor running up to a ledge and jumping off it separately, then edit it together to make it look seamless. But if the actor is always running up to a different part of the ledge the audience may notice the "cheat."


Fight and stunt choreography are art forms on their own, and you should hire a stunt coordinator. At the very least you should have actors or advisers knowledgeable about martial arts to set up clean, effective fight blocking.
Let the camera do the movement whenever possible, not the actors. The less your actors need to move, the easier your job lighting, shooting, and editing will be., The best way to sell a good punch is up close and personal. Get as many cameras as you can and keep them trained on moving parts, flying punches, and reactions so it almost feels like you are right in the middle of the fight.


Again, you need to be consistent with your fight scenes, not improvising them every time. This makes editing much, much easier.
 The hero driving, the location she/he just arrived at, the weapons on the table -- these little shots are called B-roll and are essential to your movie. These shots are the connective tissue of your movie and they are used to create atmosphere and build the world of your movie. In between scenes, get shots of the actors exploring the set, or sitting and talking about something before the scene begins. These shots will make your life much, much easier later on.


You should also shoot every location without the actors. These shots are perfect to introduce a scene, such as when a character walks into a room for the first time and we "see" them exploring it through their eyes.