 While being smart is great, modesty rules too. Others will notice your intelligence in class, whether or not they mention it. They are bound to notice if you show it. Bragging will make you disliked.;
, This will show that you know the answers without you having to brag. Offer to help others, by asking, "Do you need help?", especially if you see that someone is stuck on something. You can help anyone-this does not need to be only a friend. Others may only help friends, but this is because they are not as smart as you are.
 You can offer them to others, or simply leave them out in class. People are bound to notice and ask for them. Make your offer now. A study guide can be like practice problems, or simply a list of vocabulary, for example.
 Your integrity will make you very well-known. Your teachers are bound to like you. Go the extra mile; do more than asked for. Write five paragraphs instead of one. Show your work in math. Use proper grammar in Spanish even if you are not required to. Take notes in science. Soon, a teacher might use you as an example.
 Being smart does not mean being "nerdish". Of course, there's nothing wrong with being a nerd, but keep in mind you can still have fun. Most likely, if you are smart, you are fast at work and have free time. Hang out with friends after school. Your nice nature is going to attract friends. In school, talk about things other than just academics sometimes.
 There are several cases to deal with depending on the person. One type of person is an acquaintance whom you help. Help this person regardless. Don't expect friendship in return for help. Another type of person is a true friend. While it is okay to be friends with people who admire you for intelligence, know the difference. True friends are the ones who help you if you are in trouble. Someone who is using you appears to act like your friend and copies off you constantly, but when you are in trouble they join in the fun. For example, if someone makes fun of you, they join in.
 Even if you do encounter trouble, you should handle it without yelling or acting snobbish. Yelling will not do any good.
 Jealousy is the reason for it, even if it is not admitted by them. Handle them calmly and ignore them. If they continue to bother you or hit you, tell the principal or another staff member along with your parents.
 Those extra minutes of studying will save you in the end, leaving you more free time, better grades, and more respect as a smart student. People respect good looking, smart, and motivated people. You don't have to be nerdy to be smart. So as long as you study, once you get to class, you won't have to worry how others see you, it will show in the test grades.

