 If it's 40 degrees outside and you're just dying to wear that dress, leg warmers and leggings or footless tights are a great option. Black tights and black leg warmers are an understated, classic combination. It's like wearing boots, but much more comfortable!


Make sure they're a little bit bunched, especially around the ankle. They shouldn't be so low they're dragging on the ground, but there should be overlap between your shoe and the leg warmer.;
, This one takes a bit more confidence, though it's a totally acceptable look. As long as your heels are on the understated side, leg warmers will look good. Stick to heels that are nude, brown, black, or gray.

Leg warmers are a cozy look. If you're wearing stripper heels that glow-in-the-dark, leg warmers will look a bit out of place. Unless your leg warmers are glow-in-the-dark too, of course.
 This is the same concept as with a dress. Tights are only necessary if the weather requires it, though they can streamline the leg. If you have a skirt that's a little on the short side, leg warmers can make it more modest.


Your shoe options are endless here. Flats, pumps, boots -- it's all good. Just keep the colors neutral yet varied!

, You know those skinny jeans you have, but your pear shape makes you feel a little funny wearing them too often? Wear leg warmers over them! Problem immediately solved. Again, your footwear here can be anything. Anything but flip flops!, For an extra textual touch (or a bit more warmth), wear them just peeking above your boots. Anywhere from 2-6 inches is good.Don't worry about matching colors. Unless you're wearing black, this will be hard to do. Different shades of brown and beige are totally fine. It'll just draw attention to your attention for detail!

, If the pants, skirt, or dress you're wearing don't go well with your calf-high boots, you can get a similar look with ankle boots and leg warmers. Just pull them a bit over the tops of your booties and scrunch 'em up!

, Wear them with Converse or Converse high tops for an urban look. No one said leg warmers had to be for dressed up occasions! You can wear them whenever you want!


Fashion is, as of late, about intentional chaos.If it doesn't go together, in a way it...goes together. A quick Google search will verify this if you're skeptical. So if you're think you're not in line with current trends, just in being so, you are. Blowing your mind, huh?

, Leg warmers are not meant to be stretched flat. You want them below your knee and appearing a bit loose. If you don't have them hidden by a boot, they should be about 4-6 inches (10-15 cm) from your knee, extending down to just above your heel.
 What makes leg warmers wearable after the millennium is their inconspicuousness. When they used to be neon yellow and pink, now they're mostly donned in browns, beiges, blacks, navies, and creams. While they don't have to be a color in your outfit necessarily, stick to neutrals that match everything.


Leg warmers are a definite accessory and shouldn't really be a focal point. If your eye goes straight to your leg warmers, you're probably doing it wrong.

