 To get tan quickly, you'll need to apply a lotion or oil with a low SPF, but you still want to make sure you have some protection from the sun's powerful rays. Choose between rub-on lotions, aerosol sprays, and oil rubs and mists that all contain some SPF.


Ideally, choose an SPF between four and 15 depending on the strength of your base tan. If you are already somewhat tan, you can go with a lower SPF. If this is your first exposure of the summer season, choose SPF 15 to avoid getting sunburned.
For the most even tan possible, choose a spray or an oil. Because of their watery texture, these two options are the easiest to spread thoroughly over your skin. Make sure to rub in sprays with your hands after spraying.
Popular sun tanning lotions and oils are available from Hawaiian Tropics, Australian Gold, Banana Boat, and Maui Babe. Most can be found at your local drugstore or beauty supply store.
Wear a lip balm with at least SPF 15. You don't need your lips to be tan. Dry, chapped lips are not only unattractive but also painful.;
, If you want to skip the store-bought stuff and you already have a good base tan, there are natural oils that will attract the sun and give you that olive glow. Apply these natural tan-enhancers before going out into the sun and wash off with soap and water when finished tanning. Some natural products include:


Olive oil
Coconut oil
Hazelnut oil
Avocado oil
Wheat-germ oil
Sunflower oil
Sesame oil
Green Tea Extract, Like a chicken roasting in a rotisserie, you need to turn your body over frequently to get an even tan. A good rule of thumb is to turn in 1/4 revolutions every half hour. Start on your back, then turn to your left side, then your stomach, and lastly your right side. Make sure to change the position of your arms and legs frequently to avoid awkward tan lines.
 As the sun moves across the sky, move your towel or lounge chair so that you can always be in direct sunlight. If you don't want to lay around all day, you can also do something active outside, just wear as little clothing as possible to allow the sun to hit your skin.
 Though dermatologists usually tell you to avoid the sun during peak hours, if you're trying to get tan quickly, hit the tanning grind when the sun is strongest.
 If you are trying to get tan all over, then there's really no other option than to put on your birthday suit and soak up the sun. Find a nude beach or a private (fenced) area of your backyard and let the sun work its magic!

, This technique is a blast from the past, but it will actually magnify and focus the sun on your skin. There are several reflective products on the market that can help attract the sun to your body. Lay-out on a reflective towel or purchase a reflective sun screen. Rest a sun screen at your waist and tilt it at about a 45-degree angle until the sunlight hits your body.
 Because water attracts and reflects sunlight, laying on or near a body of water will help you absorb as much sunlight as possible. Get some floaties, lay on a raft, or sit in an inner tube on the water to tan in the sun.
 Make sure that you are always covered with some sort of low SPF oil or lotion. Even water-resistant products should be reapplied just to be careful.
 Keep your skin hydrated and seal in your bronze after a tanning session by applying a moisturizing lotion.

