 Most holiday gatherings will serve alcohol, but you should treat any networking opportunity as work. If you choose to imbibe, limit yourself to a maximum of two drinks. Know your limits, and don’t drink if any alcohol at all will compromise your speech or judgment., Many holiday parties have themes, like ugly sweater parties or toy or canned food collections. Whatever the theme, make sure you take part, or you’ll risk looking uninformed or lazy.If there is no dress theme, make sure you’re wearing your best business casual attire, or otherwise dressed appropriately. Don’t dress festively for the sake of it: remember you should be treating this as a casual work affair.
 If it’s appropriate, bring a bottle of wine, dessert, cheese, or some other item that your host might appreciate. If the party isn’t at someone’s home, the host would be considered the most senior officer in attendance.Be sure to compliment the host on the choice of venue, decor, selection of food, or some other detail. When you leave, you should of course thank the host for their hospitality and thoughtfulness.
You should also send a handwritten thank you note to the host the next day, in addition to your verbal thank you.
 Try to go in with a positive attitude, whether you have a career goal in mind or just want to show some team spirit. Even if you’re naturally shy or hesitant, you should try to get out of your comfort zone and have fun.Even if you think you don’t need any new contacts, you should still make an effort to attend holiday parties. You truly never know what opportunities may arise.
 "Ignore the follow up at your own peril" is considered the number one networking commandment. If you’ve had a good conversation with someone, exchange cards and let them know you’ll be in touch. Send them a follow up email letting them know what a pleasure it was to meet them.If you met or interacted with a senior employee at your company, write them a short email so that you stand out from other people they spoke to or met.
Mention specifics from your conversations to indicate that you were indeed paying attention to them. Say something like, "I really enjoyed our chat at the party. Your point about how social media has affected our marketing strategies more this year than in the past really stuck with me. Perhaps we could meet after the holidays to discuss the company's goals for the coming year?"

