 When you want to improve your skin, try to avoid stress. The hormones produced when you're stressed can cause your skin to become more sensitive to outside irritants. It also increase the production of sebum, an oil made by your skin. This oil can cause acne as well as other skin issues. Stress can also slow down healing, trigger irritations such as hives and fever blisters, and interrupt your daily routine. Avoid stress by:


Getting regular exercise, because it can boost your mood and keep you physically active and fit. Take a moderate intensity walk for 10 minutes a day or a leisurely walk for 20 to 30 minutes at least five times a week to lift your mood.
Get a minimum of seven to eight hours of sleep each night, since a lack of sleep can make you age faster and leave tired looking skin.
Practice stress management techniques such as yoga, deep-breathing exercises, or meditation., Green tea is filled with polyphenols, which are antioxidants that repair skin cells and stimulate the production of collagen in your skin. This helps give your skin a healthier glow and protect your skin from harmful free radicals and ultraviolet radiation. These properties also help reduce wrinkles and also has the benefit of decreasing stress.


Brew green tea with warm water, which is 175 to 185°F or 80 to 85°C. Add two to three grams of loose leaf tea to the warm water for three to five minutes, then strain. You can drink this mixture two to three times each day.
You may be able to find topical treatments that contain green tea, which can benefit your complexion by improving blemishes and other issuesYou can also use premade green tea bags instead of loose leaf.
 Eating well can improve your skin from the inside out. Eat plenty of fresh vegetables and fruit and whole grains to improve your complexion. Eat foods especially high in vitamin A, C, and E as well as zinc to reduce the severity of acne and dermatitis. Some good sources of these vitamins include:


Sweet red peppers
Kale
Spinach
Amaranth Leaves
Turnip Greens
Sweet Potato (Yams)
Pumpkin
Butternut Squash
Mangoes
Grapefruit
Cantaloupe, Ultraviolet (UV) radiation from the sun can cause blemishes, sun spots, wrinkles, and other skin problems as well as increase your likelihood of skin cancer. Ways to avoid exposure to UV radiation include:


Seeking shade as much as possible and wearing protective clothing. This includes long-sleeved shirts, wide-brimmed hats, and sunglasses, which help avoid getting wrinkles around your eyes.
Using a broad-spectrum sunscreen. People with dark skin should wear at least SPF 15, while people with lighter skin should use at least SPF 30., If you have combination or oily skin, avoid touching your face as much as possible. Dirt and bacteria from your hands clog your pores, which cause blemishes. If you suffer from acne often, remove excess dirt with a gentle, oil-free facial wipe.


Never pop or squeeze pimples. This can cause scars and spread the bad bacteria further., Parabens are preservatives that disrupts your skin's hormonal balance and puts you at a higher risk of female centered cancers. If you have acne or eczema, these may cause skin irritation and inflammation because they are a potential allergen.


Butyl and propyl paraben are considered more toxic than methylparaben and ethylparaben. However, methylparaben and ethylparaben are more easily absorbed by the human body. They also cause the skin to be more sensitive to UV radiation, which lead to skin problems.