 The Silver Axe is only available in the Island Shop, but rarely appears in their displays. It costs about 8-9 Medals, but it lasts a lot longer than a regular Axe (136 uses for the Silver Axe compared to the 32 uses of the Axe), plus the trees you cut down with it has a chance to spawn a rare tree stump design, which is when the tree rings from cutting down a stump has a cute design instead, like a leaf, or the Triforce symbol.

You can get medals from completing the minigames in the Island.
 For the Gold Axe and Silver Watering Can, you’ll need the Gardening Store. The store opens five days after the player has created their town, and you need to have pulled weeds or planted flowers a combined total of 30 times.

The store can be found between the Nookling store in Main Street and the Able Sisters’ Store, and it takes at least 1-5 days for the store to be built.
 To get the Gold Axe, you’ll need to buy a total of 50 Saplings from the store. Leif, the sloth shop owner, will then give you the Gold Axe upon purchasing the 50th sapling. The Gold Axe spawns less stump patterns that the Silver Axe, but never breaks., Much like the Gold Axe, you need to buy 50 Seed Packets of Flowers from Leif, and he’ll hand you the Silver Watering Can when you get the 50th. It waters a wider radius than the Watering Can., Here’s the tricky bit: you need to get the town to “Perfect” status and retain it for 15 days. To do so, you need to make enough “good” Public Works Projects, plant enough Trees and Flowers without crowding the town, make sure to keep items scattered on the ground (excluding seashells, buried gyroids and fossils, mushrooms, and flowers) to a minimum, and pull weeds every single day. And you need to maintain this for 15 days. When you do this, talk to Isabelle in the Town Hall and she’ll hand you the Gold Watering Can. The Gold Watering Can has an even wider radius than the Silver one, and can turn wilted Black Roses into Gold Roses when you water it.

Proclaiming a Beautiful Town Ordinance as Mayor will keep the flowers from wilting and spawn less weeds, but costs 20000 Bells to enact, and only 1 Ordinance can be enacted at a time.
Public Works Projects, like adding benches and fountains and streetlights, can increase the town rating, but “ugly” projects—like big screens, flashing lights, the drilling rig, and especially the garbage—can will decrease it.
While you only need to plant a certain amount of trees (somewhere between 100-200 trees in total), you can have as many flowers as you want, as long as it’s more than 50.

