 Start by trying to distill down your novel idea into one sentence. You may need several minutes to one hour to create a one sentence summary. Aim for 15 words or fewer and avoid any character names in the summary. The summary should include the central conflict or issue at the heart of the novel.For example, you may write “A woman living in seclusion in the jungle gets a visit from the daughter she never knew she had.”

, Once you have the one sentence summary, you should try to expand it into a paragraph that is detailed and specific. Use the summary as a guide to write about the major conflicts or issues in the novel as well as the ending of the novel. Aim for five sentences total, one sentence that discusses the story set up, three sentences on the major conflicts or issues, and one sentence on the ending of the novel.For example, you may write “A woman, Susan, lives in seclusion in the jungle where she tries to live off the land. She gets an unexpected visit from a daughter she never knew she had and they develop the beginnings of a relationship. She makes the decision to move with her daughter to the city, but realizes she does not fit into her daughter’s lifestyle. She struggles to connect to others and adopt a modern way of life. In the end, Susan leaves the city and her daughter behind and returns to the jungle.”

, Now that you have a one paragraph summary of the novel, you can start to dig into the details of your characters. Create profiles for each main character, including details about the characters like their age, their physical appearance, their way of speaking, and their general disposition.For example, you may have a character profile that reads, “Susan, 37, dark hair, Latin features, dresses plainly in practical clothing, speaks Spanish and English, keeps to herself and tends to be solitary in nature.”
You may also include storylines for each character and note how they intersect with one another. For example, you may write, “Susan was planning to live in the jungle forever, away from people. But the arrival of her daughter shifts her plans for the future and she is put in a position where she has to decide to be with her daughter in the city or remain alone in the jungle.”

, Use a computer program to create a spreadsheet where you can write down each scene in the novel. You may start with the crucial scenes and then fill in the more minor scenes later. Try to include specific details for each scene so you can use the spreadsheet as a guide once you start writing the novel.For example, you may write, “Scene 1: Susan walking through the jungle hunting a small animal, her dinner for the night. She uses primitive tools to shoot the animal, gut it, and prepare it for dinner. She moves around her one room home with ease and with a sense of solitude.”

