 If the right side of the Hardware screen shows any sort of device information (such as “Apple Bluetooth Software Version 4”), you have Bluetooth.
In Windows, press ⊞ Win+X and select “Device Manager.” Click “Laptop.” If you see a category under Laptop called “Bluetooth Radios,” click it to expand a list of Bluetooth devices. If anything appears in this list, you have Bluetooth.
 Some things to keep in mind:


The speakers will need to be plugged into a power source.
Having a wall between the laptop and the speaker shouldn’t affect the connection too much, but it can potentially decrease sound quality.
If you want to be able to turn the speakers on and off easily, you may not want to mount them in a difficult-to-reach location.
Check your speaker manual to find out how close your laptop must be to your speakers.Typically these speakers can be up to 30 feet away, but some devices may have lower ranges.
 This process is different depending on the manufacturer of your speakers. Often there is a button on the speakers that must be held down for a few seconds to put the device into “discovery” mode. Check your manual to be sure.
 This process depends on your operating system:


If you’re using Windows 8 or 10, open the Action Center by clicking on the notification icon in the taskbar (near the clock). Select “Bluetooth,” then “Connect” to begin the search for devices. When the speakers appear, select them to connect.
Windows 7 users should open the Start menu, then click “Devices and Printers.” Click “Add a device” to start a search for Bluetooth devices. When the speakers show up, select them and click “Next” to pair the devices.
Mac users, select “System Preferences” from the Apple menu and click “Bluetooth.” Make sure Bluetooth is set to On, then wait for the speakers to appear in the list. Select them, then click “Pair.”

, This is a little different on Windows and Mac:


Windows users, press ⊞ Win+S and type control. When you see “Control Panel,” click it, then select “Sound.” On the Playback tab, select the Bluetooth speaker and click “Set Default.” Click OK.
Mac users, open the Apple menu and click “System Preferences.” Click “Sound” and select the Output tab. Under “Choose a device for sound output,” select the Bluetooth speaker.
 You can do this by clicking on the speaker in either your menu or task bar, then moving the volume slider up to about the 75% level. If you’re using Windows, click the speaker icon near the clock, then select “Mixer.” You’ll want to adjust the slider below “Applications.”

, If your Bluetooth speaker has a hardware volume knob, turn it all the way to the left to mute the volume. If not, click the Sound icon on your menu bar or task bar and drag the volume level down.
 Play a song, video or sound file as you normally would. Slowly turn up the volume on your Bluetooth speaker or until the volume rests at a comfortable place.
