 Most bra straps won't fit under thin, spaghetti straps. The extra pair of straps also won't always look good. A bandeau or strapless bra will give you the support you need without drawing attention to your tank top.If you can't find a strapless bra that fits, try getting one with clear straps instead.
If you are going to be wearing another shirt or cardigan over your tank top, then you can wear any bra you want.;
, This means that they will reveal the shape of standard, underwire bras, which may not look very flattering. Instead, opt for a wireless, seamless bra. It will blend with your torso, and appear "invisible" under your tank top.
 The larger bust size you have, the more support you need. This means that a strapless bra may not give you the support you need, and that you will have to wear a regular, strapped bra. If you have to wear a strapped bra for support, you will need to wear a tank top with wider straps to conceal the bra. , In general, the wider your shoulders are, the wider straps you should look for. This will help make the tank top look more proportionate on you. Thin, spaghetti straps will make your shoulders look even wider than they actually are. On the other hand, if you have narrow shoulders, you might want to consider thinner straps instead. Thick straps will make your shoulders look even narrower., If you have a large chest, choose a tank top whose neckline ends right above your cleavage. This will help draw attention towards other important features, such as your pretty face and eyes. If you have a small chest, choose a tank top with detail, such as ruching, pleating, or ruffles, along the neckline. This will give the illusion of a larger chest.
 If you have narrow shoulders, choose a tank top with a rounder or straighter neckline. Also, consider tops in bright colors or horizontal prints. If you have wide shoulders, choose a tank top with a V-neck or a low scoop neck. This will help make your body look longer and narrower. Also, consider plain tops in darker colors or vertical prints.
 Basic tank tops are plain and solid-colored. They can go with just about anything, and are perfect for layering. Try getting them in neutral colors, such as black, white, or grey, or in earth tones, such as brown, tan, or olive green.Some plain tank tops will have lace along the neckline and bottom hem. These are perfect for layering under fitted shirts. The tank top itself won't be visible, but the lace will peek out from beneath the neckline and/or bottom hem.
 These tank tops usually have some lace, sequins, beading, or ruffles. They are dressy enough for work, and perfect for dates and special nights out. When paired with the right accessories and jewelry, they can make even the simplest pair of pants or skirt more dress., They are not as plain as basic tank tops, but not as fancy as dressy tank tops. Some have prints, while others have simple beading along the neckline. They rang in styles from babydolls to racerbacks. They can be formfitting, or have loose, asymmetrical hems. To make your outfits truly unique, choose some with specific details, such as: are: ruffles, crocheted lace, or tribal prints.