 You want mushrooms to be clean and dry when they are cooked.Avoid washing mushrooms. You should never soak them.
Mushrooms will absorb water if they are soaked and won't brown during cooking. This will also diminish their subtle flavor.
Wipe each mushroom with a damp cloth or with kitchen paper towel and only do this as need to remove dirt and debris.
You can also use a special mushroom brush.;
, Mushrooms have a distinctive flavor of their own that can be brought out with simple additions such as butter or olive oil. Mushrooms contain a lot of water, so they'll shrink considerably during cooking. Also be aware that they soak up fat readily, so always use quality butter or oil for cooking.Roast mushrooms to bring out their natural sweetness. Coat them in oil and roast in the oven at 400 degrees until well browned.
Bread mushrooms as you would chicken and fry them in hot oil. Make sure you use a high quality oil suitable for frying.
Stir fry sliced mushrooms with soy sauce and oil for a simple dish.
Grill mushrooms in the summertime. Simply place the mushrooms directly on the grill pan and cook until browned. Experiment with marinades for extra flavor.
Sauté them in a pan. This is one of the most common methods. Start with plenty of hot oil or butter and sauté until browned.

Eggs and mushrooms go well together in very simple and easy dishes. You can spice up scrambled eggs by adding mushrooms and garlic.
Mushrooms make an excellent addition to any omelette.
Add mushrooms to frittatas and quiches for an earthy flavor.
 These are featured at many restaurants and parties. First, clean out the gills of the mushroom. You don't want these in stuffed mushrooms because you need room to put the stuffing.
You can make a quick and easy stuffing from breadcrumbs, egg, sauteed onion, spices and cheese.
Put stuffing into the mushroom until there is a small mound above the mushroom cap.
Bake these in a 400 degree oven until the mushrooms are browned and the stuffing is golden.
Experiment with different types of stuffings and fillers. This can be creative and fun!

, When added to existing recipes, mushrooms can add depth of flavor and complexity.


Make pasta sauces with mushrooms. Mushrooms make an excellent addition to pasta sauces. You can even add them to alfredo sauce.
Mushrooms make great stuffings for raviolis and tarts.
You can add mushrooms as fillings in sandwiches, paninis, tortillas, and other lunch staples for a substantial flavor and bulk. You can even make a portobello mushroom sandwich.
Put mushrooms on pizza as a topping.
Add mushrooms to meat dishes for extra flavor. They go especially well with beef or chicken. They are common toppings for steak and roasts.

