 Finely chop a variety of fresh green herbs, including parsley, cilantro, dill and spinach, then add crushed barberries and walnuts and season to taste. Beat the herb mixture together with whole eggs and bake. The result is an immensely flavorful frittata that can be sliced and savored hot or cold.Make sure you bake on a low heat (around 350°F, or 176°C)) so that you don’t dry out the herbs.
Kookoo sabzi is a popular dish that is almost always eaten on the first day of Nowruz.;
, This recipe is known as dolmeh in most countries of the Middle East. Fill tender grape leaves with small handfuls of ground beef and rice and roll them up and drop them in a pot of shallow olive oil, water, sugar and lemon juice. Cook for an additional half hour at a low temperature, then serve as an satisfying snack or side dish.Wrapping dolmeh by hand can be time-consuming, but it’s guaranteed to please once it comes out of the oven. It can also be a fun way to get your other family, friends and guests involved in the cooking process.The traditional way to roll Persian dolmeh is into small squared bundles.
 Cut fresh Persian cucumbers into small chunks. Throw them into a mixing bowl with yogurt, crushed garlic, sliced shallots, salt and pepper and toss thoroughly. Chill for one hour to let the ingredients thicken and the flavors mingle.Spread maast-o khiar over warm flatbread, spoon it onto a plate of meat and rice or eat it by itself like a salad.
 After rolling out hunks of yeasty dough, pull, stretch and knead them until they take on an oblong shape. Use the tip of your finger to trace deep grooves into the top of the bread and brush with a thin mixture of plain yogurt and water. Sprinkle with salt and sesame seeds and bake until golden brown.Use nan-e barbari to scoop up maast-o khiar, or devour it alongside sabzi khordan, a sampling of savory vegetables, herbs, nuts and feta cheese.
To save time, many Persian chefs use store bought pizza dough to make nan-e barbari., Considered a staple of Nowruz, sabzi polo is centered around the herbed rice, which is layered with herbs and cooked to a crispy brown finish at the bottom of a hot pot. The rice is usually eaten with fish like tilapia or bass that is baked or smoked to perfection.For added depth of flavor, season your sabzi polo with advieh—a blend of dry spices containing cinnamon, nutmeg, cardamom, cumin and crushed rose petals.Sabzi polo is ordinarily served for lunch on the first day of the new year., This hearty noodle soup calls for thick handmade noodles (reshteh), fresh herbs, vegetables and kashk, a dairy derivative similar to whey. Asheh reshteh is heavy enough to work as a filling companion to other entrees or as a meal of its own.If you’re unable to find or make reshteh, linguini makes an acceptable substitute.Powdered whey and water can also fill in for kashk if you’re in a pinch.
 Chelo kebab is the National Dish of Iran, which makes it a fitting addition to a dinner table set for Nowruz. Pair skewers of ground beef or lamb with steamed and buttered Basmati rice. Serve with grilled tomatoes and yogurt on the side.This is an excellent meal to fix if you’re expecting a lot of guests, as you can prepare a large quantity of each of the major components at once and dish them up after everyone has arrived.
Chelo kebab is often accompanied by doogh, a beverage consisting of yogurt, water, dried mint and salt., To make ghormeh sabzi, combine ground beef or lamb meat with kidney beans and an abundance of herbs and spices like parsley, cilantro, fenugreek, scallions and turmeric, then heat it in a covered pot or slow cooker for an hour and a half to two hours. When it’s ready, you’ll have a delightfully tender and savory stew that’s both tasty and nutritionally complete.Add tartness and complexity to the stew by simmering it with dried limes.Don’t worry if you end up with leftovers—ghormeh sabzi is usually just as good (or even better) when reheated.
 Combine rice flour, confectioner’s sugar and clarified butter in an electric mixer and flavor with tangy rosewater. Bake the cookies until they begin to brown slightly. Nan-e berenji are crisp, sweet and aromatic, perfect for a light after-dinner treat.Dust the top of the cookies with poppy seeds and cardamom powder right when they come out of the oven.These could also make a great addition to a picnic luncheon or edible gift basket.
 Parboil thin vermicelli noodles to soften them up, then move them to the refrigerator. While the noodles are chilling, heat water and granulated white sugar to form a syrup, to which you’ll add a tablespoon of rosewater and a splash of freshly squeezed lime juice. Portion the noodles into small cups and top with crushed pistachios and sour cherries.Faloodeh is one of the oldest cold desserts in the world, making it a beloved favorite for Nowruz.
Rake the noodles with a fork as they chill to keep them from sticking together., For a more substantial dessert that can satisfy the strongest craving for sweets, look no further than koloocheh. Mix a rich bread dough with yeast, milk, eggs, butter and yogurt and knead it with a generous helping of cinnamon sugar and chopped dates and walnuts. Roll the mounds into softball-sized discs and bake them to a light brown color.Koloocheh dough is not finished until the top has been decorated with a series of circles. These are representative of good fortune in the new year and are also a practical measure, allowing the dense dough to ventilate as it bakes.
Add a few extra ounces of ice cold water to your koloocheh dough for a light, airy consistency similar to brioche., Who doesn’t love a little ice cream after dinner? This particular frozen treat (like all the most delicious Persian confections) is infused with rosewater for a hint of floral flavor. On the stop top, slowly simmer whole milk with whipped eggs, sugar, vanilla extract and ground saffron. This will produce a luscious custard that can then be finished in an ice cream maker.Garnish bastani Irani with pistachios or plucked rose petals.
If you don’t have an ice cream maker, you can freeze the custard for 4-5 hours, whisking intermittently to smooth and break up icy chunks.