 Choose a silk or nylon cloth of your liking and prepare a space where you can perform the wrapping techniques.;
, This is the simplest method; it is the hand-carried wrap. This method allows you to quickly and easily create a bag for carrying a large amount of food or other products.
Tie two opposite corners together over the food or packages sitting in the middle. The cloth should already be covering the items.






Pull across the other two corners to meet together and tie.






Grab the bag in the middle to carry.
 This is a variation of the first technique, known also as the shoulder carry-wrap. This technique allows you to make an ergonomic method of carrying a large amount of food.
Place items in the middle of the cloth and tie two opposite corners across the middle.






Take one of the remaining corners and tie a side knot in it (like a candy wrapper twist).






Tie the other corner in a side knot.






Pick up the bag from the middle knot.






Sling it over your shoulder to carry the goods.
 This translates as the melon carry-wrap. It demonstrates just how strong a thin piece of cloth can be.
Place a 16 pound bowling ball (or your groceries) in the middle of the square cloth.






Bring up two adjacent corners and tie together in a large knot.






Tie the other two adjacent corners together.






Pick up one knot in each hand and feed one knot (A) through the hole formed by the other.






Pull up on knot (A) tightening the bag around the bowling ball. Just imagine doing that with an ordinary plastic grocery bag!







, This shows that Furoshiki is not only functional but also decorative. This is a bottle carry wrap. This method will make a great impression on your friends and family, especially when bringing wine as a gift, or to a party.
Lay two bottles base to base diagonally across the middle of the square wrap. be sure to keep them about a fist's width apart.






Bring one side over both bottles to meet at the other side, forming a large triangle of the cloth.






Roll the bottles in the cloth over, like a sausage.






Roll completely until there is no wrap remaining width ways.






Lift the bottles up by picking up the two lengths at the cork end of each bottle.






Tie the two ends in a knot.






Carry.
 There are many more methods of Furoshiki that can show you how to wrap just about anything. Search the internet for more ideas. Feel free to share your personal Furoshiki experiences on wikiHow.

