 This is why many people like to play high-speed skiing. Pleasure can be obtained from the sense of afraid, in some certain circumstances. When you and your spouse go "adventure", you will feel you overcome difficulties with your spouse, hand in hand.;
, This is why the beginning of love is so exciting with the process of mutual understanding. Each time we have mutually agreed to tell each other a secret, so that we both not only feel exciting, but also increase our feelings. These secrets can be a small thing, but this form is really very good.
 If you win, you could let the other party to accompany you along to watch the game. These can make you love more exciting. Your feelings will be enhanced in the process.
 Afraid of being caught mood gave us a lot of stimulation and excitement. Now is the time for adult, you can make this feeling come back. The next time you and your lover go to the movies, you can hide in the last row of the cinema, let the other side to find you for a long. Or when the weather is sunny, you can go out to play, take some funny photos, both feel come back to the moment of a child with impunity, to be a small rebellion. That also is a very good choice.
 The beauty in you eyes, the way you kiss, and the tense mood, maybe they are still fresh in you memory.
 In fact, through the network, we can do some of the things we usually will not do. For example, you can send an email to each other, tell each other your love. That can play a significant role in your relationship.
 Usually you can do with fitness, let he (she) to see your another side. You can also go out to dancing, "laughed at" his (her) dance. All these are fresh in each other's eyes.
 You can find the opportunity to secretly affix an "I love you" note on the door when the other go out for work, and then in the interior decoration candles, ready for his(her) favorite music.
 Sex plays a significant role on various aspects of your marriage. Increase the number of sex, can also allows you to regain of the stimuli. Sometimes you will find that she would quietly get up early for you to cook coffee. Sex is very important for couples.
 Now, you can spend weekends on no destination tourism with him (her). You do not need to plan anything, do not need to plan where to stop. So you will feel like to explore, like returning to the feeling when you just start to love, a mysterious feeling of excitement is back.

