 Doctors generally prescribe anti-anxiety and antidepressant medication to individuals who suffer from panic disorder. These medications are extremely powerful as many reduce the symptoms of anxiety attacks immediately.Anti-anxiety medications, such as benzodiazepines and tranquilizers, function by reducing the excess activity in the brain. Depending on the dosage, these drugs may provide relief from anxiety within thirty minutes to an hour after ingestion. They also come with side effects like depression, drowsiness, impaired thinking, and dizziness among others.
Antidepressants have been found to treat the symptoms of anxiety, too. However, these medications are often prescribed to treat chronic anxiety and will not be helpful during acute anxiety attacks. You would take them to prevent attacks rather than to relieve one.
 Follow the instructions carefully, if your doctor has prescribed medication. Many anti-anxiety medications have addictive qualities; taking more than prescribed can be dangerous. And, remember, never share your prescriptions medications with other people., Most people find that panic disorder is treated effectively with a regimen of both medication and psychotherapy. A research-backed and long-lasting therapeutic solution, for panic disorder and anxiety is cognitive behavioral therapy.Cognitive behavioral therapy involves identifying the sources of fear, recognizing faulty thinking patterns, and developing healthy coping mechanisms to life stressors. You may see positive results after approximately three to four months, if not sooner, of participating in this approach.
 If you are prone to panic attacks, you will do well not to consume caffeinated products such as tea, coffee, and even chocolate. If you smoke, you may want to quit since nicotine is a stimulant as well. Alcohol, in small doses, can even serve as a stimulant. These chemicals often worsen anxiety by exciting your central nervous system and generating energy that creates panic., When you get your body moving, even if only for a 10-minute walk, you may find your mood is vastly improved. Research has found that, for some people, aerobic exercise can elevate your mood, decrease tension, and improve sleep and self-esteem.Data suggests that frequency is more important than how long you exercise, so instead of going for a marathon gym session over the weekend, try to work in a 15–20 minute walk every day.