 Learning the origin of a word will help you learn certain rules about the way word spelling functions in the English language. For example, many English language words have their origins in Latin. The Latin root ‘reg’ means king, which means that the word ‘regal’ or ‘regicide’ are in some way related to a king.Take your spelling bee list and divide words into language of origin. As you do so, pay attention to common parts of words. See if you notice any roots that point to the word's meaning.
Download a free study guide from the Scripps National Spelling Bee website. These lists include the etymology of common spelling bee words: http://myspellit.com/


, A word changes its meaning when you add a prefix to the beginning of it. Since each prefix has its own meaning, knowing common prefixes will help you more easily understand the meaning of new words. Common prefixes, include:


Anti- = against
De- = opposite
Inter- = between
Non- = notPre- = before
Semi- = half
Sub- = under, A word can changes its meaning when you add a suffix to the end of it. Suffixes can also be useful for helping you determine what part of speech a word belongs to.Knowing common suffixes will help you more easily understand the meaning of new words. Common suffixes, include:


-able = can be done
-ed = the past tense of a verb
-en = made of
-ful = full of
-ing = present participle verb form
-less = without
-ly = characteristic of
-ness = characterized by, Many words in the English language include letters that are not pronounced. This can make things difficult for contestants in a spelling bee.Common examples of silent letters, include:


Silent B at the end of a word in the combination MB, for example: bomb.
Silent B in the combination BT, for example: doubt.
Silent D in the combination DG, for example: edge.
Silent H when it follows a vowel at the end of a word, for example: cheetah.
Silent H between two vowels, for example: vehicle.
Silent H after the letter R, for example: rhyme.
Silent K in the combination KN, for example: knife.
Silent N at the end of a word in the combination MN, for example: autumn.
Silent P at the beginning of a word in the combination PS, for example: psychology., Anyone training for a spelling bee needs to learn common homonyms, which are words that are spelled differently and mean different things but share the same pronunciation. This is why it's important to ask for a word's definition in a spelling bee. Study common homonyms and make sure you know the definitions for different homonyms.Commonly misspelled homonyms, include:


accept and except
affect and effectbow and bough
elicit and illicit
principle and principalweather and whether

, There are many spelling rules that will help make spelling unknown words easier for you. Remember, there are always exceptions to the rule so look out for words that must be memorized separately. Study some of the most important spelling rules in the English language. For example:


The letter I always comes before E unless it comes after the letter C.
Add -ES to plural words ending in -S, -SS, -Z, -CH, -X.
Drop the silent E for most words when adding vowel suffix endings.
Change Y to I when adding vowel suffix endings.
Most words that end in -F or -FE change to -VES when made plural.No English word will ever end with the letters I, U, V, or J.
The letter I will never follow another letter I.