 While most American curl cats are relatively healthy due to their large genetic background, some are born with narrow ear canals. These narrow canals can lead to wax build-up and infections. Talk to your veterinarian about ear infections, build-up, and preventative home care. Checking its ears weekly and cleaning when necessary can help protect your cat’s ears., Your American curl cat should be seen by the veterinarian at least once a year for a general examination and to receive its annual shots. If your cat is ill or injured, be sure to take it to the clinic immediately., American curl cats do not have specific dietary requirements.A cat that does not have particular dietary needs can enjoy quality commercial cat food that is rich in protein, fatty acids, and carbohydrates. Be sure to provide clean water for your cat at all times. Talk to your veterinarian about selecting the best food for your pet.Leave dry food out for kittens all day. The kittens will eat as much as they need when they need it. Talk to your veterinarian about feeding American curl kittens dry kitten food or kitten-formula canned food.
Adult cats should be fed twice daily. Space the meals out by eight to twelve hours. The amount depends on your cat’s size and activity level. Talk to your veterinarian for recommendations., To keep your cat’s teeth and gums healthy and clean, plan to brush its teeth at least once a week. Brushing helps prevent tartar and plaque build-up, which can stop periodontal disease.Use a toothbrush and toothpaste that is designed specifically for cats and is approved by your veterinarian.If you have an American curl kitten, begin to brush its teeth at an early age so it becomes accustomed to this process., Pet insurance can be more expensive for purebred cats than mixed breed cats, but it is a great way to ensure that your cat will get the treatment it needs should it become sick or injured.Although the American curl cat does not have anticipated genetic defects or health issues, an insurance policy is great way to make sure you can cover the veterinary bills if needed. A policy on a cat can cost around $175 U.S. annually.