 The best baked beans are cooked slowly at a medium-low heat for a thick, well-cooked consistency - nothing's worse than thin or soupy baked beans. Make sure you have time in your schedule to periodically check on the beans for the several hours they're in the oven.;
, Mix until combined. Set aside.


If you don't have molasses, you can try substituting 1/2 cup of brown sugar. If you have molasses, but don't have enough, try substituting 1/2 cup of white sugar with a teaspoon of molasses.
 Fry bacon in a steep-edged frying pan until done but soft. Don't cook "crispy" bacon - the bacon strips will continue to cook in the oven. Transfer bacon to a plate covered with a paper towel (to absorb grease) and set aside. If there's excess grease in the pan, you may remove some for later use]. However, leave at least enough grease in the pan that you can see it move when you tilt the pan.


Resist the urge to clean the pan! The leftover grease will add a smoky, meaty flavor to the final dish.
If you're leaving bacon out of this recipe, simply heat a tablespoon of oil (vegetable or olive oil work fine) in your frying pan and use it to fry the ingredients in the following steps.
 Sautee in bacon grease over high heat until tender (usually about 2-4 minutes.)

, Maintain heat, stirring the ingredients together until combined. If your frying pan isn't big enough to accommodate the beans without spilling, scrape all ingredients to a larger pan or pot.
 Stir ingredients together to create a thick stew. Bring the stew to a light simmer for 1-2 minutes.
 If you're using bacon in your recipe, lay the cooked bacon strips across the top of the baked beans at even intervals. The bacon will continue to cook in the oven, browning to a nice, crisp consistency that compliments the soft, thick texture of the beans.
 Periodically check on the beans to ensure they don't dry out - you want a thick, but not dry, texture. If you notice your beans drying out, add more liquid. If you have it, extra barbecue sauce mixture or bacon grease works great. If not, water will suffice. When done, remove from the oven. Let beans cool slightly to thicken. Serve and enjoy!


Baked beans are a great side dish for barbecued meats - try serving with grilled ribs, beef, or chicken. Cornbread is also a great companion for baked beans.

