 You can run a green car wash from a set location or a mobile business from your own home.If you want to rent space, then you should search for commercial real estate in a good location around heavy traffic.


Your franchisor should help you find a location. In fact, franchisors often have detailed requirements about where you can locate a business.
 You can’t open a business without the necessary licenses and permits. Typically, you need to get them from both your state and local governments. The SBA has a tool you can use to find what state licenses you need: https://www.sba.gov/starting-business/business-licenses-permits/state-licenses-permits. Click on your state, and don’t forget to contact your city or county government as well.


If you open a franchise, then the franchisor should help you get all necessary permits and licenses.
Your lawyer can also help you complete all of the necessary paperwork before you open.
 You might have a one-person operation, or you may need to hire staff. Your franchisor will help train you in staff selection.You should always remember to request and check references.
 Many independent, third-party organizations provide green certification for businesses. If you are certified, then you can advertise that you are green friendly in your advertising materials.Most green certification is for products, not services. However, if you use certified green products, then you can advertise that fact in your promotional materials.
 With a soft opening, you open the business to work out the kinks before your grand opening. You could open for a day or more and then assess as the end of the day how you did. You generally don’t advertise, or you advertise less heavily than for a grand opening.You should still prepare for your soft opening. For example, you and your staff should have cleaned several cars so that you know how to handle the equipment and clean properly.
 Your grand opening is your chance to drum up excitement and publicity. If you have a franchise, then the franchisor might help you plan your grand opening. At a minimum, you should do the following:


Get balloons, banners, and signs that suggest a “grand opening” theme. You want to be colorful and splashy so that people driving by notice you.
Send a press release to your local media. Tell them the date of the opening and a little bit about your business.
Buy advertising on TV/radio as well as in print media. Also establish social media accounts (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) and advertise on those.