 Add 1 or 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of dish soap to a standard-size spray bottle filled with water. Shake well to combine, and spray the soapy solution on boxelder bugs as you see them.


There are several theories as to why soap effectively kills boxelder bugs. The leading theory is that the soap breaks down the hardened skin of the insect, causing the bug's cell membranes to deteriorate. As a result, the bugs dehydrate and die.Note that this only works when the spray is used directly on the boxelder bug. When you see a group of these bugs, douse it with soapy water, making sure to coat each individual insect. Soap has no residual effect on boxelder bugs that do not come into direct contact with it.
 Sprinkle this substance around the perimeter of your house, around the base of boxelder trees, and in any area of the yard where boxelder bugs seem to gather.


Diatomaceous earth is a porous sedimentary deposit that consists of fossilized phytoplankton called diatoms.
You can find diatomaceous earth at most home improvement stores. You may also be able to find it at retail garden supply centers.
Wear gloves and other protective clothing as you spread this substance. You should also carefully follow the instructions printed on the label of the container. While this substance is non-toxic to humans, it is quite possible to have an allergic reaction to it.
Diatomaceous earth kills boxelder bugs and other insects by breaking down their hard, protective coating, similar to the way in which soap kills insects.
 Sprinkle a coating of borax around the base of boxelder trees, inside the exterior siding of your house, and anywhere in your yard where large groups of boxelder bugs gather.


Borax is a white boron-based compound often used for green household cleaning.
You can usually buy borax in the cleaning aisle of major grocery stores and some larger drug stores or department stores.
As with diatomaceous earth, borax breaks down the protective coating of the boxelder bug, killing it by destroying cell membranes and ultimately dehydrating the bug.

