 Use a 3 to 4 US-quart (3,000 to 4,000 ml) slow cooker. Buttering the dish will make it easier to remove the baked macaroni casserole.
 The water should rapidly boil or bubble. To get the water to boil faster, keep the pot covered.


Season your water with salt. The noodles will absorb the flavor as they cook.
 Immediately stir the noodles to keep them from clumping together. Cook the noodles for 2 to 3 minutes less than the recommended time on the package.
 Once the noodles are al dente, or tender to the bite, drain the noodles into a colander. Set them aside while you finish your cheese sauce.
 Start doing this while your noodles are cooking. Let the butter melt over medium heat.
 Add your flour all at once and stir well to combine it with the butter. You should cook the mixture, or roux, over medium heat for another minute to cook off the flour taste.


The roux helps thicken your cheese sauce. If you want a really thick sauce, consider making more roux or adding additional cheese.
 Heat your milk in a microwave-safe bowl for a few minutes. It should be hot to the touch, but not scalding. This will make it easier to blend into your roux.


You can add cold milk to your roux, but will need to add it very slowly. Whisk vigorously to break up any clumps of roux. It won't dissolve as quickly in cold milk as it would in hot milk.
 Gradually pour the milk into your saucepan while you constantly whisk your roux. You'll notice the roux absorb the milk, then gradually see mostly milk in your saucepan. Keep whisking over medium heat till the milk and roux are combined and no lumps remain.
 Keep stirring your sauce till it begins to thicken a little. It should coat the back of your spoon.
 Reserve about 1/2 a cup of cheese, but stir the rest into your sauce till it's combined.
 Stir well, making sure that all the noodles are covered in sauce.
 Use the reserved 1/2 cup of cheese and stick it underneath your broiler for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it's golden and bubbly.
 This will make it a little easier to eat and also helps the casserole set up.