 Soaking helps to remove chemicals than can cause digestive discomfort such as gas, stomach pains, and bloating.Some pulses do not require soaking, only a quick rinse under running water.


Soak dry pulses such as black beans, kidney beans, white beans, fava beans, pinto beans, whole peas, and chickpeas in water for several hours before cooking.
Do not soak red, yellow, brown, or green lentils or split peas. Rinse these pulses under running water.
 Dry beans and other pulses are too dense to eat uncooked and some, like kidney beans and soya beans, can make you sick if you do not cook them properly. Introduce moisture into the pulse by soaking them in water overnight, unlocking all its minerals and nutrients.Remove any broken or shriveled seeds, and then rinse them under cold running water.Place the seeds in a bowl or a dish, and completely cover them with water. Place the dish in the refrigerator overnight to soak for at least 12 hours. The next day, rinse the seeds under running water.
If you experience bloating, flatulence, or other digestive discomforts from eating pulses, be sure to change the soaking water periodically throughout the soaking process., It is not always easy to plan your meals the day before, but don’t fret if you want to cook with dry pulses that have not soaked overnight. You can quickly soften and cook them within one hour by boiling them on a stovetop or by placing them in the microwave.


Rinse the pulses under running water. Bring them to a boil in water in a saucepan for 2 minutes. Afterward, remove them from the heat, and carefully cover them with a lid. Let the pulses sit for an hour. When they have softened, rinse under cool running water.
To quickly cook the dry pulses in a microwave, rinse with running water, and then cover them with fresh water in a microwave-safe dish like a glass casserole dish. Lightly cover the dish with a lid or a paper towel, and microwave them on high for 10 to 15 minutes. Keep the dish covered, and let them soak for about an hour. Afterward, rinse the seeds with cool, running water.
 Kidney beans contain lectin, a natural toxin that can cause vomiting and stomach pains. Canned kidney beans are fully cooked, but if you are cooking with dry kidney beans, you’ll want to make sure you cook them properly to remove any traces of lectin.Soak the dry kidney beans in water for 12 hours. After they have soaked, drain the beans and rinse them under fresh water. Boil them in fresh water for 10 minutes, then lower to a simmer for 45 to 60 minutes until they are tender enough to eat., Like kidney beans, soya beans contain a toxin that can make you ill if they are not cooked properly. Soya beans contain a trypsin inhibitor, which can upset your digestive tract. These beans need to boil and cook for several hours before they are safe to consume.


Be sure to rinse soya beans and let them soak for 12 hours. After they have soaked overnight, drain them, and put them in fresh water. Bring them to a vigorous boil for one hour on a stovetop. Remove them from the heat, and let them sit for two to three hours until they are tender enough to eat., After the dry pulses have soaked, fill a large saucepan with water and a 1 teaspoon or 5 milliliters of oil to prevent the water from foaming. The pulses will double or triple in volume as they cook, so be sure you are using a large saucepan. Bring the pulses to a boil, cover with a lid, and simmer the pulses until they are tender.The cooking time will vary depending on the type of pulses you are using. Kidney, pinto, black, and cannellini beans will take about 60 to 75 minutes to cook, while lentils and split peas will take around 30 minutes.Be sure to read the suggested cooking time on your package or can of pulses.

