 A crate gives your Collie his own safe space in your home.When you’re looking at crates in your local pet store, select one that will be comfortable for your Collie. An ideal crate size for a Collie is 23 inches x 27 inches x 36 inches (58cm x 69cm x 91cm).This size would allow your Collie to move around comfortably, but wouldn't give him enough space to eliminate in a separate area.


Crate training is a good way to begin house training, since your Collie would learn to eliminate only outside.
A wire crate is a good choice because it would let your Collie see what’s going on around him and feel like he’s part of the family.;
, Wild dogs create dens in their environment to feel safe. Make the crate feel like a cozy den by placing a towel or blanket on top of it.Inside the crate, place a comfortable blanket or dog bed, along with some favorite toys and a water bowl. If you have a puppy, choose a spill-proof bowl so he doesn’t make a watery mess.Consider putting bumper pads on the sides of the crate to prevent your Collie’s toes from getting stuck in the open spaces. Bumper pads can also provide extra comfort for your Collie and keep him from damaging his teeth on the metal., When you first introduce your Collie to the crate, he may not simply walk in and start exploring. To encourage him to go inside, place some tasty treats near the crate, just inside the crate’s door, and near the back of the crate.He may not eat all of the treats at once; initially, he may feel comfortable eating only the treats outside the crate. Be patient with him and work at his pace until he walks all the way in the crate.


When he can enter the crate with treats, start feeding him his meals in the crate. You may need to use the same process with the food bowl that you did with the treats.
Always use a bright and cheery voice when your Collie enters the crate. This type of positive reinforcement will help your Collie learn that the inside of the crate is a good place for him to be.
 Initially, you should leave the crate door open at all times. Once your Collie can eat his meals in the crate, start closing the door behind him when he eats. At first, close the door when he’s eating and open it immediately after he’s finished. Gradually, leave the door closed for up to 15 minutes after mealtime.Your Collie may whine when you close the door. Do not give in! Wait until he stops whining before you open the door.If you respond to the whining by opening the door, he will learn that whining gets positive attention from you.
 Other than mealtime, practice closing the door when you leave the room. Give your Collie a verbal command (‘kennel’) to enter the crate, point toward the crate door, and give him a treat when he enters the crate. Close the door, sit with him quietly for a few minutes, then leave the room. Return after a few minutes, sit with him again, then let him out. Work up to leaving the room for 30 minutes at a time.When your Collie can handle you leaving the room, leave your home after closing the crate door. Stay calm when leaving your home and returning so your Collie doesn’t feel anxious about being left in the crate.Let him out of the crate when you return.
You can also practice leaving your Collie in the crate overnight.
 Collies love to be around people, so your Collie may start feeling lonely and isolated if you leave him in the crate for more than a few hours at a time. If your Collie is a puppy, he won’t be able to hold his bladder for very long and would need frequent potty breaks. In general, the number of hours a puppy can hold its bladder is 1 more than its month in ages.For example, a 4-month old puppy can hold its bladder for 5 hours.
Long hours in the crate can also negatively affect a dog’s muscle condition., With crate training, your Collie should see the crate as a place of a safety and comfort. Never place your Collie in his crate to discipline him.If you do this, he will have a negative association with the crate and probably won’t want to spend any time in it.
 Your Collie should learn to eliminate in the same general area outside. If you have a backyard, take him out on the leash and let him choose where to go. If possible, guide him toward an area that provides protection from wind and rain.When he eliminates in the area, he will leave his scent there and go back to that location each time., Proper house training will teach your Collie not just where to eliminate, but also when to eliminate. The sooner you can get your Collie on a bathroom schedule, the less likely he’ll have accidents in the house. If you have a Collie puppy, he’ll need to eliminate first thing in the morning, before bed, and after eating, drinking, or being crated.A puppy should also eliminate after playtime.If you have an adult Collie, take him out after his meals.
If your work schedule prevents you from taking your puppy out frequently, he can use pee pads indoors. Take him to the pee pads and give him a treat when he eliminates on them so he knows to use them when you’re gone.
Reward your Collie with verbal praise and extra petting or a treat each time he eliminates outside.
 While you’re at home with your Collie, keep watch for signs that he needs to eliminate. This is very important if you have a puppy. For example, he may start sniffing the floor, looking at you, or going to the door. When you see these behaviors, take him outside immediately.Praise and reward him when he eliminates outside.
 Your Collie will probably have some accidents as you house train him. Cleaning up the accident won’t be any fun for you, but do not take it out on him. Never punish your Collie by rubbing his nose in the feces or urine, yelling at him, etc. Punishment will not prevent future accidents. Rather, it will make him fear you.Clean up the accident quiet and calmly. To keep your Collie from going back to that same spot, use an enzymatic cleaner that will erase the scent of urine., Learning basic commands will help your Collie be well behaved at home and in public. Sit, stay, come, and heel are basic commands. Since Collies are so intelligent and eager to please, it probably won’t take long before your Collie masters each of these commands.


Once your Collie learns the basic commands, challenge him with more advanced commands and tricks, like rolling over and playing dead.
 Collies usually don’t bark very much, but will bark excessively if they become bored or lonely.If your Collie’s barking has become a nuisance, you can address the problem in several ways. For example, you can teach him the ‘speak’ and ‘quiet’ commands so you can control when he barks.If your Collie is bored, give him some new toys to play with. Give him food puzzle toys to keep him busy for long periods of time.
Schedule daily playtimes with your Collie so he doesn’t feel so lonely.
If your Collie’s barking continues to be a problem, ask your veterinarian or a veterinary behaviorist for advice.
 Collies enjoy the physical and mental challenge of activities like agility training, rally, and obedience. These activities would allow your Collie to release pent-up energy and spend much-needed time with you.Ask your veterinarian or other Collie owners for local training classes.
 Collies are natural herders.However, this herding instinct could become problematic if not used properly. For example, your Collie may want to herd your children or other people. He may bite and nip while he’s herding, which could be frightening for young children.Your Collie may also want to chase after cars, which could lead to serious injury.
Unless you are specifically training your Collie to herd, discourage him from herding. If you see him herding something inappropriate, try giving him a firm “No!” and redirecting his behavior toward an appropriate physical activity like playing fetch.

