 If you are nervous before the game, take a second to breathe. Start by closing your eyes and focusing on your breathing. Count to two in your mind as you inhale through your nose. Hold your breathe there for one second then exhale through your nose for two seconds. Hold your breathe there for another second and keep repeating.


There are many breathing and relaxation techniques you can try. You can even meditate or do yoga before the game.;
, Doing a body scan can help you release tension and calm you down before the game. Lay on your back and have your palms face upward. Make sure you are relaxed and not tensing up. Close your eyes and focus on your toes. Ask yourself how they feel. Are your toes cold or warm? Take a few breaths then focus on the sole of your foot. Keep asking yourself how each body part feels (ankle, calf, knee, thigh, hips, etc.) as you work your way up. This process takes about 10 minutes and can really help get you in the right mindset before a game., Don’t think things to yourself like “I can’t run that far” or “I can’t make that move.” If that thought crosses your mind before the game, don’t feed into it and get in a bad mental state before the game. Instead tell yourself positive messages like “I can make the goal!” to get in the right mindset.Tell yourself affirmations like, “Let’s do this! I got this!”Tell yourself thoughts to get angry at the other team which might help motivate you to beat them.
 Before the game starts think about what you are grateful for. It can be anything from your personal life to about the sport or activity itself. It will help keep you in perspective and calm you down. At least if the game goes poorly you have your great family or a roof over your head., Before the game starts imagine yourself playing. Use all your senses to imagine yourself at your best game. Think about everything that happened and how you were successful and what made you be successful. Then think about your worst game. Replay the game in your head but with a better outcome. Visualization can help ease your mind and make you feel more confident.