 If you're not entirely sure why you want one, or if it's simply to show off or because all your friends have one, there's no point trying to convince your parents of its utility at your young age.;
, Wait a few weeks after you decided to get a tattoo. Make sure that this is definitely something you want to do, and that it is not something you will regret doing later. Tattoos are serious business--they are not easily "erased" and removal does not come cheap or painless.
 You might want to write down the points you want to present to your parents on a piece of paper before actually talking to them. The following are things you might want to include:


You might change your mind.
Why you want to get a tattoo. What are your reasons for wanting a tattoo? "I just want to get one because it sounds cool" or "I want a tattoo because all of (or one of) my friends got one" are not reasons that your parents will support. However, reasons such as "My tattoo will be a daily reminder to me of something that happened in my lifetime" or "I want this tattoo to be a symbol of a value I have (or am striving to get)" are both good reasons to get a tattoo.
What image or words you want to be tattooed onto your skin. If you want the words "hope", "love", "peace", or related positive, uplifting words as a tattoo, your parents will likely be more supportive of your decision. However, if you want to tattoo a "dirty" or "cuss" word on your skin, or you want a negative or "bad" image or word tattooed, your parents might count that as a strike against you.
What reasons should you be enabled to get a tattoo? Have you been very responsible the last month (or longer)? Have you been very nice lately? Has your behavior been decent and respectable?

, Your parents might be more willing to allow you to get a tattoo if the placement of it is relatively unseen, yet not in an incredibly private area. Good placements are on your shoulder, in between your shoulders, on your back, on the back of your lower legs, on your ankle, or even on the side of your abdominal area.
 Look around at the places where tattoos are given. Make sure that the work the tattoo artist has done is well done, and that they are very professional. You will earn points if you select a popular, professional tattoo artist that has lots of experience. Your parents will likely want to review the work that artist has done, to assure that they know what they are doing.
 Your parents will want to know about the artist's practices. Are they very sanitary? Are their tools clean? You can get all different kinds of illnesses that are passed on by the tools used to give you a tattoo.
 Explain that you understand that tattoos are permanent and tell them that you definitely want the design you have chosen on your body forever. Tell them why you like your design so much, perhaps it is a tribute to a loved one, or an image or phrase that holds personal meaning to you. This will help them to understand why you want this permanently on your body.


Present all of the information you gathered during the research phase, to address their questions before they even ask them.
 Shouting at your parents and not letting them have their own opinion will only prove you're not mature enough to have a tattoo.


Allow your parents to help you design your tattoo and give their own ideas. Don't let them pressure you into having something you don't want, but listen to them and take on board what they say. For example, if you really want a visible tattoo, your parents may suggest you get it somewhere that can be covered easily if there's a time that you don't want it to be seen. Think about what they say, you may be glad you followed their advice in the future.
 Your parents will want to make sure the studio is clean and hygienic and also look at the artists work to make sure that they do a good job and can create good looking tattoos.
 Your parents will know that you really want a tattoo if you work hard and earn money for it.
 If they do, say, "okay, I understand," and then wait a few weeks and ask them again. If you start nagging them or try to "reason with them" then they will just say no. But if you act maturely, they will notice and think you really are ready for a tattoo!

