 This fear of the "end of the world" causes you to worry (a comforting feeling) and it causes you to be noisy (a way of getting attention) about something not based on facts. If you are the type of person who feels that "the end of the world is nigh", it is time to question why this a) bothers you so easily and b) is something from which you attain great joy in worrying about. Take care to avoid the arrogance behind a claim that the world is about to end; it could be that you just don't want anyone to "move the cheese" and disturb the easily (lazily) known status quo.;
, Do some online research about the LHC - see the Sources below. When you come across a site claiming that black holes are going to swallow us all up, look for the credentials of the person claiming it. Most blogs can be instantly dismissed as they are akin to the village gossip mill. Check what scientists are saying. For those few scientists who also feel the fear, check what their colleagues are saying about them. Often it is not that complimentary as to their ability to understand what is being done and the precautions that have been taken. For example, Professor Stephen hawking (who is the Lucasian professor of mathematics at Cambridge University) has stated that the Large Hadron Collider's power is "feeble" in comparison with daily collisions occurring in the universe and that there will be no black holes. And even if there were a black hole, it would be infinitesimally tiny and would disintegrate immediately and be of no consequence.
 While you are spending time worrying about the end of the world and increasing the levels of fear in your friends, family, and community, you are avoiding making the world a better place. Instead, it has become all about you and your need to get attention and to be the harbinger of doom. Is that really a great role? A better role would be to decry the starvation in many countries, to deplore the lack of health services in most countries and to start donating funds to help children thrive wherever they may be. Worrying about the LHC is a diversionary excuse to wallow in self-pity and not get on with what really needs to be done.
 Stop being scared of finding out more about the world, the planet, the universe. We are not the clever beings we are just so that we can sit around worrying all day. We are here to create, to learn, to know, to understand and to gravitate toward the unknown and make it known. We owe it to the complexity of our brains to push the frontiers of knowledge always. No matter your personal beliefs, worry is not something any belief system promotes as a personal virtue. Worry can, however, easily turn into the sins of arrogance and sloth.

