 Meet with a local employment service or headhunter or use a national/ international service online. Registering with any of these options can help quickly match you with potential opportunities.Provide information on the type of work and schedule you are seeking.Give the person in charge of helping you find a job a current resume and a general cover letter, which can further attract potential employers to you.;
, As the world has gone increasingly digital and the workplace is changing with it, there are innumerable websites for freelancers.These can help you quickly and easily find just the right opportunity for you based on your interests.


Sites like Upwork, Toptal, Elance, Freelancer, and even Craigslist advertise different types of short- and long-term offers for specific interests and skill that you may offer.Be aware that some of these sites require registration and a screening process, which can provide you with more plum freelance opportunities., If there are specific companies with which you would potentially like to do freelance work, contact the human resources officer about potential opportunities. Getting in touch with potential employers can show initiative on your part and help you land the type of freelance work you desire.Compose a letter of interest that demonstrates your interest in the company, skills, and experience. Send this to the human resources representative.
Schedule a visit with potential employers or drop off your resume, cover letter, and portfolio if the company is in your local area.
 Market yourself to potential employers, either through contacting them or putting your information on a networking site. This is a key way to attract potential employers and get the freelance work you’re seeking.You can place ads in local publications such as newspapers and magazines, or even in restaurant menus. This can plant a seed in any reader’s mind should she require someone with your skills.Consider placing your resume and portfolio on professional networking sites such as Linkedin and Xing.Many companies will peruse such sites to find potential freelancers and contractors., Most people with a specific skill set know others with similar qualifications. Using your colleagues and acquaintances who are in the same profession and freelance may help you find work.Ask within your network about potential opportunities. Some people may have a lot of work that they’re willing to share with you.Remember to help your network out, too, whenever you see opportunities for members of it.Attend conventions, conferences, or events that can put you in contact with other freelancers. They may have useful tips to helping you get work.
 Your resume, cover letter and portfolio are often the first impression potential employers have of you. Hook potential employers by keeping your message clear and concise.Research freelancing sites and your industry when designing your marketing strategy. You want your message to be simple, distinctive, and attractive to your potential employers.
Freelancers can rely heavily on word-of-mouth from employers or colleagues. Build a clientele through referrals and maintaining strong relationships with your clients.Getting involved in your puts your name within the public sphere, and may attract potential employers to your services., Having a portfolio of your work can show your skills and experience in a tangible way. Use your portfolio to market yourself to potential employers.Highlight your signature style to distinguish you from other freelancers.
Take pictures or print out any work you have. Be sure to consistently update the work you place in your portfolio and make it commensurate with the freelancing opportunities you are seeking.Incorporate different types of work to appeal to a wide array of potential employers. For example, if you are a writer, include different length pieces and styles such as a newspaper article or investigative piece.
 Consider designing a personal website that highlights your skills, experience, and interests. This may draw in opportunities or help you network with other freelancers.Create your website to match the brand you devised in your marketing strategy. For example, you might want to use bright colors to indicate vitality, or sleek symbols to denote sophistication.
Have tabs that include your resume, personal statement, and portfolio.
Structure the web site to optimize your chances of landing on searches.
 Many companies discover freelancers by perusing social media accounts. Promoting yourself with sites such as Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, and Twitter can help attract potential employers to you.


Compose posts about what is happening with you, such as gallery openings, publications or appearances.
 Gather information about the company with which you’d like to freelance.This can demonstrates your interest in the company and any freelancing opportunities they may have.Obtain information on the head of human relations or the person in charge of hiring., Use your research to write a preliminary draft email. Composing a first draft can ensure that you set a professional tone and include all relevant information for freelancing.


Omit the recipient’s email address until you are ready to send the letter of interest.
Your draft should be professional, yet personable and be between three and five paragraphs in length.Introduce yourself and say you’re interested in doing freelance work for the company. Include what prompted you to contact the company, and that you think could contribute to its team.
For example, say “My name is Emma Maier and I am interested in opportunities to freelance with you. Colleagues have mentioned that you are looking for freelancers, I would like to inquire if you are looking for someone with my experience. I feel my qualifications and skills would be a nice addition to your current team.”
The email body should be around 1-3 paragraphs and concisely discuss your qualifications. You can also point the addressee to an attached resume.Close your mail by thanking the company for considering you and include when a hiring representative can contact you.For example, “Thank you for considering my desire to freelance with your company. Please contact me at any time by email or phone. My phone number is (555) 555-5555.”, You want to appear as attractive as possible to a potential company. Not only does this give the potential employer a better sense of you, but it may also present a more professional and positive image of yourself.Write verbs including collaborate, cooperate, and promote.Write nouns such as asset, skill, and responsibility.Write adjectives such as reliable, flexible, and diligent.String these words together to say something like: “I cooperated on a large investigative article and was able to use my special research skills to aid the team. My diligence in hunting down sources help demonstrate the abuses of power in local government.”, Be as honest and don’t exaggerate as much as possible. There is a fine line between honesty and over-blowing your qualifications and you want to keep it as real as possible so that potential employers are able to poke holes in your letter.Say you are the best only if you are. Write an alternative such as “I have unusual qualifications to do research on the subject matter. Not only do I speak the language, but I’ve worked closely with the archival staff in the past, which has garnered me unprecedented access to the collections on which you require research.”

, Revise and copy edit your draft once you’ve composed it. This allows you to correct any mistakes and further strengthen the narrative.


Read the letter out loud to discern possible mistakes and ensure it sounds professional.Check to make sure the text is tailored to a specific company or opportunity., Include a proper greeting and closing once you’ve revised the draft. Formatting your offer properly can impart professionalism and help attract the employer to you.Greet the employer with Dear “Ms. Maier” followed by a comma.Use “To Whom It May concern” followed by a colon if you cannot locate the hiring representative.With gender neutral names, it’s better to say “Dear Pat Jones,” than writing Dear Ms. Jones to a Patrick Jones.
Close with “sincerely” followed by a comma. Jazz up the closing a bit more with, “I look forward to hearing from you” followed by sincerely.Include all relevant personal information including phone numbers and email addresses.
 Include any materials that highlight your skills and qualifications such as a resume or portfolio. This may help further attract the potential employer to your work.


Update and proofread supporting materials each time you send them.
 Write the hiring representatives email address in just before you send the final product. This can help ensure your letter of interest is directed to the proper person.Add multiple addresses if there are several individuals to whom your letter of interest may apply.
Consider blind copying yourself to ensure the email sends successfully.Once you’re sure that everything is in place, hit the send button and wait for opportunities to pour in!

