 Try to act in a way that illustrates you have good self-esteem. Don’t put others down and don’t let them put you down.Never criticize your appearance in front of your child. Don't say you need to lose weight or look like someone else.
Talk about your strengths, such as your work goals. Talk to your children about how hard you work to reach your goals.
Feel good about yourself and your accomplishments. Kids pick up on the ways in which you talk about yourself and your work.
Be compassionate towards others. Try to understand why others are doing things and try not to blame them for behavior you don’t agree with.
Don’t put down other people. Demeaning others in front of children can make them feel like it’s ok. Instead, try to be accepting and generous towards them.
 If you have negative self-esteem, it may rub off on your child. Make sure you repair any negative self-esteem so you don’t pass it along to kids.Think about the ways your parents built your self-image. If you don’t find their strategies useful or productive, avoid them with your own children. There's no reason you cannot raise your kids a different way than you were raised.
Don’t be too harsh towards your own parents. Dwelling on the past can negatively affect the future. Take what you can from their self-confidence tactics and move on.
Try to build your own self-esteem. Use positive self-talk to avoid negativity and feel good about yourself and what you do., Children who get a lot of playtime with adults tend to have higher self-esteem. They feel valued and loved by others.Let your child come up with play activities. Instead of suggesting how or what to play, let the child figure out what they want to do. They’ll be more engaged and more interested.
Focus your attention on your child during play. Don’t get distracted by your own worries. Be available and present during play.
Think of play as part of raising your child, not just fun. Play helps children to becoming more imaginative and creative. They gain confidence in their abilities through play and games.

