 Chewing a piece of gum will trigger your brain and stomach to believe you are about to eat or feeling full.This will not only stimulate your mind to feel full, but will also make sure that your mouth is too busy to eat.


Make sure to chew sugarless gum so that you don’t get unnecessary calories. Chewing gum can even burn 11 calories an hour.;
, Sucking on ice cubes will activate the same feelings of fullness as gum.Ice cubes have the added benefit that they melt into water, which will also make you feel full.Try putting some sugar-free flavoring into your ice cubes if you don’t like the taste of plain ones.
Be careful with ice cubes if you have sensitive teeth or wear braces as they can cause mouth pain.
You can also try buying calorie-free, sugar-free popsicles and use those instead of chewing on ice cubes.
 One of the most effective ways to feel full without eating is to drink more throughout the day. Consuming water will fill your stomach and also keep you hydrated.


Dehydration may send signals to your brain that are similar to hunger signals. If you're not well hydrated, you may feel hungry when you're actually just thirsty.Carbonated water is a may also be a good choice because the bubbles will fill your stomach.
If you don’t like plain water, infuse it with flavors by adding some lemon, lime, cucumber or even fruits like raspberries. Just make sure not to eat any fruits you put in the water!

, Drinking something with a flavor can help settle your stomach and calm your hunger.


You can use other herbs such as licorice root, burdock, nettles, and fennel to help suppress your appetite. Steeping these herbs in hot water will give you a nice tea that has the added benefit of belly-filling water.
Also try herbal teas or flavored teas without added sugar.
Tea and coffee are also good options because the caffeine will help suppress your appetite (in the short-term) while filling your stomach with liquid., If you start to feel hunger pangs and don’t want to eat anything, brushing your teeth can make you feel full. Not only does it not taste good to eat right after brushing, but the smell of a minty toothpaste will also stimulate your brain to feel full.Use mint or cinnamon toothpaste. Research shows that not only mint, but also the taste of spices such as cinnamon can help suppress your appetite.This also helps curb sugar cravings, as the sweetness from the toothpaste may temporarily satisfy your sweet tooth.
 There is evidence that the smell of peppermint can suppress your urge to eat.Sucking on peppermints will not only suppress your appetite, but also keep your mouth occupied from other foods.


Make sure to suck on sugar-free peppermints, such as Altoids, so that you don’t consume unnecessary calories.Even just smelling peppermint oil will stimulate your brain so that your stomach feels full.