 If you don't have a regular job and are looking to earn some extra income, there are a lot of different avenues online to make some cash. You can sell items you have made on Etsy, make some money taking online surveys, or do freelance writing or editing., While this seems like a difficult task to do on your own, there are a lot of resources that can help you get started learning a new language. You can purchase software like Rosetta Stone, visit a website like Memrise, or you can download a free app like Duolingo., You have lots of time on your hands so why not call up that old friend you've been meaning to chat with? If it's during the day and they aren't available, you can always shoot them an email or write them an old fashioned letter.


Because letter writing is few and far between, sometimes it can be really exciting to receive a handwritten letter -- and it shows thoughtfulness because it takes more effort than sending someone a text.
You can also send them a postcard.
 While you are organizing your home, why not organize your finances as well? Creating a budget can seem constricting to some, but having an idea where your money is going can be freeing and stress relieving. Come up with some common categories like rent, food, gas, miscellaneous, etc. and apportion the amount of money you usually spend on each of these things to those categories.


If you are unsure how much money should go in each category, look at your bank statement from the past two months and see how much you spent on each category. You can also find budget helpers online if you need some more ideas for different categories or how to apportion your funds.
 If you constantly have extended time on your hands, this is a great way to use it -- by helping others out. You can usually find a lot of volunteer opportunities just by researching online. Maybe you like working with animals or the elderly, or you'd rather volunteer to promote the arts. Either way, there are likely some opportunities in your area to spend your time helping others.Volunteer at your local animal shelter.
Serve at a nursing home.
Pick up trash on the road.
Work at a food kitchen or homeless shelter.

