 Google Voice is a free service that allows you to have your own phone number that you can use for voice calls and text messages. If you do not already have a Google account, you must create one before you can get a number. Once you have a Google account, click on the link that says “Get a Voice number” to get started. Follow all of the directions to set up your number up.Once you have a number, you can call, text, and receive voice mails through the Google Voice website.
You can also link your Google Voice number to a Google+ Hangouts account to use emoji and video chat.;
, Facebook allows you to call, text, email, and make video and voice calls. You can do all of this from a computer. Log in to your Facebook account and turn on your chat. Select one of your friends that you want to talk to. Click the phone icon to start talking. friends.If you are doing a video call, you will need to use Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Opera as your browser.If you want to video chat, click the video icon instead of the phone icon.
 Sign up for a free email account so that you can send and receive text messages from your friends. If you want to send a text message to someone’s cell phone, you will need to know their 10 digit phone number and their phone carrier. Here are some examples for the most popular phone carriers:AT&T- 10 digit phone number@txt.att.net (2125556789@txt.att.net)
Alltel – 10 digit phone number@message.alltell.com (2125556789@message.alltell.com)
Boost Mobile- 10 digit phone number@myboostmobile.com (2125556789@myboostmobile.com)
Sprint – 10 digit phone number@messaging.sprintpcs.com (2125556789@messaging.sprintpcs.com)
T-Mobile – 10 digit phone number@tmomail.net (2125556789@tmomail.net)
Verizon – 10 digit phone number@vtext.com (2125556789@vtext.com)
Virgin Mobile USA 10 digit phone number@vmobl.com (2125556789@vmobl.com)
US Cellular- 10 digit phone number@email.uscc.net (2125556789@email.uscc.net)

, If your house still has a landline, you can use it to make phone calls. You could then use your email address for text messages. When using a landline, be sure to check your caller ID for missed calls and voicemail messages.


Everyone in your house will be able to hear the landline when it rings, and you will have less privacy. Try to call your friends first or always volunteer to answer the phone.
If you give out your house phone number, make sure the person who is getting the number knows what phone they're calling so they don't freak and think they have the wrong number.
If you are out, you can also use public phones at restaurants, stores, or offices. There may even be a pay phone nearby that you can use.
 If you have a friend that you spend a lot of time with, ask to use their phone. Do not give out your friend’s number without getting their permission first. If you give the number to someone else, let them know that it is not your phone and to always ask for you before they start talking.


You can also use your friend’s phone to check your email while you are out.
Try not to go crazy when you are borrowing someone else’s phone. You do not want to get on the nerves or use their phone more than they do.

