 If you have purchased more than you would serve in one sitting (such as a large chicken), plan the next meal to use up the surplus chicken. This is the principle behind réchauffé food. It is not taking scraps off the plate.;
, With washed vegetable scraps that are free of any dirt or mold such as peelings and ends can be used if they are not or poor condition. Here is a range of uses:


Brown or red onion skins, as well as beetroot peelings can be used as a natural dye in soups or stocks.
Potato peelings can be seasoned with spices and baked until crisp for a low fat snack.
Carrot, onion & celery trimmings can be used in stocks.
Egg shells (free of any raw egg yolk) are an old fashioned way of clarifying stocks. Simply add them and simmer gently for a few minutes or until clear, skim any egg white that rises to the surface as egg white also helps to trap particles for removal.
Most other peelings are really only useful for the compost or the bin.
 You can use the surplus the next day in different ways.


For cauliflower, the surplus can be chilled and reused in dishes such as cauliflower cheese, or marinaded in vinegar and spices and used as an antipasto, served in a salad, used in soups or pureed and reheated.
Potatoes can be fried, roasted, used in salads, soups or mashed for mash, gnocchi, breads or hash browns & bubble & squeaks.
Cabbage can be reused in bubble & squeak, salads, marinaded in juniper berries, salt & vinegar as a sauerkraut antipasto.
Pumpkin can be used in scones, breads, soups etc.
Carrots can be reheated and served with honey and a little butter.

Blanched Green beans can be sauteed quickly in a pan with a little hot butter, chilli or soy sauce, or some fresh chopped herbs. Or served cold in salads.
,,,,,, Surplus stewed fruits can be served in pies, puddings, with oatmeal and porridge or with ice-cream and custards.
 If you have a lot of milk, make a larger batch of bechamel to reuse fresh in a lasagne, some souffle recipes or cauliflower cheese, tuna mornay etc.
,