 If you have a summons or notice of motion, the hearing date will be listed on that form.If you are filing a motion, you must choose the date the motion will be heard by the court. You can pick most any court date that is convenient for you, but it must be far enough out to give the other side at least eight days notice.Your notice also will contain the full address of the courthouse where the hearing will be held., The New York State Unified Court System has an online system that provides access to court calendars and information for all New York courts including those in the five boroughs of New York City.If you've misplaced your notice or summons, you can look up the court date using the WebCivil website.
You can view calendars for each court, or look up specific cases using your case number, the name of the plaintiff or defendant, or the name of an attorney or law firm.You must read through the terms of use and verify that you are an individual person and not an automated program before you can access the system. However, there is no fee and you don't have to register for an account to conduct a search., WebCivil Supreme allows you to search for cases using several different criteria, or retrieve calendars for specific courts, judges, or attorneys and law firms.Make sure you have correct information for the search option you've chosen. For example, if you've been sued but you're unsure how to spell the plaintiff's name, you probably should search using your own name instead. The search engine will only return exact matches to the information you enter, not similar or related spellings., Once you've chosen the search option that suits your needs, enter as much information as you have to narrow down your search results.


Providing additional information can make your search faster and increase the odds that you will find the date you need.
For example, if you want to search by party name, the search form allows you to enter the party's name, and whether they are a plaintiff or defendant. You also have the option to limit your search to a particular county and year of filing, as well as indicating whether to search open or closed cases., Once you've found your court date on the website, you should call the clerk of court to confirm the date and time are correct before relying on it.


The central clerk's office also will be able to provide additional information such as the location of the courtroom in which the hearing will be held.

