 Curly hair can be prone to split-ends and dryness. But some home remedies can bring back your shine, reduce frizz, and make curly hair easier to manage. They can be less expensive than store-bought products, and fun to make.


Try a homemade rinse of eggs. Beat the eggs with curd and almond oil together before applying. Apple cider vinegar will reduce frizz as well as improving shine. Turn it into a rinse. Putting avocado into curly hair makes it easier to style. Mash one avocado with some yogurt to smear into your hair. Make sure to rinse it out, and shampoo.
Try carbonated water to reduce the frizz, especially if you air dry your hair a lot, since air drying does expose hair to humidity. , Curly hair has more protein in it than straight hair. That means it needs more moisture too. You have to give it the moisture it's craving if you want it to look healthy and have bounce.


Leave-in conditioners are also effective for curly hair because it can become very dry. Once a week, lather on the deep-conditioning mask to give curly hair the moisture it needs. Don't use a mask too often or it will weigh down hair. , Sulfate-free shampoo works better on curly hair. Choosing a shampoo with the right chemical composition for curly hair matters. All hair follicles were not created equal.Regular shampoos have salt and detergent in them that are bad for curls. Shampoos with aloe or wheat protein are good choices. There are many shampoos that are designed specifically for curly hair. , Hairspray and some gels have a lot of alcohol, which doesn't work for curly hair. The alcohol can give hair a dull look and weigh it down, so pick your products carefully.


Choose gels that are water soluble instead. , You don't have to rinse out all of the conditioner. If you leave a little bit of the conditioner in your hair, it will look healthier. , Curly hair can be tamed with a variety of products, ranging from mousse to creams. These products sometimes make straight hair look limp, but they can make your curls seem more defined. Some estimates say people with curly hair often use as many as three products a day. Try to find one product that has multiple purposes. 