 Vash lives with his own philosophy: "No one has the right to take another life." But because you can't believe in every little thing, you have to make your own philosophy whether you agree with Vash or not. Write it on a piece of paper so you won't forget. You don't have to make it long or complicated. You could make your philosophy as simple as what you think is right and wrong. DON'T FORGET TO SHOW YOUR PHILOSOPHY IN YOUR ACTIONS. That doesn't mean to tell everyone you meet your philosophy, but actually live by it.;
, From what you decided your philosophy to be, your catchphrase should have do with it. Vash's famous catchphrase is: "Love and peace!". Make it simple and catchy! Have fun with it!

, If Vash was to be one thing, it would be funny! You should have a sense of humor to cheer people up, too! Remember though, when being comical you should be serious in the inside, too. He uses his comical skills to help lighten the mood, so you should too.
 Along with being comical, Vash can be dead serious. You can't joke around all the time and being serious is a must. When in a dangerous situation, you should never joke around and keep a straight face.
 Vash always helps people out in their time of need without any thought of getting a reward. Help people here and there. Pick up someone's books they dropped; help a senior get across the street; give directions to lost travelers. If someone is being bullied, stop the bully! It will give you a good reputation and become like Vash! Do good in other people's lives.
 Vash is never in distress. He owns a gun and knows how and when to use it. Don't just go out a buy ANY type of weapon. You need training and a license to use a weapon. Learn how to know when to use it. Vash lives by the rule: "No one has the right to take another life." So he never kills. Don't use weapons to look cool; use weapons to defend yourself or others.
 Learn how to get out of nasty situations safely without hurting yourself or others. Vash always has a plan up his sleeve and when he doesn't, he thinks one up real quick! DON'T GET YOURSELF IN DANGEROUS SITUATIONS JUST TO SEE IF YOU CAN GET YOURSELF OUT! That's dumb and could get yourself in a lot of trouble.
 Give everyone hellos and good mornings! People will want to be around you and even become your friend. Talk to everyone who wants or needs a friendly greeting. They can be your teacher, boss, or even a lonely classmate. Just be as friendly as you can!

, Vash is a man who cries and doesn't care who sees. Don't bottle up your emotions (it's not good for you anyway). Smile when you're happy. Cry when you're sad. Don't hide yourself from your emotions.
 Vash doesn't stress out and is usually carefree. Stop and look at the sky once in a while. Listen to the birds sing their songs. Or do what Vash does: Sit down and eat some donuts! Stop and relax so you won't become overwhelmed by school or work.
 Vash doesn't do something just because others are doing it. Do things because YOU want to do them. Also, there is another way to be an individual than just doing actions. You should also dress like an individual! Wear what you want to wear because it is conformable.
 Be confident when you see someone picking on someone else or even you. Vash wants to stop violence and keep peace, so make sure to tell everyone who does something unjust that it's wrong. Don't get scared; speak your mind!

