 For the first day or two following the onset of your sciatic pain, you should feel free to take it easy. This should grant you some relief from the pain, allowing your muscles to relax and avoiding agitating your sciatic nerve with too much activity. However, you should not remain in bed for longer than a day or two. Prolonged inactivity will weaken the muscles responsible for supporting the bones in your back making it easier to further irritate your sciatic nerve, and leading to increased pain over time.While it is important to remain active following your initial resting period, be careful not to agitate your sciatic nerve. Avoid strenuous activities such as lifting heavy objects, or sharply twisting your back.;
, Irritation of the sciatic nerve can lead to inflammation, which can worsen and prolong sciatic pain. Many over-the-counter anti-inflammatory drugs are available, and may help you reduce your sciatic pain. Ibuprofen and naproxen are two popular and effective choices. Be sure to follow the dosage instructions on the products packaging., Most patients find that cold therapy is most effective in reducing sciatic pain when the pain is sharpest, usually 2-7 days following the onset of sciatic pain. Apply an ice pack (or an alternative source of cold such as a zip-lock bag of ice cube, bag of frozen peas, etc.) to the location of your pain for 20 minutes at a time, repeating every two hours.Make sure to wrap your ice pack in a cloth or towel. Applying the ice directly to your skin may cause discomfort similar to a burn.
 Many patients find that their pain becomes less sharp 3-7 days after the onset of sciatic pain. Heat, rather than cold, may be more effective in reducing your pain during this phase. Apply heat to the location of your pain using a hot water bottle, an electric or microwaveable heat pad or by taking a warm bath. Apply the heat for 20 minutes at a time, repeating every two hours.Make sure to follow all manufacturer's instructions for your heat source.
While many patients report a preference for cold therapy during the beginning of sciatic pain, and heat during the later stages, this is by no means universal. If one or the other does not seem to be effective in reducing your pain, try alternating hot and cold therapies every two hours.
 Gentle stretching of your legs, butt, and lower back muscles will help reduce tension, leading to decreased irritation of your sciatic nerve. It is best to consult your doctor or physical therapist for guidelines on safe and effective stretches. While many variations are available, the simplest and most popular stretch for alleviating sciatic pain is a simple knee-to-chest stretch:Laying flat on your back, lift up one knee until you can wrap your hands around the front of your knee or behind your knee or thigh, gripping it with interlocking fingers.
Gently pull your knee towards your chest until you feel a gentle tugging in your butt and lower back.
Hold for 20 seconds, being sure to breathe deeply.
Slowly release your leg, allowing it to return to its starting position on the floor.
Repeat the stretch up to three times, then stretch your other leg in the same way.
 Most sciatic pain dissipates on its own after a couple of weeks. If your pain does not reduce on its own, or if the pain is very intense and at-home methods have failed to alleviate it, make an appointment to talk to your doctor about treatment options. Rarely, more serious symptoms will develop which require immediate medical attention. Contact emergency medical assistance if you experience:Numbness in one or both legs
Pronounced weakness in one or both legs
Sudden loss of control of the bladder or bowels or inability to urinate or have a bowel movement

