 Studies have shown time and again that going shopping while hungry can cause you to make impulse buys and unwise indulgences at the grocery store. Fortunately, you can easily sidestep this pitfall by eating a healthy snack, such as an apple, a salad, some nuts, or string cheese, before shopping.In the same way, avoid shopping when you’re tired. Going shopping after work or on your way back from the gym can impair your ability to make good choices, as well as make you particularly drawn to high-sugar, high-fat foods., Studies have shown that setting specific goals for yourself—be it at work or in the gym—can improve your chances of success dramatically. If you challenge yourself to attain a specific goal, you’re making yourself accountable as well as establishing incentive for your efforts.Translate this principle into successful grocery shopping by making your trip a race against time and budgetary constraints.


For example, challenge yourself to get all your shopping done in 30 minutes and for under $100.
 Most grocery stores are designed so that all the essential—and healthy—foods are stored on the perimeter of the store, meaning that you have to pass through aisles of processed, high-temptation foods in order to get to them. So, even if you’ve dropped in for a bottle of milk and an onion, for example, you’ll have to traverse most of the store—and see a huge range of tempting products—in order to grab these basic items.Stay focused and on-task by skirting the periphery of the store rather than passing through the center aisles.
 In addition to snacking on something healthy before going grocery shopping, you can keep your stomach full and cravings suppressed by drinking water as you navigate the store.Just be sure that you opt for pure or sparkling water rather than juice or soda, as these sugary drinks can pack a calorific punch while actually making you crave food more quickly.


While diet sodas have no calories, they’re hardly a healthy option. Studies have shown that the fake sugar contained within does just as much damage to your teeth as the full-sugar variety, and that it can actually spur cravings for sugar.Carrying around an aluminum or plastic reusable water bottle is a good idea at all times, not just when you’re out grocery shopping. This simple practice encourages you to sip throughout the day, meaning you feel fuller and also that your body receives sufficient hydration to function properly.