 Use double-fold bias tape and press the center of the fold to flatten it. You want to flatten several feet of bias tape, keeping it attached to the packing cardboard it came with to ensure that you maximize the amount you use.The bias tape will be cut to length, keeping it attached to the cardboard ensures that you do not waste any extra tape.;
, Make sure that you keep the edge flat by pressing the the top edge as you position your bias tape with an inch extending beyond the seam. Align the right sides of your fabric with the raw edge of your bias tape.
 Your bias tape should go around the entirety of the circumference of your armhole. Pin the bias tape about every 2 inches along the armhole. Ease the bias tape around the curves of the armhole by slightly stretching it so that it fits snuggly., After you have completely pinned your tape around the armhole, there should be about 1 inch of tape extending beyond the seam before you trim it. There should be two pieces of bias tape that are the same length. The extra tape will look like tails., Center the seam of your bias tape over the seam of the armpit of your armhole. Pin through both layers of bias tape at a perpendicular angle making sure not to pin through your fabric.The pin will be places where the bias tape tails come together, flat against your fabric.
 Begin the stitch about 1 inch in front of the adjoined bias tape and armpit seam. Backstitch and allow for a ⅜ inch seam as the stitch continues down the ironed crease. Stop about 1 inch short of the armpit. Backstitch to finish off.As you sew remove all the pins along the armhole but leave the pin holding the tails.
Take it slow if this is your first time sewing a seam like this.
 Snip the threads as the fabric is removed from under your presser foot. The tails of the bias tape should be removed from the fabric as you make a vertical stitch down the shorter side of your bias tape. The shorter length will be where you had the pins located. Use a backstitch on the entire length of the tape making sure that you’re only sewing the tape and not the fabric.
 Use scissors to cut the tails of your bias tape to ¼ inch and pin the tape against the fabric. Align the armpit seam and bias tape seam as you stitch the unsewn tape onto the fabric.Give a ⅜ inch seam allowance. Press both the seam allowance and bias tape away from your fabric.
 Stitch the bias tape ⅛ inch from the seam on the right side. Understitching creates a crisp armhole as the bias tape hides in the inside of the armhole and lays flat to prevent irritating your arms.Understitching should be done each time you work with bias tape because it prevents the bias tape from showing outside of your armhole if it’s not pressed flush against the fabric. Using a contrasting colour of bias tape can appear to be a glaring mistake if you do not use understitching or understitch poorly.
 Pin the bias tape every 2 inches as you press it securely against the inside of your garment. Sew the tape allowing for a ⅛ inch seam. Secure the tape into the garment from the inside edge. Begin sewing at the armpit seam.Turn the garment right side out and make sure that your armholes are pressed to keep the finish crisp.