 Try to teach your child one new, simple task each week. It can be something small like how to put toothpaste on a toothbrush or how to play a game on your phone.Each new task that you teach them will help them become more independent and will save you the time of having to do it for them in the future.
 Don’t refuse your child when they want to help you, even if their help complicates things. Maybe your son wants to help fold the dishcloths or your daughter wants to help with the vacuuming. Allow them to participate even if for a small period of time., You might observe your child struggling with something; if so, resist the urge to intervene, even if it is a simple fix. You will often find that your child will be able to figure it out if given a bit of time. Feel free to guide them but do not fix everything for them.If your child is learning to ride a bike without training wheels, help and teach them, but allow them to fall a few times under your supervision. It is often the mistakes that children make that are the greatest teachers and motivators to success.
Also, if some of their toys are tangled together, allow them to figure out how to untangle them while helping occasionally.
 Teach your child to be more careful and to value their possessions more by avoiding the urge to replace what they break. Doing so will only teach your child that no matter what they do, you will always fix their problems for them. Avoid teaching them this lesson.Children tend to care more for things that they had to work hard or wait for.
 Rather than intervening at the slightest disagreement, allow your child to try to figure problems out on their own. Children are often able to do so alone without intervention, so give them a chance. Only intervene if the argument becomes physical or if your child is being belittled or insulted., Teach them to be independent by empowering them to feed themselves. Purchase toddler-sized utensils and cups to help them in this process.Cut up their food when necessary and be sure to supervise. You don’t want them to choke.
 Your toddler may have just begun the initial potty training phases. Help them to navigate this process more independently by allowing them some control. For instance, instead of taking their pants down, you can allow them to do that themselves.