 It is important to start with a clean slate, so wash your face thoroughly before applying the eyelid tape. This will help to ensure that the tape adheres well and stays put during the day.Try using eye makeup remover to get all of the eye makeup off of your eyes before you apply the tape.
Dry your face thoroughly after washing it.;
, Use a pair of tweezers or your fingernails to peel an eyelid tape strip away from the backing. You will need to peel away the piece of plastic covering the eyelid strip as well. The strips might be just the right size for your eyelids, or you might need to trim them. The strips should be slightly shorter than the width of your eyes. Otherwise, the strips may stick out on the sides of your eyelids.If necessary, trim the strip to make it a little narrower.
You can also make your own eyelid tape out of double sided medical tape if you cannot find eyelid tape strips. To do this cut the tape into a slim strip that is about the same width as your eyelid.
 You can use the eyelid prong to help you identify where to place the strip. You should place the strip right along the new crease that you want to create. Gently press the prong on your eyelid to find the new crease you want to create.Do not push hard with the prong! Be very careful using it around your eyes.
 When you have found the new crease you want to create, place the tape over the area where you want to create the new crease. Then, use the prong to gently push your eyelid in and create this new crease. As you push the eyelid inwards, open your eye and hold for a second. Then, remove the prong while keeping your eye open.The eyelid tape should hold your new crease in place.
 If the eyelid tape does not hold, then you can start over with a new piece or add some eyelid tape adhesive to the strip for a stronger hold. Just apply a small amount of eyelid tape adhesive to the strip and wait for it to dry partially and turn transparent before pushing in your eyelid with the prong again.

Some eyelid tape strips come with eyelid tape adhesive, or you can also buy it separately.

