 One food group that's great for smoothies and that's great for your cholesterol is vegetables. They're high in fiber and a variety of antioxidants.


Try to fit in one serving of vegetables in your smoothies. That'll be 1 cup or about 2 cups of those leafy greens.The best vegetables to use to help lower your cholesterol include: dark greens (like spinach, kale or swiss chard), carrots, pumpkin, cucumbers and celery.
Although you may not think vegetables would go well in a smoothie, when mixed with fruit, their flavor is masked.;
, Fruits are a common ingredient for smoothies. Their natural sweetness, nutrients and low calorie level help keep smoothies healthy and good for your cholesterol.


Fruits are not only naturally low in calories, but they're high in fiber and many antioxidants that can help lower cholesterol.Regardless of what type of fruit you add to your smoothie, make sure to keep your portion sizes in check. Add in 1 small piece or a 1/2 cup of chopped fruit.The fruits that are best for cholesterol include: blueberries, apples, grapes, strawberries, avocados and citrus fruits.
 Adding oats to your diet is a well known way to lower and manage your cholesterol. Outside of just eating oatmeal, you can actually add oats to smoothies as well.


The reason why oats are so great at lowering your cholesterol, is because they're high in soluble fiber. This type of fiber (also found in kidney beans, barley and prunes) specifically reduces your LDL (or that bad cholesterol).Since oats are considered a whole grain, they should be portioned as such. When eating oats or adding them to smoothies, measure out about 1/2 cup of dry oats or 2 oz total.At the supermarket there are a variety of oatmeal types - rolled oats, steel cut oats or instant oats. Although coming from the same grain, they're processed differently. For smoothies, the best choice is whole grain rolled oats.
 It's commonly known that healthy fats (known as heart healthy fats frequently) are great for your heart and to help lower your cholesterol. Add some of these foods to hep boost the cholesterol-lowering effect of your smoothies.


Some foods contain high amounts of a healthy fat known as unsaturated fats. These types of fats (like omega-3 fats) help lower your bad cholesterol and increase your good cholesterol.Foods that contain these healthy fats that you can add to your smoothies include: walnuts, almonds, avocados, flax seeds, chia seeds and hemp seeds.
Nuts and seeds when processed in a high speed blender become smooth and creamy. Use a creamy nut butter if you do not have a high speed blender. The avocado leaves little to no taste and adds a rich creaminess to smoothies.
For nuts and seeds, measure out about 1/4 cup per serving. Since avocados fall into the fruit group, stick with 1/2 cup of avocado per serving., One important component to any smoothie is the mixing liquid. This helps smoothies have an easy to drink texture. Mixing with fortified orange juice will make your smoothie drinkable plus add some cholesterol-lowering nutrients.Some manufacturers now make orange juice that is fortified with plant sterols or stanols. These nutrients are found naturally in plants and help block the absorption of cholesterol in your body.
Orange juice that has added plant sterols can help reduce your LDL (the bad cholesterol) anywhere from 5-15%.
To get this effect, you need to drink or use 8 oz of fortified orange juice. When preparing your smoothie, add about 8 oz of orange juice in place of water or milk as the mixing liquid.
In addition to OJ, there are some other nutritious mixing liquids. Try: almond milk, soy milk, water, coconut water or low-fat milk.
 To give your smoothie an extra hit of protein and add more cholesterol-lowering power, mix your drink with whey protein powder.


Whey protein is one of the two milk proteins (the other protein being casein). You can find 100% whey protein powder a grocery stores, pharmacies and health food stores.
Studies have shown that adding whey protein to your diet will help lower your LDL cholesterol and your total cholesterol levels.You can add whey protein powder to smoothies easily. Mix in one serving or one scoop of powder per smoothie. Read the instructions and labels for exact servings.
 Fill up with a blueberry flavored smoothie that's packed with healthy fats. Plus, this cholesterol-lowering smoothie will be extra creamy from the avocado.Blend together the following ingredients: 1 cup of frozen blueberries, 1/2 an avocado, 1 cup of coconut water, juice from 1 lime, 1 serving of vanilla whey protein powder and 4 ice cubes.
Blend until the ingredients are completely smooth. Taste your smoothie. If it needs a little boost of extra sweetness, add a touch of stevia or honey.
In addition, if you want to boost the nutrient content of this smoothie, consider adding in a handful of dark greens like spinach or kale. This recipe makes 1 serving.
 Another ingredient that works well in smoothies is chia seeds. These little seeds blend up nicely and add a nice boost of fiber and healthy fats.Blend together the following ingredients: 1/2 cup of blueberries or acai berries, 2 cups of unsweetened almond milk and 2 tablespoons of chia seeds.
Blend until the ingredients are completely smooth. Taste your smoothie. If you think it needs a little sweetness, add in some stevia or honey to taste. Serve immediately. This recipe makes 1 serving.
 Green smoothie's are a classic healthy meal or snack. The ingredients in this smoothie are high in fiber and antioxidants to help get your cholesterol to a better level.Blend together the following ingredients: 1/2 a cucumber with the peel, 2 cups of swiss chard, 2 celery stalks, 1 medium peach, 1 medium peeled orange, 1/4 of an avocado and 4-6 ounces of water.
Blend these ingredients until they're completely smooth. Taste and add a touch of honey if you want it sweeter. This recipe makes 2 servings.
 Oats are a great cholesterol lowering food. However, they're not just for oatmeal. Blended into this smoothie, they add a creamy texture and a ton of soluble fiber.Blend together the following ingredients: 1/4 cup of rolled oats, 1/4 cup of water, 1/2 cup of milk, 1/3 cup of greek yogurt, 1/2 teaspoon of cinnamon, 1 cored apple, 1 teaspoon of vanilla, 1 date, a squeeze of rest lemon juice and a few ice cubes.
Blend these ingredients until completely smooth and creamy. Taste your smoothie and adjust for sweetness. Add a dab of maple syrup if you want it sweeter. This recipe makes 1 serving.
 Adding smoothies with cholesterol-lowering ingredients is a great way to manage your cardiac health. However, also choose lean cuts of meat and other proteins during the rest of your day.


Certain types of meat and protein sources, are higher in fats. Many of these foods are high in saturated fat which works against your cholesterol.Stay away from fatty cuts of meat or processed meats like: sausage, bacon, bologna, fatty beef, hot dogs, deli meats and salami.
If you do choose to have these foods, do so occasionally and stick to the appropriate portion size. Measure out 3-4 oz of these foods per serving., Even more than fatty or processed meats, processed carbohydrates (like sugar), can wreak havoc on your cholesterol. You should limit these foods significantly to help manage your cholesterol levels.


Studies have shown that diets high in processed carbohydrates result in higher levels of cholesterol and triglycerides.Processed carbohydrates include items like: white bread, white rice, pizza, sugary breakfast cereals, pastries, and foods made with a lot of sugar (sweetened beverages, ice cream, cakes or candy).
If you choose to have these foods, follow the recommended portion size on the package. For example, measure out 1/2 cup of ice cream opera serving.
 In addition to avoiding foods that can raise your cholesterol, there are also foods that can help lower your cholesterol. Focus on fiber-rich foods in your diet to help lower cholesterol.


Foods that are high in fiber work to directly lower cholesterol levels. Including foods to help you achieve a high fiber diet is a great way to lower your cholesterol.The food groups that are highest in fiber include: fruits, vegetables, legumes and whole grains.
Include a variety of these foods each day to help you meet your fiber goals. Women should aim for 25 g daily and men should get about 38 grams daily., In addition to making diet modifications, there are a variety of lifestyle modifications you can make. For example, exercising regularly is a great way to lower your cholesterol.


Studies have shown that exercise helps your cholesterol levels by increasing your HDL (the good cholesterol) and decreasing harmful triglyceride levels. It doesn't lower your LDL levels.It's typically recommended to include both aerobic and resistance training during the week.
Aim for 150 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic or cardio exercises each week. Try exercises like: walking, jogging, using the elliptical, swimming, dancing or cycling.Also include 1-2 days of strength training. Workout for 20 minutes and make sure to hit every major muscle group. Try lifting weights, taking a yoga class or doing pilates.
 In addition to exercise, consider modifying now much alcohol you drink and think about giving up smoking. Both of these behaviors can also effect your cholesterol levels.


Smoking effects your body in a variety of ways. It hardens your arteries and increases your blood pressure.However quitting smoking, can help raise your HDL cholesterol (the good cholesterol), decrease your blood pressure and decrease your risk for heart disease. Quit cold turkey or join a smoking cessation program.
Like smoking, high quantities of alcohol can also effects your cholesterol and lipid levels. Keep drinks to 1 or less per day for women and 2 or less per day for men.