 Most flowers air-dry best when they are just beginning to open. They will continue to open slightly as they dry, and a fully open flower may lose its petals.This method works best for small, sturdy blossoms, such as lavender or larkspur.Wilting and pest damage becomes more obvious after drying. Choose only the best flowers, and pick extra in case of problems.;
, Strip each flower stem of all leaves. Separate the flowers by species, then make bunches with up to 10 flowers of a single type. Large flowers such as hydrangeas, roses, and peonies should be dried individually instead.








Strawflower and some other species have weak stems that break apart when dried. Cut the stem off instead and thread florist's wire through the base of the flower., Wrap a large rubber band around two or three stems, wrap it several times around the whole bunch, then finish by wrapping it around another two or three stems.The stems will shrink as they dry, but the rubber band will stay tight around them.









The rubber band shouldn't press so hard that it creases the stem; this can cause damp pockets and lead to rot. If you're concerned about this, tie the bunch with twine or raffia instead. You may need to re-tie the twine halfway through drying.
 Keep them in a warm, dark, dry location to prevent rot and minimize fading.Air circulation helps the flowers dry and prevents mold, so keep the bunches spaced out in an area with a good cross-breeze, at least 6 inches (15cm) below the ceiling.








You can hang the flowers from hooks, nails, or coat hangers. One easy way to do it is a paper clip bent into an S-shape. Poke one end underneath the rubber band, and the other end over the hook., The flower is ready when the petals are crisp to the touch. Occasionally a bunch will take longer than four weeks, usually because the room isn't ideal or the flower petals are unusually thick.


The stems usually dry completely straight. If you want a more natural, curved look, submerge the stems in warm water until soft. Bend them however you like, and hold them in position with weights until they dry again., A light mist of aerosol hairspray or floral sealer will set the flowers' shape. This will make them less susceptible to breaking or dropping petals.







