 Know what to expect during pregnancy and during delivery. Reading about pregnancy and childbirth will help you support the mother and stay calm yourself.Check local bookstores and online marketplaces for books about pregnancy and birthing. Consult online reviews to see which ones other expectant parents found helpful.
Look for resources that cover subjects including pain management, presentation of the baby, timing, delivery methods, the involvement of health professionals, possible complications, and recovery expectations.
Ask your partner’s health care professional for recommendations regarding materials to read during the pregnancy.;
, Introduce yourself to the person who will be delivering the baby. Take this time to ask questions and get advice about being a birth partner.Ask questions about subjects that your reading material didn’t cover. If, for example, a book mentions the ring of fire but does not define what that is, ask the doctor, “What is the ring of fire and how can I help my partner get through it comfortably?”
Take the time to inquire about their specific care practices. Ask questions like, “What should we have ready to bring on the day of delivery?” and “What protocol do you have in place should something go different than expected?”
Have them show you around their office as well as the hospital or birthing center where the birth will take place. Ask them to familiarize you with the space so that you can easily navigate it when necessary.
 Your partner will likely go to a class or individualized training to get ready to deliver. If your partner is comfortable with it, ask to attend with them.Use the course as an opportunity to learn about what your partner will experience while giving birth. These courses typically cover strategies for calming your partner, coaching them during delivery, breathing effectively, pushing appropriately, and being supportive.
Speak with the instructor about what your partner should expect from you during the delivery. Ask questions like, “What actions should I expect to do during the birthing process?” and “What are some effective ways of communicating with my partner while they are giving birth?”

, Make sure you know what your partner wants come delivery day. Talk to them well in advance about where and how they want the birth to take place.Ask your partner if they intend on working with an obstetrician, a midwife, or another form of medical professional.
Check with your partner to see if they would prefer to deliver at home, at a hospital, at a birthing center, or at another type of location.Get clear instructions for how your partner wants to handle pain. Will they opt for an epidural? Do they want a natural birth? Have pain management instructions clear well in advance in case you need to relay this information the day of delivery.
 Discuss how your partner would like you to coach them. Do they want you to help guide their breathing and count during pushing? Do they just want someone to hold their hand during the process. Understand and respect your partner’s choice.


Practice conversations you may need to have with medical staff regarding her preferences. This may include who is allowed in the room, your partner’s pain management preferences, and what your partner wants during delivery.
 In some cases, hospitals require that a birth partner be registered in advance in order to be able to attend the birth. Sign up if necessary.Speak with your medical professional about if their facilities require registration. If they do, check to see how far in advance you should register, and if there is any information or documentation you need to supply to do so.
If your partner wants others at the hospital for the day of delivery, as well, ask the medical professional if they will need any sort of permission, as well.
 Voice your partner's preferences during delivery. Be alert, focused, and straightforward when communicating her preferences to medical staff.Be firm when you are sure about their preferences. The person delivering the child might not be your regular doctor or midwife, so don’t hesitate to let them know what your partner wants.
Communicate any changes in plan to the relevant staff person as soon as possible.
 Discuss with your partner what they would like to have at the hospital. Prepare a bag in advance so that it is ready to go when labor starts.Typical items include hygiene products like a toothbrush and deodorant, a change of clothes, comfort items such as music, a few snacks, and clothing and blankets for the new baby.Consider downloading a sample list from the internet and customizing it according to your partner’s preferences.
 Remember that you will likely be at the hospital for several hours and perhaps overnight. Prepare a few items for whenever you need to go to the hospital or birthing center.


You should consider packing personal hygiene items, a change of clothes, a camera, and any other items you would like to have accessible during or after delivery.
 Know how you are going to get to the hospital or birthing center well in advance. Plan 2-3 different routes so that you know multiple ways to get where you are going.If you are driving, have maps ready and memorized. Have multiple routes in place so that you are still able to get to the hospital if traffic is prohibitive on one.
If you do not have or plan on using your own car, find a reliable transportation option. Are there taxis in your area that you can take? Will your insurance help cover the cost of an ambulance? Is there a friend or relative nearby who can take you?

, Make sure someone can reach you to let you know if labor starts unexpectedly. Try to leave as many forms of contact with them as possible, including work and mobile phone numbers.


If you work or travel, make sure that you are accessible by phone, email, or other quick contact.
If you will temporarily be out of touch, check your messages regularly and notify your partner of where you will be, how to reach you, and when you expect to be available again.
 In the case of a situation that precludes you from attending the birth, appoint a substitute birth partner. Discuss this possibility in advance so that both you and your partner will know what to do in the event that you cannot attend the birth yourself.Talk with close friends or family members about filling in if you can’t make it.
Have a way to quickly contact your substitute birth partner, such as by phone call or text message.
 Breathing exercises are one of the most common and effective strategies you can practice for a smooth delivery before labor begins. Work with your partner to find the ones that help them the most.


Practice with your partner for 10 -15 minutes two to three times a week. Focusing on your routine exercises will provide some semblance of normalcy or familiarity during the birth process and can help you provide support to your partner.
When your partner experiences contractions, focus on the breathing strategies and talk them through the process.
 Panicking, losing your temper, or raising your voice may stress out your partner. Even if they resists your assistance or experiences volatile moods, it is crucial that you stay committed to helping them through the process and remain levelheaded.Don’t rush. Labor takes time, and there is no need to rush. Don’t hurry yourself to the hospital, and don’t rush the medical staff for care or attention.
Be prepared for the plan to change. Your partner may discover that they don’t like being touched during labor or the breathing exercises are not helpful. Go with the flow and listen to your partner’s wishes instead of forcing something on them.
 Your partner may reverse prior plans for pain management, birth attendants, or other delivery decisions. Confirm their new decision in a calm, brief discussion and relay them to the doctor if necessary.Do not attempt to force them to abide by prior plans if they clearly communicate a change of mind.
Know who to talk to about plan changes. If your partner decides on a different form of pain control, for example, let the delivery doctor or midwife know rather than one of the attending nurses.

