 This drug has been approved for the treatment of severe forms of acne, such as nodular acne.Following a course of isotretinoin, the success rate for curing severe acne is around 70 to 90%.


This medication works by diminishing the production of sebum from the sebaceous glands, which reduces the number of comedones (blackheads). It will also reduce the level of P.acnes - the acne-causing bacteria.
The recommended dosage is usually 0.5mg/Kg/day twice a day for 15 to 30 weeks. I this low dosage is well-tolerated, then the doctor may raise the dosage to 1mg/kg/day.
This medication has various side effects negative side effects (dry, cracked lips, extremely dry, flaking skin, nosebleeds, delayed healing, etc.) that can prevent a patient from continuing with treatment.
 Oral antibiotics are commonly prescribed by dermatologists to treat nodular and other forms of acne. The most common antibiotics used to treat nodular acne are:


Tetracycline and its congeners. The dosage is usually 250 to 500 mg twice a day for 4 to 6 months.
Doxycycline. The dosage is usually 50 to 100 mg twice a day for 4 to 6 months. .
Erythromycin is another antibiotic used to treat nodular acne; the dosage is 500mg twice a day for 4 to 6 months.
Clindamycin is the latest antibiotic used in the treatment of nodular acne. It is very effective at killing the acne bacteria. The dosage is 300 mg, taken every 8 hours for 15 days to one month, depending on the results.
 Your doctor will prescribe you benzoyl peroxide in lotion form to use in conjunction with antibiotics.


Benzoyl peroxide is a bactericidal agent. It is absorbed into the skin through the pores, where it kills the P.acnes bacteria causing the acne.
Topical benzoyl peroxide is used in concentrations of 2.5% to 10%. It should be applied to the affected skin twice daily.
 Retinoids inhibit the formation of blackheads and reduce inflammation. Tretinoin seems to be the best of all retinoid compounds, and is used twice a day over the nodular acne.


For nodular acne, it is recommended that you use a retinoid cream that contains a mixture of tretinoin and clindamycin (a form of antibiotic).
This cream is usually applied twice a day over the nodular acne.
 When the nodular acne is hormone-related (in women), your doctor may prescribe contraceptive pills to help get the hormones causing the acne under control.


When there is high level of androgen (a male hormone) in the blood, the skin produces more sebum, leading to whiteheads and blackheads, acne cysts and nodules.
Contraceptive pills help to lower the level of androgen in the blood, therefore reducing acne.

