 You might be able to get a discounted rate for applying on line and having more than 1 type of insurance with the same company.;
,


Online traveler's insurance policies differ for single travelers and traveling families. There are clauses in online insurance applications that must be completed for minors that will be traveling based on whether they will be accompanied by an adult. Choose the on line option appropriate for the traveler.



Read the policy's levels of coverage and what incidents are covered. Some policies only provide emergency care but do not cover treatment after you've been released. Others provide comprehensive care that covers any accident or emergency while traveling. Verify whether car accidents, lost luggage, missed flights and natural disasters are covered under your policy.



Some travel insurance providers require proof of current medical conditions and exclude certain coverage because of those conditions. You might be required to mail medical records or a statement from your doctor about your health condition before your coverage will be finalized.



Online traveler's insurance providers offer applicants coverage for a single trip or annual coverage that provides insurance for all trips you take in a calendar year. Annual coverage could be a better deal if you travel frequently for work or personal reasons. Single trip coverage is ideal for 1 trip abroad.



Some online travel insurance providers verify your coverage immediately after processing your credit card payment but others require 2 to 5 business days to process your application and finalize your coverage. Give yourself at least a week to apply before you leave to ensure that your coverage is in place when you travel.



It's important to document all areas that you will be visiting when applying for travel insurance online. This information is necessary to determine your rate and ensure complete coverage. It might seem easy to leave out a few stops to save time, but they're important details for the company to have in your records to ensure your coverage.



Read over your trip itinerary and evaluate what coverage you really need and eliminate the options that don't apply to your trip. Choose car rental coverage only if you plan on driving on your trip. Skip it if you're going to do the majority of your traveling by bus or on foot. A lost luggage coverage clause will be useful if you're flying and checking luggage.



Verify that the provider from whom you're purchasing travel insurance utilizes a secure server to collect your personal and financial information when processing your application. Check the site for documentation of security measures, read their security guarantees and check the website address to verify that the site is secure.



You should receive an email confirming that your application and payment was successfully processed and documenting what coverage you've acquired. Contact the company's customer service department if you don't get an email shortly after submitting your travel insurance application.
Print the confirmation email and any additional pages with documentation of coverage and policy numbers. Take these with you when you travel as proof of insurance. Store them in a safe location with your passport, license and any other travel documents.

