 If there are people, activities, or situations in your life that continually feel stressful, you may need to let them go. A change in attitude depends on living a new kind of life. This might mean quitting drinking, using drugs, overeating, or smoking. Whatever the negative parts of your life may be, you'll need to let them go if you're going to develop a better attitude.


Consider joining a support group for people who are similarly motivated to change their lives for the better.
In making these changes, chances are you'll notice some patterns of positivity in your life. No one's life is all bad, and by letting go of the parts of your life that no longer serve you, you'll become more aware of the habits you want to strengthen.;
, If you're in an intimate relationship with another person, this will affect your attitude. A healthy relationship should be positive, and result in feeling better about yourself. If you feel pressured to do things you don't want to, are afraid of the consequences of disagreeing with your mate, or if there is yelling or physical violence during arguments, your relationship may not be healthy. This will negatively affect your attitude.Some disagreement is natural in healthy relationships. Most relationships have some combination of healthy and unhealthy characteristics.
Talk to a counselor together with your partner if you find yourself unable to change the unhealthy patterns on your own.
If you are in a relationship that is violent, or emotionally or physically abusive, seek help with a local domestic violence agency. You can find these agencies in the United States by calling 211.
 There's always something in any situation that is worth praising. For example, if it's raining out, you could either complain that you're getting wet, or you could observe that the plants will likely benefit from a good soak. Someone with a negative attitude can easily find the downside of any circumstance, but to develop a positive attitude you should force yourself to notice the good. Share your positive observations with others, and keep negative remarks to yourself.

Make sure to look for the positive in yourself as well.
Remember that everything is an opportunity to learn new skills, especially the things that feel most difficult at first. If nothing else, you can be grateful for the chance to learn new things in a bad situation.
Never stay in a situation simply because it's bad. You may be tempted to pretend that unhealthy behavior — a racist boss, an abusive partner, an emotionally manipulative friend — is providing a good opportunity for you to learn patience and tolerance. While this may be true, staying may not be the healthiest choice. One of the most positive things to learn from a bad situation is that you can leave.
 One of the quickest ways to feel better yourself is to be kind to other people. Whether this involves letting someone else have the right of way in traffic or writing a note to cheer up a friend, taking an action to help someone else will increase your positivity.For best results, find ways to do kind things for others in a way that is completely anonymous. For example, fill up all the coin slots in a laundromat with quarters when no one is looking.
Don't just think of how you would want to be treated; imagine the way another person might want to be treated. For someone who's very shy, perhaps writing him a note to congratulate him on his presentation might be kinder than giving him a loud compliment and hug in front of others.

