 When you get the urge, wait ten minutes, then 30 minutes, then longer and longer until you can control your urges. Every urge will dissipate in time, but it might require you building yourself up to that point. , Stopping your self-harming “cold-turkey” may not be the best strategy to long-term, healthy change. Try de-escalating your self-harming by first engaging in your behaviors in a less intense way. For example, cut less deeply. This is called "harm reduction."Then, move to more non-damaging practices such as writing on your skin in red pen and then washing it off, as a symbolic measure.Other substitutes for self-harming practices include: rubbing ice on your skin instead of cutting, flicking elastic bands on your wrists or ankles, hitting pillows or a punching bag, or making lots of noise to release tension and anger., Do not keep your feelings bottled up! Express the way you are feeling by writing them in a journal, starting an anonymous blog (Tumblr, WordPress), writing a song, etc. These are all healthy ways to express yourself without necessarily telling your loved ones.


There are many ways to remain anonymous and ensure that nobody finds any trace of your personal thoughts, including a key-locked diary, password protected word documents, and erasing your browser history after reading and posting to online blogs.
Try to write about positive memories and experiences as well as negative ones. This will help remind you that there is more to life than the suffering you may be currently experiencing.Try to break your feelings into components, such as your thoughts, sensory experiences, and physical sensations. This will help you examine your feelings more closely, instead of feeling overwhelmed by them.For example, sadness about being bullied might look like this:

Thoughts: I'm not good enough, I will never be liked
Sensory experiences: hearing others' cruel comments repeat in your head, feeling irritated by things in your environment
Physical sensations: muscle tension, trouble breathing



, When you are feeling the urge to self-harm, try doing or thinking about something else to distract your body and mind from harming yourself. Some distractions may include exercise, cooking healthy meals, reading a book, writing a list, dancing, tearing up a piece of paper, hanging out with a furry friend, cleaning, and taking a cold shower.Try recognizing the specific trigger of a self-harming urge, and engaging in a related, but healthy, distraction. For example, if you are being triggered because you feel like you are losing control, distract yourself by doing something that puts you back in control, such as cleaning or writing a to-do list. , When you feel the urge to self-harm, try spoiling yourself by doing something you love, taking a relaxing bath, or eating your favorite snack. By treating yourself, you change your brain’s urge to self-harm into an urge to do something good for yourself.If you find yourself needing to turn to comforts often to deal with urges, and friends or family begin to notice, tell them you are rewarding yourself for a productive day/week at work or school.

