 Use a Phillips #00 screwdriver to remove the 3.7 mm screws at the bottom of the phone. Set them aside in a safe spot.


The two screws are located on either side of the dock connector.
 Place a sturdy suction cup on the screen, just above the "Home" button. Once it has a secure hold, lift it straight up with one hand while holding the bottom of your iPhone with the other. The top panel should come right off.


You will need to use considerable force to lift the front panel off using the suction cup. There is a rubber gasket between the front bezel and back assembly, so the two halves are fit together fairly tight.
Rock the suction cup back and forth as you lift to help loosen it.
If necessary, you can also use a plastic opening tool to pry the bottom away from the top as you lift the top off.
Do not remove the front case completely since it is still connected to the bottom by several cables. Instead, lift it up and rotate it so that it rests at a 45 degree angle from the bottom of the phone.
 While holding the front assembly open with one hand, use your other hand to disconnect the black ribbon cables labeled "1," "2," and "3" with a plastic opening tool.


Insert the tool from the left. If you pull it up from the right, you could damage the ribbon connector.
Lift cables 1 and 2 up to remove the connectors. Cable 3 will rotate up about 90 degrees.
Slid the ribbon cables of the the connectors. This should allow you to remove the entire front assembly from the back case.
 Insert a SIM eject tool into the hole next to the headphone jack in your phone. Press down until the SIM card tray pops out, and continue sliding it out with your fingers to remove it.


If you do not have a SIM eject tool, you could also use a paper clip.
Note that you could also remove this tray at the beginning of the process if you find that to be easier or more comfortable for you.
 Slide your plastic opening tool under each connector to pop them up and open.


If you have an iPhone 3GS, there will also be a ribbon cable labeled "7" that you need to disconnect.
Take this time to remove the "Do not remove" sticker to reveal one of the screws near the bottom of the case.
 There will be eight screws: five 2.3 mm screws, two 2.3 mm screws, and one 2.9 mm screws.


The first five 2.3 mm screws have partial threads and secure the logic board to the rear case.
The second two 2.3 mm screws have fill threads and secure the logic board to the camera.
The 2.9 mm screw was below the "Do not remove" sticker.
 Slide the flat tip of the plastic opening tool beneath the camera. Apply slight yet even pressure to pop it up and out.


Note that you can only partially remove the camera. The bottom will still be connected to the logic board.
 Slid the tip of the plastic opening tool beneath the logic board at the dock connector side. Lift the logic board up carefully and slide it out toward the dock connector end of the phone, removing it completely.


There is a small gold tab on the logic board. It's delicate and can break easily, so you need to be extra careful.
 Slide the plastic opening tool beneath the battery. Lift the battery up to remove it.There is an adhesive that holds the battery to the rear case. As a result, you could end up bending the battery or otherwise damaging it if you attempt to remove it without being careful.
You could use the plastic pull tab to remove the battery, but doing so could increase the risk of bending the battery.
If necessary, try gently heating the back of the case with the lowest setting of a hair dryer. This can weaken the adhesive bond, making it easier to remove the battery.
This step completes the process.

