 As you install more and more programs on your Mac, you'll find that some of them make their way into your startup process, whether or not you use them regularly. Cleaning out your startup queue can drastically reduce the time it takes OS X to startup.


Many programs attach themselves to your startup process but don't actually need to start with your computer. Most programs will run fine if you open them later, speeding up the time it takes your computer to start up.
 Having free space on your Mac will help other programs run, and will reduce loading and saving times dramatically. Always try to have at least 15% of your hard disk space free and available.


There are several programs available for Mac that can make cleaning up and maintaining your hard drive much easier, such as OnyX, CleanMyMac, and MacKeeper. These allow you to see exactly what types of files are taking up the most space, allowing you to quickly remove files you no longer need.
 Programs will occasionally stop functioning correctly, and when they do they may eat up all of the resources on your computer. Identifying and removing these bad programs will go a long way towards improving your computer's health and performance.


The Activity Monitor allows you to check what programs are causing your system the most stress. You can open the Activity Monitor from the Utilities subfolder in the Applications folder.
Processes that are taking the majority of your CPU or memory will have a big impact on your computer's performance. Use the columns in Activity Monitor to determine the offending programs.
 Sometimes simply wiping everything and starting over can give you some of the best performance increases. Reinstalling your operating system will delete everything on your hard drive, so be sure to back everything up first. Once your files are backed up, reinstalling the operating system should only take about an hour.


Take stock of the programs you actually use. You may find after reinstalling that you use less programs than you thought you did, meaning more free space and less time spent reinstalling programs.
 If you have tried everything but still can't increase your speed, you may want to consider upgrading your Mac's memory. RAM is not incredibly expensive, and it can help improve performance quite a bit. It is not guaranteed to fix everything however, so don't spend too much money for gains you might not even achieve.


RAM can be installed in just a few minutes, on both desktops and MacBooks. Different systems require different types of RAM, so be sure to check the documentation for your Mac to see what kind you should get and how much the computer supports.

