 Social media platforms, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram can also provide a resource to locate your local freecycle group. Each platform has its own search inquiry that allows you to find pretty much anything, including groups that do freecycling. If you are not signed up for social media, you can still search on Facebook and Twitter for a local freecycle organization without having to register and create an account.


While Instagram and Twitter can be used to find a group for freecycling, Facebook would prove to be the most effective and user friendly for finding one. Facebook allows the user to do a direct search for local groups while Twitter and Instagram may present more of a challenge. Both Instagram and Twitter use symbols (hashtags “#” and at symbols “@”) to connect people together all around the world, thus making it more difficult to find a local organization to join.
 Coffee shops, libraries, and other local places oftentimes have bulletin boards where they hang up news and announcements ranging from when the next town hall meeting will be to advertising the next toastmasters meeting. Browse through the flyers there and see if you find an advertisement about your local freecycle group.


For example, Starbucks coffee shops have bulletin boards near either the restrooms or the coffee making station. They post announcements of local events pretty often.
 Your friends and family may know of a local freecycle group that they are familiar with by their own use or they may know people who use one. Family and friends can be a valuable resource and can point you in the right direction.


For example, you could ask your neighbor, who you know is a dedicated recycler, if they know of a freecycle group. You could begin the conversation with, “Hey Mary. I’ve been thinking of getting rid of my old couch, and while I want to replace it, I know it could still get some good use out of it. I would hate for it to go to a landfill. Do you know of any local freecycle groups I could post it on so I can give it away?”

