 In your internet browser address bar, type account.live.com and press "Enter".;
,  If you have an existing Hotmail, SkyDrive or a Windows phone, you can sign in using your email address and account password.  If you do not have any of these accounts, leave the sign-in fields blank and click the Sign up now hyperlink located on the bottom right of the screen to create a Microsoft account.
  If you already have a Gmail or Yahoo! email address, you may use that as your account name if you wish. If you choose to do this, create a password, enter it again to confirm, and click "Next".  Note: At this point you have the option of creating a Hotmail or Live email account by clicking on the "Or get a new email address" hyperlink below the "Microsoft account name" field.
  Enter a phone number where you can be reached, select a security question, and type the answer. Enter your country and zip code and click "Next".
  If you cannot read them, click either the New hyperlink above the characters to display different ones or the Audio hyperlink to hear them (your sound or speakers must be enabled).  Make sure to uncheck the box if you do not wish to receive promotional emails from Microsoft. Click the Service Agreement and privacy & cookies statements hyperlinks to review the information.  Close the individual windows when you've read each one and click "I accept".
  If everything looks okay, click on the Verify your email address hyperlink at the top.  Note: If you need to make corrections to any of the information, click on the associated hyperlinks first.
  Click "Send email" and a confirmation message will appear.
  Another window will appear confirming that your email address has been verified.
 Now you must create your Xbox Live account.  To do this, open another tab or internet session and type Xbox.com in the address bar and press "Enter". Click "Join Now" at the top right of the screen.
, After you've clicked and read the Xbox Terms of Use and Privacy Statement and set your country , click "I Accept".
  You have just set up your free Xbox Live account!  Your auto-generated "gamertag" will appear at the top right of your screen.  The box on the left side of the screen also displays your gamer-tag as well as some other options.  Note:  You can change your gamertag one time for no charge.   You are now able to upgrade to a Gold Account, customize your avatar, or hook up your Xbox and start playing.  Have fun!

