 This means that you will perceive your old life, old home, old places in a very new light. This can be both negative and positive, depending on each individual case.;
, They'll be happy to see you back, they'll notice the tan, the new hairdo, and your insistence on adopting a funny new accent. What they'll be less likely to notice is how deeply changed you feel inside. There are two aspects to this. For those who have never traveled far, they won't really understand this feeling at all. For those who have traveled but not for a long time, there may be a sense of not wanting to remember that feeling too well, for fear of feeling jealous or sad about times long past. Don't be too hard on either of these reasons behind not trying to delve into your deeper experiences.
 In both cases, your own emotions are going to be jolted around a bit until you find your niche back home again and start carrying on with life as usual.


In some cases, there may be dramatic changes, including relationship changes, residential moves, new hobbies, new jobs, new family members, etc. This can be very disorienting for you at first, on discovering that things changed dramatically in your absence.
On the other hand, and often more commonplace, nothing has changed. And this can be quite hard to handle because you've just have life-changing experiences that have challenged your worldview and helped you mature in new directions but back at home, everyone is still carrying on as they have done always, none the wiser, no more enlightened and certainly not having life revelations of the sort you might have had!
Go easy on others around you; yes, it's incredibly frustrating that many people aren't that interested in talking about all the amazing experiences you've had but on the other hand, you have been blessed to have the chance at all. Remember that many other people don't get this opportunity, or don't understand the value of making room for overseas value. If there is any sense of resentment, it's best not to push your experience in their faces but to simply include gentle comments about things you've done, here and there in the conversation.
 On coming back home, take time to settle back into your usual or new routine. If you have a job to go back to, no doubt that will come up shortly. But if this was big year overseas prior to looking for a career, you're bound to be feeling trepidation at what lies ahead--your entire future! To get you started, it's good to get into a routine as soon as possible:


Unpack your gear, clean all the dirty things, give out the gifts, put the bags away for another trip some day.






Go to the doctor for a routine check up for your general health. This is the time to raise any health concerns that might have arisen while traveling.
Store your photos and sort them. Now is the time to do this; the longer you leave it, the more likely it is that you will never get around to doing it.
Start preparing your resume, educational institution applications, etc. as needed.

