 Any Axe aerosol spray will work, since it is flammable.


The bomb will work great with any fragrance. But the stink will last a while, so pick the fragrance that you think is most offensive.
Make sure you get a long neck lighter. You don't want to ignite this sucker with a tiny match. That's a good way to get burned.
The rubber gloves are not required. But you don't want Axe all over your hands if you are covering your tracks.;
, The ideal target is someone you want to mess with, that gives a good reaction, but won't be smart enough to track you down.
 This is serious, folks. You don't want to throw this bomb onto a big rug. In the big city, that is called Arson. Don't choose a flammable target!


Many successful bombs have been thrown in camp cabins (that have dirt floors).
If its your first bomb throw, you may want to practice in an empty field.
 Take the empty soda can and poke a few holes in the bottom with the screwdriver.


Make like 4 or 5 holes. Doesn't matter if they are next to each other or not, just needs to be enough to let the smoke spray out the bottom.
Best to be careful to make holes in the bottom only. Don't destroy the can.
 The nub can go completely, just toss it out. The sharp part inside the can near where you put your mouth can be just pushed back all the way. You just want to make sure you don't cut yourself on it later when you are stuffing Axe soaked paper inside the bomb.
 Spray the Axe onto the paper. Use up a ton till its soaked. Then, rip up the paper, rolling up the pieces that will fit inside the can. Make sure the paper is ripped and rolled into pieces that are small enough to fit.


Your hands will smell like Axe if you do that, so if you are worried about getting caught, use rubber gloves.
 The ripped up pieces of paper should now be small enough to fit. Just stuff them in the hole you drink from. Ram them in there till it is full, but don't be afraid to mush it down pretty dense. As long as there is air between the paper, it will burn just fine.
 Soak up the inside of the can with the Axe. The paper will absorb most of it, but you will get some leaking out the other side. That is OK, but may leave a trail.
 If you have more than one Bomb, get 'em all ready. Be careful they don't leak all over you. As long as you keep them sideways, there won't be any leakage.
 You can bring a friend to be a witness, record for YouTube, and generally laugh and be impressed with your cleverness. Note however, the more people watching, the better chance the secret will leak.


Some friends are idiots, and can't keep a secret. Don't invite them.
Generally, when fire is involved, you want your friends to be sober.
If you have many bombs, you will need something to carry them. You can use a friend to do the carrying.
 You may need to tip the bomb a bit to its side to get the fire to go inside the can.


It will light pretty quickly. No need to get that lighter all the way inside the can.
 If you have a few bottles do the same process as you did with the other cans.


If you are highly irresponsible, are in the middle of a desert, or just like devious crafts, you can use a water balloon catapult.
