 Whenever you are offering a choice or an explanation, you'll want to keep things easy to understand. Going into too much detail or offering too many options can both confuse or frustrate a preschooler. Always try to keep things as clear and simple as you can when speaking to a preschooler to help them understand whatever it is you're trying to convey.For example, offering a child a menu of more than three items for lunch might be too much for them. Try to keep the options simple and limited in number.
If a child asks you “Why is it raining?”, try responding with something simple like “When enough water goes into a cloud, it gets too heavy and has to fall back down.”

, Trying to understand what made a preschooler upset can be a challenge. It's easier if you involve them in the conversation and have them help you learn exactly what is causing a problem. Try to use your questions to find out what made them upset and why, before reassuring them that everything will be better. For example, if a child was stung by a bee, you might ask questions like “Did something hurt you?”, “Was it a bug or an animal?”, “Do you know what kind of bug?” and “Was it a bee?”
Asking questions is a good way to involve the child, get clear information from them and help them to understand their own situation with more clarity.
 Preschoolers are excited about the world and will often demand your attention to share something with you. To help keep them happy, it's a good idea to always take at least a moment to acknowledge something they have to say. If you can't interact with them at the time, it's okay to briefly explain why and let them know that you'll be available soon., Children are always learning. Because of this, children will also often make mistakes. These mistakes are all valuable learning opportunities, allowing a child to correct their actions and do better next time. Always try to turn any mistakes into helpful lessons when you are spending time with children.Help children discuss their feelings after an outburst, conflict or argument.
Try asking the child to calm down and use their words to describe their feelings and explain why they acted the way they did.
Let the child know that it's okay to feel upset or angry, but that their way of expressing that feeling was inappropriate.
If a child had difficulty with some activity, try showing them another way of doing it and encouraging them as they make another attempt.
 Preschoolers will love to play and having a few games ready can help make your time together a lot of fun. Keeping kids busy with a fun activity can also help them to channel their energy and keep them from causing mischief elsewhere. Check out some of these examples of activities that you can try together:Try throwing a tea party. You can invite stuffed animals or other caretakers to join in.
You can pretend to cook a meal together.
Try singing songs together or reading a book to them.
You could build a pillow or blanket fort together.
Try letting them cut out pictures they like from old magazines and making a collage. Remember to use safety scissors.
 Young children are highly inquisitive and want to learn all they can about the world around them. At this age, they will also be able to speak well enough to throw more than a few questions your way. Knowing how to answer and deal with a preschooler's questions can help you make the most of your time together.Keep your answers short and simple.
Don't get nervous if a child asks an odd or inappropriate question. Try to remain calm and answer the question as fairly and factually as you can.
Young children are often focused on physical characteristics and may make remarks about someone's appearance. Try to answer any questions of this sort as directly as you can.
For example, if a child asks “Why is your finger so crooked?”, you could reply by saying something like “I have arthritis. It's something some adults can get and it can make your joints look like mine.”
If a child keeps asking the question “Why?”, try to ask them to answer their own question. For example, if a child asks you something like “Why is the sky blue?”, you could respond with “Why do you think it's blue?”

