 Shave after (or during) a shower to take advantage of the steam’s effect on your skin and leg hair.


Exfoliating might help your cause (because it sloughs off irritating, dead skin cells) or it might hurt your cause (because it’s a great deal of rubbing, scrubbing and scraping on the skin in a short period of time). See which works best for you.;
,


Leaving the hair on your legs slightly longer is far less noticeable than red, bumpy ingrown hairs, if visibility is of concern to you.
Try an electric razor if you’re having difficulty leaving your hair longer with a manual razor.
There’s no consensus on the merits of single-blade versus multi-blade razors in combatting ingrown hairs, but you should always ensure your razor is clean and sharp.
 Leg hair often grows downward, toward the foot, though most people will have stray hairs that defy convention. When you shave against the grain, it can cause the remnant of the hair to bend and curl, in turn increasing the chance that it'll curve inward. Shaving in the same direction that your hair grows lessens the chance for irritation.


If this method doesn’t help, try shaving against the grain. It’s less commonly effective, but it works for some., As overly fastidious as it might feel, a clean razor won't drag dirt, dead skin, or any other microscopic debris into (or under) your skin.Tap disposable razors firmly on the side of the tub or sink to knock the accumulated hair out from between their blades.


With an electric razor, cleaning after every stroke is probably excessive. Just be sure to remove the guard and clean it thoroughly after each shave.
 Don’t rub the washcloth: just press it firmly on your skin.
 Longer leg hair is the surest way to avoid ingrowns. If you don’t want to stop shaving altogether, give your hair and skin some time between shaves to recuperate. Repeated shaves is close succession will only agitate the irritated sites.
 Calf socks are a common culprit of ingrown leg hair with men who don't shave, as tight clothing will prevent hair from growing away from the body.Skinny jeans will exacerbate the problem on the thigh and calf both. Consider ankle socks, or slim-cut jeans as opposed to skintight styles.


If you're having trouble with ingrown hairs on other parts of your body, try looser clothing there as well. Briefs can cause particular issues with pubic hair, as it's naturally coarser and curlier. Try boxers if you continue to have trouble here.
Friction is also a factor with ingrown hairs. Dress appropriately when you'll be moving around, in loose-fitting clothing that allows your legs to breathe. Instead of tights, try exercising in shorts, sweatpants, or athletic pants.
 When the hair is pulled entirely out at the follicle, its tip has to break back through the skin as it grows.This can easily lead to ingrown hairs when the tip fails to break through, or curls back around into the skin. Those with coarse or curly hair are at particular risk.


While tweezing and waxing aren’t problematic for everyone, they’re the hair removal methods that are most likely to cause ingrown hairs.
 This in turn will exacerbate ingrown hairs.
 Apply either of these liberally to soothe red, irritated skin. Don’t attempt shaving, waxing, or any other general hair removal for a few days.
 Depilatory creams work to dissolve hair beneath the surface of the skin.Whereas shaving leaves the hair with a sharp edge, these creams do not, potentially mitigating a major irritant for you. The hair still regrows from the root, however, meaning these creams are far from a sure thing.
 Dip your tweezers in rubbing alcohol to disinfect them, then dig the tip of the ingrown hair out of your skin. Don’t pull the entire hair out of your leg—just the tip. The redness and irritation should reduce.Don’t dig too deep into your skin if you have trouble grasping the hair. Let it grow for a few days, and try again once it’s longer.
 Products with salicylic acid or glycolic acid work against ingrown hairs with exfoliating ingredients.These acids are often found in acne medications. It’s not uncommon for such medications to have an overall drying effect on your skin, though, so take care to moisturize thoroughly to offset this.


Expect results after 3-4 days of use.
Some of these chemicals can make you sensitive to sunlight, so read their instructions carefully and apply sunscreen if so.
 The ultimate solution, laser hair removal is an option for those who have chronic issues with ingrown hairs. Treatment inhibits regrowth entirely, so pursue this only if you’re looking to give up leg hair entirely.Although advances have been made, laser treatment is still most effective on individuals with fair skin and dark hair. Those with blonde hair or darker skin tones will find less success down this route.
Even with fair skin (the skin tone most amenable to laser treatment) the total cost of the multiple sessions you’ll endure for laser treatment can run about $2,000.