 Use your dominate hand to pluck the trigger lightly. It is essential that you do not use a powerful pluck in the beginning. This is when you’re the most susceptible to chipping a tooth. To avoid damaging your teeth, keep a firm pressure between the harp and your teeth. Pluck the trigger inwards or outwards depending on your preference.









An inward pluck is when the trigger is plucked in the direction of your mouth.
An outer pluck is when the trigger is plucked away from your mouth.Find a comfortable pluck. Some Jew’s harpist use their index finger to pluck while others use their whole hands. Figure out what is comfortable for you. Try plucking a rhythm and repeat that rhythm. This will help you develop your comfortability with plucking.
 To get the most amplified sound out of the Jew’s harp, you must open your throat. It's common to open your throat if you are chugging a liquid. Do this same technique with your throat while playing the Jew’s harp.
 Try modifying the shape of your throat. You do this in everyday speech. Imagine you’re saying the vowels: a, e, i, o and u. These shapes will all give you different tones. Practice a consistent pluck while changing the shape of your mouth.You can reach a higher pitch by widening your mouth. Similarly, you can reach a lower tone by narrowing your mouth.
 Your tongue also plays a part in altering the sound of a Jew’s harp. Experiment with different positions for your tongue. Try flickering your tongue to the back of your throat for a nice effect.
 Different breathing variations will modify your tone. Breathing out while playing will create a loud and buzzy sound. Breathing in will create a softer buzzing sound. Use these techniques as accents. Breathe through your nose during normal play.
 Continue to experiment with different combinations of the above techniques. Once you begin to feel comfortable with different sounds, try to develop a melody out of the Jew’s harp. It will take a lot of practice to play cohesive melodies on the Jew’s harp. 








You won’t be able to play distinct melodies until you’ve mastered all the basics.
Try something experimental on the Jew’s harp. Try whispering words while playing. Play around and try to have fun with it.
 Differentiating notes on purpose is difficult for both players and listeners. The particular note you produce depends on the quality and make of your Jew’s harp. Play notes by playing open and closed sounds. Open sounds are all the sounds you’ve produced thus far. Closed sounds are achieved by closing your throat, or your glottis. Then use air pressure to open your glottis by saying “A.”









This will produce an overtone which is essential for playing different notes.Use a tuner while you are practicing to see if you are able to hit a perfect note. Then practice the other techniques and adjust your mouth till those sounds create a different note.
Again, playing intentional notes is difficult for the Jew’s harp.

