 The most obvious place to start in your search for teammates is among your friends. Start with the people you know play paintball.


Paintball is relatively easy to learn and many people consider it fun so consider asking people who don’t currently play if they’d like to start.;
, Posting flyers may be an antiquated way to broadcast a message but it can be very effective, especially if you’re trying to reach a specific audience like people with paintball experience.


Make it colorful and creative to catch the eye of passers-by. If you can, include a picture of a paintball gun or something similar to immediately indicate the type of team you’re building.
Make sure you get approval if you’re going to post at a private business, in a high school, college or at the field. Many of these places will have corkboards just for this purpose that are free to use. Nonetheless, it’s always a good idea to check if you need approval.
 Social media and paintball-specific web forums are a great way to communicate with a large number of people and build your team.


Include information about where you plan to play, the price of tournament admission and other related costs, and your own level of experience.
If your team already has a logo and name, include it with your post to catch the attention of potential players.
Use a catchy but straightforward title for your posting like “Join my paintball team!”

, The teams that you compete against in tournaments will likely have prior experience so you may not fare particularly well if you just show up and wing it. Practice will improve your team’s skills and result in more victories.


It’s best to practice at the field where you will be competing in tournaments. However, you can also practice in an open field, a wooded area or a spacious backyard.
Try to pick a regular time that works for all of your teammates. This will help avoid scheduling conflicts and make sure you can practice with everyone there as often as possible.
Work on your strategy and teamwork during practice. Consider how you’ll provide cover for each other and how you’ll concentrate your efforts on specific parts of the battlefield., Ask local businesses in your area if they are interested in sponsoring your team. This will likely involve wearing patch with the businesses logo on your uniforms.


When speaking with a potential sponsor, start with something simple like “My friends and I are starting a paintball team and are seeking sponsorship. Would you be interested?”
Try to emphasize that a lot of people will attend tournaments to show that the advertisements will be effective.
Find other teams that have received sponsorship to get an idea of what kinds of businesses might be interested. Look for teams in other sports like soccer or basketball that have received sponsorship and see if those businesses would like to add another team.
 The paintball field will definitely require payment for you to play there and may have additional dues related to tournament play. Make sure you know these costs ahead of time and make your teammates aware of them.
 The impact of a paintball can be painful and even dangerous. Making sure you and your team have all of the protective gear you need is both a good idea and most likely a requirement at most commercial paintball fields.


Paint splatter is very dangerous for the eyes so the most essential equipment is a mask. Paintball masks are designed to provide protection to the entire face while allowing enough room so you can still wear glasses, if you need them. The price of a mask will typically range from $15 to $50 and can be found at most sporting goods stores.You’ll want to wear a long sleeve shirt and long pants so that no skin is exposed. While this is enough for many players, some will wear additional layers of clothing to provide additional protection.
A paintball on the bare knuckles can be painful and cause injury so wear protective gloves. Paintball gloves are typically fingerless to make it easier to pull the trigger.A paintball to the neck can be very painful so wear a scarf. Some players wear a turtle neck sweater instead.
 Your paintball gun is your most important piece of equipment and you have to make sure it’s operating properly before each match.


Take practice shots before each match to ensure that the gun is shooting straight and that it’s assembled properly.
Use a chronograph to measure the velocity of paintballs leaving the gun. Many paintball fields will require that guns have maximum velocity of 300 feet per second to avoid injuries.Get enough paintballs. You’ll want to bring at least 800 paintballs per player for a tournament match.
 Carbon Dioxide or CO2 will serve as the gunpowder for your paintball gun. Be sure that your tank is at least half-full before every match. You can find CO2 tanks at most sporting goods stores.


The ideal tank will hold between 12 and 20 ounces or between 340 and 570 grams.

