 Pour the oil into a deep fryer and heat it to roughly 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius).


If you do not have a deep fryer, a heavy saucepan or large skillet could also work. Heat the oil over medium-high heat if using the stove.
Test the temperature of the oil using a candy thermometer. Periodically keep an eye on the temperature throughout the frying process to make sure that it does not rise too high or drop too low.
 In a shallow bowl with a wide mouth, use a fork to stir together the dry bread crumbs, panko bread crumbs, and salt and pepper, to taste.


You could also use a rimmed plate instead of a shallow bowl.
Panko is a type of bread crumb commonly found in Japanese cuisine. It has a light, airy texture when compared to standard dry bread crumbs, which will help make your breading seem less heavy.
If you do not have panko, however, you may use additional dry bread crumbs in its place.
If you are uncertain about how much salt and pepper to use, try 1/2 tsp (2.5 mL) salt and 1/4 tsp (1.25 mL) black pepper.
 Dunk each piece of shrimp in the egg, coating it well on all sides.Beat the egg lightly with a fork before using it.






Hold each piece of shrimp above the bowl of egg so that the excess drips off. Otherwise, the breading may stick to the shrimp in large, “eggy” clumps.






You can use your hands for this step, or you can use tongs to prevent your hands from getting slimy.
 Immediately transfer each piece of egg-covered shrimp to the bread crumb dish, turning each piece well to cover all sides.


As with the egg wash, you should momentarily hold each coated piece over the dish of crumbs to shake off any excess.
 Dip a few pieces of shrimp into the hot oil until the breading turns golden brown.


On the inside, the shrimp should be opaque.






Only fry a few pieces of shrimp at a time to avoid crowding the fryer.
 Remove the shrimp from the oil and let dry on a platter lined with paper towels. After 1 or 2 minutes, serve the shrimp.


Use a slotted spoon to remove the shrimp from the oil.
The paper towels are essential since they help absorb the oil. You could also use brown paper bag material, but paper towels are more absorbent.

