 An official report or a scientific test should give you a precise measurement. These are the most common units in most regions, so learn how to interpret the results:Grains Per Gallon (or just "grains"): 3.5 – 7.0 means moderately hard. Anything higher will likely cause problems.
ppm, mg/L, or American degree of hardness: 60–120 means moderately hard.
 Your water provider may be able to tell you the hardness of your water supply., Many of these companies offer a free water test, hoping you'll use their services. They may request a water sample and send back the results, or they may send a water hardness test to your home. Keep reading for instructions on how to use the test.
 You can buy these test strips online or where water softeners are sold. These are very simple to use: just dip a test strip in your water and watch it change color. The test strip label or an accompanying guide should tell you how hard your water is based on the color.


This is accurate enough for a household, but don't rely on it to make fine adjustments to a pool or other system that requires a specific hardness level., This more accurate test is available online or at some pool stores. Typically you fill a small bottle with water up to the mark on the side, then add a chemical from the kit drop by drop. The number of drops it takes to cause a color change will tell you the hardness of your water.


Other types of test with a digital display are typically intended for special situations, such as extremely soft water. These are more expensive and not necessary for household testing., Consider this more expensive option only if you need a detailed analysis of your water, including contaminants and exact minerals. If you have a well or other private water source, it's a good idea to have a sample tested at least once a year, although testing for contamination is more important than water hardness.You may also want your water tested if you run a spa or other business that relies on clean water.


If you're not sure how to find a lab that can test your water, ask for advice at a university agricultural extension.

