 Your name, address, phone number and email address should be placed on the top of the CV.You may choose to emphasize your name with graphics. Use a professionally designed larger or bolder font for your name.
Your full street address can be written on one line, or it can be written with the street address on a line, followed by the city, state and ZIP code.
The employer will most likely use your phone number or email to contact you. Make sure these are easily read, and graphically emphasized in your design.;
, A typical CV does not have a career objective, while a resume does. You may choose to include this statement on your CV, but it is not required.The career objective is one sentence that sums up what you are looking for in an accounting assistant position. A career objective is a simple statement of purpose: "I am looking for an accounting assistant position at (your company)." While it might not hurt to add this, it doesn't add anything new.The career objective might be used to state what you might bring to the position of accounting assistant. This is an opportunity to let the company know about your own skills and abilities.An example of a career objective statement for an accounting assistant CV might be: To obtain an Accounting Assistant position with (your company) where my knowledge and experience of managing accounting systems is actively used to manage effective work flow of (your company's) accounts.
 While a resume includes a career objective or statement of purpose, a CV will include a listing of the applicant's areas of academic or professional study.Tailor your list of interests to the job for which you're applying. Research the company you're applying with, and include the professional interests which the company is most likely to recognize and be interested in.
Be specific and concrete. If you've had specific experience creating and maintaining databases, for example, say exactly what you did to do this.
List the special skills, certifications or licenses you hold. For example, if you are pursuing your CPA license, you should include this information in this section.
 A CV can either emphasize employment history or educational background, depending on both the prospective job and on the strengths of the individual. Whatever you decide to emphasize will come next on your CV.When applying for employment in an academic setting, it makes sense to emphasize education, but for most accounting assistant jobs, employers will be most interested in your work history.
If you're just starting out in the accounting field, you may not have much employment history. In this case, highlight your educational background.
If you've had a great deal of work experience, but relatively little formal educational training in the field of accounting, emphasize your work experience first.
 Start with your post-high school education, and continue through your most advanced educational experience.List the degrees you have received and the colleges or universities you attended. Include your dates of attendance and graduation, if applicable.
Include bullet points that highlight special achievements. This would be a good place to share scholarships, awards or honors that were won. Be sure to mention any research you completed in the field of accounting.
 You'll only want to include the employment history most relevant to the job of accounting assistant.


Put the name and location of the employer, as well as the city and state where that employer is located. List your job title.
Be thorough in reviewing the work you've done, particularly if you are newly starting out on your career. If you held any teaching or tutoring positions while in school, list these here as well. Internships and volunteer work relevant to the job of accounting assistant should also be included. While honesty is essential when crafting a CV, you don't want to overlook any activity that might help a potential employer better understand your qualifications for the job.
For each position, use bullet points to highlight your specific responsibilities and major accomplishments. Each job should have bullet points such as "managed accounts payable" or "input employee payroll" to describe what you do, and bullet points such as "reduced delinquent accounts by 50 percent" or "reduced credit period from 60 days to 45 days" to demonstrate your achievements.
 Familiarity with computers and software is essential for accounting positions. Employers will want to know if you are familiar with the software and programs they use.In addition to Quickbooks and Microsoft Excel, you may be expected to have working knowledge of Zoho Books, Wave Accounting, or Freshbooks, or others. If you do your research, you'll know what programs you'll be expected to know.
If you need to brush up on your computer skills, or learn new software, consider taking an online course. Many times, these courses are free or low-cost, and can be done at your own pace.
If you've received special certification in any particular computer area, list this here. Employers are always in need of additional IT experts.
 A professional reference is someone who can speak to your qualifications on the job.The ideal job reference will be able to address any questions regarding job capabilities based in his own knowledge of your workplaces skills, qualifications, and behavior.
If you are new to the job market, you may include college professors or other university personnel who can testify to your work skills and professional potential.
Some CVs have separate pages with reference information. Your list may have as few as three names, or up to a full page.

