 Dentures need to be cleaned regularly, just like natural teeth. It’s important, however, to brush them without causing damage. Always use a soft-bristled toothbrush (harder bristles will damage the dentures) or a soft cloth, and either buy pastes made specifically for dentures or use mild soap or dishwashing liquid.Never use medium- or hard-bristled toothbrushes, regular toothpaste, strong detergents, household cleansers, acids, bleaches, or anything abrasive on your dentures. This can lead to oral irritation and mucosal sores

, Before brushing or cleaning, rinse your dentures thoroughly with plain water. This step will wash away any remaining debris or food particles.


If you do not have the tools or time to brush your dentures thoroughly after eating, at least take the time to rinse your dentures. A quick rinse is much better than nothing at all.
 Dry brushing will damage your dentures, so get your toothbrush or soft cloth wet before you start.
 Using smooth, even, gentle pressure, brush all of your denture’s surfaces with the mild soap or denture paste. Do not scrub.


Make sure that you clean your dentures daily. Dentures accumulate bacteria, tartar, plaque, and stains, just like natural teeth do. Failing to brush regularly will cause irritation, burning, infection, and gum disease

, When you clean your dentures, be sure to remove adhesives. Otherwise, they will accumulate in a thick layer on your denture and cause problems with shape and fit. If you leave adhesives on your dentures for a long time, they become very difficult to remove, and the adhesion of the denture will diminish considerably causing food to get underneath them while you are eating.
 After cleaning, rinse the dentures thoroughly to remove any excess soap or paste. It is also important to rinse your dentures well after they have been soaking in a denture cleansing solution. These solutions may contain chemicals that can make you sick if you ingest them., Using a soft toothbrush and regular toothpaste, brush your mouth and gums, as well as any natural teeth you may have.It’s important to remove any debris and plaque from the inside of your mouth before you insert your clean dentures.


If you wear partial dentures, you should also floss and use mouthwash. Don’t neglect your natural teeth just because you also have dentures.

