, If you want to brew larger batches, you can purchase stills up to five gallons (25 l). They constitute a more significant investment.
 Natural gas and propane are often used as heat sources. Ensure that your heat source is up to fire code and is in an area cleared of other objects or materials.


You can also place a water bath on the heat source to improve the quality of your distillate.
 You can clean your still by warming it slightly and pouring 1/4 cup (59 ml) of vinegar into the still. Add a tbsp. (18 g) of salt and insert a sponge to clean the interior of the still.


Rinse it well with distilled water before using the still.
Unused copper will oxidize, so copper pots should be cleaned regularly.
 It should be three-fourths submerged.
 It should fill the still approximately three-fourths full.
 Run a tube from the lid to the condenser coil. Place cold water in the condenser.
 Screw all the fittings on tight when your still is assembled. You can seal the connections with a paste made of flour and water if they don’t fit tightly.


Cover the water bath, such as a Dutch oven, with aluminum foil to minimize evaporation.
 Your water bath should heat to a full boil. Aim for the spout to drip once per second once it begins the distillation process.


Adjust your heat until the alcohol flows at this speed.
 It is best to learn by example from an experienced distiller. The following are good guidelines, made safe through practice:
“The fore shots” are the alcohol that comes out first. They are high in acetone and methyl alcohol and are considered poisonous. They have a bad smell and you should discard them and the glass they are in. Combined with the heads, they are usually the first 50 - 100 mL of spirit to come out of the still.
“The heads” is a mix of unusable alcohol. It can be saved to distill two or three times to make it usable.
“The hearts” are the next glass. They are composed of ethanol. Aim to collect it at one drop every one to two seconds. Remove it in shot glass quantities to use. The hearts should smell pure.
“The tails” are the ethanol diluted with water. They smell less pure and pleasant. You can save them to distill like you dead the heads., Extra acetone and methyl alcohol will evaporate.
 Redistillation can make a purer alcohol, but it is less safe, since the alcohol is highly flammable.
