 You will only look silly and make yourself feel even worse. Plus, this may lead to more harassment and words such as "crybaby".;
, Don't yell at them or engage in physical violence. Don't say anything that will make you look silly, either. The girls may turn the whole school against you the next day.
 You must be able to deal with it. Show them that you aren't happy through tone of voice, not with physical violence. The first time they are mean to you, give them a smile and come up with a polite or witty response. If they do it again, go to the next step.
 In many cases, people will tease others merely for the reaction. By simply ignoring the insults, they will stop because they have gotten bored with you. If you want to ignore them more, play your iPod and keep nodding your head while they yell at you.
 They might be currently abused at their home, or they're plain jealous at you because you can do something they can't do (ex. cook)

, There's other girls and boys who have been harassed by the girls too or share the same viewpoint as you. You can also recruit allies such as your friends, people who owe you stuff, and if you're lucky, you may get a teacher on your side.
 They are only telling you these things to make you feel bad about yourself, or simply just to get a reaction out of you. Ignore them and you don't have to do anything they say.
 Or they might just be jealous of you. Just remember you are better then them and don't let there words get to you.
 Girls are going to tell you weird things and make fun of you, do what my friend does, just say, "I don't care that's your opinion, thanks for the comment!" They may back off seeing how you don't care or keep doing it. That one's risky, but if it succeeds, they may leave you alone.


If they say something to you mean, try not to let them get to you, and don't be afraid to alert your parents or a staff member at your school about their actions. If the girls get too unruly despite warnings from teachers, you can always get a restraining order, press charges or sue them for verbal abuse and/or slander (spreading rumors that aren't true). You may get some neat compensation from their family, especially if they're wealthy.

