 The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) identifies two levels of Occupational Health and Safety professionals - a Technician and a Specialist. Technicians tend to work for Specialists, which means Technicians tend to have a lower level of educational requirements than Specialists. Technicians may require only a high school diploma, whereas Specialists require at least a bachelor’s degree.


Some post-secondary institutions in the United States offer specific Occupational Health and Safety majors, certificates or degrees. These degrees will usually be a requirement of certification., In the United States, all employers must abide by the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) which requires them to provide a safe working environment for all employees.Many private organizations employee Occupational Health and Safety professionals to ensure their organization meets all legal requirements. While the government organization - Occupational Safety and Health Administration - enforces the law, inspects workplaces and investigates incidents.
 Every organization who hires an Occupational Health and Safety professional will have different employment requirements. Some of these requirements may be based on the level of the job within the organization (i.e. the higher the job, the higher the qualifications).


If you want to work for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration directly, you can access all job postings on the federal USAJOBS website. Use the advanced search on the website to look specifically for jobs at OSHA. Remember that not all positions will be called inspector, so try not to limit your search by using the word inspector.
To find Occupational Health and Safety jobs at a private organization you can use either a generic job search website (i.e. Monster, etc.) or go directly to the organization’s career website., Certification, in general, is not required to become an Occupational Health and Safety professional, but it certainly doesn’t hurt. Some specific organizations may require certification, so obtaining one will increase the number of positions you’re eligible for.The Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP) offers a number of different certifications. The BCSP also offer a Career Paths in Safety PDF that walks you through the different types of certifications and their requirements.
The Institute for Safety and Health Management (ISHM) offers a number of certifications for professionals at the management level.
The American Board of Industrial Hygiene (ABIH) offers two types of certification. Industrial hygiene is another term for Occupational Health and Safety.
 Career experts have no magic number of jobs to apply to during a job search, but you should try to be logical. Make sure you take the time to do your job search properly - don’t rush. Take advantage of expert advice from career centers and reputable career websites. Make sure your application stands out from the crowd. And don’t sell yourself short by making compromises.Don’t limit your applications to positions you’re 100% qualified for. You may have other skills and abilities that make up for the lack of specific qualifications in other areas.The majority of available jobs aren’t actually posted on job websites, or advertised at all. This is referred to as the closed job market and it can usually only be accessed by networking.Your cover letter is one of the most important parts of your application. Don’t use a form letter. Make sure you use keywords directly from the job posting., Once you’ve submitted your application you may be short-listed for an interview. The interview is your chance to show your potential employer you’re the perfect candidate for the position. Review any potential interview questions you may receive and practice your responses.Make sure you bring at least two printed copies of your resume with you to the interview. One to give to the interviewer, if required, and the other for you to reference while answering questions.
Review the employer’s website and ensure you know the proper attire to wear for the interview. When it doubt, assume business formal attire.
Practice your interview with a friend or career professional. This can include the career center at your post-secondary institution. Career centers may also offer seminars on interviewing skills which may be helpful.