 First up, you arrive on Kelebesh next to Darius' ship the Thunderbolt (1), when prompted click your messages tab in the top left or you can press 'crtl' as this is the shortcut key for this.;
, (1) Darius' portrait (2) A detailed description of the current mission (3) The summary of the mission (4) click this button to discard if needed (you won't for these missions) (5) Cryonite reward (6) The amount of time you have left to complete the mission (in this case unlimited) (7) Percent of the mission finished.
 To follow click on Darius' ship and he will take you to the first area of combat you will take. When the tab in the top left flashes open it and it will tell you to kill 5 mantis drones, don't worry you can only attack them they will not attack back. To attack click on the enemy drone and press 1 or click on the laser icon at the bottom of the screen.
 After killing a few mantis drones Darius will send you a message telling you that you were upgraded to use the tactical map located in the top right of the screen. To open the map click on it or press (Space).
 When you open the map it will look like this. (1) Current planet you are on (2) Your coordinates on the map (3) Coordinates the cursor is on (4) Percent of map uncovered. This is helpful when trying to locate certain pilots when they give you their coordinates like 34/22. After opening the map Darius will send you a message asking you to follow him again.
 Darius will lead you to an area populated with mantis Scouts. Mantis scouts are like mantis drones. the will not attack but they do have one thing the drones don't have. When you attack a scout it will try to run away by using an afterburner it has equipped to its ship. Shoot it down fast, Continue killing scouts until Darius sends you another message.Also be on the look out for Cryonite while killing the scouts because they will drop some. To collect it click the cryonite and press 2 or the collector button located at the bottom of the screen.
 After killing a few scouts Darius will ask you to follow him to Mine Central or the landing zone as commonly known to the other pilots.
 Darius will congratulate you for your good work and will allow you to go to orbit. To orbit click the (1) navigation computer button as shown, then press the (2) orbit button. Of course there is a hot key for this process, press F5 to go to orbit.
 Once in orbit you will receive a message from a new character, Mr. Jake Rattenbury. He will ask you for your help and will pay you for your troubles. To accept his offer open the mission bulletin shown in the upper right of the screen where the tactical map was.
 Click the mission to select it and press accept. This is the end of the first mission and the end of this walkthrough.

