 If you are new to using tampons, or if you find regular tampons too bulky, look for tampons that labeled Junior, Slim, or Slim fit. These tampons can be easier to insert, and can be more comfortable for some women.Junior/slim tampons may not be available in stores that have limited selections, such as grocery stores or gas stations.
You can easily find these products at pharmacies, drug stores, or anywhere with a wide selection of feminine hygiene products.
 An important factor when selecting the right tampon for you is choosing the right applicator. If you are new to using tampons, plastic applicator tampons can be the easiest to insert. But all applicator types have their benefits.Plastic applicator - These tend to be the easiest to insert (for most women).
Extendable applicator - These are usually made of plastic and are designed to be more discreet. To use, you first pull down on the applicator to extend it.
Cardboard applicator - These are the least expensive type of tampons, and are commonly found in vending machines.
Digital tampon (applicator-free) - These tampons are inserted using your finger. Some women find these easier. They are also discreet and produce less waste.
 If you workout, play sports, or live a very active lifestyle, you might try using “active” or “sport” tampons. These tampons are designed to be flexible and move with you. This is meant to avoid leaks.Any kind of tampon can be used while swimming or playing sports. Just find the size and style of tampon that works best for you.
 Each brand of tampon is a little different, and even within each brand there are a wide range of different tampons. The specific shapes and fit will vary from brand to brand, and product to product. You may want to try several different kinds of tampons in order to find the product that works best for you.Some brands include:

Tampax
Playtex
Kotex
O.B. (applicator-free)
Seventh Generation (organic cotton)

, Tampons are available in both scented and unscented varieties. Avoid using scented (or deodorant) tampons! The chemical additives used can cause irritation. As long as you change your tampon every 4-6 hours, you should not experience any unpleasant odors.If you’d like to go a step further and avoid all chemical additives, you may want to choose organic cotton tampons.

