 If you don't already have a cell phone for personal, regular use, now is a good time to get one. For the purposes of tracking your weight loss and finding helpful support sites, etc., a smartphone is the best choice if you can afford one.;
, Choose one that is reputable and has your doctor's seal of approval. Avoid fads or new diets that haven't been proven yet. Look online at organizations which have long standing as trusted diet program providers and that have good website information about losing weight effectively. In addition, you may find that some organizations have cell phone apps for weight loss, such as the iPhone app Weight Watchers produces.



Talk to your doctor about your weight loss wishes, goals, and fears before embarking on a particular diet. Your doctor will be able to offer advice as to the dietary methods most likely to suit your needs.
 This person needs to be prepared to take calls from you when your willpower is failing and you're tempted to break the diet. Choose someone you know is always supportive of you and will be supportive of your efforts to lose weight.


Have a weekly weigh-in and text the results to your phone buddy after each weigh-in. In turn, your phone buddy should offer support by text for your progress.
Call your phone buddy if you feel that you're about to break your diet or give up altogether. Let them provide the support you need when the going gets tough.

Text your phone buddy after you try new things that are aimed at helping you lose weight. For example: "I have just left my first gym class!" Being able to tell someone makes the occasion feel more real and momentous than doing it alone.
 If you don't mind more people cheering you on, some weight loss apps for cell phones will share your milestones beyond your phone by adding them to Twitter and Facebook. The more people who see your achievement, the more motivation to keep it up!

, Some phones now provide calorie trackers, such as on the iPhone. Use such trackers to keep track of your daily calorie intake and to keep a record of your weekly weight loss progress.
 You can record the number of steps walked, or input the amount of exercise you're doing, depending on which apps you're using.


There are apps available that tell you how many calories are burned for every type of exercise. You can simply pull this out and check before making a decision on your type of exercise and the duration.
Some iPods also record how many steps you take each day.
 If you're not a keen gym visitor and you can't afford a personal trainer, your cell phone can step in for such people and places. Download apps that explain how to do exercises, how to follow certain weight loss routines, and how to do workouts properly in the comfort and privacy of your own home and personal time. As an added bonus, if you go walking, jogging, or running, your cell phone is very portable and can inform you what to do next as you're going.
 The cell phone is an excellent way of keeping notes because it's usually with you wherever you go, especially during lunch and snack outings. Tap in your notes each day about how you're coping, what feelings you're having at particular times of the day, and what triggers seem to set off your food cravings, etc. After just a few weeks of doing this, you'll notice the patterns and the pitfalls and you'll be able to start working on removing the triggers from your daily routine.

