 Air bubbles can be disastrous to an otherwise perfect product, so get them out before you start working. Knead or wedge your clay in small amounts -- start with the size of both your fists.









Knead the clay like you would a loaf of bread, mold it into a ball and then slam it against a piece of plaster (it's good for absorbing moisture). Do this repeatedly until the bubbles have ceased. If you're not sure, split the ball in half with a wire and monitor the insides.
 Throw the clay with some force onto the center. Since you're just starting out, stick to a large handful of clay for right now. Wet your hands with a bowl of nearby water and start shaping the clay.









Start coning the mass of clay. Brace it between your two palms are start squeezing upward.

For each step of working with the clay, make sure that your elbows are pressed into your inner thighs or on your knees -- whatever is comfortable. This will help steady your hands as they work.
 This is a method of spinning it until it's perfectly smooth with no bumps or wobbles. Once you have your cone shape, you're ready.









Push your tower down with one hand and keep it stable with the other hand. If you're right-handed, push it down with your right. Most of the pressure comes from the top.
Once the clay is in a wider lump at the bottom, start applying pressure on the sides, evening them out. A bit of clay may accumulate on your left hand; that's normal -- just place it off to the side.
 The specific instructions end here -- each piece (bowl, pot, etc.) will be formed differently. But regardless of your piece, make your movements deliberate and slow, letting the wheel make ~5 repetitions before you finish each movement. Make sure all 360 degrees of the clay receive the same treatment, keeping the work round. Wipe away any water that accumulates with a sponge.









When you are done, clean up your piece with the wooden knife, and smooth the surface with a rib.

Note: If you mess up and the clay is all twisted, unfortunately you probably shouldn't just try to reshape it into a blob and start over. The clay does not reset and will not cooperate well at all on the next try.



