 You can either start a new game or continue an old game. For iOS users, continuing an old game will continue a game that was previously saved on your Game Center account.;
, This makes them walk faster.
 You actually get more money and XP for the sims completing actions in their own house.
 When you play TSF, you unlock more items and quests through leveling up. For beginners, a quest is where Sims complete certain actions for special unlockables and even limited time prizes! You have to complete quests for marriage, babies, toddlers, preteens, teenagers, adults (when aging teenagers) and seniors.


When you level up, you also get LP. LP speeds up actions. 1 LP is worth 1 hour, so if you have 12 LP you can speed up a 12-hour action, but LP cannot speed up part of an action (e.g. you can't use 1 LP on an action with 12 hours left for it to only have 11 hours. You must wait until it needs only 1 LP for the action to be completed.) And leveling up also allows you to buy more buildings with Simoleons- Simoleons are the currency.
 Items can be rated up to 3 stars, and the more stars and item has the more it costs, but the less time an action takes. And when it comes to buying houses, the more expensive the house is the better items there are in them (e.g. the Two-Story Mansion comes with mostly 2 and 3 star items while the One-Bedroom Home comes with mostly 1-star).



Here are a few actions to get a decent amount of XP with no requirements:

Hibernate (time depends on bed)
On Hold to Tech Support (time depends on phone)
Hot bath (time depends on bathtub)


Here are a few actions with requirements:

Roast beef (Cooking quest completed, 3 star stove, level 6 cooking 24 hours)
Tacos (Cooking quest completed, 1 star chopping board 12 hours)



, Be Nice, Be Rude, Be Romantic).
 You can change relationship paths (e.g. change from Friends to Budding Romance) by choosing another action. The Sims will interact for a designated amount of time, and their relationship will change. If you chose Be Nice, the Sims will be strangers, acquaintances, friends, good friends, and best friends. Each relationship milestone will give you more XP, and sometimes unlock new interactions.


A Sim can have relationships with every Sim in town, but you won't earn XP by changing their relationship path. Sometimes you need to have certain relationships to finish a quest, like having two Sims be partners for the marriage quest, and having two Sims be married for the babies/toddler/preteen/teenager quests.
 The bigger the relationship milestone, the more XP you will receive, especially in marriage.
 Each Sim can have a hobby, and multiple Sims can have the same hobby. There are different hobbies depending on a Sim's age. Each hobby level gives you a new prize. Sometimes XP, sometimes an item is unlocked, sometimes LP, sometimes Simoleons, sometimes town value.


Adult: Cooking, diving, fashion designing
Teenager: Music writing, cooking, diving
Preteen: Ballet, karate, diving
Toddler: Shell collecting, Play house (at the pool)
Baby: Xylophone playing

, Each hobby level unlocks different prizes. The prizes are not actual won items, they are just something that the Sim "wins" after they have completed an action in their hobby. For example, after cooking a meal, an adult Sim "wins" a cooking tool. Sometimes you win new tools, sometimes you win tools you already have. There are a certain amount of prizes that you can win in a row.


If you collect all of the prizes in one row, you win an actual prize. Sometimes it's XP, sometimes it's LP, sometimes it's a new item, sometimes it's Simoleons, sometimes it's town value. Once you collect all of the prizes in all of the rows, you win an exclusive item.
Sometimes hobbies have a limited time prize- like the Salsa Dancing adult hobby had a limited time prize and usually when you unlock a new hobby with a quest there is a limited time item that you could win. If you don't get the item, then you can't buy it later either- it's limited.

