 If you’re planning to use the online service provided by the State of Delaware to apply for a birth certificate copy, which is called Vitalcheck, have all of your documentation available as you fill out the online forms. This will ensure there are no delays in getting your copies.


Have copies of your social security card or number and a photo ID. If you are applying for a birth certificate for someone other than yourself, make sure you have proof of your relationship to that person.Vitalchek accepts credit cards as a form of payment for their services and for the application fees. You can pay with Visa, Mastercard, American Express, or Discover., In order to apply for a birth certificate copy online, access the VitalChek website to begin and complete your application. The service has the advantage that you can use it any time you’re ready.


VitalChek’s website for Delaware birth certificates is https://www.vitalchek.com/birth-certificates/delaware/delaware-vital-records-georgetown.
You can file your application 24 hours a day, 7 days a week., The VitalChek website will ask you questions about your application for birth certificate copies. Follow these questions and any prompts for additional information or documentation until your application is complete and you receive a confirmation email.If you have any questions about the process, you can access VitalChek’s online FAQ page at https://vitalchek-solutions.custhelp.com/app/home or call their hotline at 1-877-888-0248.
 At the end of filing your request online, the Vital Chek website will request your payment. Vital Chek charges not only for the copy of the birth certificate, but also for its expedited services.


Vital Chek accepts Visa, Mastercard, Discover, and American Express.
The fee for Vital Chek’s services ranges from $5 to $16 for obtaining the birth certificate. In addition, Vital Chek will charge you an additional fee for whatever shipping method you choose. The price for that will also vary depending on how quickly you want the birth certificate copy., After you’ve filed your application with Vital Chek and paid the relevant fees, you will receive a confirmation number by email. You should receive your birth certificate relatively quickly by using the online service.


Make sure to note the confirmation number for the requested birth certificate in order to check up on the status or ask questions you may have.
Vital Chek offers fast turnaround on birth certificate requests. The will file your application within one business day to government office and you should expect your copy in about a week.You can also check on the status of your application at https://www.vitalchek.com/order_status_signon.aspx with the order and pin numbers that Vital Chek provide you.

