 Switch off the light switch that controls the power for your chandelier. Wait until the light bulbs on your fixture feel cool to the touch.


You can disconnect the electricity as an extra precaution, but only do this if you are confident in operating your home’s circuit breaker or have assistance from a knowledgeable electrician. You should not need to adjust any electric wiring in this process.;
, While you’re waiting for the bulbs to cool, prepare your workspace. Place a tarp or drop cloth over the floor under your chandelier, and set up a stepladder or taller ladder securely under the chandelier.


To prevent any parts dropping and breaking, you can lay down a thick blanket to absorb the fall.
Make sure your ladder is at a height that is comfortable to reach all parts of the chandelier., Working on your ladder where you can reach the chandelier, spray a glass cleaner or specific chandelier cleaner on a cotton cloth that is clean and soft. Wipe down each crystal with the damp cloth, then immediately dry with a separate dry cloth.


Try wearing an apron with pockets while you work, so that you can keep the cleaner, cloths, and any other supplies easily on hand.Instead of two cloths, you can wear two soft cotton gloves for better control and dexterity. Spray one glove with the cleaner to wipe crystals down, and keep the other glove clean to dry them. If you have a lot of crystals, you may want several pairs of gloves., Work your way around the chandelier to clean every crystal with your cleaner and cloth, wiping with the damp cloth or glove and drying with the clean one.


When cleaning the crystals, always spray cleaner onto a cloth first, rather than directly onto the fixture.
While cleaning, don’t twist or rotate the chandelier to access each side or part. This could damage or weaken its parts or supports, risking falling and breakage. Instead, carefully descend and move the ladder to position yourself in the right spot to reach and clean each part separately., Wipe the frame and any other parts of your chandelier with just a dry cloth or an appropriate chandelier cleaner or metal cleaner.


Ensure that you use a cleaner that is intended for the type of metal or other material that your chandelier frame is made out of, otherwise you run the risk of discoloring or tarnishing it.
Clean any metal hooks or fasteners for the crystals with a dry cloth only, as cleaner can tarnish or strip the finish off of them., Clean off the light bulbs in your fixture with a clean, dry cloth. Make sure that all bulbs are screwed in properly and don’t appear browned or discolored.


If any light bulbs are dim, burnt out, broken, or missing, take this opportunity to change them out with new bulbs of proper wattage.If a bulb appears to have more stubborn stains, you can very gently clean it with a cloth damp with cleaner, or replace the bulb entirely.

