 This will need to be one you are comfortable with getting your car into without hitting the person in front of you or behind you. 








Some parking lots have parallel spaces. These are usually marked clearly with white lines, so it can be easier to park in these than on the street.
If you need to, drive around the block until you find a space with a large enough gap.
You will need a space several feet longer than your car.
Larger spaces are easier to park in.
 Do this as you approach your spot. Ensure another car isn't riding on your tail.
Signal towards the space as you approach, slow down, then stop.
If another motorist pulls up behind you, maintain your position. Roll down your window and gesture for them to go around you, if possible.
 You will do this with the car in front of your space, maintaining at least a 2 foot distance between the side of your car and the one in front. Don't get too close or too far away from the car. If you are too close you might scrape the other vehicle as you are backing into your space.
Try to be about 2 feet away from the other vehicle.
Align your car's bumper with the other vehicles bumper or stay 2-3 feet behind it.
 You will now be backing into the space. 








Check your driver's side mirror to make sure the street behind you is free of traffic.
Look over your other shoulder to check the space.
Back up until your bumper is about 3-4 feet behind that of the car next to you.
 You will begin to back slowly into the space. 








Visually check in front of and around your car frequently. Make sure other cars or pedestrians don't cross your path.
Maintain a distance of 2-3 feet between the side of your car and the car in front of you to avoid scraping it.
Use your mirrors to judge the distance between your back bumper and the car behind you.
If you hit the curb, you've gone too far. In that case, switch gears into drive and pull forward a few feet.
 Do this once your front wheels are next to the back bumper of the car in front. 








You should still be in reverse.
Continue in reverse as far back as you can.
Look forward and to the side to make sure you aren't hitting the car in front.
Don't hit the bumper of the car behind you.
Look through your back window to check how far the car behind you is from your rear bumper. You can also use your side and rear view mirrors to help you.
 You will now position your car in the space. 








Turn your steering wheel to the right again.
Move slowly forward towards the curb. As you do this, straighten your car in the space.
Use your passenger side mirror to check your distance from the curb. You should be within one foot (30cm) of the curb when you are done parking.
You should now be completely parked.

