 Many professionals, including theatre companies, often use a special kind of wax, called nose wax or scar wax, to give the appearance of a cut or wound when needed.The following supplies can be found at most costume shops or online costume supply providers:


Makeup (scar color)
Nose wax/scar wax
Spirit gum
Spirit gum remover
Wax applicator (Popsicle stick, palette knife, etc.)

, Any oil, dirt, or grime on your face can make your wax bond imperfectly to your face. To prevent your scar wax from peeling off or coming loose over the course of your activities, use mild soap and water to make sure the place you will be applying your wax scar is clean.
 Be sure that you verify the ingredients used in your scar-making products to prevent an allergic reaction. If you have sensitive skin, you should test a small amount of your products somewhere on your body before applying your scar.
 Movement of your body causes your skin to bunch and fold, which will put stress on your scar makeup while you are in costume. Bony areas, like the nose, chin, cheekbones, and forehead, are more likely to keep stationary and leave your scar looking pristine., Some scar wax may be sticky enough, and the part of your body stationary enough, that you won't need to add adhesive to keep it stuck. Even if you don't think your scar is in danger of being knocked loose, using a little spirit gum to the back of your scar will help keep it in place for a few hours, in most cases.Apply your adhesive to the area of your body the scar will cover, leaving it slightly tacky.
 Depending on the brand you have purchased, there may be some small differences in wax consistency, but scar wax is often thick, much like a putty. It can be sold in tubes, which can be squeezed to dispense your wax, or tubs, which you will have to scrape/scoop with your applicator.


Professionals often break off a small piece of wax to work with at first, adding more as necessary.
As this kind of wax can be quite sticky, you may want to cover your applicator and fingers with a little mineral oil to make the process more efficient. Vaseline will also keep the wax from sticking to your fingers.
 At room temperature, your wax will likely be stiff and inflexible. You can make the wax more pliable and easier to shape by kneading it with your hands, warming it in the process. You should do this until the wax is soft, but not so much that the wax loses its ability to hold shape., Now that your warmed up wax is ready to go, form it into the general shape of the scar you wish it to become. A long, thin scar can be made by rolling your wax into the shape of a thick thread. Start by smoothing the entire scar on your body into a neutral line on top of your adhesive. You can give the scar texture and depth by building up your wax-line, or by using precision tools., Even the most convincing shaped wax might not be believable if you don't blend your new disfigurement with its surrounding skin. Liquid foundation is a good option to fill in seams between your wax and face, but you should at least use some makeup to give it the appearance of your complexion., Apply your spirit gum (or other adhesive solvent) to the area around your scar and allow it to sit for a short while. When your scar begins to feel loose, you can peel it from your face, cleaning any residue leftover with either warm water and mild soap, or a baby wipe.

