 Launch your favorite web browser, such as Chrome or Firefox, by clicking on its icon in your task bar (PC) or dock (Mac).


If you don't see an icon for your browser, on PC, click the "Start" menu in the lower left of your screen and select the "All Applications" dropdown, the click on your browser app. On Mac, click on the Launchpad icon — a gray circle with a rocketship — in your dock and click on the browser icon from there.;
, Either type "bill.aol.com" in the bar at the top of your browser window, or follow this link: , Enter your username and password in the appropriate spaces in the white box on the right side of your screen.


If you no longer remember your password, click on the blue "Forgot password?" hyperlink just below and to the right of the space where you were to enter your password. Follow the guided steps to recover your password.
 Click on the blue "Sign In" button.
 After signing in, you will be prompted to select a security question from a drop-down menu on the right side of your screen. Click on the drop-down and scroll to the question you wish to answer.
 Enter the correct answer in the provided space, beneath the question you selected. Then, click on the blue "Continue" button located below your answer.
 "Manage My Subscriptions is located in the top left of the window, in black text, just below the main, gray "My Account" bar. As you hover your cursor over "Manage My Subscriptions" a drop-down menu will appear. Click on the "Manage My Subscriptions" link.
 In the new window, on the right side of the screen, you will see information related to your account, such as whether it's free or paid, when the billing date is, and who owns the account. At the bottom right of the screen, below the account information is an orange "Cancel" link. Click on "Cancel."

, After clicking on cancel, you'll be taken to a screen with a long list of the benefits you will lose by canceling your subscription. Using the scroll bar on the right side of your browser window, scroll all the way to the bottom of the window.
 Click on the drop-down menu beneath the prompt asking you to select a reason for canceling your AOL subscription. The prompt and drop-down are located at the bottom left of the screen, just above the orange "Cancel AOL" button.
 On the drop-down menu, select and click on the reason closest to the one for your cancellation.
 Click on the orange "Cancel AOL" button at the bottom right of the screen, located just beneath your reason for canceling. You will see the message, "We are sorry to lose you as an AOL user."

