 In order to create an Apple ID without a credit card that can download free apps and music, you will need to create the account through the iTunes store.


Make sure that you are not already signed in with an Apple ID before you try to create a new one.
This only works for creating new Apple IDs. If you already have an Apple ID, you will need to provide payment information when opening the store for the first time. You can then remove this information later.;
, Click the Music or Apps button in the upper-left corner of the iTunes window, and then click the "iTunes Store" tab.
 Find the flag icon in the lower-right corner of the iTunes window and ensure that it matches your local region's flag. Click the flag if you need to change stores.
 To create the account, you will first need to download a free app or song. Either find a something you want, or download any free piece of content and delete it after you are finished.


You can find free items on the front page of the store, or by browsing through the "Top Free" category.
 This will prompt you to sign in with your Apple ID.
 This will start the account creation process.
 You will need to accept the Terms & Conditions before you can continue creating the ID.
 You will be asked to enter your email address and create a password before you can continue. Make sure that it is a valid email address, because Apple will be sending a confirmation email to it.
 These will be used if you forget your password and need to reset it. You will also be asked to enter your birthday and an optional rescue email address.
 You will be shown a list of valid payment options, and None will appear at the end of your list. This will only appear if you are creating a new Apple ID for the first time when downloading a free app, song, video, or book.


If "None" doesn't appear, you are likely trying to use an existing Apple ID. Sign out and start over by creating a brand new Apple ID.
You also cannot select "None" if you have Family Sharing enabled and you are the family organizer. You will be required to enter payment information if this is the case.
 You will still need to enter your name and address, though these won't be verified in any way until you enter a credit card.
 You will be sent a verification email to the address you entered when you created the account. Open this email and click the verification link inside.


The email may take several minutes to appear, but usually appears in a few seconds.
You will be asked to sign in with the email address and password. After entering them, click the Return to Store button to go back to iTunes and start downloading free apps and music.

