 Place it on a clean working surface in front of you, oriented as a diamond so that one of the corners is pointing towards you.









White napkins are a classic choice here, but you can also use colored or patterned napkins. If using a patterned or colored napkin, begin with the pattern or colored side down.;
, Bring the right corner of the napkin over to the left corner and crease the fold.









Reinforce the fold by running your fingers along it. It is important to have a crisp line here.
 Unfold the napkin and turn it over, maintaining the diamond orientation with the center crease running between the top and bottom corners.
 For this fold, imagine the 90-degree angle of the bottom corner as divided into three 30-degree angles. You want to bring the right corner towards the left along a 30-degree line. Crease the fold that you've made.









It might help to imagine the new fold as pointing to a one o'clock position.
 Line up the left corner and edge with the right edge and crease the fold. Now you have folded the diamond in thirds.
 Take the edge of the top flap (the part you folded over in the previous step) and fold it back to the left edge, making a crease along the center line.
 Repeat the previous step for the other flap: bring the corner of the bottom flap over to the right edge and crease along the center line.
 Bring the lower corner (the one pointing towards you) up and over the top corner, going just past it. Crease the fold.









The part that goes past it will turn into the swan's "beak," so let that inform how you make your fold.
 Fold the tip of the upper flap back on itself so that it points towards the bottom edge.
 Notice the crease you made in Step 2, which should be running from the bottom edge to the top.
 Grasp the napkin in both hands and fold the swan in half along the vertical crease. You should begin to see your swan taking shape. Reinforce the creases along the bottom and front of the swan by running your forefinger and thumb along them.
 Return the swan to the work surface and orient it so that the base has a bottom tip pointing towards you and then a right and left corner.









The "back" of the neck should form a vertical line ending in the bottom tip.
 Lift the bottom corner of the top flap and bring it up slightly, making a horizontal crease that runs between the right and left corners.
 Turn the swan over and repeat the previous step with the other flap. Now you have made the base folds.
 Open folds you've made at the bottom so that they form a base for the swan to stand on.
 Now that you've learned how to make a swan, you can make several more for a delightful display.








