

Adopting: Have your Sim call the adoption agency on their phone. The next morning, the social worker will arrive, and you will be able to choose whether you want a baby, toddler, or child.



 


Having your own child: You will have to make your Sims get pregnant by clicking the “Try for a baby” option.





;
, For infants, all that is required is a crib and changing table. Once your baby is a toddler you will also want a high chair and some toys. Children and teens need things similar to what adults have. You can find these things in buy and build mode, in the children section.


The first stage is the infant stage. This stage lasts about 2 days. There are not many actions that can be performed with infants. Elders, adults, and teenagers can hold infants. They can cuddle them or play with them. Infants spend most of their time in their cribs. They have to be fed, changed, and can be bathed in the sink. Infants don’t have wants or needs, so the most important thing is simply taking care of them and making sure they are clean and well fed.






The second stage is the toddler stage. This stage last 4 days. Toddlers can do much more than infants; however they require more work. Toddlers sleep in cribs, and can be placed in high chairs, where they can be served bottles or food. They can play with toys, and some of those can help them build skills. Toddlers need to be fed, bathed in the bathtub, and changed. They can be changed into everyday clothes and pajamas. Elders, adults, and teens can hold, snuggle, play with, and kiss toddlers. Children can talk to and tease toddlers. Toddlers can be taught to talk, walk, and be potty trained. These usually earn them aspiration points. Toddlers need to be played with and taught.






Toddlers grow into children. This stage lasts 8 days. Children go to school Monday-Friday. They can make friends and interact with each other, as toddlers can’t. They can participate in games and do homework. Children still aren’t old enough to care for infants and toddlers. Children must do their homework and come to school in a good mood in order to maintain good grades. They can go to community lots.






The last stage before adulthood is teenagers. When a child grows into a teenager, you can pick their aspiration, turn-ons, and turn-offs. Teenagers are a lot like adults. They can date, drive, and get part-time jobs. However they still have to attend school. Teenagers need to fulfill their wants in order to stay happy. For example, a teen with a family aspiration may want to care for their younger siblings, while a teen with a romance aspiration may want to have their first kiss. Teens can babysit their younger siblings.
 Children can be taken away by the social worker if their needs drop too low, they are left home alone, or they fail in school. Only the children who are failing in school will be taken away. Therefore, it's important that you feed and care for your kids. They need to do their homework and come to school in a good mood to get good grades. You can hire a nanny to help care for your kids. Nannies will clean up your house, feed and change your kids, and put them to bed. However, some nannies have been known to slack off, neglect kids, and even leave early.

