 One of the best ways to regain flexibility and muscle strength is by stretching. In fact, stretching can be an excellent way to reduce back pain, you just have to be cautious not to over-stretch or you could accidentally inflict more pain on yourself.Stretch your arms above your head while standing. If you begin to feel pain creeping into your back, stand up as straight as you can and reach your arms above your head with your hands pointing up to the sky. This stretch will help to release pressure on your nerves caused by distorted vertebrae.
Try a split stance stretch. Step forward with the leg that appears longer. Keep your torso as upright as possible. Shift your weight to your forward knee as you bend it. As you shift, raise the arm on the opposite side from your forward leg as high as you can. Reach back with the other arm, keeping your palm up. Hold this pose for a few seconds. Do two to three sets of five to 10 reps each.
 Pain is a sign that you are doing the activity incorrectly, or that it is not good for your body right now. Any sharp pain or discomfort, tenderness, or swelling is a sign you should stop your activity immediately.Mild soreness may be common after physical activity. Soreness usually occurs after you have finished the activity, not during it, and it should be temporary.If you are not sure how to do your exercises properly, consider seeing a physical therapist. A PT can help you learn to exercise in the correct way.
If you continue to experience pain, see a doctor right away.
 Walk, bicycle or attend aerobics classes to help build endurance.You should also practice exercises like the plank, which will help to strengthen your back while also providing pain relief.To do the plank:


Lay on your stomach and place your forearms and elbows on the floor. Your forearms should be parallel with the ground. Rise up on the tips of your toes and hold your body in a straight line so that your back is perfectly flat. Your back should be a straight rod running from the top of your head, through your shoulders, all the way to your toes. Hold this position for 15 or 30 seconds.
 As odd as it may sound, practicing pilates is one of the best ways you can exercise when you are having trouble with scoliosis. Pilates focus on promoting balance which in turn helps to develop both deep and superficial muscles. The stretching involved will also help to relieve back pain.Consult with your doctor or physical therapist before trying pilates. Most of the time, people suffering from scoliosis pain will need to have a pilates routine tailored to their specific needs.
 As stated above, stretching can really help to relieve back pain. Yoga stretches that target pain caused by scoliosis focus on the spine, scapula, feet, legs, and abdominal muscles. Practicing yoga will help relieve pain while also promoting relaxation of the mind which can help in overcoming pain.Try triangle pose. This pose focuses on strengthening and stretching the arms, legs, and abdominal muscles. It is an excellent way to open up your core and help your spine to become more flexible.
Do a knee-to-chin press. This pose is also called Pavan Muktasana and helps increase blood flow to your hip joints while also helping the spine to relax. Lie on your back and bring to your knees to your chin. Wrap your arms around your knees and legs and remain in that position for several moments.

Perform a cat stretch. This is one of the best poses for relieving tension in the back. It will help make your back muscles strong while helping your spine to become more flexible.
Do the side plank pose. Begin in a plank pose, supporting your weight on your hands and feet. Press your weight down on your right hand and roll your body to your right. Stack your left foot on top of your right foot. Extend your left arm straight up.Hold this pose for a minimum of 10–20 seconds, or longer if you can. Do this at least once a day to relieve pain and strengthen your back.