 The decision to come out is a personal one. If you suspect someone you know is gay or lesbian, don't just ask them about it out of nowhere. If this is something they want to talk about with you, they will bring it up themselves.
 If someone comes out to you, don’t say, “Ew, really?” or “Uhhh, ok,” or even, “Yeah, I know.” Coming out can be scary and vulnerable. If someone who is just starting to come out chooses to share this part of himself with you, it is a huge gift of trust. Thank him for confiding in you, and remind him that you care about him. You might also ask, “How long have you known?” or “Has it been hard for you to keep this secret?” if he seems willing to discuss the subject. Don’t press if he seems uncomfortable, and don’t ask things like, “So, have you had sex with any men?”

, While it is admirable that you want to learn more, identifying as gay or lesbian doesn’t mean that a person wants to hold straight people’s hands through the process of learning to understand LGBT people. Just because someone is gay doesn’t mean they are responsible for being your guide to LGBT+ issues. Some gay and lesbian people won’t mind being a resource for you, but you should not assume this to be the case. If you know a gay person and think he might be open to answering some of your questions, politely ask him. If he says no, back off respectfully.
 Life can be hard for LGBT+ people, as they may face discrimination, bullying (even from loved ones such as family members), self-hatred, and confusion. If they are having a hard time, offer them compassion and acceptance. They may really need it.
 This should hopefully be obvious, but you should never use gay or other anti-LGBT slurs. It is important for straight allies to the LGBT community to use respectful language when referring to gay and lesbian people. It’s true that there are a lot of different words for referring to people in the LGBT community. If you are unsure whether a particular word is incorrect or offensive, or aren’t sure what word is appropriate, look it up., Empathy is the ability for feel with someone, rather than for them; it is the ability to project yourself into the experience of another person.If you are not sure how to respond or treat someone in a given situation, ask yourself, “How would I feel if I were in this person’s shoes?” Recognize that your heterosexuality gives you advantages in life that gay and lesbian people do not have,and that bigotry against LGBT people can inflict significant physiological and psychological damage.If you truly empathize with someone, you should not want to cause him this kind of pain.