 Depending on the brand of tuner available, you may need to press a button, flip a switch, or simple open your tuner to turn it on. As there are many different models of tuner, you'll have to follow your tuner's direction for best results.










Desktop tuners are small devices that can be set up on flat surfaces, like a desk or music stand, while tuning. These frequently have ¼" input/output to connect to both bass and amp.

Clip on tuners are generally very convenient for practice, though these can be unsightly if left on during a performance. You should clip these onto your headstock when tuning., Some simple tuners may only tune to a single note, but you might be able to set other tuners to whatever note you please. This information should be displayed clearly and prominently on the screen of your tuner.


Most electronic tuners these days comes with a LED screen color coded red and green. Red generally implies that you are off pitch, while green implies you are nearing it.
You may find that your tuner has an "auto-tune" function to help beginners tune open (unfretted) strings., This might require you to set your tuner first before playing a string and adjusting its tuning peg to tune your bass. After the tuner is set, play strings one at a time and follow the tuner screen indicators to tune each string by adjusting each corresponding tuning peg.








You won't have to alternate between strings like with the interval method or hold a pitch in your head like when tuning to another instrument when using a tuner.
Be careful not to accidentally mismatch strings and tuning pegs. Doing so will mean you'll have to re-tune.
 When you're in a pinch and you don't have a tuner on hand, you could always look up a free bass guitar tuner online on your phone or computer. There are even guitar tuning apps you can download to your phone so you're never without one.


Depending on your phone and the quality of the app/website tuning service, some of these online tuners may be low quality.

