 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the bread, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully. Next, grease a 9-inch by 5-inch (23-cm by 13-cm) loaf pan with nonstick cooking spray and set aside.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the right temperature. It will likely make a beeping sound and/or flash an indicator light.
You can grease the pan with butter or shortening if you prefer.;
, Add 1 ¾ cups (219 g) of all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon (5 g) of baking soda, 1 teaspoon (3 g) of ground cinnamon, and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) salt to a medium sized bowl. Use a whisk to mix the ingredients together until they’re fully combined.You can substitute white whole wheat flour for the all-purpose flour if you prefer.
 Add 1 cup (250 g) of smooth peanut butter, ½ cup (100 g) of packed light brown sugar, and ½ cup (100 g) of granulated sugar to a large bowl. Use an electric mixer to blend the ingredients together on medium-high speed until the mixture is smooth.You can substitute chunky peanut butter for the smooth if you prefer. It will alter the texture of the bread, though, because there will be chunks of nuts in it.
If you prefer, you can mix the batter in a stand mixer.
You can also mix the batter by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 Once the peanut butter mixture is smooth, add 1 large egg and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of pure vanilla extract. Mix in the ingredients on medium-low until they are fully incorporated.You can use an egg substitute in place of the egg if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed in the egg and vanilla, add 3 mashed, ripe bananas to the bowl. Use a spatula to carefully fold the bananas in until they’re completely blended into the batter.For the best-tasting bread, the bananas should be yellow with an even amount of brown freckles scattered across the peel.
If your bananas aren’t ripe yet, place the unpeeled fruit on a cookie sheet and bake in the oven at 250 degrees (121 degrees Celsius) for 15 to 20 minutes or until they are soft.
 When the banana is mixed into the batter, gradually add the flour mixture into the bowl. Mix the batter on medium-low until the dry ingredients are just incorporated.Be careful not to overmix the batter, or you may wind up with tough, chewy bread.
 Once you’ve finished mixing the batter, transfer it to the greased loaf pan. Use a spatula to ensure that the batter is distributed evenly throughout the pan., Place the loaf pan in the heated oven. Allow it to bake for 1 hour and 10 minutes to 1 hour and 15 minutes or until the top of the bread is golden brown and it’s split down the center.If the bread begins to brown too quickly, tent a piece of foil over it while it finishes baking.
You can be certain that the bread is done by sticking a toothpick or knife in the center. When you pull it out, the tester should come out clean.
 When you’ve taken the pan out of the oven, let the bread cool inside for 10 minutes. Run a knife along the edges of the bread to ensure that it’s not stuck, and then turn it out on a wire cooling rack so it can cool completely, which should take 20 to 30 minutes., While the bread is cooling, add ⅓ cup (85 g) of smooth peanut butter, 3 tablespoons (43 g) of unsalted butter, and 1 tablespoon (8 g) of confectioners’ sugar to a small microwave-safe bowl. Stir the ingredients together until they’re just combined.You can substitute crunchy peanut butter for the creamy if you don’t mind the glaze having chunks of nuts in it.
Confectioners’ sugar is also sold as icing sugar or powdered sugar.
The glaze is an optional step. You can leave the bread plain if you prefer.
 After you’ve quickly mixed the glaze ingredients, place the bowl in the microwave and heat on high in 30 second increments until it is smooth. Be sure to stir the glaze after each increment so it heats evenly.To make the glaze easier to spread, it helps to let it cool for 1 to 2 minutes so it stiffens up slightly. Don’t let it cool too long, though, or it won’t spread.
 When you’re finished making the glaze, use a butter knife or offset spatula to spread it over the top of the bread. Next, sprinkle 3 tablespoons (23 g) of chopped honey roasted peanuts over the glaze. Cut it into pieces and serve.You can substitute plain peanuts for the honey roasted or omit the chopped nuts entirely.
Store the bread in an airtight container at room temperature. It will stay fresh for 3 to 4 days.
