 If you have hot flashes and night sweats, you may not get a full night’s sleep. This can worsen menopausal fatigue. To help with this, keep the temperature at home cool. If you cannot keep your entire house at a lower temperature, make sure to do this to your room at night.You may want to keep the temperature on the thermostat cooler. If you don’t want to do this, put a fan or a air conditioning window unit in your room to keep it cooler.
Wear light, breathable clothing and use lighter blankets instead of heavier ones.;
, Regular exercise and physical activity can help give you more energy and combat fatigue. Some researchers believe that regular exercise can also help decrease hot flashes. Having fewer hot flashes can also help reduce your fatigue by letting you sleep better and get more rest.You can try a variety of physical activities to get exercise. Walking, jogging, gym classes, strength training, zumba, cycling, or swimming are good activities.
 You may want to try treating your fatigue, hot flashes, and other menopause symptoms naturally. You can take herbs that may alleviate symptoms. Always talk to your doctor before trying natural remedies.Black cohosh is an herb used for night sweats and hot flashes. Research has indicated mixed results for this herb, but some women have found it helpful. You can take it as a capsule, tablet, or a powder mixed into water. Black cohosh has been linked to liver problems, so do not take if you have liver disease. It can also interfere with certain medications, so talk to your doctor before taking.Evening primrose oil may help with symptoms. You can get it as oil or as capsules, but it can take six to eight weeks to work. Make sure you speak to your doctor first to make sure that this oil will not interfere with any of your medications.Vitamin E supplements might be able to help reduce menopause symptoms. Try a supplement of around 400 IUs. Too much vitamin E has been linked to internal bleeding and increase your risk for bleeding overall. Consult your doctor before taking Vitamin E supplements as it can interfere with many different medications., Two important lifestyle changes you can make that may help menopausal fatigue are quitting smoking and losing weight. Smoking and being overweight lead to hot flashes and can make you more tired.Talk to your doctor about ways to help you quit smoking and lose weight.

