 The "Firefox" button is located in the upper left corner of the Firefox browser window.



 


Clicking on this button will open a drop-down menu with two columns.





;
, Move your mouse cursor over to "Options," located in the right-hand column of the Firefox menu. When you hover over this text, the options sub-menu will pop out to the side. Click on "Options" at the top of this sub-menu.


The "Options" sub-menu is the fifth menu from the top in the right-hand column.
Once you click on "Options" in the "Options" sub-menu, a separate dialogue box will pop up.






Note that "Options" only applies to PC users. Mac users will need to click on "Preferences," but the remaining steps are the same.
 The "Privacy" panel icon is located along the top of the "Options" dialogue box.


Each panel icon is labeled and accompanied by a corresponding graphic. "Privacy" is the fifth icon and its graphic icon looks like a masquerade mask.






Clicking on "Privacy" will open the corresponding panel within the same "Options" dialogue box.
 Within the "Privacy" panel is a heading labeled "History." Look for "Firefox will:" at the top of this section. Click on the drop-down box next to this text and select "Use custom settings for history."


Selecting this option will reveal a new set of checkboxes and buttons. Each of these new details will permit you to customize your privacy settings.
 Look for the “Show Cookies...” button within the newly expanded "History" section of the "Privacy" panel.


Clicking on this button will cause a second dialogue box to pop up.
 Type the name of the website within the "Search:" field. All cookies that match the website name will automatically be displayed.


The cookies matching the website name will be displayed in the window below the search bar. Both the "Site" and "Cookie Name" will be displayed.






Type the website name as though you are typing the primary part of the website URL. For example, if you were searching for wikiHow cookies, you would type "wikihow" or "wikihow.com."

, Click on the whichever cookie you want to remove. Clicking on it once will highlight it.


If you want to select all the cookies from that website, begin by clicking on the first cookie at the top of the list. Hold down the "Shift" and "End" keys on your keyboard to select all the cookies.
 The "Remove Cookie" button appears at the bottom of the "Cookies" dialogue box.


Clicking on this button will remove the selected cookies but it will not close the dialogue box. After you click on this button, the window displaying your search results should become empty.
 The "Close" button is located to the right of the "Remove Cookie" button within the "Cookies" dialogue box.


Clicking on this button closes the dialogue box and returns you to the "Options" menu.

