 It can be hard to admit that your drug use is out of control, but be honest with yourself about how much you are taking and how frequently you are using it. This may help you to realistically view your issue and can help motivate you toward positive change and create goals for yourself.


Ask yourself: How much time are you devoting to your habit? How much money are you spending to support your habit?
Focus on accepting the reality that you may be spending a lot of time and money using amphetamines. The more you accept it, the more likely you will be motivated toward positive change.This is perhaps due to the idea that acceptance helps us admit and own our weaknesses, which is necessary to modify our behaviors.;
, Again, this can be difficult to do honestly, but try to think about how your amphetamine use has affected your life. For example, did you know that amphetamine use can cause all sorts of negative consequences such as impaired attention, memory, decision-making, impulse control, planning and learning?In some cases, excessive amphetamine use can lead to paranoia and psychosis.Identifying these negative consequences can help motivate you toward positive change.


Ask yourself: Have you lost friends or let important relationships suffer? Have you been performing poorly at school or work? Is your health suffering as a result of your amphetamine use? Is your habit likely to cause legal problems (or has it already)?

, It may be challenging to admit that you have a problem. Individuals commonly think they are in control and that they “can stop at any time.” The first step to getting better, though, is admitting that you have a problem.You may have an Amphetamine Use Disorder are if you are: taking amphetamines in larger amounts or for longer periods of time than you intended, wanting to reduce your use but not being able to, spending a lot of time or energy getting/using/recovering from amphetamines, and craving amphetamines.Tolerance is another symptom of Amphetamine Use Disorder. This means you are tolerating higher amounts of amphetamines over time and needing more in order to get the same effect.Another symptom of Amphetamine Use Disorder is if you experience symptoms of withdrawal (you experience unpleasant mental and physical side effects when you stop taking the drug).
Additionally, if you are not able to complete work or home obligations due to amphetamine use, or you are having relationship problems due to your use, you may have a substance use disorder.Have compassion for yourself and accept that you have a problem. Having self-compassion and thinking about your weaknesses can actually motivate you to make changes.