 Your body naturally produces oils that keep your skin protected and prevent drying out. However, you do lots of things throughout the day that remove these natural oils. The biggest threat to your skin's natural protectant is your bathing routine. Soaps which remove to much oil from your skin and water which is too hot both put your skin at risk. Lower the temperature of your showers as low as you can stand and use only soaps which contain moisturizers or are marked for "sensitive skin".


You should also be sure not to bathe too often or for too long. Both can also wash away too much of your natural oil. Shower for no more than 10-15 minutes and no more than once a day. If you can, bathe only every other day.;
, You have probably seen the advice to exfoliate dry skin. This removes the dead skin, preventing infection and allowing moisturizing products to absorb properly. This is good advice but you should follow it carefully. You don't want to exfoliate too often, first of all. Once or twice a week can be plenty, especially for sensitive areas like the face. You also shouldn't use harsh exfoliants, like a loofah or pumice stone. Instead, baking soda paste or a clean washcloth will get the job done without causing damage.


It is also important to make sure the washcloth you use is clean. One of the reasons why things like loofahs cause problems is because items like that easily harbor germs and bacteria. Using a clean washcloth can help keep that problem from happening.
 When you dry your skin, be careful. Vigorous rubbing with a towel can not only irritate your skin, it can also remove too much moisture and oil. This can cause dryness or make an existing problem worse. Instead, air dry when you can and otherwise lightly pat your skin dry with a soft, clean towel or cloth.
 After you bathe or get your skin wet, you should always apply a layer of moisturizer to help lock in moisture and return the natural oils that you may have removed. This basic layer does not need to be thick, necessarily. Just a basic layer of protection can make a difference.


Lanolin cream is one of the best products for protecting your skin and maintaining moisture. This is a natural product which is produced by animals to protect their own skin. The most common US brand is called Bag Balm and can be found in most drug stores.
For your face, however, lanolin can be a bit much and should be used only occasionally and in very severe cases. Otherwise, you should use a lighter product which is oil free and designed not to block pores or cause other skin problems.
 If you can, try to apply a thicker layer of product at night, and then cover the area in clothing to protect the product. This will give your skin more to absorb and more time to absorb it. Be aware, however, than most of these skin moisturizing products stain, so be sure to cover the skin with clothing that you don't worry about, like an old pair of sweats or pajamas.
 If you want to have real results that last, it's important to form a routine. You'll need to moisturize and care for your skin regularly and for a long time before you can see real results. Be consistent, persistent, and above all: patient. You will see results but you need to be sure to moisturize every day for a really long time.
 When the air gets cold, it precipitates moisture out of the air. The air then sucks whatever moisture it can get out of your skin, causing dryness. This is why you are probably most affected in the winter. Protect your skin from the temperatures by covering up in warm clothing and by covering your skin in cremes to lock in the moisture you have.


For example, wear gloves to protect your hands and socks to protect your feet. Scarves and cowls can be worn across the face to protect your skin there.
 The sun also causes problems with dry skin, by irritating your skin and causing damage. You also risk skin cancer by getting too much sun exposure. Be sure to wear protective clothing as much as you can when you go out on a sunny day and for what skin is not covered by clothing, use sunscreen.


SPF 1000 sunscreen is just not needed. The regular sunscreen, 15 or 30, should be plenty. You will want to be sure, though, to get a broad spectrum sunscreen (UVA/UVB).
 Some soaps, especially those with high levels of synthetic surfactants are really harsh on your skin and can cause damage and dryness. You'll want to find a mild soap, that suits your skin, in order to prevent dryness, Hard water, or water which contains a large concentration of calcium, is common throughout the world. This excess calcium ( which not technically harmful) can irritate and dry out your skin, however, by leaving some calcium behind on your skin. You should have your home tested for hard water to see if this is causing your skin problems.


If you do have hard water, it's possible to treat the water so that it comes out of the pipes calcium-free. Your local hardware store should be able to help with this.
 Just like dry winter air is bad for you, any kind of dry air can also cause dry skin. You can combat this by using a humidifier in your home or office. A basic place to start would be running one in your room at night, since this will also help you sleep.
 Dehydration can cause problems with dry skin very easily so you'll want to be sure that you're drinking plenty of water. However, how much is the right amount depends on each individual. The recommended eight glasses is a starting point, but you might need more or you might need less.


A good rule of thumb is that if your urine is coming out pale or clear, you're getting enough water. If it's sunshiny yellow or darker, you need to drink more water.
 You skin, just like so many other parts of your body, need some nutrients more than others in order to look its best. You'll want to be sure to get these nutrients in your diet or take supplements to make sure that your body has enough. The best nutrients for skin include vitamin A, vitamin E, and omega-3 fatty acids.


You can find these nutrients in high concentrations in salmon, anchovies, sardines, olive oil, almonds, kale, and carrots.
 It is well established by science that dry skin can often be caused by excess weight and obesity.Conditions that are related to obesity, such as diabetes, can also cause skin dryness. If you find that other methods are not helping you to maintain healthy skin, you might want to consider if your weight and general health are the root cause of your problem.
 Other underlying health problems can also cause dry skin. You'll want to talk with your doctor and get evaluated to see if any of these problems are affecting you. If they are, then you'll know why your own efforts haven't been very successful and you'll have new options available to you to help keep your skin healthy.


Eczema and psoriasis, for example, are common conditions which both cause problems with dry skin.
If you find you have dry skin on your face and around your hairline, it's important to realize that it might actually be dandruff and caused by a skin fungus. This requires different treatment than just moisturizing.
 As with most medical problems, if you have questions or concerns it's a good idea to talk to your doctor. Dry skin is a problem that should not be ignored. Severely dry skin causes small and large cracks in the skin, which puts you at serious risk of infection. Dry skin can also, as stated above, be associated with more severe health problems like diabetes. For these reasons, it's a good idea not to ignore the problem if you find that the measures discussed above are not helping.


If you don't have health insurance and you live in the US, please see the official listings of clinics which can help you at low or no cost.

