 Throughout childhood, you were probably told that meat, milk, eggs, and fish are the main sources of protein in most diets. However, there are many other sources of protein available if you look closely and plan ahead.


Many plant products are rich in protein.
In fact, broccoli, avocados, nuts, seeds and legumes have a higher amount of protein per gram than many animal products.
The only drawback is that plant proteins are not first class, meaning that a single type of plant does not contain all the essential amino acids.
To make sure you get your required variety of amino acids, simply combine two or more plants.
Most likely, the deficiency of one will be fulfilled by another.
 It is true that a strict raw food diet lacks some vitamins and minerals, the most notable of which is vitamin B12.


About 38% of vegans suffer from vitamin B12 deficiency.
However, you can easily overcome this issue by adding yeast to your diet.
Add 1 tablespoon of nutritional yeast to your daily menu.
Alternatively, you can take 10 micrograms of vitamin B12 supplements daily.
 Some people doubt that a raw food diet can contain enough calcium and iron. With the proper planning, you can definitely make sure that your raw food diet incorporates enough of these two essential nutrients.


Green leafy vegetables are abundant sources of calcium and iron.
Vegetables like broccoli, nuts such as almonds, and sesame seeds are rich in both minerals.
 Always feeling hungry can be a result of a sudden transition to a raw food diet. This psychological factor can be addressed by meditation, yoga, and satisfying your taste buds by eating slowly.


In some cases, hunger may a sign of inadequate calorie intake.
Make sure you are taking in enough calories in the form of carbohydrates and fats.
Seeds, nuts and sprouts can be a great remedy for hunger.
Sometimes thirst may be perceived as hunger. Drink enough water (2 liters daily at least).
Lastly, you may add raw animal products, like milk, which are very filling.
 The withdrawal of cooked and processed foods and the introduction of greens to your diet may alter your body chemistry. As these natural ingredients become the basis for your diet, harmful and toxic substances begin to wash away.


You may experience nausea, diarrhea, headache, abdominal cramp, acne, or rash during this stage.
To avoid detox symptoms, withdraw processed and cooked foods more gradually.
Add heavy raw foods like nuts, coconuts, and avocado to slow down the detox.
 There is always the risk of a bacterial contamination of raw foods, because raw foods are not exposed to heat that would kill the microbes.


This is particularly true for raw vegetables that can be contaminated by environmental organisms and animal waste, and unpasteurized milk.
Always wash raw foods thoroughly with fresh water.
Try to avoid raw milk and milk products.
Keep your kitchen neat and clean and wash your hands with soap and water before handling foods.

