 You need to know what you can expect once you get to your destination. First of all, if you’re staying with a friend or family member, see what items they have there for you to use (like towels and shampoo). You should also check the weather report for your destination, so you know what kind of clothes to bring.


Make sure to consider what the weather will be like in the evenings and mornings too, not just what you’ll need for daytime wear. Some places are very hot during the day but freezing once the sun goes down.
 You want to pack as light as possible, since toting around a bunch of stuff you don't need will only add to the headache of a trip. By taking only a carry on, you can save yourself some baggage fees, get out of the airport faster, and have less to carry as you make your way to your hotel.


Even if you're going on a trip for a long time, you can still pack lightly. Simply find a laundromat or other way of cleaning your clothes (such as borrowing a friend's clothes or washing them by hand in the hotel's tub).
If you do use this method, keep in mind that you will be limited in the items that you can bring, such as liquids and sharp objects. However, sometimes these items can be purchased once you arrive.
 Try to find as many opportunities as you can to make items count for more than one purpose. Stick to a color scheme when picking your clothes and try to pack three tops for every pair of bottoms. No one will notice that those jeans are the same and you can get vastly different looks by pairing items creatively.For example, for a one week trip, you can pack one pair of pants, three tee shirts, two tank tops, two formal shirts, a button up sweater, and a pair of pajama bottoms. The sweater can not only be paired with the formal shirts for style and the tees for warm, it can also be paired with the two tank tops to act as another casual top. All of the shirts can be worn as pajama tops after their respective days of wear. Between the pair of pants you wear on the plane and the pair you pack, you'll have plenty of clothes for your trip.
 When you choose which clothes items you bring, choose items which can be layered. This will help keep you prepared for whatever the weather works out to be while you're there. You'll also want to go with items that are lightweight, since this will help with the layering but also keep your bag lighter overall.


For example, wear a sweater on the plane and keep your bag packed with lots of light tops that can be worn with the sweater as needed.
 There are many different schools of thought on what the best way to physically pack your clothes is. The truth is that it depends on what you're packing, how much you're taking, and how well you pack it. One good option is to roll your clothes. This uses less space than laying your clothes folded in the bag and can actually prevent wrinkles if you use a nice, tight roll. However, this method only works well if you plan on taking a very full bag.


When you roll items, be sure to keep them as tight as possible and smooth wrinkles as you roll them. This will prevent major creases from forming.
 Lay a tee shirt out flat on your bed. Fold up your underwear and some pajama bottoms into a roughly 10x10" square and place the square up at the collar of the shirt. Fold the left side of the tee over and then the right so that you have a long triangle going up and down. Now, lay your socks horizontally across the top, central part (where the underwear are). The open end of the socks should be facing outward and sticking out a few inches from the edge of the shirt. Now, roll up the shirt, tossing in a toothbrush and other toiletries if you like once you have a roll, fold the edges of the sock over the ends of the roll to create a nice, tight bundle.You can make multiple bundles for packing for a longer trip, using this method to keep the individual items for specific days separate, saving you from having to dig through your bag for the right pair of socks.
 If you want to pack more items or want to be extra sure to prevent wrinkles, pack with a larger bundle.Start by laying your blazers and tailor shirts on top of each other at 180 degree angles. Line up the top of the shoulder on one with the underside of the arm on the other, so that the sleeves are layered on top of each other. Alternate layer by layer, moving from nice shirts to tees and finally to pants, which should be placed perpendicular to the rest, following the arms of the shirts instead. Finally, fold your pajamas into a square and place this at the center. Now, wrap each item around that center bundle individually, pulling over the left sleeve, right sleeve, top and bottom. Smooth the fabric as you wrap until the whole bundle is ready to go. Simply strap it into your suitcase and you're ready.


Keep in mind, however, that this method isn't very TSA-bag-search-friendly. Don't use this method if you know you're not going to have a lot of time at the airport, since you'll have to take the time to refold the bundle.
 Look for spots in your suitcase with empty space. This empty space can be taken advantage of to save even more room. For example, you can use the inside of shoes to store socks and underwear.You'll also want to pass on using bags with lots of compartments, pockets, and zippers. These just add weight. You're better off utilizing a large, open space and using bundles or bags to keep items separate.
 If you're not worried about wrinkles (such as if you're just flying home to visit your parents), you can save yourself even more space by compressing your clothes. Use a vacuum seal bag, a large ziplock, or even an extra pair of Spanx to compress the bundles we helped you make in earlier steps.


The Spanx or other shape wear items are very useful for this purpose. Buy a cheap pair that are intended for a waist size about as big as the bundle you made. Just fit it over the bundle and you'll find you have even more space.
 Leave some extra room in your suitcase for any new items that might come home with you. This will be very important, especially if you don't want to pay to have to ship things or get an extra suitcase to take home with you.


Especially with international and vacation travel, it's safe to assume that you'll probably buy new clothes while you're there, so there's no need to pack an outfit for every day that you'll be gone.
 Be prepared and make sure you're organized with everything else that goes in your suitcase. Have your electronics changed and pack the charger (as well as a converter for international travel). Bring extra pills if you take medication. Have cash money ready for immediate use, in the event that your cab driver doesn't take cards. You'll also want to have a sheet with contact information, addresses, and directions on your person, in case your bag gets lost.
 Pack a separate ziploc full of items that you'll want to use while you're on the plane. This bag can be placed in the front pocket of your suitcase or even in your purse, making it easy to access. This will help prevent the need to dig through your suitcase as you stand awkwardly in the aisle.


Include items like your mp3 player, your headphones, medication, snacks, and a book in this separate bag.

