 While it does matter what people think about your manners, cooperativeness and thoughtfulness, how you look and the style you choose to adopt isn't their judgment call. Realize that a lot of people would love to be unique and out there but they're so totally afraid of not fitting in that it's just easier to pick on people who do have the courage to be different. Being different is about taking a risk and doing something people don't tend to do on a normal basis.;
, It's a mistake to take a generalist statement about "be yourself and don't care what others think" and confuse that for "if I feel like being a rude schmuck who makes millions on the backs of other people's hard labor, that's okay". You can be different/weird and unique without being a total trump about it. Don't stoop to the level of other people who act meanly and hate on you; ignore them, smile at them, and wave them off. You don't need to joint the small-minded brigade but you can be polite toward them. And, in general, be a nice person who cares about others and show a supportive and uplifting attitude. Whatever your weird, don't base it on being a mean-head.
 Whatever it is, it must come from within and be something you are personally comfortable with. Being weird for the sake of being weird won't work unless it resonates with your sense of humor, personality type and personal quirks. Own your weirdness.


Whatever you define your weird as, it must be something you display at home and out. If you've only the courage to be this way at home, that's fine to begin with but let it branch out in time, so that the world can see your weird too. Grow in confidence and give others the strength to truly be their own selves too by seeing your role modeling.
 Will it be through clothing, your mannerisms, the way you speak, the things you have to say? Maybe it's a combination of these things, maybe it's more than these things. Again, that is something that only you can really discern for yourself.


You're not really going for looks, you're going for attitude. Display your weird attitude in a variety of fun and interesting ways.
 To be different, learn to accept yourself. The thing is that most people do not, and hence are easy prey for the pack mentality because they're too scared to stand out and voice their real opinions. The popular girl at work or school doesn't necessarily have the greatest self-esteem, she's just a great mimic with a louder voice or deeper pocket, enabling her to bend to the will of the masses with greater impact. That doesn't mean she's right or the yardstick by which to measure yourself or anyone else for that matter. Realizing this can help you to be proud of who you are, to shout it out and to stick to being different.
 They're going to tell you in no uncertain terms that you're just not fitting in. These are the alpha conformists, the ones who don't like to see the boat being rocked because they've spent a considerable amount of time, money, effort and lack of thinking on adopting what is socially appropriate as their style. So, if you hear someone say "you should stop doing that, it's getting really annoying" or "stop being so weird, you're creeping me out", that doesn't mean you should stop being yourself by any means. If you change to fit their needs, you're not being different and you're caving into their idea of what's appropriate. Instead, be alert to their agenda. Stick with your preferences. And be reassured, either others will appreciate your strengths in sticking up for yourself and/or you might just meet someone who likes exactly the weird you're rocking and give you the much-desired support.
 Let others know that quirkiness rules all by showing those who respect your style and difference some love. Connect with those who get you and what you're doing. This gives you support and it frees them to be truer to themselves too.


If someone says to you "You're weird", say "Thank you, we are all going for weird here, and I'm stoked you've noticed!". Don't apologize or excuse yourself, don't say "Yeah, I get that a lot" and don't whimper. Live your weird with pride.
Form a squad of like-minded people. Hang out together, feel good together, be a force of strength together. It's also just a really nice thing to do.
 If you feel like being different is a hard job, or you feel pressured or stressed, it's time to relax! Lay down on the sofa, take a walk, whatever makes you feel comfortable. If it feels too hard, maybe you're trying too hard to reach beyond your real self just for the sake of being even weirder––don't do that. Instead, find your comfort zone within your weird and stick with that. You are free to make changes at any time you like––that's a part of what keeps you free to be who you really are at any stage in your life.

