 The best way to cook chickens, turkeys, and other game hens is to roast them whole. This requires the least amount of preparation and the most bang for your buck. It's the best way to roast juicy and flavorful chicken in the oven.


You can typically buy 3 or 5 pound roasting chickens at the supermarket, which make for perfect dinners. You don't have to break them down any before roasting.
 Poultry can be seasoned simply and roasted in the oven with a minimum amount of fuss, but taking some time to marinade can really up the ante and make your bird delicious. Dressing up a simple marinade for a couple hours before you put the chicken in the oven, or overnight for more flavor, is a great way to improve the flavor of the meat and make it delicious.Before you marinate, take a small kitchen knife and make little straight cuts into the breast, the legs, and the rest of the chicken, on all sides. Use the point and stab straight in until you get to the bone. This will help to get the marinade into the meat, not just the skin.
The simple French method of roasting a chicken is to take two whole lemons, a whole bulb of garlic, and some fresh thyme, salt, and pepper. Juice the lemons into a bowl, and cut the head of garlic in half. Season with the herbs (sage, rosemary, or other savory green herbs would also be fine), and place the chicken breast-down in the juices for several hours. Refrigerate. Before roasting the chicken, stuff the cavity with the lemons, the garlic, and the herbs.

Brining poultry involves soaking the meat in a mixture of warm water, sugar, and salt overnight to imbue the meat with juices and flavor. Drain brined chicken or turkey thoroughly before roasting.
 Even if you've marinated your poultry, it's a good idea to season it liberally with salt and pepper, both inside the cavity and out. This helps to season the meat from all angles and give the meat the most flavor while it cooks. The saltiness will transfer throughout the meat as it releases its juices.
 Before you put poultry in the oven, tie the legs together using kitchen twine. This helps to cook the chicken evenly and make sure any stuffing will remain inside the bird. If left untied, the legs of the poultry will cook more quickly and will become very dry, if they're not kept in tight to the rest of the bird, cooking more evenly.


There are a lot of fancy ways to truss a chicken, but the simplest is just to tie the legs together with a small piece of twine. Make a simple bow knot and call it a day.
 Like beef, poultry is usually best roasted in a pan on top of a bed of seasonal vegetables, like onions and carrots. Cut big chunks of whatever you want in the bottom of the pan, then lay the chicken on top of it.


Avoid roasting bags. A common gimmick at supermarkets are plastic roasting bags, which supposedly speed up the cooking time by turning conventional ovens into microwave-like super-heaters. The chicken cooked in these bags is soggy, though, losing much of the benefit of roasting in the oven. Take the time to do it right.
 Convection oven cooking times will be slightly lower. Turkeys, especially very large turkeys, may need slightly more cooking time than that.You can baste poultry, if you want, but it's not super-necessary. Resting the meat appropriately and not overcooking it is the best way to assure that your poultry is juicy.
If you use a meat thermometer, check the thigh and the breast to make sure the meat is done. The thigh should be 180ʡF (82ʡC) and the breast should be 160 when the meat is cooked through.
Check to make sure the juices run clear. The easiest way to check the doneness of chicken is to take a knife and poke it into the joint between the leg and the lower part of the breast. The juices should run clear. If it's pinkish and cloudy, the chicken needs more time.

