 Though you don't need any certification to start a pizza business, it's a good idea to attend a culinary trade school where you'll learn to cook more than pizza. Offering additional dishes on the menu could attract more customers for your own pizza business.


Whether you actually attend culinary school or spend years working in a pizzeria, the important thing is to gather the experience you’ll need to help your business be successful. This could be done through formal education or through hands-on experience.Some pizza chefs recommend traveling to Italy for an apprenticeship to learn the original art of making delicious pizza.;
, Even though you will be involved in the food industry, it is still important to have some kind of business savvy under your belt. You will be responsible for ensuring your business runs smoothly and providing your employees with reliable income. So it will be beneficial for you to gain some insight on the business aspects of running a pizza place.
 Check out other pizza businesses and see how they run. Spend some time learning the ropes at another pizza business and do your research. The insights you'll gain about not only how to make a good pizza, but also how to run a business, will be useful for your own endeavor., Write a business plan that includes a description of your pizza business, the market you intend to sell to, your marketing strategy, projected revenue, taxes, and start-up costs.There are many types of pizzerias, so spend some time thinking about what kind you want to create. There are family-style pizza joints, pizzerias with traditional wood stoves, buffet style pizza places, pizza by the slice, among others. You should also choose whether you want to offer delivery service or dine in and take out only.There are also many styles of pizza to choose between – like Chicago-style deep dish, Sicilian, Neopolitan, thin crust, gourmet, etc.Deciding what kinds of food you want to serve is important, but remember that most pizza consumers prefer quality over quantity.You will also need to decide on what complementary food to serve. You may want to include salads for your more health-conscious customers. Or maybe you’ll want to include an excellent dessert menu with tiramisu and flan. Some more common menu items at pizza restaurants are varieties of pasta dishes, breadsticks, calzones.
 As customers, people are overwhelmed with options for eating out. Why should they choose your restaurant? Think about what you can do to make your restaurant stand out from the crowd. Maybe this means coming up with a cool decorative theme. Maybe it means offering over-the-top customer service every day. Maybe it means you initiate some kind of gimmick like unlimited free drinks if they buy a special cup from your store. Whatever your decision, you need to choose something that will make your customers want to come back to your business (and to pick it in the first place).
 While buying into a franchise definitely has its perks (already established name brand with loyal customers), going independent means that you have full control over your business and your finances., Your logo is a very important part of branding your product/business. Create a logo (or hire a graphic designer to do so) that is aesthetically pleasing and memorable, but make sure that the logo clearly represents what kind of business you are. People are more attracted to logos that are easy to decipher than those that seem unrelated to a topic.
 Getting the help of a realtor as you look for the perfect place to open your business will make your life a lot easier. Realtors are experts at choosing locations and they will have advice to guide you in your choice.


Try to choose a realtor that has experience with commercial property, especially in dealing with restaurant locations.
When choosing a location, it is important to know the area and keep your expected clientele in mind. For example, if you choose a location in a low-income area and decide to open a gourmet pizza place with expensive pies, your business may suffer., Make sure you keep your budget in mind as you search for properties. Think about what you can reasonably afford (remembering that it will probably take time for you to start making money from your business) and only look at locations in that price range. Also consider any additional costs like required renovations, decorating, and taxes.Your pizza business itself may require some renovations – like installing wood pizza ovens or additional seating for customers.
 Choose a location for your pizza business that is accessible, visible, and provides plenty of traffic to attract customers. Check with your city to see if it's zoned for a food company before you sign any lease agreement.A good location is crucial, especially for a successful restaurant. Because pizza is such a popular food, a great location for your pizzeria would be in high traffic areas – like busy downtown streets, near shopping malls, close to college campuses, etc.
 Schedule an appointment with your local health and safety authority to check your location. If all is in compliance with health and safety regulations, you will be issued a permit that allows you to conduct business.Additionally, keep in mind that you will need to acquire a liquor license if you want to be able to serve alcohol at your pizza establishment. This is another thing you will need to look into with your local health and safety authority, as regulations vary from state to state.
If you are interested in starting a pizza business in your home, you can do so as long as you make sure you apply for a proper food license.Without this license, it will be illegal for you to prepare and serve food to people for money – so don’t skip this step. Check with your local city hall to find out exactly what attaining the license entails since regulations can vary from place to place.
 Think about all of the costs associated with running your business and how long you think it will be before you start turning a profit. Typically, new businesses don’t make money until after the first year. You will probably need to invest a lot of time and money before the business starts showing returns.


These costs include rent and utilities at your location, equipment costs, supply costs, advertising fees, employee salaries, among other things.
 Go to your bank and see if you can get approved for a business loan. You will need to provide the loan officer with a detailed business plan including expected costs and the eventual rate of return as well as projections regarding eventual profit.


Additionally, look into grants and loans from the Small Business Administration.Check out Get a Business Loan, Get a Small Business Loan, or Get SBA Small Business Loans for more information.
 Many cities offer financial support for small businesses in their area. You should go to your local chamber of commerce and find out what kind of assistance you are eligible for., Obtain the capital you need from private investors. These are people who are willing to finance your business.
 Buy equipment for your pizza business. You'll need a refrigerator and freezer, gas ovens, a dough mixer, a butcher block table, pans and racks, measuring cups, flat bottom ladles, pizza boxes, napkins, and if you're planning to deliver pizzas, a delivery vehicle.This list, however, is not comprehensive. You should consider asking someone who already owns a pizza business for a complete listing of all the equipment they use on a daily basis in their business.
 Decide what kinds of foods and beverages you will sell and create a menu. You should consider including assorted pizzas as well as other Italian dishes. Be clear and plan the design carefully. Make sure you proof your menu for errors., You’ll need a dependable staff to maintain a smoothly running business. Interview employees, and hire those that are reliable, personable, and efficient., You'll need an EIN to legally hire employees.


Also make sure to register your pizza business with your city if necessary to obtain a business license.
 Design advertisements that are pleasing to look at and offer all of the necessary information about your business – the location, the goods you provide (pizza), your contact information, etc., Advertise your pizza business in the local media, on flyers, and on the Internet. It is important for people to see your advertisements so that you can start drawing more business.


Check out How to Advertise, Promote Your Business, or Advertise Your Business for Free for more tips.
Consider joining websites like Yelp so that customers can leave online feedback for others to see., Tell all of your friends about your new pizza business. Ask them to come try your food. The fastest way for your business to gain popularity is by people telling others about it., A good way to get people to try a new restaurant is by luring them in with discounts and great deals. Include coupons or other discounts in your paper or online advertisements.However, understand that this is a temporary push to gain new customers, not a long term fix. If you continue offering discounts for too long, it will negatively impact your brand image.

