 To make sure that the oven is hot enough to bake the eggs, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat. Next, grease a 12-cup muffin tin with non-stick cooking spray so the eggs won’t stick.If you prefer, you can grease the muffin tin with butter or margarine.;
, Break a dozen eggs into a large bowl. Use a whisk to beat them as you would if you were making scrambled eggs.If you prefer, you can use an egg substitute in place of the eggs. Follow the instructions on the packaging to determine how much you need to replace a dozen eggs.
To reduce the calories and cholesterol, you can also replace a few of the whole eggs with egg whites.
 After you’ve beaten the eggs, mix in ½ cup (75 g) of diced onion, ¼ cup (45 g) of diced green pepper, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of garlic powder, ½ cup (58 g) of shredded cheddar cheese, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir until the mixture is well combined.You can use any vegetables that you like in the eggs, such as mushrooms, greens, and/or tomatoes. Just make sure that you dice them so they’re small enough to fit in the muffin tins.
You can substitute another cheese in the muffins, such as swiss or pepper jack, or use a combination of two or more cheeses.
If you want to make the egg muffins heartier, you can also mix cooked meat into the eggs. Sausage, bacon, and ham are all delicious options.
Mixing frozen shredded hash browns into the egg mixture can help make more filling muffins too.
 When the eggs are completely mixed with the vegetables and seasonings, use a spoon to fill the cups in the greased muffin tin. Aim to fill the cups with approximately ⅓ cup (80 ml) of the eggs., Place the muffin tin in the preheated oven, and allow the muffins to bake until they eggs are set, which should take approximately 20 to 25 minutes. Insert a knife into the center of one of the muffins to make sure that it comes out clean.You can freeze the cooked egg muffins if you want. Place the cool muffins on a parchment paper lined baking sheet, and freeze them until firm. Transfer them to airtight freezer bags, and return to the freezer.
Reheat the frozen muffins by microwaving them individually on high for 30 to 60 seconds or until heated through.

