 Wash your face using warm water and your favorite face wash. Once you have cleaned your face, gently pat it dry with a clean towel.
 Because you will be leaving this mask on your face for a while, you may want to protect your clothes and hair so that they do not get sticky. You can keep your hair from getting sticky by pulling it back and securing it with a headband, a hair clip, or a hair tie. You can keep your clothes from getting dirty by draping a towel over the front of your chest and shoulders.
 You will be mixing your face mask in this. Because you will be using small amounts of milk and honey, the container you use a small bowl or mug. The container has to be microwave-safe.
 You will need 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of raw honey and 1 tablespoon of milk. This will be enough for one face mask.


If you have blackheads on your nose, you can cut a thin strip of cotton fabric. It needs to be long enough to fit over the bridge of your nose. You will be applying this over the mask, and later removing it., Using a fork, briskly mix the milk and honey together until you get a thick consistency.
 Put the container into the microwave and heat it for a few seconds. You want the mask to be warm to the touch, but not hot. Watch the mixture carefully, so that you do not accidentally scorch it.
 Take the container out of the microwave and apply the mask to your face using your fingers or a brush. Gently massage the face mask into your skin using circular motions. Avoid the sensitive areas around your nose, mouth, and eyes.


If you have blackheads on your nose, wash your hands first, then place the cotton strip down onto the bridge of your nose. Gently press the fabric down into the face mask.
 Get into a comfortable position, and wait 10 to 15 minutes. You can lay down in bed, or sit back in a chair. Consider passing the time by reading a book, meditating, or listening to music.
 Use cool water, and soap if necessary. If you put a cotton strip on your nose, make sure that the strip is completely dry, then gently pull it off your nose before washing the face mask off your face.
 Use a soft, clean towel, and do not rub your face.
 If you'd like, you can wipe your face down using a cotton ball soaked in some toner. The toner will help balance out the pH of your skin, as well as tighten the pores. Afterwards, you can apply your favorite moisturizer to help lock the moisture in.

