 Otherwise, download a tuning app to your smartphone. Once you are ready to test your sax, select concert note A to begin tuning.If your tuner or app doesn’t have any presets for specific notes, tune it to to a frequency of 440 hertz (Hz) for concert A.If possible, purchase or download a tuner specifically for saxophones. Most others are meant for the piano or guitar. Because those instruments are in a different key than saxophones, a standard tuner may read your sax’s notes incorrectly. For example, an A note played on an alto or baritone sax may read as a C on your tuner, while the same note played on a tenor or soprano may read as a G.Tuning apps for saxophones include Cleartune (iPad) and Easy Saxophone (Android).;
, Watch the needle on the tuner. Aim to make it stay exactly in the middle of the display for as long as you sustain the note. If the needle indicates that your note is either too flat or sharp by falling to the left or right, adjust your mouthpiece accordingly, roughly one millimeter at a time, and try again. Repeat as needed.If your note is too sharp, pull your mouthpiece out along the neck cork.
If your note is too flat, push your mouthpiece farther in along the neck cork.
 Once your A note is in tune, test your F# (F sharp). These two notes are the easiest to tune on the saxophone. Start off with this easy pair before moving on to ones that may need more coaxing. Use the same technique of adjusting your mouthpiece to correct sharpness and flatness.A tuner meant for piano or guitar may read your F# as an A if you are playing an alto or baritone, while an F# on a tenor or saxophone may read as an E.
F# = 370 hertz (Hz)., Once you have a handle on A and F#, continue the process with other notes. Alter your embouchure (the way you apply your mouth to the mouthpiece) to play notes sharper or flatter. Add more pressure to make a note flatter. Loosen your mouth’s grip to make it sharper.Run through the notes again once you have them all properly tuned. Close your eyes and listen to each one as you play. Develop your ear so you’re less dependent on the tuner.
Mouthpiece designs vary greatly, so even if you master your embouchure on one mouthpiece, those same techniques may not work on the next.Play with the way you set your lips, chin, and posture until you settle upon a combination that seems to work.
 Start with the lowest note in the scale. Work your way up to the highest and then work your way back down. Aim to alter your embouchure as little as possible while still coaxing out the correct notes. Keep an ear out for notes that consistently sound wrong no matter what you do, which may indicate a problem with your sax.If your saxophone isn’t giving you any trouble, repeat scales with your eyes closed to further develop your ear, since relying on your tuner while playing scales, long notes, and arrangements will work against you in the long run.