 Stop buying things you don't absolutely need and stick to the basics only. Review how you spend your money and see where you could get by with less.


Consider getting rid of your credit cards. Credit cards make it easy to spend money you don't have and buy things you could otherwise not afford. If you're looking to live simply, you can remove this temptation by canceling your credit card.Do you have cable? If so, think about canceling your subscription. Not only will this cut down on money, it will motivate you to engage in more fulfilling activities than simply watching TV.
Look at your monthly expenses and see if there's anything you don't really use or need. Are you actually getting your money's worth on your monthly gym membership? Do you subscribe to a magazine you never actually read? Look for expenses that can be easily cut., In modern society, people are in constant communication with one another via cell phone, e-mail, and social media. However, sometimes less is more. Consider limiting your communication a bit and sticking to meaningful conversations with people who really matter rather than scattering communication across many different outlets.


Take the occasional social media break. Consider going a week each month without social media. Deactivate your Facebook for a few days. Sign off of Twitter. Avoid e-mail unless you're sending essential messages for work or school.Try to reach out in other ways. Ask a friend out to coffee and agree to put away your phones and talk. Send a longer, more thoughtful e-mail to a family member in which you express a variety of thoughts and feelings. Communicate less but do so in a way that fosters greater understanding and depth.
 While smart phones can be convenient, you may benefit from a more basic cell phone. If you don't need a smart phone for work, consider a phone that makes and receives calls alone. This can reduce the stress and temptation that comes from the constant influx of information and media related to a smart phone.