 Just as you would for an out of town trip, the key to enjoying a successful staycation is planning ahead. Start your preparation by figuring out how much time you can take off work or school, and plan accordingly. In order to give yourself plenty of time to relax and to feel refreshed upon returning to the daily grind, aim for about a week off.


If you only have a weekend or a few days off, don’t worry! You can still have a wonderful time playing tourist in your hometown in just a couple of days.
Try to give your work plenty of notice, in order to avoid the stress of trying to quickly finish up projects before your vacation begins.
 Treat your hometown vacation as you would any other holiday, and create a realistic and inclusive budget. No matter how much or little you have to spend, you can have a great time and usually not spend nearly as much as you would on traditional vacation.A budget of around $500 for a week is generally a good place to start.
Make sure to take the cost of activities, eating out, gasoline, and any spa treatments into account when planning your budget.
 Mix it up and include a variety of activities. For instance, plan for some outdoor activities if the weather is expected to be nice, include some physical activities such as hiking or sports, and incorporate something new that you have never tried before.Pick up a copy of your city’s travel guide, and start choosing the activities that sound intriguing to you.Take care to not pack too much into each day. You should leave plenty of time to relax between activities.
Build anticipation for the staycation by creating a vision board to inspire your vacation plans. Cut out pictures out from magazines to add ideas to your collage.
 When you leave the office, try to leave your work worries behind and make a smooth transition into vacation-mode. On the evening before your staycation officially starts, plan a stress-free dinner, put on some lively music, open a bottle of bubbly, and let the relaxing begin!


By creating an ambiance of fun and relaxation on the very first night, you’ll set the mood for your entire vacation.
Try incorporating physical reminders that your home is your vacation retreat for the week. Candles and fresh flowers help to create the illusion that your home is a temporary hotel., Use your time off having fun and exploring your hometown, not cleaning and catching up on chores. As you’re relaxing, you will inevitably create at least a little mess. Try to turn a blind eye to it for now, and let it wait until after your time off is over.If you must occasionally lightly clean or do dishes during the course of your staycation, try to tackle it first thing in the morning in order to get it out of the way for the day.
 In order to make your staycation extra restful and special, you may want to consider purchasing a new hammock, or renting a hot tub for the week, which costs around $300. If you have children (even if you don't), you might drag out the tent and sleeping bags, and after a backyard campfire, enjoy a night of sleeping under the stars.

