 Motion sickness is likely caused when involuntary movement (as in a car or boat) confuses the brain, which normally senses movement by signals coming from the inner ear, eyes, and surface receptors.It is a common problem. If you are prone to motion sickness and vomiting, one way to avoid a dangerous situation is to avoid driving.


According to the Mayo Clinic, nausea and vomiting are more common in chemotherapy patients with a prior history of motion sickness.You may want to avoid driving for the duration of your therapy, if you suspect a problem will arise.;
, If you experience severe motion sickness, you might try an over-the-counter medication like Dramamine or Meclizine. These will usually work within 30 to 60 minutes. However, make sure to choose a non-drowsy variety. Regular Dramamine has a sedative effect, for example, which makes driving under its influence dangerous!Another option is to take an antiemetic or anti-nausea drug. Immodium, for example, for Pepto-Bismol may be appropriate.Always consult a doctor about what medicine is best for you. She will know about possible side-effects and adverse drug interactions.
 Be prepared if you are prone to vomiting. Stock vomit bags near the driver’s seat, for example, either paper or plastic bags, and consider lining the passenger seat and/or floor with plastic sheeting.


Chewing also helps to reduce nauseafor example, so keep a mild-flavored gum handy, like Juicy Fruit. However, you may find that chewing in general helps your symptoms. Snacking on sweets of just chewing in general may relieve your body’s conflict between vision and balance.
Fresh, cool air also seems to help motion sickness slightly. Keep your driver’s side window open slightly or the vents pointed at your face., Ginger is an old herbal remedy for nausea and some studies indicate that it may help motion sickness. Try taking a supplement of 250 mg three times per day, when driving heavily. Alternately, you might buy some ginger gum to chew, doubling the effects of chewing with the soothing qualities of the herb.Keep in mind that ginger supplements may increase the risk of bleeding, especially if you are on a blood-thinner or aspirin. Talk to your doctor to see if ginger supplements are OK for you.
 If you must drive, drive defensively in case you need to pull over quickly. Stay in the outer lane, for example, and avoid expressways or roads where it is hard to make a quick exit or safe pull off.


Learn to read your body’s reactions. If your motion sickness usually starts with a light headache, worsens, and then turns to nausea and vomiting, note whenever you get a headache. Take that as a sign that you should pull over.

