 To start serving God, you have to discover who God is to you. Is your relationship with God something you fall back on in your time of need? Or is He someone you communicate with every day?


Your relationship with God will help you to serve him through your thoughts and actions.
Think about your own life and what God has given you.;
, You don’t have to be in a church or on your knees to pray; you can just talk to God as a form of prayer. You can find specific prayers for almost any situation in your life, or you can simply ask God to help you with you a problem, pray for guidance, peace, or any number of things that are on your mind.Prayer is a way of serving God that can be very beneficial to you as it’s a way of letting your faith guide you while you learn to focus on what’s happening in your life and address any issues.
Prayer is not a way to ignore what’s happening in your life, nor should it be used as a means to ask God for things, as He’s not a genie who grants wishes.
Serving God through prayer is sort of the first step on the path to serving God through your whole life and through your faith in Him.
 Reading your bible, or whatever text is considered sacred in your religion is another form of prayer and service to God. Reading the text can give you guidance if you are feeling astray, it can inspire you, and even give you some lessons in how to serve God.


Join a bible study where you can learn how to interpret the text with other followers. Once you understand the bible you can help others to do the same.
As you read the Bible, think about how it reflects on your own life.
You don’t have to read your bible from beginning to end, you can just find books or passages that you feel connect you to God.
 Remember to take a moment sometimes and give thanks for what God has given you, or helped you get on your own.


If you are Christian you can do this at church, before a meal, bedtime, or whenever you feel like it. Just take a moment and thank God for what He has given you; whether it's the food on your table or the clothes on your back.
If you practice another religion like Hinduism, the basic practice is to thank God three times a day.The three times are: after you get up in the morning, before your midday meal, and before bed.
Whether it’s before a meal, before bed, or whenever you have a free moment, taking a minute to thank God for giving you the tools you need in your life to succeed.
 There’s a proverb about a single pair of footprints in the sand during the worst points in your life.And the message of the proverb is that when you thought you were on your own during those hardest parts of your life, God carried you through. Serving God can come from letting him give you strength when you need it most by simply putting your faith in him.


Getting strength from God isn't always the easiest concept. After all, how is God going to make you physically stronger? He won't, but you can use your faith in him to find strength in your daily life.
Maybe you are quick to anger. When you feel your blood beginning to boil, take a moment and just pray to God for peace. Ask to find the strength to stay calm and let things roll off your back. Taking a minute to just breathe and pray can help you calm down.
Perhaps you are having a difficult time coping with something in your life, by praying for strength you may find that you have the ability to cope better.
Getting strength from God will a lot of the time come down to faith and the knowledge that you are never walking alone. That He is there to pick you up if you fall.
 Maybe you have a friend who needs some help or is having a hard time, or it’s someone you don’t know very well. Praying with them, if they’re open to it, or even for them can go a long way.


You shouldn’t force anyone to pray with you or condemn them for not serving God in the same way that you do.
If someone isn’t comfortable with prayer or doesn’t believe in God, then you can serve Him by praying to God that this person finds the peace, strength, and faith they need in their life.
 A family that prays together stays together. Serving God isn’t always an individual thing. When you and your family give thanks and all have faith, you are serving God together.

