 There is no way, unfortunately, to outsmart an authority figure like a parent or a teacher every single time. There are, however, times when they'll be more susceptible to persuasion.


If you're trying to wheedle something out of a parent when they've just gotten home from a difficult day at the office you are not going to have luck getting them to agree to something. In fact, you may make it so that you'll never actually get that thing.
Likewise, asking your teacher for an extension on that project you didn't complete in front of the rest of your classmates is going to make them less likely to give it to you than if you discussed it with them privately.
 There are very few people who aren't susceptible to a little bit of flattery or appreciation. It's important that you don't only do this when you want something, however, otherwise they'll be able to see through your machinations.


Thank them for something. For example: if you're trying to convince your mom to buy you a new phone, say something like "Mom, I really appreciate how hard you work at your job."
Compliment them in a way that isn't terribly obvious, or directly related to what you're trying to get them to do. Say something like "Ms. Harding, you're my favorite teacher, because you're always willing to go the extra mile and help me out."

, People are so much more likely to help you do something or give you something if it also benefits them. Authority figures are just as likely to fall for that as anyone else.


For example: if you're trying to get a new phone, you might say something like "mom, I really want to make sure that you can reach me anytime you need to."

, If you demonstrate that you're mature enough to meet your authority figure halfway on something, you're much more likely to get something from them. It's good to prepare ahead of time so that you know exactly what you're going to offer them in return.


For example, you might tell your mom that you have saved up half of what it would cost to get a new phone, and that you were wondering if you could split the cost with her.
 This is slightly different than the steps above, but if you need to lie about something, then a fantastic way to cover up a misdeed is to tell a really obvious lie at the same time as a less-obvious lie. People will focus on the obvious lie and the non-obvious lie will be more likely to go unnoticed.


Make yourself seem like a really bad liar. Tell some really obvious lies with all the signs of a liar (not meeting anyone's gaze, giggling nervously, acting really nervous, etc.).
It's also better if the lie you're hiding is less a total lie than a half-truth. It's easier to lie by omission or with a lie that has it's basis in truth.

