;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Brahmans come in two colours: White to grey, and red. Whitish Brahmans, especially the bulls, typically have much more grey around the neck, shoulder and head area than the rest of their body, with a grey tail switch. Red Brahman bulls typically have a deeper red to almost black tinge around their neck area with a black tail switch. The cows can be all white or all red, with black noses, tail switches and hooves.

Body type and characteristics: Brahmans typically have a more rounded appearance around their rumps, but the most distinguishing characteristics are the large hump over their shoulders, always more prominent and defined in bulls than in cows, and their loose hide. Bulls and cows always have a loose-looking navel compared to the European type breeds, and the dewlaps are very loose with many folds. All of these characteristics make the breed a very hardy breed in climates that are hot and humid with many insects that would otherwise drive a European-type breed of bovine completely mad.

Head characteristics: It is very difficult to miss those big floppy ears. The ears are often twice the size of any European type of bovine, like the Limousin for instance, and they always hang down along the sides of the head instead of up or level with the top of the head. Brahmans also have a broader forehead (more so in the bulls), and have a dished face from the point between the eyes to the nose. Many Brahmans are horned, with the horns up and out. A Brahman's horns are always short, much shorter than that of a Texas Longhorn's or a Corriente's.

Other characteristics: Brahmans are "made in America" with the infusion of the Gir, Nelore and Guzerat breeds from India. Brahmans are all commonly found in the Southern portion of the USA and Central America, as well as in South America, because they are adapted to the hot tropical climate typical of those areas. Temperaments in Brahmans range from very docile to very high-strung, with no real in-between characteristics. They tend to be highly responsive to how they are handled and treated, no matter if it's good or bad, and thus require kind, gentle treatment at all times.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Brahman cattle, and compare them with pictures of Brahman cattle on the Internet and in your Cattle breeds book. Note:


If you live as far north as Canada or Northern USA, you may have to travel a thousand miles or so south to see any Brahman cattle.

