 Assume that the reader is beginning with a computer (with internet access) and a printer that is unusable. Google will be the browser choice in this example.;
,


Please understand that the first two or three listings on the resulting search page are from sponsored links. This means that there may or may not be a charge for their service but it is not the primary location you have inquired about and they are usually over shadowed in a slightly darker tint. The final line in the description paragraph of each source, will also reveal it's exact location usually in bold blue tint.
Note: this sponsor happens to be HP but this is rare)(The second image is the continuation ans shows which item(s) to select.
 It is normally unnecessary to type in the entire name of the printer so usually, all you'll need is the printer model number. It is usually marked on the front of your printer and in this example, it will be, simply : C4280 and click the search. Because there seems to be a new version your printer manufactured every 24 hours, you may be asked for an identifying version which can be indicated by a letter. . Simply provide the number you see stamped on your unit and select search.
 If you have an All in One, the bundle is important because it includes your scan ... etc. and it may take a few minutes because it is a large file. Make sure you have indicated the correct operating system for your computer. Select the version (Windows XP, Windows 7 ... etc) Select Download.
 Pay attention to the location where the file will be saved so you can locate it later if needed. If you have the option of changing the location, C:/program files (select - Create new folder and in ALL CAPITAL LETTERS, retype the name of your printer The reason to use all capital letters is that it will make it stand out for easy identification should you need to reinstall it again in a few minutes. The second window will be to ask you what to do with the file that has been downloaded. Here, you'll select, "Run". This should begin the installation process, and follow the process and take a moment to read each window that requires input instead of simply clicking "yes", "okay", "sure" , "what ever you ask" ... etc. The reason for this is to insure that you don't end up with, yet another toolbar that you do not need. At the end of this process, you should be able to open and print but there can always be a glitch. If there is a problem where your printer acts more like a popcorn maker instead of a printer, it will probably require these steps and try them, one at a time and in this order. First - turn off the printer, unplug all cables and detach it from the computer and restart the system. When the computer has rebooted, reattach and reconnect the printer. If this fails, you may need to uninstall the printer and then reinstall it again in order to get it back on line. You'll do this by going to control panel, system, hardware, device manager (Windows XP) and locate your printer. Right click and select uninstall. Reboot your system with the printer still connected. Your computer will locate the new hardware but may not be able to find the new driver but, fortunately you can. In all capital letters. It is just a little torture thing that they give us for free because we wanted to use their products.


Another means of torture invented by the manufacturer is the ever changing requirement to connect ... or not, to connect your printer to your computer first or to install the driver prior to connection. You will need to check your manufacturers specifications to be certain. Something very important to understand is that you are under no obligation to accept anything other than what you have requested and I recommend you refuse all offers, except the drivers you have asked for initially. This means, surveys, product customer service clubs, tool-bars (of any kind) or super duper warranties. The best you'll get are additional troubles out of your system. And finally:

, It was once customary for a company to do everything possible to help the customer in every way. The theory was, "A satisfied customer is a repeat customer", but that isn't always available these days. Some companies have reinvented the term 'greedy', as they request additional payment for every conceivable facet of their involvement but there re a few who still care. The "Live Chat" feature offered by some to be an excellent source of knowledge on your product.

