 If you do have a singing voice, that is. How does one tell if one has a singing voice? Well, think of get-togethers, parties, or hang-out sessions where you either were asked to sing or volunteered to. Recall the response you got. Were people happy to hear you? If they were, then that's the best proof that you've got a singing voice. Don't count bathroom singing, though.


The machinery that you have in your body is made up of your stomach, lungs, windpipe, larynx (throat, simply put), mouth and tongue. It is of utmost importance that you take good care of these. Gargling with hot, salted water is a good way to keep the larynx clear and free of germs. The more organic and digestible your food, the better will you be able to control your voice.;
, Or practice holding your breath. Begin practising holding it for a few seconds and increase gradually. However, don't hold it for much more than a minute. It is advisable to learn the proper technique of pranayam. A yoga teacher will be able to instruct you.
 A classical Hindustani vocal music trainer will be able to suggest exercises that you can use to project your voice.
 Breath control is of utmost importance. Control does not imply simply or only holding the breath for the longest possible duration (which is around 2-5 minutes, in the case of experts). It involves the ability to use air stored in your lungs to sing fluently, that is, without unnecessary or inharmonious pauses.
 Try to emulate them to the extent possible. You can also sing classical numbers from old Hindi films. For that matter, you can try out any classic songs by greats such as Kishore Kumar, Asha Bhosle, Lata Mangeshkar, Yesudas, Hariharan, and so on.
 Practice singing their songs. Invest in a good CD or cassette player and CDs and cassettes. Choose a favourite singer/s, and listen to his/her singing attentively. Try singing along with the song playing on your player. You can also try out karaoke audio CDs and cassettes. You will need to 'know' a song thoroughly, however, before you are able to use karaoke tracks. Such tracks are also available online. Explore the Internet for karaoke tracks.
 This will constitute first-hand experience.
 Protect it, develop it, and don't take paan (betel leaf) or tobacco. Keep well away from these. Develop your capacity to sing gradually.
 Riyaaz (practice), is crucial. Spare an hour or so daily or regularly to practice singing and projecting your voice.

