 Have different webpages, and all of your business information and polices on the website. Don’t make an incredibly long, single web page. Avoid crummy or cheesy graphics, broken links, and grammatical errors in content.;
, Since the customer is not in the physical store. He cannot actually see, touch and feel the products. So it is to be ensured that you provide good quality images with brief description on the web page. Also make details of the products as an option to see, for the customers.
 You need to have proper classification of all things. Use breadcrumbs to make navigation more clear. All the products should be classified under broad categories. Even under those categories, there should be sub-categories so as to make easy for the people to search for their desired products.
 Light colors, minimal boxes, and less advertisements sell more. Having too much clutter can make your website look cheap. About 75 percent of all U.S. Internet users watch online video during a typical month. But it does not mean that your e commerce website needs to have a flash/video. It depends upon the target customers and products too. Like if you are selling books, the videos are not going to help you. Don’t Use Flash Animations Unless They Serve a Purpose.
 Blogs, user forums and reviews,and other tools give visitors more reasons to visit your site. Also, customers can leave their feedback about the products or services they use.
 Don’t always ask for registration rather you may tell customers to save their purchases so that in case of any confusion regarding the inventory, they can always refer back. The cleverness of an e-commerce website’s personalization technology has a major influence on its design. Sophisticated eCommerce websites use a variety of personalization technologies in an effort to determine the best selection of products to offer the visitor. Amazon.com has made use of it for the first time. It tried to push their client’s books to a visitor, based on that visitor’s past orders and also they used the statistics, which used to predict what someone looking at a specific book might also be interested in reading.
 This information will help you to understand where the visitors have come from, which items have been visited the most, the navigating pattern, and all of this would help you to identify areas of improvement in websites.

