 Before you file a motion with the court to modify your alimony based on cohabitation, it's a good idea to discuss the matter with your ex-spouse – especially if the two of you have a relatively amicable relationship.Explain your reasons for wanting to modify the alimony. Try to approach the situation objectively, and don't insult your ex-spouse or accuse them of anything wrongful.
If you can get your ex-spouse to agree that the alimony should be reduced or terminated, you can file an agreed motion with the court.
It may be worth sitting down with your former spouse even if you think getting them to agree with you is a lost cause.
Clearly, by moving in with another romantic partner, your ex-spouse has moved on. This change in circumstances also may mean there's less need for the money coming in from the alimony.
Agreed motions involve a lot less hassle. There typically isn't any need for a court hearing – the judge simply signs the agreed order.;
, If your ex-spouse won't voluntarily agree to modify alimony, call the attorney who worked with you on your divorce. Even if you decide not to have them represent you for the purposes of modification, it can help to get their advice.This is particularly important if your former spouse has indicated they plan to oppose any motion you file, or if you have a history of significant animosity with them.
Keep in mind that if your former spouse hires an attorney after being served with your motion, you're going to want an attorney on your side as well. Usually it's better if that attorney was with you from the beginning and drafted the motion.
Particularly if you go to the same attorney who represented you during the divorce, they may not charge you anything to come in and chat about the situation or have a brief phone conversation. You can decide from there whether you want them to represent you.
 If you've decided not to hire an attorney for your motion to modify, you'll have to draft the motion yourself. Most jurisdictions have forms or templates you can use that will make it easier to format your motion.You may be able to find forms on the court's website, particularly i there is a self-help section that provides information for litigants who are representing themselves.
Some jurisdictions also have a self-help clinic specifically for family law. There you can find forms as well as talk to experts if you have questions about the forms or the documents you need to request a modification.
The clerk's office also can be a good resource. However, keep in mind that court employees in the clerk's office typically cannot answer questions or give you advice specifically about your case. The same goes for most self-help clinics. They can only help you with questions about forms or procedures.
 Since you're asking the judge to change the original order, your motion must mention that order. Typically the case number you list at the top of your motion will be the same as your divorce case.The first paragraph of your motion typically also references your divorce decree, stating when it was entered and in which court.
Usually you'll name the court even though it is the same as the court in which you're filing your motion, although some forms simply say "this court."
You'll then restate the orders in the decree specifically related to alimony, including the amount and frequency at which you must pay, as well as the length of time alimony payments were awarded.
Even though it's evident from the date of the decree how long you've been paying alimony, you may want to include a statement regarding the number of payments you've made.
This can be particularly important if you've made every payment in full and on time, as it shows the judge that you're not just trying to get out of your responsibilities, but have a legitimate reason to request a modification.
 The standard language required to modify an alimony award is a "substantial change in circumstances." However, in the case of cohabitation the specifics you're required to show may be different.How courts treat cohabitation when reconsidering an alimony award varies significantly among states. This is why having an attorney help you can be especially important if you believe your former spouse will oppose your motion.
In some states, such as Utah, proof of cohabitation immediately terminates any obligation to pay alimony.
However, in others the courts look at several additional factors, including whether the new romantic partner provides any financial assistance to your former spouse.
Generally, you need to state in your motion facts that tend to indicate that your former spouse is now living with a new romantic partner.
Keep in mind that you don't need to prove cohabitation in the motion itself, nor do you need to attach any evidence.
Most courts use a burden-shifting procedure in alimony modification cases. After you've provided sufficient information to establish that your former spouse is cohabiting with a new romantic partner, the burden of proof shifts to your former spouse to prove he or she still needs the alimony.
 The purpose of your motion is to ask the court to modify the alimony award based on the change in circumstances that you've laid out in your motion. When any modification would take effect depends on the laws in your state.A form or template typically includes standard language making this request at the end of the motion. Look for a statement that begins with something like "for the foregoing reasons" or "based on the foregoing."
The request need not go into specifics, and typically is just a sentence. If you're asking the court to terminate alimony, you can use the word "terminate." However, it's usually best to just say "modify" and leave all options open.
This is because if you ask the court to terminate alimony, the court may deny your motion. However, if you had asked the court to modify alimony, the judge may have opted to reduce it significantly.
 Once you've finished drafting your motion and any other documents required by the court, you must sign them. Some jurisdictions require you to sign your motion in the presence of a notary.If your signature must be notified, this typically will be evident from the form or template you used. Look for a notary box.
For documents that need to be notarized, it's a good idea to wait to visit a notary until the day you're going to file them.
You'll have to date your signature, and it looks better if everything is done on the same day – as opposed to a filing date a week after the signature date.
 If you talk to someone in the clerk's office before you take a trip down to the courthouse to file your motion, you can find out exactly what forms you need and the amount of the filing fee.You may think you're familiar with the court's procedures, but things may have changed since your divorce was finalized – particularly if that was several years ago.
The clerk can let you know how much your filing fee will be and what methods of payment are accepted.
You also may be able to find out the same information from the court's website, but sometimes it's easier to just make a quick phone call.
 Once everything is completed and signed, make at least two copies of each document – one for your own records and one to serve on your former spouse – before you go down to the courthouse.You typically can make copies in the clerk's office, but you'll be charged for it – typically about 25 cents a page, and there may be a minimum charge. You'll save some money by getting the copies done yourself.
You may want to make an extra copy, just in case. Some courts want the originals and one copy for the court's records.
 You must give the clerk your original documents and copies so they can stamp them "filed" and make any additional notations. The clerk will then return the copies to you and keep the originals for the court.Keep in mind you'll have to pay a filing fee – typically $100 or less. If you can't afford the filing fee, you may be able to apply for a fee waiver.
However, some courts may not allow fee waivers for motions, where the filing fee is much lower than it is for opening a new court case.
The clerk may schedule a hearing on your motion when you file it, or the court may have a different procedure. If you're filing an agreed motion, there typically won't be a hearing. The clerk will let you know what your next step will be.
 Unless you filed an agreed motion, you must have a copy of the motion served on your former spouse so they have notice that you've asked the court to modify the alimony award.The easiest way to have your former spouse served is to mail them a copy of the documents using certified mail with returned receipt requested. When you get the green card in the mail showing that they signed for the document, save it to show proof of service.
You also can have your former spouse served by paying a small fee to a sheriff's deputy or private process server to hand-deliver the documents for you. Once this is done, they typically will complete a proof of service document for you to file with the court.
You also can get anyone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in the case to deliver the documents for you. If you go this route, you'll be responsible for making sure a proof of service document is completed correctly and filed with the court.
 If your ex-spouse doesn't agree that the alimony award should be modified, he or she may file an opposition, which is a written court memorandum that lists reasons the alimony award should stand as it is.If your former spouse does file an opposition, it will be served on you (or your attorney) using one of the standard methods for service of process.
Read this response carefully and use it to formulate your arguments for the hearing. If you can find any evidence that directly contradicts anything said by your ex-spouse in the response, you can introduce it at trial.
It's also possible that you won't get any response at all. This doesn't necessarily mean you've won the motion, since written responses often aren't required for motions.
 What happens next varies greatly among jurisdictions and depending on your former spouse's response. Some courts will require you to attend mediation or a settlement conference before a hearing will be scheduled.Other courts provide for a limited discovery period – particularly if your former spouse has filed a written opposition to your motion.
During this discovery period, you and your former spouse will exchange information related to the modification of alimony. This may include financial records or other evidence you plan to introduce at trial.
Continue to make alimony payments under the original order while your motion is pending. If the judge denies your motion, you'll be in arrears – not to mention that it won't look good if your former spouse says you stopped making payments as ordered.
 If the court schedules a hearing, you'll want to bring all of your court documents, including a copy of your motion and a copy of your original divorce decree. You'll also need any evidence you want to present to prove that your former spouse is living with a new romantic partner.If you're representing yourself, you may want to prepare a brief statement outlining your motion for the judge – especially if you get nervous speaking in public. You can also simply go off your motion, using it as an outline.
If you have evidence you plan to introduce at the hearing, arrange it so you can find what you need quickly without having to shuffle papers or delay the proceeding.
Make at least two copies of any documents you plan to introduce so there will be a copy for you and your former spouse to look at, and you can give the original to the judge.
You also may be allowed to call witnesses to support your motion. If you plan to do so – for example, if you hired a private investigator or found out about your former spouse's new romantic partner from a mutual friend – talk to them before the hearing and go over the questions you're going to ask.
 Arrive at the courthouse at least a half hour before the time at which your hearing is scheduled. This will give you enough time to go through security and find the correct courtroom.You probably know how to dress and act from your exposure to the court during your divorce. The same rules apply for a motion hearing.
Wear clean, conservative clothing such as something you'd wear to a church service or job interview.
Judges typically hear many motions in one day, so when you find the right courtroom take a seat in the gallery until your motion is called. Then you can move to the front of the courtroom.
 Since it's your motion, you typically have the opportunity to state your case first. The judge may ask you questions, or expect you to deliver a brief speech summarizing your motion.It's important to stick to the facts. You may be angry or upset that your former spouse has moved in with a new romantic partner, but do your best to keep your emotions out of it.
Avoid saying anything that could be perceived as an insult, accusation, or derogatory comment against your former spouse.
Speak to the judge only – don't direct any comments to your former spouse, even if they attempt to interrupt you.
If the judge interrupts you, on the other hand, stop speaking. Answer the judge's question, and then continue with your presentation.
If you're questioning a witness, speak only to the witness and only to ask them questions. Avoid commenting on their testimony. Your former spouse will have the opportunity to cross-examine any witness you call.
 If your former spouse has shown up in court and opposes your motion to modify alimony, the judge will want to hear from him or her as well. Pay close attention to what your ex-spouse has to say, and be prepared to answer any questions.Appearances are important here. The judge will be watching you, so avoid making faces or rude gestures. Listen carefully, and make note of anything with which you disagree. You may have the chance to speak again.
If your former spouse calls any witnesses, you will have the opportunity to ask them questions yourself. Pay close attention to their testimony, and make note of anything you want to ask them about.
On cross-examination, focus on anything that makes the witness seem biased or untrustworthy. Keep in mind that in most courts the burden has shifted to your former spouse, so it won't take much to discount witness testimony.
 After the judge has heard from you (and possibly your ex-spouse), you'll find out whether your motion is granted or denied. The judge typically will inform you from the bench of the decision, followed by a written order.Typically, if the judge grants your motion, it will be effective as of that day and won't apply to any back payments.
However, in some states, such as Utah, terminated alimony applies back to the date the motion was filed. In that situation you might be owed a refund.
If the judge denies your motion, you may be able to appeal the ruling. However, you typically only have a few weeks before the deadline to file an appeal, so contact an attorney as soon as possible to assess your options.

