 An annual checkup is important to detect health problems, including ones that may be serious like kidney cancer. Establish yourself with a primary care physician and make sure that you get a checkup at least once per year.


You should also see your physician if you notice any problems that require attention. For example, if you are concerned about the health of your kidneys, then make an appointment with your physician to see what is going on.;
, Smoking increases your risk for all sorts of health problems including kidney cancer.If you smoke, then now might be a good time to quit. Talk to your doctor about programs and medications that can help you to quit smoking.
 Being overweight is also a risk factor for kidney cancer.If you are overweight or obese, then make losing weight a priority. Talk to your doctor for help and advice.


To lose weight, you will need to reduce your caloric intake and get more physical activity. You will need to create a deficit, so that you are burning more calories than you are taking in.
 Exposure to certain chemicals may also increase your risk of kidney cancer. These chemicals include cadmium, certain herbicides, and organic solvents such as trichloroethylene.If you work at a job where you are often exposed to hazardous fumes or other types of chemicals, then make sure that you are taking every precaution to protect yourself. Wear a face mask, wear gloves, or even wear a body suit to prevent chemicals from coming into contact with your skin.
 Drinking too much alcohol can worsen or cause kidney disease, which may increase your risk of kidney cancer. Make sure that you are limiting the number of alcoholic beverages that you consume on a daily basis.In general, men should have no more than two alcoholic beverages in one day while women should have no more than one alcoholic beverage in one day.
If you feel like you cannot control your drinking or it is hard to have just one or two drinks once you get started, talk to your doctor. You may need to get help to control your drinking.
 Regular exercise is another great way to improve your overall health. Not getting enough physical activity has been linked to a higher risk of certain types of cancer including breast, colon, lung, uterus, and prostate cancer.While an increased risk of kidney cancer has not been linked with lack of exercise, it is a possibility.


To reduce your risk of multiple different types of cancers, make sure that you get at least 30 minutes of physical activity on five days out of the week. This can be as simple as taking a walk, riding a bike, or dancing around in your living room.
You can even break up those 30 minutes — go for three 10 minute walks during the day if you're short on time.
 High blood pressure is also a risk factor in developing kidney cancer.If you have high blood pressure, make sure that you work with your doctor to get it under control.


To control your blood pressure, you may need to change your diet, get more exercise, practice stress reduction techniques, and possibly even take medication.

