 Before you add anything to the dirt, you should make sure that all interfering debris has been cleared away from the area.


If you keep the debris in place, you may work undesirable material into the soil while working in the lime. The presence of surface debris can also cause the soil to retain more moisture by blocking potentially drying sunlight.
At minimum, rake away soggy leaves and old mulch to clear the soil. Remove other highly absorbent debris from the site, as well.
It's also a good idea to cut back dead flower stalks, heavy shrubs, and shady tree branches since these can all block sunlight from the soil.;
, There are multiple varieties of agricultural lime, and each one has its own uses. For the purpose of drying out dirt, however, you should use either quicklime or hydrated lime.Standard agricultural lime is simply pulverized limestone and won't be very effective.
Quicklime is actually a calcium oxide, and hydrated lime is actually calcium hydroxide. The chemical structure of both materials make it possible for them to dry out standing out.
Of the two options, quicklime will generally work at a faster pace than hydrated lime, but both will perform the same function.
 Put on your gardening gloves and spread at least 2 inches (5 cm) of lime over the soggy soil.If you're working with a large area of dirt, you may need to spread the lime mechanically using a push spreader or pneumatic bulk truck. For gardens and small yards, however, hand spreading the lime is usually best.
Leave the spread lime in place for one to two hours before continuing with the next step. During that time, the lime should be able to dry off most excess surface water.
 Use a rake or hoe to chop up the soil, mixing the spread lime into the top 6 inches (15 cm) or so as you work.


When working in areas that are especially soggy, you may need to work the lime even deeper into the dirt.
If working at a large scale construction site or similarly wide spread area, you ma need to use a pulvimixer, front-end loader, or disc harrow to mix the soil. For small gardens and yards, however, a standard rake and hoe are better options.
Make several passes over the treated area to work the lime into the dirt. You should notice rapid drying within roughly one hour of treatment. If the dirt still isn't dry enough, you will need to spread and mix more lime.
 Using a hand tamper, press the treated dirt until it feels firm.


Small areas should be compacted with a hand tamper, but large areas may require a sheepsfoot roller or flat wheel roller.
Compacting the dirt encourages it to hold the lime in place. As a result, the dirt should remain dry, even after you receive additional heavy precipitation.
After compacting the soil, the process is complete and the dirt should be thoroughly dry.

