 For a large hole in a sheetrock wall you will need a piece of sheetrock, joint tape, joint compound, a finishing trowel, sandpaper, a sheetrock saw, and a razor-knife.


All of these items should be available at any big home improvement store.
Since you may only need a piece of sheetrock that is a few feet square, see if you or a friend has a piece of it lying around, instead of having to buy a whole sheet at the home improvement store. Make sure that whatever way you get it, the sheetrock is the same thickness as the sheetrock on the wall you are repairing.
 To fix a large hole you will need to cut out a piece of the wall all the way to the studs on either side of the hole. This will allow you to attach a new piece of sheetrock to the studs.


With your sheetrock saw cut down along the stud and remove sheetrock. Then with a razor-knife cut down at the center of the stud. This will allow you to attach your new piece of sheetrock to the stud.
 This may take some finessing if the hole is an odd shape. Screw it to the stud on both sides using one screw every six inches or so.Use your razor knife to make small adjustments to the size of your patch. The sheetrock saw is better for rough in cuts.
 This layer of joint compound is simply making a bed on which the joint tape can be applied.
 The tape is pressed into the mud completely flat and the excess mud is scraped off with your trowel.


Sheetrock tape comes dry but needed to be dunked in water before it is stuck to the wall.
Tape can be of any length and should be overlapped about an inch when put together.
 This can be allowed to dry or a second coat can be applied immediately, so as to cover the tape.
 Once completely dry you may want to apply a third coat of mud if you think there will be areas where the mud is not smooth.
 Sand until the surface of the joints is smooth.
 When patching, one of the main problems is matching texture. Texture can be hard to match since it is usually machine blown. To texture patches, a stiff stipple brush will often do the trick, by sticking brush in plaster and stippling on finished and dry patch. If necessary, after it sets up a little, trowel over it to flatten high spots.
 Large areas like sheet rocked whole walls and rooms probably should be primed really well for toughness and seal. Priming really well also saves on finish paint.

