 Become familiar with shots, lunges, serves, power shots, etc.


Use the Control Pad to move your player around on the court.
Pressing "A" will result in a basic topspin shot.
"B" is for slice shots.
Press "A" and then "B" for a lob shot, that is, one that flies deeper into your opponent's territory.
Press "B" and then "A" for a drop shot. A drop shot is one that lands very close to the net. Slower opponents find these especially hard to reach.
If your racket is glowing, you can press "A" and "R" at the same time for a unique shot only your character can make. There are two kinds of these---offensive and defensive. Offensive shots are made when you are right in front of the ball. Often these are hard to return. Defensive shots can be made when you are too far away to otherwise reach the ball. These special returns just might save you the game!
For extra power and/or spin, you can press either "A" or "B" twice instead of once before you hit it.;
, What is your style of playing? Do you want to go all out offense and smash the ball every time? Or maybe all defense, so you can let your opponent make his or her own mistakes. Or something in between. Here are all the basic types of players:



All-Around: These well-balanced players are at or near average in all areas of tennis. They have decent power, average range, average speed, etc. Very good for beginners or anyone who likes to compete in a well-rounded manner.

Speed: These players are very fast and can be almost anywhere on the court in no time at all! However, they lack power and range.

Technique: These are players who can pinpoint the hard-to-reach corners of the court and hit the ball there at will. If you're playing one of these you'd better stay near the corners. Usually average speed and below average power.

Power: Power players are usually very slow, and most of them have bad range as well. But they can put a lot of speed on their shots.

Tricky: Tricky players have the ability to curve the ball far more than other types of players, which can distort your perception of where exactly it will land. They have bad power and average to slightly above-average speed.

Defensive: Defensive players are slow and lacking good power, but they can reach and return almost any shot. These players let the opponent make their own mistakes.
 Choose the Novice level. It might take a little while to get used to the controls and you might not win at first. Be sure you start on the Peach Dome courts, these have no gimmicks or anything else to mess you up.
 The World Tour on Mushroom level is where you should start. Work your way to the top with all your favorite characters and advance through all the different levels of the tournament! If you don't win a match, the computer gives you the option to play the match over, so learn from all your mistakes!

