 Your pet's immune system may react negatively to a particular foreign substance, which creates allergy symptoms. The first sign of allergies is normally the presence of an itchy, scratching kitty.


The itchy patches may be localized or all over your cat’s body. When your cat scratches the same place over and over again, she may begin to lose hair in that spot. Additionally, your cat may have difficulty trying to breath and may begin to wheeze, sneeze and cough due to respiratory distress.
Other issues may include a discharge from the eyes also related to the respiratory problems, along with vomiting or diarrhea.;
, There are several factors that could be causing the allergies such as chemicals and other seasonal allergens, along with food allergies.


The only way to determine if the cause is due to diet is monitoring your cat before, during, and after she eats. Specifically watch for changes in your cat after eating. You can also bring your cat to the vet to have different tests performed to diagnose the problem.
 Once the allergies are diagnosed, symptoms should subside. You can use a hydrocortisone cream on itchy patches of your cat’s skin to help your pet find some immediate relief., Your veterinarian will most likely prescribe a short course of antibiotic or antifungal therapy. The antibiotic drug should be prescribed after having a bacterial sensitivity test done. The medication may come in the form of a pill or a topical cream.


The topical ointment is commonly a combination of neomycin sulphate and bacitracin or Mupirocin.
Commonly used systemic antibiotics are cephalosporin (10-20 mg/kg, once daily) or amoxicillin (10-15 mg/kg, once daily) and Gentamicin (5mg/kg once daily) for skin infection., Allergen specific therapy can also be performed by your vet. Your vet may also prescribe your can an anti-inflammatory drug, or an antihistamine.


Anti-inflammatory drugs may include a glucocorticoid (like prednisolone with a dose of 0.2-0.3 mg/kg; orally) or Dexamethasone. The drugs can help to treat any lesions caused by the allergic reaction.Antihistamines have not be fully proven to work against food allergies in cats (and the itching that the allergies create). Only give your cat an antihistamine if it has been prescribed by a vet.

