 Fake spiders are a great accessory for scaring your siblings or friends. They can be found at most toy stores for a pretty inexpensive price. Try to find one that is large and realistic looking.


Set up the spider. Use a strip of floss to attach the spider to a door jamb. Tie a firm knot around the rear of the spider.
Then find a way to hang the other end of the floss above the door jamb. This in effect will cause the spider to appear to be facing whoever is underneath it.
 Dolls are a classic device for spooking. They run on the thin line of cute and creepy. If you can find a creepy looking doll, that's great, but you can always modify a preexisting doll.Paint the doll. Get some white paint or spray paint. Then apply the white foundation to the entirety of the doll.For those who think it'll be more effective, you could paint the eyes red or black. The juxtaposition could be very creepy.
 Location is critical for a prop like a creepy doll or spider. This one will work best for people who live in your house, like a little brother or even your mom. Right before the person goes to bed, set the doll up in a location they can see from their bed. Place the spider up in a doorway where you know someone will walk through frequently.


Another way to spook them out is to first wait for them to fall asleep. Then, set the doll or spider next to their pillow. If they wake up in the middle of the night, you might hear a scream.
 If you have access to someone's cell-phone, you could really freak them out. Pick an immediate person in their life like their close friend or family member. Change their contact information to your phone number.


Text them from the fake contact. This part is open for your touch of creativity. It won't be freaky if you simply text "brains." You'll need to say something weirder like:

"There's a killer loose in your neighborhood. Please lock your doors and your windows"
"Did you know that if feel a shiver when get underneath your sheets at night, a ghost is passing through you?"This is a little bit of a more intricate scare. It has a lot of opportunity to backfire, or may not even work the way you want.

