 Pick up a humidity monitor at a department store or buy one online. You can keep this in your home to monitor humidity levels, as this will help you figure out which activities and appliances raise humidity in your home. For example, if humidity levels sky rocket when you're cooking, make a habit of opening windows and turning on fans when you're cooking.
 A de-humidifier is one of the easiest ways to reduce humidity in your home. You can buy a de-humidifier online or pick one up at a local department store.De-humidifiers come in different sizes to accommodate varying living spaces. If you live in a smaller home, you can buy a small portable de-humidifier.
If you live in a larger home, you can buy a larger de-humidifier that's similar to a home fridge or air conditioner.
 If you have fans, keeping them on throughout the day can help de-humidify your home. Proper ventilation helps keep the air from becoming stale and humid.Position fans near open windows. This helps increase air flow to your home, decreasing levels of humidity.
 There are many types of absorbent crystals you can purchase online or at a department store that reduce humidity in the home. Things like rock salt, DriZair, and Damprid can all be used to dehumidify your living space.To use rock salt, you need to drill inside one bucket. Then, put this bucket inside one without holes and pour in the rock salt. Place it in the area you want to dehumidify.
Damprid comes in a powder of package that can be hung or spread throughout your home to reduce humidity.
DriZair is usually placed in a colander filled with a vinyl screen. Leave the colander in a room to dehumidify.
 If you have an air conditioner, run it. Most modern air conditioners both de-humidify and cool the air.Some air conditioners may have a de-humidify setting. If your AC comes equipped with such a setting, use it.
 If your home is humid during cooler months, a space heater can actually help. Warming a room can help reduce humidity if the warmth comes from a dry heat source, like a space heater.