 The best way to lower your risk of all skin cancers is to avoid excessive exposure to intense mid-day sunshine, especially during summer months.Start by seeking some shade whenever you can, particularly if you're near water and susceptible to lots of reflection of the sun's rays. Look for shade trees and coverings to sit under. Bring an umbrella or a tarp to the beach.


Seeking shade between the hours of 10am and 4pm is important because that's when the sun is most intense.
Learn the shadow rule: if your shadow is shorter than your height, then the sun’s rays are most intense. The longer your shadow, the less UV radiation from the sun.;
, In addition to finding or creating some shade while outdoors, wearing long garments is another effective way of protecting yourself from the sun's potentially harmful radiation.Wear loose-fitting (comfortable) long-sleeved shirts and pants to cover up as much skin as possible.


Choose light-colored and tightly woven fabrics that you can't see through, because UV radiation can penetrate loosely woven material.
Tightly woven cottons and linens are good choices because they are also breathable.
Avoid wearing dark-colored clothes made of synthetic fibers — they'll be too hot while under the sun.
 While you're covering up with clothes, don't forget to wear a hat so your head, face and neck are also protected from the sun. Broad-brimmed hats are good choices because they provide more protection than baseball caps or visors.If you wear a baseball cap, remember that your ears and neck will be exposed and risk sunburn.


Light-colored cotton hats are effective at blocking the sun's rays without making your head too hot, as are tightly-woven straw varieties.
Special protective hats made with neck flaps attached are an excellent idea if going to the beach or pool, especially for children.
Consider tying children's hats on underneath their chins so they don't come off as easily.
 Another very common recommendation for preventing sunburn and reducing the risk of all types of skin cancer, including squamous cell, is applying sunscreen to exposed skin. Use a sunscreen (and lip balm) that has broad-spectrum protection and sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 30.Apply a generous amount of sunscreen lotion or cream to all exposed areas of skin, particularly your ears, nose, neck, shoulders, forearms and hands.
Reapply sunscreen every two hours or immediately after coming out of the water, even if you use water-resistant varieties.
Remember that sunscreen won't protect you from all UV radiation, so don’t use it to be able to stay out in the sun for long periods of time.Seeking shade and covering up with clothing or towels is still important even if you use sunscreen.
 In addition to sunshine, a secondary source of UV radiation for some people is from tanning beds. There seems to be lots of confusion as to the safety of tanning beds and what frequencies pose the most threat; however, official medical recommendations from the American Cancer Society are to avoid tanning beds because they emit UV rays that can cause long-term skin damage and contribute to skin cancer.Tanning beds mostly emit UVA radiation, and studies have shown that spending time in a tanning bed increases the risk of both squamous cell carcinomas and basal cell carcinoma.
Some people claim that the benefits of producing vitamin D from lying in tanning beds outweigh the risk of skin cancer, but you should talk to your doctor about the pros and cons.
If vitamin D deficiency is your main concern, then consider taking supplements instead of using tanning beds.
 Another piece of protective wear essential if you're spending lots of time outdoors in the sun is sunglasses. Choose a pair that has large lenses and protect 100% against both UVA and UVB radiation from the sun.Large lenses and frames protect both your eyes and part of your face. Wrap-around styles keep the sun from penetrating from the sides.


For children, make sure their sunglasses fit properly and use neoprene connectors to fasten the glasses around their heads (over top their hats).
UVA is the most common type of sunlight on the earth’s surface, whereas most UVB rays are absorbed by the ozone layer and don't make it to the surface.
UVB is more damaging to skin than UVA, although certain UVB frequencies trigger the production of vitamin D in human skin, which is essential for health. Still, UVB radiation is more harmful to the skin, and is a major risk factor for squamous cell carcinoma.
 UV radiation is not the only thing that can cause skin diseases such as squamous cell cancer — exposure to toxic or poisonous compounds (such as arsenic) also increases the cancer risk.Arsenic doesn't have to come in contact with the skin, as ingesting it also increases the risk of skin cancers.


It's possible to be exposed to arsenic from well water, pesticides, herbicides, insecticides and some medicines (arsenic may have some medicinal value in tiny amounts).
People who work in mining and smelting are at greater risk of arsenic exposure.
 Another compound that should be avoided because it increases the risk of squamous cell skin cancer is coal tar, which is found in medicinal shampoos and creams meant for treating psoriasis and head lice.Coal tar is a byproduct of coal processing that's a potential carcinogen despite its medicinal uses.


Coal tar products can relieve dryness, redness, flaking and itching of skin, but at the cost of increasing cancer risk.
Paracetamol (acetaminophen) is a popular coal-tar derived painkiller that should be avoided if you have a history of skin cancer.
 Other industrial compounds can also raise your risk of squamous cell carcinoma — either by getting them directly on your skin or by inhaling their fumes.Examples include asbestos, benzene, silica, certain mineral oils and paint solvents. If you need to handle these compounds, always wear gloves and a breathing mask with the appropriate filter attached.


People who work in the manufacturing, mining, forestry and automobile repair industries are at greater risk of exposure to these chemicals.
Try to use natural cleaning products to clean your home, such as white vinegar, lemon juice and salt water to reduce your exposure to harmful industrial chemicals.
 Another method of helping to prevent skin cancer (and most other diseases) is to maintain a strong immune system.A strong immune system is able to detect and combat cancerous cells, as well as quickly repair skin damage.


People at greater risk of squamous cell carcinoma due to weakened immunity are those with lymphoma, leukemia or AIDS, as well as chemotherapy and organ transplant patients. Chronic corticosteroid use can also weaken your immune system.
Getting lots of sleep, keeping well hydrated, reducing stress levels and exercising on a regular basis are all associated with keeping your immune system strong.
 Eating certain foods rich in antioxidants (vitamins A, C and E, beta-carotene and zinc) may help protect against developing skin cancer.Antioxidants help prevent damage from free radicals, so they have anti-cancer properties. Whole foods that contain folic acid (vitamin B9), omega-3 fatty acids and lots of protein may also contribute to skin health.


Focus on eating more fresh fish, beans, carrots, chard, pumpkin (including its seeds), cabbage, broccoli and citrus fruits. Eat veggies raw if you can because they are more nutritious.
Research on animals suggest soy and flaxseed may also help fight cancer and help prevent the spread of skin cancer to other parts of the body.Other plant compounds that may protect your skin from sun damage include:Apigenin — found in broccoli, celery, onions, tomatoes, apples, cherries, grapes and tea leaves.
Curcumin — found in turmeric spice.
Resveratrol — found in grapes, pistachios and peanuts.
Quercetin — found in apples and onions.
 Although most people know that smoking cigarettes increases the likelihood of lung cancer, you may not know that it also significantly increases the risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma in the mouth and throat.As such, stop smoking and chewing tobacco products to help prevent various cancers.


If you can't stop "cold turkey," consider using a nicotine patch or gum for a short period of time to wean yourself off.
Coal tar is one of the main cancerous compounds in cigarettes, although there are many other toxic chemicals too.
 Examining your skin frequently while undressed may not prevent the start of squamous cell carcinoma, but it can be helpful for getting early treatment and stopping its progression.Check your skin often for new growths or changes in existing moles, freckles and birthmarks.Signs of squamous cell cancer can include any of the following:A firm, red nodule
A flat sore with scaly crust
A new sore on an old scar
A rough patch on your lip that becomes an ulcer
A red sore or rough patch inside your mouth
A red or wart-like sore near your anus or genitals



, After thoroughly checking your skin in a mirror while unclothed, if you notice any new growths (scabs or sores), changes in existing moles, or freckles or birthmarks that don't fade away within a few weeks or so, you should make an appointment with your family physician, who might refer you to a dermatologist (skin specialist) for a detailed examination.Catching skin cancer early is the key to successful treatment.


If you have a history of severe sunburns or are light-skin colored with lots of freckles, you should be especially cautious about any unusual marks on your skin.
People with red hair and green eyes are more at risk of developing skin cancers.

