;
, Make sure you have tied the ribbons securely.
, Let your platform touch the floor, and when you plie, you should arch your foot. Do the same crossing your left leg over your right.
 Relax your arms, and then roll up onto pointe. Now roll back down to flat. Focus on rolling through the demi-pointe. Don't bend your legs while doing this. Repeat a few more times.
 With your right foot, go through your demi-pointe and put pressure on your foot in this position. Now roll all the way through to a propped foot. Push over. Roll through your demi-pointe into flat position. Repeat with your left foot, and repeat the entire exercise a few more times.
 Roll down. Now, plie, then relieve, staying in first position.
 Make sure to "massage the floor", which means you should go through your demi pointe and keep contact with the floor the entire time. Put pressure on the floor like you are giving it a massage.
 Relieve and stay on pointe as you plie. Some people refer to this as "pushing over". If done properly, you will be stretching out your arch.
 Relieve, and then turn a 1/4 turn so that your left hand is on the barre. You should be in a fourth position here. Plie while staying up on pointe. Your back foot's weight should be only on your big toe. You don't want the whole platform to be on the floor because then you would be slicing your foot. Your front foot's weight should also be on the big toe, but only bevel your foot as much as you can without straining. After doing this, you can go back to second positioning, turn the other way, and repeat this exercise but to the left instead of the right.
 Plie, and then relieve into pase. See if you can balance. Check for a straight supporting leg, strong arms, turned- out legs, and strong, turned-out feet. Close back to fifth, bringing the pase-leg back. Close with control. Repeat with the other leg.
 Take one large step back away from the barre. Now, stand in fifth position, facing the barre. Plie both legs, tendu your front leg, and then, keeping your extended leg straight, step up onto that leg. This is called a pique. You should be in a pase position. Take hold of the barre to steady yourself. See if you can let go and balance. As in the previous exercise, look for a straight supporting leg, strong arms, turned-out legs, and strong, turned-out feet. Close back to fifth, bring the pase-leg back. Close with control. Take a large step back and repeat with the other foot.

