 Door mounts are doggie doors that are installed onto doors in your home. These can be placed on exterior doors to allow your dog to easily travel inside or outside. They can also by placed on internal doors, to allow your dog to access certain rooms in your home. Door mounts can be added to wooden, aluminum, or screen doors and typically consist of a swinging flap door.These are the most reasonably priced doggie doors and range in price from $25 to $500 depending on the size, material, and security/weather resistance of the door.;
, Wall mounts are doggie doors that allow your dog to travel through a wall. They can be installed on exterior or interior walls. A panel is attached to both sides of the wall and an aluminum or plastic tunnel is built into the wall to ensure that water cannot seep into the walls of your house. This tunnel also prevents the dog’s legs from getting caught while stepping through the tunnel.Exterior wall mounts are difficult to install, so you may need to factor installation costs into your decision making process.
These mounts cost between $250 and $800 depending on the size, material, and depth of the wall tunnel.
 Panel doors are removable panels that are installed on a sliding door track. The panel is made primarily of glass and has a permanent doggie door already installed in the bottom. These panels are non-permanent and can be easily installed and removed. This is an excellent option if you are renting a home and do not want to create a permanent doggie door.Panel doors are a fairly expensive option, costing between $250 and $1,000 depending on the size and materials.
Panel doggie doors can be purchased online through a variety of websites.
 Electronic doggie doors are available in both door and wall mounts. These doors are slightly more expensive, but they have a number of added safety features. Electronic doors are activated by a microchip that is worn on the dog’s collar and they unlock as the dog approaches. This means that wild animals cannot enter your home.Electronic doors are the most expensive option and cost over $1,500.
They can also be problematic if there is ever a glitch in the electronic technology. For example, your pet may get trapped outside.

