 A pit trap is probably one of the simplest forms of trapping a rabbit, as it just requires using the natural habitat of a rabbit, but it is probably one of the least successful. To begin this process, you'll want to find a good location to dig your pit. Look for signs of a rabbit, like a rabbit den or warren, rabbit droppings, or rabbit tracks.
 After you've found a good location for your pit, dig a hole that is deep enough that the rabbit won't be able to escape once it gets caught. A rabbit can jump approximately one meter high, or three feet, and three meters long, so it's best to build a hole that is very deep and narrow, making it difficult for the rabbit to jump out., In order to camouflage the hole, you'll need to place some twigs and leaves on top of it that blend in with the rest of the environment. Be careful not to put too much foliage on top of the hole that it's sturdy enough for a rabbit to sit on. Use just the right amount of foliage that the rabbit believes it to be normal ground, but will fall through it if it sits on it.If you are unsure about the amount of foliage you have used, you can test out the trap by placing a five pound weight on top of it and see if the weight falls through. If it doesn't, then you have too much covering the hole and will need to remove some.
 After you have covered the hole adequately, you'll want to place bait on top of the hole to lure the rabbit in. You can use the same bait mentioned in the previous section -- foods like vegetables and fruits.
 Now that you've set the pit trap the only thing left is to check it daily, and once you've caught a rabbit, you can relocate it or kill it for food. The downside of this trap is it's easy to catch other animals in it, so when checking the trap, just be careful. You'll likely have some frightened animals inside of it that won't be afraid to bite you.


As with the cage trap, use gloves and caution when handling wild animals. It's likely they'll try to bite you and they may carry diseases or have rabies.
 Once you have caught the rabbit, fill the pit you created back in with dirt or foliage. You don't want another animal falling in it and injuring themselves or becoming malnourished, so always cover up and remove any traps you have set once you are finished using them.

