 Tomatoes, which contain lycopene, may help improve sperm count and mobility.Fresh tomatoes are fine, but eat cooked or processed tomatoes – like tomato sauce and tomato puree – to get more lycopene.
 Zinc deficiency may contribute to low testosterone and thus low fertility in men.Have oysters once a week – raw oysters are high in zinc and are known to increase testosterone and sperm count.Regularly eat zinc-rich foods such as meat (especially lamb and venison), fish, shrimp, poultry, whole grains, pumpkin and sesame seeds, dairy, and raw vegetables.A handful of walnuts or pumpkin seeds make a healthy and zinc-boosting snack. Add these to a salad for a tasty way to incorporate them into your diet., Eat pomegranate or drink pure pomegranate juice daily. Pomegranate is a powerful antioxidant that may increase your testosterone level and improve your fertility.Add blueberries to smoothies, salads, or desserts – blueberries are also great antioxidant fruits. Blackberries and strawberries are other good options., Increase your folic acid consumption to potentially boost your sperm count.Since pregnant women (and women trying to get pregnant) should also get plenty of folic acid to help prevent birth defects, these are foods you and your partner can eat together:Green leafy vegetables, like spinach and greens
Citrus fruits (oranges, grapefruit, lemons)
Beans
Bread, cereal, rice, and pasta

, Animal products like meat, poultry, and dairy contain amino acids called carnitine and l-carnitine.These chemicals might improve sperm count and fertility.The redder the meat, the more carnitine it has.


Remember that meat and whole dairy is high in fat. Consider your other health needs when altering your diet. Choose lean cuts of meat and low-fat dairy products. If you’re not sure if eating meat is good for you, consult your doctor.
 Chicken and meat contain a compound called coenzyme Q10, but more of this is found in fish. Coenzyme Q10 may improve sperm number and motility, though science is limited on this.Add fish to your diet like herring and rainbow trout. Other foods containing coenzyme Q10 include:Soybean and canola oil
Roasted peanuts, sesame seeds, and pistachios
Boiled cauliflower and broccoli
Oranges and strawberries
Boiled eggs

