 As long as the input device has an HDMI port, you'll only need one HDMI cable. You'll need to make sure that the cable meets your needs, though.


Televisions have full-size HDMI ports, so one side of the HDMI cable must be equipped with a full-size plug.
Your input device (computer, game system, etc.) may have a full-size, mini, or micro HDMI port, however. Check the port size of your input device and make sure that the other end of the HDMI cable has a plug that fits.
Make sure that the HDMI cable is long enough, too. The length of the cable should be a little longer than the distance between your input device and television.;
, Plug the appropriate end of the HDMI cable into the HDMI port located on your input device.


Note that the input device should already be on and ready to play.
You should only be able to insert the HDMI plug into the port in one direction. Never force the cable plug into the port since doing so could damage both the cord and the device.
 Insert the open full-size plug into one of the HDMI ports located on the side or back of your television.


Note that the TV should already be turned on.
If your TV has more than one HDMI port, pay attention to the port you use. For instance, the port might be labeled as "HDMI-1" or "HDMI-2."

, Use the buttons on your TV or the remote control to switch your television to the appropriate TV input source.


You'll usually need to press the "Input" or "Source" button to switch input sources. Scroll through the options until you reach the appropriate HDMI port (HDMI-1, HDMI-2, etc.).
 Usually, the device will automatically configure itself when it detects and HDMI connection. If the screen remains blank, however, you will need to manually fix the device settings.


To configure a PC using Windows:Go to the Control Panel and select Adjust screen resolution from the Appearance and Personalization section.
Click on the icon for a second monitor and select the Extend the desktop onto this monitor setting, clicking Apply when prompted.
Open the drop-down Resolution menu for the second display and change the resolution until you find which one works best for your TV. The resolution should be no less than 1280 by 720 pixels.


To configure a Mac:Open System Preferences on your computer and choose Displays.
Within this dialogue box, click the Arrangements tab and check the box for Mirror Displays.
 If you needed to change the input video settings, you may also need to change the input audio settings so that the sound streams from your TV instead of your input device.


If using a PC with Windows:

Open Control Panel and click on Sound.

Within the Playback tab, right-click on the white space and choose Show Disabled Devices from the resulting pop-up menu.
Select your TV speakers from the list.


If using a Mac computer:

Open System Preferences from the Apple menu and choose Sound.
Look under the Type on the Output tab and locate the HDMI option. Select and confirm this option.
 You should now be able to stream digital audio and video through the HDMI cable and into your TV.


Note that you'll need to control the content through your input device.

