 'Limelight' is occasionally attacked by slugs, snails, aphids, spider mites, spittle bugs and thrips. Check the leaves for snail and slug activity. They chew on the flowers, leaves and stems., If they become a problem, either pick them off the shrub in the morning and drop them into a bucket of soapy water to drown or sink tuna or cat food cans into the soil around the shrub and fill them with beer.


Snails and slugs will crawl into the beer and drown. The edge of the can should be level with the surrounding soil. Check the cans each afternoon. Dump the dead snails and slugs into the garbage, replace the cans and fill them with fresh beer.
 Aphids are little soft-bodied, slow-moving insects that can be almost any color.Spider mites are actually tiny spiders that can barely be seen without a magnifying glass. They spin a fine webbing between the leaves and stems.
Thrips are also very tiny. They are yellow to black and leave black excrement on the undersides of the leaves which take on a dusty appearance as the thrips feed. The flowers usually develop brown streaks.
Spittle bugs are 1⁄4 to 1⁄3 inch (0.6 to 0.8 cm) long and can be brown, green or yellow. They deposit a frothy white substance on shrub stems.
 All of these insects suck plant juices from the leaves and stems of shrubs. They can usually be controlled by spraying 'Limelight' in the morning several times each week with a forceful spray from a garden hose. Be sure to spray the tops and bottoms of the leaves as well as the stems.
 Insecticidal soap is available already diluted in spray bottles or in concentrate form.


Insecticidal soap concentrate is commonly diluted at a rate of 5 tablespoons (73.9 ml) per gallon of water. Spray the shrub in the morning or evening.
Spraying it in the afternoon when the sun is hottest or when temperatures rise above 85 °F (29 °C) can cause damage to the leaves.
Hose the insecticidal soap off the shrub after an hour or two. The soap will only kill the pests that are sprayed. There is no benefit to leaving it on the shrub and it could damage the leaves.

