 That way, you will know what is allowed and what is not.;
, If you know the rules of a place, you can avoid some trouble with the moderators in the long-term. If you're finding it difficult to understand the rules, ask a Staff Member (typically those who have a rank that includes the word "Administrator" or "Moderator" in their rank). Forums almost always come with a means of Private Communication - usually called "Private Messaging" or "PM".
 Consider that people have feelings, and that what you say to somebody can hurt that person. You should also be willing to lend a helping hand to anybody who needs help. If the forum you browse on has a welcome section, then be sure to welcome new users and guide them around the site as necessary.
 Usually, it's not like that person is hurting anybody on purpose. Somebody speaks like a 12-year-old? Makes a lot of useless threads? Don't give them grief for it. It's not like they wronged you. You should especially not cyberbully an irritating member - not only is it plain hurtful, but please consider that it is becoming illegal to cyberbully in increasingly more states., Don't jump to conclusions; this is important to avoid unnecessary flame wars. Sometimes, people may accidentally say something in a more snarky fashion then they actually meant, or they may have misinterpreted something somebody else said and retaliated back.
 Seeing some drama at an Internet forum you go on may seem fun, but it leads to hurt feelings. Chances are, you'll also get banned, so it probably wouldn't be worth it anyway. If there's a drama event going on at a forum, don't join in. Make your efforts to defuse the drama instead.
 One source of regret on a forum is not making a post and speaking up in a situation when necessary. First, consider if what you feel the need to say will actually set things straight rather than just hurting them.Use calm confrontation as a first resort. Be sure that you aren't seen as acting like a jerk yourself. Also, if you pass off as a "mini-modder," people won't take too kindly to your message.
 One thing to consider is if your post fits the topic of the thread? Or whether or not your post is appropriate for the forum? If you are not sure about it, don't post it. The saying, "no answer is better than a stupid answer" holds quite true on a lot of forums.
 If what you want to post relates to a different topic, start a new thread.
 A lot of forums regard this as spam.
 Such behavior could be mistaken for trolling, which can get you banned from the forum.
 That is all block capitals in any part of your posts. As this is read as shouting. But this varies depending on the forum.Some forums also forbid bold or red text. Check with the forum rules.
 Some forums may actually ban you if you reveal that you were banned from another forum.

