 To select the Town Center that is closest to view in the game world, press the combination Ctrl + H. Pressing this hot key subsequent times will select your next Town Center and will keep cycling through all existing Town Centers.
 You can increase the speed of the game in AoE1 by pressing + (plus) or decrease the speed by pressing - (minus) to slow it down.
 You can use various key combinations to select various buildings in AoE1. Pressing Ctrl + the hotkey the first time will select the building, while pressing the combination additional times will cycle through all buildings of that type. Here are some examples:


Press Ctrl+B to select your Barracks.
Press Ctrl+D to select your Docks.
Press Ctrl+A to select your Archery Ranges.
Press Ctrl+K to select your Siege Workshops.
Press Ctrl+P to select your Temple.
Press Ctrl+Y to select your Academy.
 To create a villager, simply press C on your keyboard. This will both select your closest Town Center and start the process of creating a villager. If you once again press C, you will enter an additional villager into the village to go to your creation queue, and so on.
 You can construct buildings by first left-clicking a villager to select them, pressing B to issue the Build command, and then pressing the hotkey that corresponds to the building you want the villager to construct. For instance:


Press B and then E to construct a house.
Press B and then N to construct a Town Center.
Press B and then C to construct a Government Center.
Press B and then P to construct a Temple.
Press B and then L to construct a Stable.
 With the units you want selected, press Ctrl + (1-9) to assign them to a group number from 1 through to 9.


To select the units in the groups you assigned, press the respective number key from 1 to 9 on your keyboard.
To both select a group and center the game screen on them, press Alt + (1-9). These group assignment hot keys are very useful when you have a large army and wish to be able to quickly issue attack or defend commands.

