 Your friends can always support you with trading. Plus they should be a nice friend you can trust to come along.;
, Every Monday, a rare item is in store. Buy several of them - even though they do not look very rare, they may become a little rare (such as a rare fox hat) or even extremely rare (like the headdress) in the future. Do this until you have about 5 to 15 rares.
 Wootmoo's den, Aldan, and crowded lands/Brady's Lab (in Aldan, Brady's Lab can get crowded) are great choices. People will want to trade with you there, as it is a huge place for rare people and people who just want to trade.
 Once a trade is agreed upon, click on a player's name card. In the bottom left corner, you will see a little arrow following another one. Click it.
 Note: Not everybody will have stuff on their trade list.


Be sure to know your rares before trading them. Trading up to rarer items may make you seem rarer, but it depends on how many rares and what types of rares you trade. Avoid looking up info on the Internet - they are often outdated and inaccurate. Try asking around Jamaa what rares are worth, or put an item on trade. Say something like "Trading attempts for my list." Depending on what people keep trading you, you should know what it's worth.
Be sure to try and differentiate what is fair and what isn't fair for an item. Avoid scammers - test Jammers out by asking if a single item is fair for their item and make sure it is a definite under (for example, a necklace for a den beta). If they say yes, they're a scammer. Block them and trade other Jammers instead.
 Try to trade four rare item Monday items for it. If they refuse, try for a fox hat. Fox hats came out for rare item Mondays a while ago. This makes them less rare. Try for a glove before you rush to the fox hats.


Get a few more fox hats/gloves. This will help you trade those for other items later.






Take four gloves or fox hats and aim for slightly rarer items.






Note: People enjoy clothing more than den items, unless they are den betas. A great one to reach for are rare bows and worn blankets. Afterwards, you can trade these rares for den betas and such. Some of these rares, such as a raspberry colored bow and arrows and black worn blanket, are slightly rarer than most items (for example, a black worn is worth 4 den betas instead of 1). Keep in mind that rare item Mondays are sometimes less rarer than their non rare variant (e.g. rare worn blanket, which is not even worth 1 den beta).
 When you get your rare bows, and other rare items you've traded for, try for the bigger stuff. Go to Jamma Township and put some good items on trade. Say this, "1 item on my list for something better, my den if so!" The reason you say "my den," is because you can talk with the person about what they want to trade, what you want to trade, and make a good deal in order for it to be fair.
 As you go, make duplicates of rare items to trade for rarer ones by trading for more.
 Take your worns, gloves, bows, or whatever good rares you have, go to Wootmoo's den, and try to trade for some den betas. Gain at least 2 to 4 den betas for a spiked wristband and at least 6 for a short collar (8 for good short collars, 13 for a bad long). Once you get one, follow the trading line until you get as many rares as you can.


Before trading for a spike with someone, check that they have one.Then count how many of the item she/he has it on. If it's 1, there is a good chance of a declined trade since it's there only item of that type, but if it's more than one item, you probably have good luck in getting the item.
 Remember that above all, have fun trading.

