 These include (but are certainly not limited to):


Starches: potatoes, wheat, corn, and most noodles. Rice is the only exception in this area.
Beans: In this case, jokes about beans causing excess gas is true. It has been determined that soaking beans for several hours before cooking can reduce this effect, but such a process also rids the beans of many nutrients.
Carbonated beverages: Most carbonated beverages — drinks that have carbon dioxide forced into the liquid to make it fizzy — cause gas because you are actually consuming gas in small bubbles. Just drinking one glass of a carbonated beverage isn't usually enough to cause major problems, but consuming large quantities of carbonated drinks can cause excessive gas.
 In addition to starches, legumes, and carbonated beverages, the following foods might also be avoided in order to prevent gas, although wholesale rejection of these foods is not advised, because they can be extremely healthy:


Vegetables including artichokes, asparagus, broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, cucumbers, green peppers, onions, peas, and radishes
Fruits like apricots, bananas, melons, peaches, pears, prunes, and raw apples
Eggs
Milk and other dairy products, like yogurt
Fried foods

, Some carbs are bad for you (simple) and others are good (complex). But all carbs tend to produce flatulence, because carbs ferment easier than, say, proteins. If you're going to eat carbs, stick with unprocessed carbs.Our bodies prefer unprocessed carbs, which translates to less flatulence.
 Examples of probiotics include soy sauce, yogurt, and pickles (and other pickled vegetables).
Fermented foods: This has marginal effects, and greatly reduces the nutritional values of certain food. Beans, for example, can be fermented with alcohol, but their nutritional value is lowered.
 Popular brands include Activa (prescription) or Beano (over-the-counter).
 If you're famished of you're a fast eater, tone it down a little bit: people who chew slowly produce less gas because they're not swallowing as much air. The same thing goes for gum. The act of chewing stimulates the digestive enzymes, and air that gets caught in your stomach has to go out one of two ways; if it doesn't get burped up, it has to come out the other way.
 Air gets sucked into the body, along with smoke, and swallowed.If you needed another reason to finally quit, here's a compelling one.

