 Apple Stores, Starbucks, and McDonald's are some international chains that are known for having truly free wifi, meaning you don’t need to buy anything to get access to the network. Locate major international chains in whatever place you visit and check to see if they have free wifi.You may also want to try retailers such as clothing stores, which often provide free wifi so that people can shop online as well as in-store.
If you find free wifi at a cafe or restaurant chain, try finding a bench near the building or a seat outside. If you simply sit down without ordering in the restaurant, you may be asked to leave or otherwise be expected to buy food or drink.;
, Libraries around the world are the go-to place for those who need internet access. You can generally get on the internet for free, though it may only be for a fixed amount of time depending upon the place.If the internet requires you to have a library card or identification number to log on, ask a librarian if there is an access code for guests. Explain that you are visiting the city and thus do not have or need a library card for that area.
 Transit stations such as train stations, airports, and even major bus terminals are increasingly making wifi available to the public. Check local transportation hubs to see if they offer free wifi.Many airports offer limited free wifi. Often, you will be able to get half an hour to two hours of access for free, but you may have to pay for anything beyond that.
Stay in the lobby and lounge areas to avoid arousing any suspicions. Trying to make your way back to a platform or gate and lingering may cause security concerns depending upon your location.
If you are looking for wifi while driving a long-haul trip, try stopping at major truck stops, which often offer free wifi.
 Many hotels offer free wifi throughout their lobbies and in their bars and restaurants. Look for hotels with conference centers or near convention centers, as these are more likely to have wifi that is open to people not staying in the hotel.Try to avoid posing a guest or entering a random room number to get access to wifi, as this could incur charges for the individual actually staying in that room.
Look to see if wifi is included when you book your own hotel to make sure you always have a place to connect.
 There are a number of apps out there that can help you find wifi hotspots anywhere in the world. Some, such as Wi-Fi Finder, work both online and offline, while others may require you to use data to locate a hotspot.


Some apps are more developed for certain regions. Research different hotspot locating apps to find out which ones have the best databases in the areas in which you will travel.
 Many places offer free wifi, but you will need to ask someone to obtain a password. Check with the front desk or someone working in the area if a password is required for a wifi network that you've found.


Know that some places, such as restaurants, may only offer wifi passwords to paying customers.

