 Remember: you want to slow things down, not end them. Choose a time when your boyfriend is likely to be most receptive. Don’t make it harder on yourself by cornering him in a situation where he might feel defensive.If possible, do it face-to-face, rather than over the phone or through text or email, so you can communicate through both words and action.
Wait for a private moment when it’s just the two of you so he doesn’t have to worry about prying eyes or ears.
Allow plenty of time for a long conversation so you both have a chance to process and respond to each other.
 Let him know before you get started that you need to have a serious conversation so he knows that he really needs to listen. At the same time, assure him that it isn’t “that” serious so he doesn’t draw the wrong conclusion and think you’re about to break up with him. Whether you’re trying to plan a time and place to meet and talk, or leading right into it, aim to come across as serious, but positive. Say something like:“Hey, do you think we could go to the park or something this weekend, just the two of us? I have something I need to share with you, but I’d like to be together when I do.”
“So, I’ve been thinking about us a lot, and I really want this to work, but I think we need to take a step back and really think this through together.”
“I’m having a great time with you. I’m just a little worried that things are moving a bit fast. I kind of want to savor what we have right now, you know?”

, Tell him exactly what it is about your relationship that makes you feel pressured to move too fast for comfort. Whether or not he’s done something specific to make you feel this way, put the emphasis on your feelings, not his actions. Don’t make him feel as though you’re attacking him. Instead, share your concerns and what you steps you need to take in order to feel comfortable. For instance:If you feel like you’re being rushed into a commitment, say something like, “I don’t want us to wake up one day and realize we just said, ‘I do,” because we felt like we had to meet some deadline. I want to take our time so we both know we really mean it.”
If he’s done something that makes you second-guess your relationship, like flirting with someone else, address the issue with understanding, like, “I don’t want either of us to feel backed into this. If one of us feels like, hey, there might be someone else I’d be happier with, we should take this slow so it isn’t such a blow to the other person, you know?”
Explain how your past relationships have affected you, like, “I don’t want to repeat the disaster I had with John, where we rushed in and got way too serious way too fast before we really had a chance to get to know each other.”

, Sometimes you want to slow things down even though you're the one who sped things up. If this is the case, don’t shy away from it. Admit to him that you got a little ahead of yourself. Apologize in case he feels led on or teased. Explain your change of heart in a way that assures him that you still want to move forward, just slower. For example:If you’re in high school, maybe you got swept up in having a serious boyfriend, but now graduation is coming, and you’re unsure of how that will affect things. Explain to him that you just want to be realistic about how your separate plans for college or work might change your relationship, and vice versa.
If you’re the one who initiated sex early on, and now you want to ease up on that, assure him that it isn’t like you never want to do it again. You just want to focus on sharing other experiences so you both know that sex isn’t the only attraction between you.
Maybe you’re the one who first broached the subject of moving in together, but now you’re having second thoughts. Tell him that you got swept away by your fantasies about the future, which isn’t fair to him. Explain that you need to rethink the idea with a more realistic expectation of what this would mean for your relationship.
 First, make sure he understood each point you’ve made. Listen closely to his responses for any signs that he mistook what you meant. If necessary, repeat yourself in no uncertain terms, and ask him to repeat what you said to be doubly sure. Then ask him point by point how he feels about your concerns and proposals. Let’s say that:You’ve suggested spending less time together during the week. Does he feel like this means you don’t want to see him at all? Or does he accept the idea that giving you more space might actually improve the strength of your relationship?
You’ve told him that you’re not ready for sex. Does he consider sex an essential part of a relationship? Or does he appreciate taking your time and getting to know each other better?
You’ve shared your discomfort about accepting labels like “boyfriend” and “girlfriend.” Does he take that to mean that you’re not interested in him at all? Or is he comfortable starting from a more casual starting point with less rigid expectations?

, Set ground rules for how to move forward. Restate what you definitely need in order to feel comfortable in this relationship. At the same time, listen to his wants and needs. Consider compromises if they seem reasonable to encourage the same attitude from him.Of course, it may become clear at this point that the best way to move forward is to part ways. If so, don’t consider this a failure on your part. You’ve thought long and hard about what you need from this relationship, so if he can’t agree to that, he was probably never the right guy for you, anyway.

