 As noted above, the best documentaries tell stories that are just as compelling as those you might find in an ordinary movie. This storytelling approach can be used to great effect regardless of the subject of your documentary.The way you write, shoot, and edit your film will affect the way your audience sees your "characters" and reacts to your "plot". Use your movie's narrative to prove your point to your audience. Try asking yourself the following questions as you write and plan your documentary to ensure your film tells the story you want to tell:


"How do I want my audience to feel about the people and events I'm portraying?"
"What sort of message am I trying to convey with each scene?"
"What's the best way to order my scenes to get my desired message across?"
"How can I use the sounds and visuals of my movie to make my point?"

, Ideally, your documentary should inspire your audience to act or feel differently than they did before they watched it. Even relatively light-hearted documentaries can benefit from taking this sort of persuasive approach, so never lose sight of the sort of reaction you're trying to create in your audience.


For some documentaries, like those that tackle controversial social issues, the sort of persuasion you're trying to go for is usually obvious. For others, it may be a little more subtle. For instance, if we're writing a documentary about a strange subculture of people who like to get together and pretend to be unicorns, we might set the goal for ourselves of convincing the audience that even though the hobby these people share is very strange, it still gives them a valuable sense of community that they may not find elsewhere.
 When you get the chance, go for the audience's heart! Proving your point with logic is, of course, highly desirable. However, not every member of the audience will be receptive to pure, unemotional logic. Even the members of your audience who do agree with your film's logic can be further persuaded if they get a serious emotional reaction from the film. Look for opportunities to show the tragedy or humor in the events you're portraying. A truly great documentary will engage the audience's heart as well as its mind.


For instance, in the example from earlier where we're making a documentary about the U.S.-Mexico drug trade, we may want to include the heartbreaking story of someone who has lost family members to drug-related violence along the border. This gives a human face to the point we're trying to make by showing how a real person's life has been affected by the subject of our documentary.
 Remember, your subject matter is important, even if, in the grand scheme of things, it's actually not! You're making a film about something that has excited, intrigued, or captivated you, so make it your goal for your film to have the same effect on the audience as the subject matter has on you.


For instance, in The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters, the central conflict between the newcomer to the world of competitive video gaming and the reigning champion is something that seriously matters only to a tiny, insignificant group of people. However, because the filmmakers portray it as a quirky underdog tale, it's actually surprisingly exciting to watch. The audience gets wrapped up in the competition even though, in the end, the only thing at stake is bragging rights in a ragtag group of video game aficionados.

