 Unfortunately, there is no standard procedure when taking bikes on public transit. Some trains allow it, some only on certain hours, and other never at all. Coupled with any transitions you might make, such as switching to a bus or light-rail, and it may seem easier to skip the bike altogether. However, knowing your entire route in advance will make planning far easier. Google and Apple maps, for example, have extensive public transportation and bike maps that let you know all available routes, even mixed routes, after you type in your destination address.


If you need to take a bus, does the bus system accept bikes?
How far are you traveling when you get off the train? It might make more sense to lock the bike at the station if you get right off at your destination.;
, Find out if there are any fees, restrictions, or requirements. The most frequent restrictions include:


Only riding in bike-designated cars.
No bikes during peak hours, frequently 8-10AM and 4-6PM
No bikes on crowded or packed cars., Getting your bike up and down the stairs, through turnstiles, and on the train will inevitably take a little extra time, so plan accordingly. For short trips, and extra 5-10 minutes should be more than enough to get you there on time.Many stations do not let you bring a bike on an escalator for safety reasons, so be prepared to potentially haul up and down stairs.
 Purchase the fare for your trip, including fees for bringing your bike. Many trains require an additional amount to cover the bike.


If you can't get in the turnstile with your bike, signal the attendant. You can usually swipe your card/pay the fare, then enter through the emergency or handicapped entrance after paying., Stand with your bike on the platform behind the boarding line until the train comes to a stop. Wait for other passengers to exit and enter before boarding.
 Stow it away from doors and aisles, in a position where it won’t fall over and you can keep a hand on it. Try to turn the handlebars so that the wheels are in a straight line, out of the way of as many people as possible.


Use bike racks on the train if they are available, which usually involve wedging or lifting your front wheel into a small rack.
If there are other bikes on the train, place your front wheel near their back. These allows the bikes to fit together better and keeps the handlebars from jamming into each other.
Be sure your bike is secure if you're not holding it yourself. Don't leave it where other passengers can trip over it or run off with it. Make sure you can keep an eye on it.
 The unwritten rules of a good train passenger will keep everyone happier as you move too and fro. When carrying a bike, let others on and off before you, respect the rules (no riding during rush hour or on crowded trains) and politely ask people move or adjust their bikes if you think you can fit them more snugly. And, if the ride is short and the train is crowded, just ride home. That's why you have the bike, after all.