 Emotionally immature people focus on the negative aspects of what is going on around them. They become irrationally upset when things don’t work out the way they want and take their negative behavior out on others. Focusing on the positives in situations and believing that it will work out can keep you emotionally stable., Catalog some of the people and things you are grateful for by writing them down. Place your list in a safe place so you can remind yourself of all you have to be thankful for when life gets challenging. This can help combat anxiety and depression that might hold you back.

Ask yourself how you can make each situation you enter a “win-win.” Then realistically determine what will happen if the scenario doesn’t work out the way you want. You’ll likely see that the potential negatives aren’t really that big of a deal and you’re able to handle whatever comes your way.
For example, you set a goal to move to a new city but you were delayed after a job loss. With emotional maturity, you can bounce back and develop a new plan that helps you reach your goal while considering your new circumstances.
 Stop always focusing on what you can get out of relationships. Instead, think about how you can help each other. Be generous with your emotions and try not to take other people for granted.


In romantic relationships, avoid seeking out someone only for physical reasons, as emotionally immature people tend to do. Rather, look for someone who can fill your emotional needs and for someone who you can enjoy spending time with., Everyone makes mistakes; however, the way you handle them is a sign of your emotional maturity level. Projecting your errors on others is a sign of emotional immaturity. Taking responsibility for what you’ve done wrong shows that you are mature.


For instance, you shut out a friend who is trying to help you. An emotionally immature person may refuse to see that this is not helping the situation. Meanwhile, if you are emotionally mature, you will recognize that you are wrong and apologize to your friend.
Practice saying phrases like “I’m sorry” and “That was my mistake.” People are more accepting to slip-ups when the person is genuinely apologetic rather than trying to blame others., Boundaries are created for protection. Pushing these boundaries makes people feel uncomfortable and violated. Respecting these boundaries shows that you are mature and care about other people’s needs instead of your own.


People who push their agendas on others and focus more on what they want rather than what is beneficial for both parties typically end up hurting others. However, emotionally mature people would rather make someone else feel better than get what they want. This is especially true if they know getting what they want will make the other person uncomfortable., Even in the worst of situations, there is valuable learning you can do to grow and improve your life. Sometimes in the heat of the bad situation it can be difficult to tease out the lesson, but it is up to you to reflect afterward to identify what you have learned. Consider how will you use what you have absorbed to become a better person. It can be helpful to write it down., Emotionally immature people tend to lie. They may lie to get out of their mistakes or use it as a way to make them seem more appealing. Either way, their main focus is to make themselves look better instead of living with integrity.This step may take some effort on your part. Being vulnerable and open with your flaws is difficult for anyone, particularly people who struggle with emotional immaturity. However, you’ll find that telling the truth gains respect, from others and yourself. Let go of your pride and simply say the truth. You’ll feel much better about yourself in the end.

