 This is very important. Most patients focus on not wanting to be sick, rather than getting well. This difference may seem subtle but it is very important. If you focus on your health, you are literally activating your cells and organs that will help your body to heal. Your intention to get well, assists your body in ways that modern medicine is finally beginning to acknowledge.;
, Use them as a catalyst, as a challenge to overcome whatever disease you are facing. Despite the odds, others have lived and you can, too! Many patients defy their doctor’s predictions. Unfortunately, doctors are trained not to give “false hope,” and often give patients dire predictions that appear to be credible predictions based on statistics involving other patients. Of course, such bleak predictions will have a very negative impact on recovery and health.
 Regardless of the diagnosis and prognosis you are facing, please know all is not lost. Men and women like you have faced the challenges of living with and overcoming serious and potentially fatal diseases.
 The will to live, the desire to get well, has a tremendous impact on our bodies and can mean the difference, literally between recovery and illness, health and disease and life and death. They can’t accurately predict how long you will live. Remember: All statistics are about other people's experiences and may not necessarily predict yours unless you allow them to be such by putting your faith in them.
 How do you feel about this experience called “disease”? Does it create fear, anxiety, denial, and constant thoughts? That’s normal. All of these emotions are a part of the disease process. You can work your way through all of them, with awareness and patience.
 Sometimes you’re frightened, anxious, distressed. Also, loneliness, pain, fatigue. That’s very normal. Acknowledge them.
 Ask your doctor questions about your condition. Write them down, or designate a trusted family member and friend to be your advocate. Demand that all staff (and visitors!) wash their hands or use hand sanitizer. This is the best way to avoid infection and complications that may extend your recovery or endanger your life.
 Turn off the news (any type, unless you just watch the weather)! Don’t watch violent, depressing television programs.
, It doesn’t matter who that is. A health professional, family member, spouse, friend or someone else can be a great well-being coach, a valuable asset.
 Medical research demonstrates optimists are healthier and recover faster than pessimists. Every crisis can be viewed as an opportunity. Your cup isn’t necessarily half empty, it’s half full. Face every crisis as an opportunity. Pessimism can be redirected.
 This is a very important thing to do. Most illnesses are stress related. When your body is relaxed it has the opportunity to regenerate and heal.

