 Only your doctor is qualified to determine if you have esophageal diverticulum based on an analysis of your symptoms and a medical examination. When speaking with your doctor, provide them with clear and concise descriptions of each symptom.Always provide specifics. The more information your doctor has, the better the diagnosis they can provide.
For instance, if you're coughing, feeling pain in your neck, and regurgitating food, you might say, “I am feeling pain in my neck on the left side.” You might then gesture to the exact location that hurts. You might then say, “I cough frequently during meals, and sometimes awake coughing during the night.” You might continue to explain, “When I awake, sometimes I notice bits of regurgitated food on the pillow beside me.”

, A barium swallow involves consuming a chalky mixture containing barium sulfate, a metallic compound. The doctor will then take an X-ray to track the movement of the barium through your throat and esophagus.This helps the doctor determine whether your esophagus is functioning properly and detect diverticula or other potential problems. Alternatively, your doctor may ask you to eat a food or pill coated with barium to track its movement., An endoscopy involves passing a long, narrow tube with a small camera on the end down the esophagus. The camera feed then provides your doctor with a view inside the esophagus to locate and diagnose any esophageal diverticulum that may be present. You will probably be sedated during your endoscopy.Before the endoscopy, you’ll have to go without food and drink for at least eight hours.The doctor will probably spray an anesthetic in your throat and you will be asked to wear a mouthguard to prevent you from biting the endoscope (the small camera tube used to examine your insides).
Since you’ll likely be sedated, you’ll need someone to drive you home.
Your doctor will provide more specific instruction regarding how to prepare for your endoscopy.
 An esophageal manometry is a procedure which tests the esophagus for proper operation. It involves passing a long tube known as a catheter down your nose, through the esophagus, and (possibly) into the stomach. If you’re demonstrating symptoms associated with esophageal diverticulum, your doctor may want to ensure your esophagus is functioning properly.The manometry begins with you receiving a numbing spray on your throat and/or nose.
The catheter is then guided through the nose and into the esophagus. This might cause you to gag or make your eyes water.
Your doctor might ask you to sit or lie down.
You will then swallow water and the catheter records the pressure and strength of your esophagus’ response.Your doctor will provide you with more details about how you can best prepare for the procedure.
 24-hour pHmetry is a test in which a thin tube designed to detect acid is passed through the nose and down the esophagus. The other end of the tube is connected to a small monitoring device. The bit of tube that comes out of your nose will be taped in place to the side of your face. Wear the device for 24 hours, pressing certain buttons on the device to monitor events of interest to your medical team.For instance, you might need to record each time you eat or drink, or each time you lie down and get up. Your doctor will explain in more detail how to use your particular pH monitoring device.During the monitoring period, eat at least two meals a day. Avoid snacking and sucking on lozenges or hard candy. Do not chew gum during the monitoring period. Try not to lie down until you go to bed.
There are many medications that you cannot take during the period prior to your 24-hour acid monitoring. Proton pump inhibitors and H2 blockers, for instance, at off limits for seven days and 48 hours, respectively. Additionally, do not take antacids for at least six hours prior to the 24-hour pHmetry.
Once your 24-hour period is complete, you will have to return to your doctor. Do not eat or drink anything for the six hours prior to your follow-up visit.
GERD may also be diagnosed by describing your symptoms to your doctor and receiving an endoscopy.

