 If you are trying to make a large decision, like about buying a house, break that decision down into smaller decisions. Looking at a huge decision as one massive “yes or no” question can be crippling and lead to anxiety and undue stress. Instead, break down the decision into smaller decisions.For example, if you want to buy a house, start with making small decisions each day. You may use one day to choose a real estate agent, or one day to determine your financial situation and price range. Another day can be devoted to which one you would like to live in.
Focus only on the one decision you have to do today. Don’t think about future decisions. Leave those for other days.
 For some decisions, you may want to leave it up to chance. You can flip a coin, put the decisions on a slip of paper in a cup, or put one decision in each hand and mix it up. This takes the stress off of you and lets you make a decision without having to actually decide.This can be used for small decisions, such as what to wear, what to eat, or even if you want to buy groceries today or not.
Ask yourself some questions before deciding to use a coin flip to help you make a decision, such as: Could this choice affect my financial situation? Could this choice endanger me or someone else? Does this decision affect changes in the lives of my family or children? Does this choice concern my long-term future? If you answer yes to any of these questions, then a coin flip may not be the best way to make the decision.
Flipping a coin or randomly drawing a decision out of a cup can help you figure out what you wanted the decision to be if you feel a sense of disappointment because you didn’t get the other choice.
 You can make the decision-making process easier for yourself by setting up a list of go-to decisions. These decisions have been predetermined so you already know what to choose when you run into the situation.For example, if you go to dinner or lunch with friends or family, you will let them choose where to go. You will always get the chicken dish when you are there. You may also decide that you will suggest going to a movie when you go out with friends and family, or that you will choose paper bags if asked at the grocery store.
These little decision cheats can help you avoid added stress and make decisions when you need to.
 Sometimes, the stress of your decision-making comes from making decisions about what to do every day. To help eliminate these decisions, set up a routine that you follow every day. This takes the guess work out of what you are going to do and instead you know what you need to do without making a decision.Your schedule should include what time you want to get up and go to bed, when you are going to eat, when you are going to work, and when you are going to do other activities, like cleaning or watching television.
You may also come up with a menu for yourself. This helps eliminate the stress of choosing what to eat. You may eat oatmeal or eggs every morning and salads and leftovers for lunch. Two nights each week you may have chicken, fish two nights, beef one night, and you’ll order take out the final night.
 You can lessen the amount of decisions you have to make by eliminating unnecessary decisions from your life. Simplify by doing some things the same way each day or reminding yourself that some decisions aren’t a right and wrong situation.For example, you can eat the same breakfast every morning or always go walking after work. You can set up a weekly dinner with your best friend at the same restaurant.
Remind yourself that whatever food you eat, activity you choose, or clothes you wear are not right or wrong. If you choose one thing, it’s not better or worse than the other choices.

