 This carpet cleaner and conditioner is the most similar to a commercial cleaner, and it will leave your carpet clean, fresh, soft, and smelling great. To make this cleaner, combine in a bucket:2 tablespoons (30 ml) of liquid laundry detergent
¼ cup (59 ml) of liquid all-purpose cleaner
1 scoop of OxiClean
1 teaspoon (5 ml) of fabric softener
1 gallon (3.8 L) of hot water;
, For families with kids and pets, non-toxic cleaners are often high on the priority list, especially for things that get used every day like your carpets. To make a non-toxic carpet cleaner that also smells great, mix together:1 cup (235 ml) of white vinegar
2 cups (470 ml) of water
2 teaspoons (13 g) of salt
15 drops of essential oil, such as lemon, lavender, or pine

, Window cleaner isn't just for windows anymore, and you can actually mix it with water to make a cheap and effective carpet cleaner for the house, car, and elsewhere.


To make this cleaner, simply mix equal parts hot water and a window cleaner, such as Windex., Ammonia cleaners are more powerful than typical cleaners, but you have to be careful with them because ammonia is corrosive and can damage your skin, eyes, lungs, and certain materials. Put on some gloves, and carefully combine in a bucket:1 tablespoon (15 ml) of liquid dish detergent
¼ cup (59 ml) of ammonia
¼ cup (59 ml) of vinegar
3 gallons (11 L) of water

, Hydrogen peroxide is a powerful cleaner, and lemon is a grease-cutting cleaner that makes everything smell great. These two simple ingredients can be combined to make a homemade carpet cleaner. To make this cleaner:Pour ¾ cup (176 ml) of hydrogen peroxide to a bucket
Add 1½ cups (352 ml) of water
Add 5 drops of lemon essential oil
Stir to combine

, Powdered carpet cleaners are great for spills and greasy stains, and you can make your own powdered cleaning solution at home too. For a basic powdered cleaner for the carpet, combine in a small bowl:1 cup (220 g) of baking powder
1 cup (110 g) of corn starch
5 bay leaves, crushed (for smell)
A sprinkle of dried potpourri, crushed (optional)

, For an even more powerful cleaner and deodorizer, try making a dry baking soda and borax powder. You can also add your favorite herbs or flowers to the mix to customize the smell. To make this cleaner, combine in a bowl:1 cup (409 g) of borax
1 cup (220 g) of baking soda
1 tablespoon (5 g) of dried herbs or flowers
20 drops of essential oil

, To clean a carpet or spot by hand, you'll need to apply a thin and even layer of cleaner to the carpet. The easiest way to do this is to transfer a liquid cleaner to a spray bottle, or a dry cleaner to a shaker, which will give you good and even coverage.


Stir your cleaning mixture before transferring it to make sure all the ingredients are fully combined.
 It’s always important to test new cleaning products on surfaces before applying them widely, especially when you're dealing with things like carpet, fabric, and upholstery. The spot test will ensure that the cleaner won’t damage the carpet or the color. To do the spot test:Pick an inconspicuous area of carpet, such as a corner or under furniture
Spray or sprinkle some of the cleaner onto a small section of the carpet
Wait 24 hours
When the time is up, check the test spot for color-fastness, discoloration, or other damage
Only proceed with cleaning if there's no damage to the carpet

, To spot clean stains and marks, apply a thin and even layer of cleaner to the area you want to clean.To clean the entire carpet, divide the carpet into three or four sections and clean one section at a time.


When you're working in sections to clean an entire carpet, start at the farthest section from the door and work your way toward the door to avoid getting trapped.
 Once the cleaner is on the carpet, let it sit for about 10 minutes. This will give liquid cleaners time to soak in, and powder cleaners time to absorb odors and stains.


If you're pressed for time, it’s not strictly necessary to let the cleaner soak, but it will produce a cleaner carpet if you let it sit.
 Use a carpet brush or other stiff-bristled brush to scrub the area where you’ve applied cleaner. This will help push the cleaner deeper into the carpet, and loosen dirt, debris, and other particles that are lodged in the fibers of the carpet.Once you’ve brushed the entire area, wait for about 30 minutes to let liquid cleaners dry completely.
 When liquid cleaners have had time to dry completely and powder cleaners have had time to absorb smells and stains, vacuum the carpet thoroughly. Go over the area two or three times to make sure you suck up all the dirt, debris, and excess powder.Once the carpet has been vacuumed, repeat with the other sections if you're cleaning the whole carpet.
 Before using any new cleaner on a surface, you should always spot test the product to ensure it won’t cause damage. Pick an inconspicuous area of carpet and apply a small amount of your liquid or powder cleaner. Leave the cleaner for 24 hours.After 24 hours, check the test area for discoloration and damage. Proceed with cleaning if there's no visible damage.
 Most carpet shampooers have a single reservoir where the cleaning solution goes. Fill the reservoir with the homemade liquid cleaner of your choice. If the reservoir has a lid or cap, replace this before shampooing the carpet.


Some shampooers have separate reservoirs for clean water and cleaning solution, so be sure to fill both., Turn the shampooer on and pull the trigger (if you're shampooer has one) to activate the cleaning action. Starting in a corner farthest from the door, shampoo the carpet using the same back and forth motion you would to vacuum. Go over each section of carpet two or three times to ensure the carpet is fully saturated and scrubbed.As you clean the carpet, work your way toward a door to avoid getting stuck in the room.
 A carpet shampooer will apply larger quantities of cleaner to the carpet, so let the carpet sit for 24 hours after shampooing. This will allow the cleaner to fully soak into the carpet and evaporate, and give the carpet time to dry., When the carpet is fully dry and there's no cleaning residue left that you can feel with your hand, vacuum the entire carpet with your regular vacuum cleaner. This will suck up any dirt and debris that are in the carpet and complete the cleaning process.


Some carpet shampooers also serve as a vacuum. Don’t pull the trigger that activates the shampooing action when you want to use the cleaner as a vacuum.

