 This is the best time for wildlife viewing.;
, You'll want to make this shot at the utter crack of dawn. Go north out of Jackson into the park. After passing Moose Junction start watching the right hand side of the road, you will see a sign for Antelope Flats Road. Turn right and proceed slowly, there can be substantial herds of bison in this area. You will pass some roads going into residences, you are looking for a wide spot on the left where the road going north is chained off. Park here. Walk north on the dirt road, if it's still dark, don't wander off the road, there is a small creek that you can fall into if you don't pay attention. You will find the most photographed barn on earth very quickly. Set up and wait for sunrise. Shoot like crazy. Get back in your car, turn around and go south on the same road to find the other barn that is a must get shot.
 Go back to the main road and turn right, heading north again. Schwabacher Landing is not marked as you drive north (it is coming south though). You will probably overshoot it, if you reach Teton Point turnout, you've passed it. The road is a small dirt road on the left side of the highway. This is a gravel road with a lot of washboarding, you do not need 4WD, simply drive slowly. There are two areas down here, it is the second one that will give you the best shots. There is a nice parking area here and you will probably have plenty of photographers as company.
 Stop at Teton Point turnout if there is really good sky available. If the sky is only so-so, you can probably pass this one by.
 You will come to a T in the road, the right side goes to Dubois, the left to Moran Junction. Turn left to Moran, go through the entrance station and keep going. You will have no trouble finding the Oxbow Bend pullout, it will be packed with photographers. Spend some time here, there are probably a dozen shots to be made. Walk a ways down the road and there is another nice marshy area, if you're lucky there will be some geese or ducks floating on the Snake.


Note:The above are the "have to have" shots in Grand Teton. There are other areas to visit if you have time to spend. The Chapel of the Transfiguration just outside of Moose is a great morning shot, but not a crack of dawn shot, the sun has to clear a ridge before it will be well lit.

