 Place 1 cup (90 g) of old-fashioned rolled oats in a food processor, and pulse them until they’re finely ground. Dump them into a bowl, and set them aside for a minute.Don't have a blender? A blender or coffee grinder works just as well for grinding the oats.
 After you’ve emptied the food processor, toss in a pound (454 g) of lean ground pork and a pound (454 g) of lean ground turkey. Pulse the meats until they’ve got an extremely fine texture.If your food processor isn’t that big, try grinding the meats separately. Then throw them into the processor together just to mix them.
 When you’re done grinding the meats, add the oats and 2 large, lightly beaten egg whites, 1 tablespoon (10 g) of garlic powder, 1 tablespoon (7 g) of onion powder, 4 teaspoons (8 g) of ground dry mustard, 1 ½ teaspoons (2 g) of dried thyme, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground nutmeg, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground mace, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground sweet paprika, 1 teaspoon (6 g) of salt, and 1 ½ teaspoons (3 g) of freshly ground black pepper. Run the mixture in the processor until you've got a thick paste.You don't want to run the food processor for too long because it can get hot and heat the meat. Pulse it briefly, and cool processor down for a couple of seconds before pulsing it again.
 When you're finished processing the meat mixture, spoon it into a large bowl. Give it a good mix with a wooden spoon so the seasonings are fully blended with the meat. Throw some plastic wrap over the bowl, and chill it the fridge for 1 to 2 hours., After the meat mixture has chilled, take 2 ounces (55 g) of it at a time and work it into a ball with your hands. Next, roll the ball into a log that's about 5-inches (13-cm) long to give it a standard hot dog shape.If you want totally traditional hot dogs, you can run the meat mixture through a sausage maker with hot dog-sized casings. But be aware that you'll have healthier hot dogs without casings.
 Once you’ve shaped hot dogs, toss them into a large skillet. Pour just enough water into the pan so it covers the them halfway., Heat the skillet with the hot dogs and water on the stove on high. Wait for the pan to come to a boil, which should take about 7 to 10 minutes.You don't need to cover the pan while you're waiting for it to boil.
 When the skillet comes to a boil, turn the heat down to medium. Simmer hot dogs for about 15 minutes, or until they're fully cooked.Use a pair of tongs to turn the hot dogs once in a while so they cook evenly.
The larger and thicker the hot dogs are, the more time you'll have to simmer them.
 Once the hot dogs are finished simmering, lift them out of the skillet with tongs. Put them on a paper towel-lined plate so they can drain. Finish cooking the rest of the hot dogs the same exact way., When the hot dogs are fully drained, throw them on a grill over medium heat for 7 to 9 minutes to brown them. You can also brown them in a skillet on the stove over medium heat for 5 minutes.If you don’t plan to eat the hot dogs right away, wrap them individually in plastic after simmering them. You can store them in the fridge for 3 to 4 days or freeze them for up to 6 months.

