 To ensure that your oven is warm enough to bake the biscuit bowls, it’s important to preheat your oven. Set the temperature to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the right temperature. Most models will either beep and/or flash an indicator light to alert you.;
, Add 2 cups (240 g) of biscuit baking mix, ⅔ cup (158 ml) of whole milk, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of cayenne pepper to a large bowl. Mix the ingredients together until they are fully combined and a dough forms.You can use a store-bought biscuit baking mix, such as Bisquick, or use your own homemade version.
 Once the dough has formed, transfer it to a lightly floured surface. Use clean hands to knead the dough three to four times.Be careful not to overwork the dough or you may wind up with tough biscuit bowls.
 After you’ve kneaded the dough, use your hands to separate the dough into six equal pieces. With a rolling pin, roll each piece into a 6-inch (15-cm) circle.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use a wine bottle, thermos, glass jar, or other heavy, round object to roll out the dough.
 For the biscuit cups, you’ll need a muffin tin with at least 6 cups. Flip the tin over, and use a vegetable oil cooking spray to grease the underside of the muffin cups.You can use butter to grease the muffin tin if you prefer.
 After you’ve greased the bottom of the muffin tin, place the dough circles on the back of the muffin cups. Press the dough around each cup to form a bowl shape.If you find that the dough is sticking to your hands as you try to shape them on the muffin tin, lightly dust your skin with flour.
 With the dough on the underside of the muffin tin, place the tin in the preheated oven. Allow the biscuit bowls to bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are a light golden brown color.The biscuit bowls can burn fairly easily, so keep a close eye on them as they're baking, particularly toward the end of the baking time.

