 Often people who assume they have a short term memory problem actually have a focus problem. Do you always forget your waiter’s name because you never actually pay attention when he gives it?


Some theorize that because 8 seconds is roughly the minimum time it takes to transfer a short term memory to long term memory, you should narrowly concentrate on an item you want to remember for at least that period of time.Block out distractions. If you want to remember that waiter’s name, put down the menu, ignore the restaurant’s mood music and your kids’ complaints, and look at and listen to him when he gives it.
 We’ve all experienced a scent or sound that triggers a memory from long ago. Utilizing your senses when adding to your short term memory enhances focus and builds associations that serve as markers for future recall.


When you meet someone new and want to remember his name, engage as many of your senses as you can. Listen carefully and look directly at him as he states his name; repeat it immediately afterward; shake his hand and take notice of his grip; and even take notice of his cologne if possible. The more sensory associations you build, the more firmly the memory is encoded.Repeating a name, or anything else you want to remember, out loud is always a good way to help strengthen a particular short term memory. Listen to yourself saying the word or phrase, and keep doing so with regularity.
 Do you remember learning “Roy G. Biv” in school to keep track of the order of colors in a rainbow? This acronym is one type of mnemonic device, a visual or verbal memory technique that allows you to build associations among pieces of information.


Construct colorful, even silly visualizations to help encode a short-term memory. For instance, picture a pile of trash falling onto your head when the clock strikes six to remind you to take out the trash each evening.Singing the “ABC Song” to the tune of “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star” is a familiar childhood mnemonic that uses an auditory cue. For more examples of mnemonics using number, color, and other associations, see How to Improve Your Memory.
 Perhaps the most common example is using hyphens to break up the string of digits in a phone number, because three groups of 3, 3, and 4 numbers is easier to remember than a string of 10.Remembering a grocery list might be a challenge, but can be made more manageable by grouping the items by category -- dairy, produce, meat, etc. Six smaller shopping lists is easier to recall than one larger one.



For instance, if you need to memorize a list of major U.S. Civil War battles in order, pick out a handful of key ones and commit them to memory. With those firmly established, the additional information will be more likely to “stick” to the existing memories -- or to follow the bait into your memory banks, so to speak.