 You may think that your loved one needs to talk to feel better. This is not always the case when someone has PTSD. Talking about the trauma may be harmful or too emotional. Don’t try to get your loved one to talk about the experience or their feelings. Instead, be there for them when they want to talk or not.If your loved one wants to talk, be there for them. If they do not, then spend time with them without focusing on the trauma or the PTSD.;
, When your loved one is ready to talk, be there for them. Listen actively to what they say without distractions. Don’t judge them or expect things from them. Refrain from giving advice. The best way you can show that you care is to let your loved one talk in a safe, supportive, and understanding environment.Don’t get annoyed if your loved one talks about the same things over and over again. Many people with PTSD revisit the event and talk about it multiple times as they work through it. Don’t tell them to stop dwelling on what happened. Just let them talk.
If you disagree or disapprove of anything they say, keep that to yourself. Your loved one doesn’t need negative reactions, especially when they are sharing difficult or uncomfortable things with you.
Also, try not to convince your loved one that their symptoms are an overreaction or not real. Instead, do your best to validate whatever experience your loved one is going through, even if it does not make sense to you.
 You should spend time with your loved one. Encourage them to engage in activities that gets them moving and out of the house. Do normal things and treat your loved one like you do the rest of your family and friends. Treating them like you used to or like you do others can help them feel at ease and stop dwelling on the trauma.For example, suggest that the two of you go on a walk, have lunch with friends or family, go to the movies, or play games.
Make sure that the activities you choose are safe activities that will not make them think about their trauma.
 People with PTSD need stability in their lives. This can be achieved with routines. You can help your loved one build a routine with different aspects of their life, from chores to meal times to everyday activities. Routines provide security and control.For example, suggest that your loved one have their daily meals at the same time every day, go to bed and wake up at consistent times, and schedule in time for socializing and exercise.
If you live with your loved one, help maintain a schedule. Fix dinners at the same time, do certain chores on the same days, and have familiar activities on the same days.
 People with PTSD often feel hopeless and like they have no future. They sometimes feel they cannot do anything due to their trauma. To help your loved one move past this, make plans for the future with them. Talk about things you want to do together or things that your loved one would like to do.For example, you may say, “I think we should go apple picking in the fall,” “I thought we could cut down our own tree for the holidays,” or “How would you like to take a trip to a new location in the next year or two?”

, People with PTSD often withdraw from loved ones. They may feel guilty or ashamed of their condition. They may not think that anyone understands them. They may be afraid of having a flashback or an outburst. Offering support and being there for them can help them not feel alone and help lessen these feelings.You should give your loved one space, but remember they should not be alone all the time. Being around friends and family is important for recovery.

