 Before you begin, vacuum out your car to remove any debris.Your cleaning products will work much better if you vacuum before getting started. Using a soft brush attachment on the vacuum nozzle will help prevent scratching. Remove the floor mats and shake them before you start vacuuming.
Be extra careful around any knobs or vents. These areas can be easily damaged.;
, Use a soft damp cloth (water only) or soft hand-held dust mop (available in the car care section of any grocery or discount store) to clear away dust. A small, soft-bristled paintbrush works well to clear dust from crevices such as around the gear shift and hand brake, the radio controls and other tight spaces where dust can settle.You can also use a soft-bristled toothbrush and Q-tips to clean crevices and hard to reach areas.
If you used a damp cloth, go back with a dry soft cloth to dry the plastic.
 If your plastic is stained, apply a very small amount of mild soap, laundry detergent, or plastic auto cleaner to a damp cloth. Never apply any cleaning solution directly to the plastic. Wipe the area until it is clean. Follow up with a clean, dry rag.Always test an inconspicuous piece of plastic before you apply it to all of the plastic in your car.
If you are using a commercial plastic cleaner, follow the instructions on the packaging.
Turn the cloth to a clean spot when it begins to show dirt. You do not want to redistribute dirt throughout your car.
 Once your plastic is cleaned, apply a protectant. Visit an automotive store or the automobile section of a large retailer to find a plastic protectant. Only apply the protectant to clean surfaces. You do not want to lock in any dirt or grime.Again never spray products directly on the plastic. Always use a clean, soft cloth or a foam applicator pad.
 To add some shine to your plastic, use a plastic polish or an oil such as olive oil or boiled linseed oil. Put some oil or polish on a soft cloth and then rub it into the plastic. Then use a clean soft cloth to rub away any excess product.You can purchase boiled linseed oil from a hardware or paint store.
There are also all-in-one products that act as both a polish and a protectant. This is convenient and cuts down on the amount of products you have to buy.