 Making and appointment with your dentist, even if you don't have any obvious dental issues, can be a great way to maintain dental health and prevent any future problems. Your dentist will help keep your teeth healthy and can give you tips that you can use at home.


Regular visits with your dentist can help catch issues before they become big problems.
Your dentist will be able to tell you how you can best maintain the health of you teeth.
Visit your dentist at least once every two years if you have no problems. Visit immediately if you notice any new dental issues developing., If you are unhappy with how your teeth look, you might want to consider braces. Braces work by applying tension to your teeth, over a period of time, to realign them. Beyond cosmetic reasons, braces can also help with dental issues such as a reduction in jaw pain and pressure.Two types of braces exist today, fixed and removable.
Removable braces can be taken out of the mouth, but the patient must keep careful records and diligently wear them to get the most out of them.
Fixed braces cannot be taken off by the patient and don't require the attention that removable braces do.
 Some foods and drinks can cause harm to your teeth, wearing them down, staining them, or otherwise damaging them. By avoiding these foods, drinks, and dietary habits you can keep your teeth looking great and healthy.Foods that have a long period of contact with your teeth such as sugar, soda, cookies, and candies can damage teeth.
Snacking often will make your mouth a more comfortable place for bacteria to live in. These bacteria can lead to tooth decay and other dental issues.
Highly acidic foods and drinks, such as orange juice or tomatoes, can erode the enamel on you teeth.
Tobacco, soda, tea, and red wine can all stain your teeth over time., Whitening strips work by chemically dissolving stains, either by removing surface stains or targeting stains within the tooth. Both of these methods have versions that can be applied at home, by yourself, or applied by your dentist.Bleaching products will usually contain peroxide and focus on both inner and outer stain removal.
Dentifrices work to remove only surface stains.
Some report having sensitive teeth and gums after using whitening products. This is generally a temporary side effect.

