 Children who describe vague symptoms that move from one body part to another without discretion are often faking. If, on the other hand, his symptoms are concrete and typically go together—like a runny nose and a sore throat, or stomach pain and diarrhea—that’s not a red flag.;
, Don’t leave the room after handing your child the thermometer. Many a child have gotten out of going to school by running the thermometer under the hot tap or holding it up to a hot lightbulb.
 If your child says she’s been throwing up, you will probably be able to hear and see it.
 Does your child look pale and clammy? Clammy skin is caused by a number of factors, including allergic reaction, severe pain, anxiety, dehydration, and pneumonia., Sometimes children complain of a belly ache. If she won’t let you touch her tummy and refuses to eat or drink, she may be having abdominal pain.Abdominal pain can be caused by constipation, viral infections, and occasionally something more serious. Call your doctor if your child has prolonged abdominal pain.
 If they look red, pink, or watery, ask him if they are bothering him. While it could just be allergies, if it looks crusty it might be Pink Eye.


If your child has Pink Eye, take him to the doctor. This viral infection can be very contagious., Even those children who don’t like doctors or medicine will agree to do whatever they need to in order to feel better. If your child refuses care, it’s probably because he doesn’t need it!

, If she went from droopy-eyed to bright-eyed, she may be looking for a day catching up on “Arthur.”


Keep an ear out for any mention of homework. If she squeals with delight at the thought of not having to do any today, this might be a sign that she is trying to avoid something.
 Don’t incentivize staying home. If staying home sick means special treats and a day of television, she won’t mind falling behind in school. Sick days are meant for resting and recuperating, which can include watching television. However if your child is extremely alert while watching T.V., instead of lying on the couch and watching through squinting, resting eyes, he may have another motive.
 So you said he could stay home, and after twenty minutes of extra sleep he’s playing with LEGO and running around. He may have fooled you once, but he won’t fool you again.
 Take note if your child conveniently gets sick on the day of the US Constitution test. If she didn’t study enough she might be trying for an extra day to cram.


If she’s extremely nervous about a presentation or test, she might actually feel physically sick. Help her to pinpoint what she’s nervous about and brainstorm solutions with her.
Younger kids don’t have the self-awareness to say, “I’m feeling anxious today.”Tell them it’s normal to feel scared, and see if you can help them through their fear., Some kids really don’t click with their teachers. If your child is faking sick to avoid his teachers, this could become a pattern.


If this is the case, you will need to speak directly with your child’s teacher to resolve the issue.
Find out if other students are having a hard time with this particular teacher. If not, it may be a specific to your child’s learning style or personality.
 Approximately 30 percent of students in grades 6-10 are affected by bullying. Understandably, those affected by it may choose to fake sick in order to bypass the jeering. , If it seems that every Tuesday and Thursday—gym day—little Samuel comes down with a vague leg cramp, it’s probably OK to send him to school.


If you honestly can’t tell and it hasn’t been a pattern, go with your gut.
If your child really is sick, the school will send him home anyway.
 You should not send your child to school if she has a temperature above 100.4 Fahrenheit, vomiting, diarrhea, persistent pain or a bad, wet cough. This is not only for your child’s health, but for the health of her teachers and classmates.
 It’s hard to believe that kids get stressed, but they do! Sometimes the weekend isn’t enough time for them to catch up, especially if they are weighed down with projects.


Unexplained symptoms could be a sign of something else. Anxiety, depression, or other issues can sometimes manifest themselves in physical ways.