 If you want to wear a fascinator with your hair slicked back, then go with a smaller one. If you’re going to wear your hair loosely pulled up, then a medium size is probably best. Wear a large fascinator if you’re wearing your hair down and in a voluminous style., If it’s warmer outside, you’ll want to go with a fascinator that’s made of a lighter, more breathable material, such as straw. In the winter time, wear a fascinator made of a heavier, thicker material, such as wool or felt., Your fascinator will give off a more subtle, classy boldness if it looks like it belongs with the outfit you're wearing. To ensure this, wear a fascinator that’s the same color as the clothes you’re wearing., Redheads look best with a fascinator that’s an earth tone, such as beige, brown, or deep green. If you have blond hair, try wearing a light warm color like coral or a neutral like taupe. Finally, opt for bright, deep shades such as hot pink or emerald if you have brown hair., It looks best to create a contrast between your fascinator shape and your face shape. If you have a more round face, opt for a slightly taller fascinator. If you have a longer or thinner face, a spherical or disc-shaped fascinator looks best., Since headbands are secured behind the ears and so are glasses, those with glasses will feel more secure and comfortable wearing elastic securing fascinators. Additionally, try to keep the style of the fascinator simple to avoid looking too “busy” in combination with your glasses., Don’t wash your hair the day of the event. With many hairstyles, dirty hair holds pins and grips better than freshly washed hair., For added security, take a section of your hair where you’re going to put the fascinator and comb the hair back toward the center of your head.This backcombing, or teasing, will create knotting and volume, which will make the fascinator hold better.
 Spray the hair that you just backcombed with a hairspray to ensure that the section will stay teased., Push the comb piece attached to your fascinator firmly against your scalp towards the back of your head to make sure it’ll stay in position throughout the day., If you’re wearing a big, showy fascinator, you’ll most likely need to secure it with a headband. Headband fascinators are the best for creating stability. You can even add a headband to a comb fascinator to take security a step further.In addition to comb pieces and headbands, fascinators can be secured with elastic bands or hairclips.
 The best place to wear a fascinator is either on the right or left side of your head. Wearing it towards the front of your head correctly is sometimes acceptable, but try wearing it on the side a few times and getting comfortable with that before going for a bolder look.The fascinator should be placed just above either your right or left eyebrow., Many fascinators attach to your head with a subtle elastic band. This goes behind your ears and around the nape of your neck, not under your chin. This mistake looks silly and will not appear fashionable., Especially if you’re a first time wearer, it’s a good idea to wear a classic shape, such as a brimmed hat or a mini pillbox shape. With a fascinator, less is often more. To stay stylish, avoid oversized, elaborate styles that are distracting and overwhelming., Traditionally, fascinators include several different materials, including feathers, flowers, and lace. Stick with these and stay away from rhinestones when you’re choosing a fascinator. This adds a glitzy flair to the look that ends up looking a little too over-the-top and out of place, especially in excess. As a good rule of thumb, less detail is more., Fascinators can be a great accessory to add to an outfit, but make sure that you’re wearing it to events where it’s fitting. Garden parties, tea parties, and weddings are all great places to wear a fascinator.

Leave the fascinator at home if you’re attending the cinema, the symphony, or any other event that has stadium-style seating. It’s rude to block the people behind you.