 Every laptop will have a slightly different procedure in order to find and remove the video card, but the same basic principles hold no matter who made your computer. Clean your hands and wipe down the laptop with a static-proof cloth before beginning, making sure you have a clean workspace with minimal dust. You'll need--


A set of Philip's head screwdrivers that fit the small screws on your laptop.
Anti-static wristband to prevent shorting your computer.
Clean cloth and compressed air for cleaning the inside of your laptop.
A soft, clean towel or cloth to place parts on as you're working.
Your new video card., Every laptop is different, but the odds are good that you need to go all the way into the guts of the computer to get your old video card out and the new one in. You want to read through every step 2-3 times before beginning to avoid surprises. HP's popular Pavilion dv series, for example, requires that you remove the battery, optical drive, WLAN, hard drive, keyboard, system board, top cover, and fan in order to adjust the processor and video card. This means you need to know your computer from top to bottom before beginning, as you'll have your work cut out for you.Check out "How to Take Apart a Laptop" for generic pictures helping you dismantle most computers.
Make sure you understand how to protect against static electricity with your wristband and grounded (rubber-souled) footwear., Once you're familiar with the task at hand, shut down the computer. Unplug everything and let it sit for 10 minutes to cool down, as computers can get quite hot., More often than not, your first step is going to be stripping away the plastic so that you can get into the guts of the computer. Again, consult your user manual if you have difficulty.


More often than not you simply need a small screwdriver, such as those found in eyeglass repair kits at most pharmacies, to remove the plastic coverings.
Never force or pry out pieces. They plastic parts break easily and should not be difficult to remove with the right technique., This is where every computer is different -- as some computers require massive dismantling and others offer easy access to your switchable video card. Pay close attention to your work, your product manual, and your parts.


Write down the order you took parts out if there is any confusion. This will help you work backward when you need to put the computer back together.
Use cups or bowls to organize screws, keeping a cup of the appropriate connections next to the corresponding part to avoid losing anything., Once you get to the card, simply slide it out of the PCI x16 port (labeled on the switchable motherboard) and slide the new one in. Don't bend, jiggle, or yank on either card -- they should slide in and out relatively easily once you undo the safety latches on the sides. If it does not, check for any forgotten screws or safety latches, use some compressed air to clean out the port, and try again., Compressed air is the easiest, gentlest way to clean out your computer, and the perfect time is when it is dismantled and easily accessed. Clean off all the parts, especially the fan, while they are out. Then gently blast some air inside the computer to give it a good cleaning.
 The installation, in all cases, is the same procedure used to remove the parts in reverse. If you've paid attention and kept yourself organized, you should be able to easily retrace your steps and put the computer back exactly how you found it.


This is why taking pictures as you work is a good idea, allowing you to see exactly how the computer is supposed to look when you're finished.