 One of the main tenants of the boho lifestyle is to understand that less is more; material wealth does not equate to happiness. To be a bohemian mother and mentor, you must first embrace this for yourself.Do not put value in owning new things. Avoid buying new items just to be trendy and fashionable. Try to only purchase things for you and your children that you actually need, not want.
Try to enjoy non-materialism in your life, such as embracing friendship and life. Teach your children that friendship is important and longer lasting than just things. Encourage children to meet new kids their age at school or during activities.
Find joy in the everyday. If you struggle with this, try writing down three things that make you happy during the day. This can be an excellent activity to do with your children.;
, As with material wealth, social prestige can be a driving force in our modern society. To pursue a true boho lifestyle, do not try and be the best, brightest, richest, or flashiest.


Be friends with people from different social classes and encourage your children to be the same. Rather, do not put emphasis on how much money people make. That shouldn’t be a determining factor in friendship.
Encourage children to work on their creativity or their own skills rather than trying to be “cool.”

, Freedom of expression is a recognized inalienable right in the United States and is being fought for by the United Nations.. Do not take this right for granted.


Use this right to protest or demonstrate the rights you believe in.
Explore different social, religious, or political parties without fear of legal persecution (at least in the United States).
Get your kids involved in something that interests them. Help them research and pick causes that they want to stand up for.
 Sustainable living is protecting the environment and community in which we live. Being responsible in buying and consumption can go a long way in making a better future for the next generation.There are a few simple things you, and your children, can do to live a more sustainable lifestyle.
 This is a simple way to live sustainably is to recycle glass, paper, and plastic. Many communities have recycling programs. Check with your garbage collection program to see if they have an option for you.Have your kids get involved by separating plastic, glass, and paper. Getting them to establish a habit early in life will help them continue the Boho ideals.
 This will less harmful on the environment and more healthy for you and your children. There are many easy recipes to create natural cleaners with many purposes around the home.For example, baking soda and vinegar make an excellent cleaning agent for carpet, glass, and general grime.
 This reduces waste and is a more renewable way to carry your groceries or purchases.Explain to your children the importance of reusing items. You can get them interested by having them paint on their own reusable bags! Make them unique and fun to use., Drinking from a plastic bottle can be very wasteful and produce a lot of garbage. Buying lunch every day can be very expensive and also produce a lot of garbage. By simply changing to a reusable water bottle and lunchbox, you are reducing your waste and saving money!Create unique lunch boxes for your children. They can help decorate them so that involved with sustainability and artistic expression.
 You and your children can grow your own food and learn respect for mother nature by planting a garden. If you do not have the green space, you can still grow an indoor herb garden.Teaching children to garden is a great way to teach them all sorts of things, from science to life to sustainability to nutrition!

, Modern technology can supplement the bohemian lifestyle well when it comes to sustainability. Renewable energy technology makes it easier than ever before to go green. Electric cars and solar panels are just a few ways you can reduce your carbon footprint and be more bohemian in your home., Cloth diapers are great and renewable. This is a sustainable way and is considered healthier than other alternatives.
 Breastfeeding is the natural way to feed your children. There are many benefits for natural breastfeeding, including creating a healthy immune system for you and your baby., There are many benefits to wearing your child in a baby sling or papoose.It promotes physical development for the child, it is convenient, and it promotes security.
 Find like-minded parents to help you with your quest in bohemian motherhood. Having like-minded parents can help you answer questions, discuss options, and express the bohemian lifestyle!, Do not expect your children to fit into socially constructed roles. Let your children explore hobbies and lifestyles in order to let them find what makes them happy.


This includes letting your children explore gender identity. Do not try and push them into a specific gender or role.
 Giving material gifts to your children just reinforces the pursuit of material goods. For holidays, birthdays, or special occasions, give you children gifts that will help them respect a bohemian lifestyle and enjoy life.Try giving tickets to an event such as a play or a concert.
Take them to a class to introduce a new hobby.
Them them to a park or zoo to learn something new and have fun.
 To uphold the boho lifestyle, you want your children to explore, grow, and learn. However, they might still test your parental authority. It is important to be consistent in your discipline, but not to stifle their growth.Discipline with love by listening and communicating how you want your child to behave.
Remain calm
Never physically harm your child.
 Get involved in your child’s life! Play with them. Explore with them. Take a class with them. This will help strengthen your bond with your child, and encourage your own creativity., There are many skills that have been forgotten or neglected in the modern age. Teach your children these lost arts to make them more productive and appreciative of the life around them. Some of these skills include:Sewing
Crocheting
Gardening
Woodworking
Speaking/Reading a different language
Writing/poetry
Cooking
Hiking/Running/Dancing
Painting
Sculpture
Swimming
Yoga

,


This can literally apply to every part of life. For instance, teaching your children gardening is a physical experiment in cultivating the future.
Teach your children history so they can have an appreciation for the past and they can learn for the future.
 While this is broad advice, it is essential to bohemian motherhood. Encourage your children to take active part in shaping their world. Get them involved in projects that interest them. Then, they, too, can grow up embracing the bohemian lifestyle.

