 Parents can install apps that help prevent teens from texting and driving. These apps can alert you to when your teen uses their phones while driving, and also when the teen turns off the app. Talk to your teen about using these apps on their phone and their purpose. You want to help them learn safe driving habits, not make them think you are spying on them.Cellcontrol is a paid subscription service that provides a device that goes in the car which hooks to the app. The app blocks the phone from receiving or sending texts while the car is moving. It also blocks other features, like the camera.
Drive Safe Mode is another app for parents that helps prevent the driver from sending and receiving texts.
 If you see someone who constantly texts and drives, consider having a conversation with them. You may want to ask them if they are aware of the dangers of texting and driving, or just tell them you feel uncomfortable when they do that while you ride in the car with them.For example, if you have a teen driver, have a family discussion about the dangers of texting and driving. Discuss possible alternatives to help keep your teen off their phone.
If you are in the car with someone who is driving, ask them not to text while you are a passenger. Say, "I am very uncomfortable with texting and driving because it is so dangerous. Will you please not text while you are driving me around?"

, If someone is trying to check their phone while driving, offer to read the text and respond for them. This keeps their eyes on the road, and they still get to send a text they feel is really important.Try saying, "I am happy to text them back so you can concentrate on driving. Just tell me what to say."

, Setting texting and driving rules in your family can help everyone, teen and adult drivers alike. Make it a rule that no one can text while driving, even the adults. This sets a good example for teen drivers and keeps everyone safe.Set consequences for texting and driving. For example, your teen may lose driving privileges if they text and drive.
Don't text and call each other while you know the other person is driving. This reduces the risk that your family will text back.

