 The oven should be heated to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190.56 degrees Celsius). Grease and flour a 13-inch by 9-inch (33-cm by 23-cm) baking pan.;
, Continue beating the ingredients until they are light and fluffy.
 Beat thoroughly with an electric mixer after each addition until the eggs are thoroughly blended in.
 Pour the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a medium to large bowl. Stir them together with a spoon or whisk until they are evenly and completely combined.
 Alternate back and forth between the flour mixture and the buttermilk, adding about 1 cup (225 ml) of the flour at a time and 1/3 cup (83 ml) of the buttermilk each time. Mix thoroughly to combine after each addition before making the next addition. Continue adding and mixing until all of the flour mix and buttermilk has been used.
 Add the remaining three cookie-cake ingredients to the batter and beat or stir thoroughly until the new ingredients are completely incorporated.
 Shake the pan gently to ensure that the batter is evenly distributed. Lightly tap the bottom of the pan against the countertop to cause any air bubbles to rise to the surface and break.
 The cookie cake can turn a light brown, but it should be pulled out if it begins to turn a deeper brown. The color should be what you would expect of a sugar cookie. To test for doneness, insert a dry toothpick or knife into the center of the cookie cake. If it comes out clean, the cake is done.
 Allow the cake to cool in the pan on a wire rack for about 10 minutes or until it is cool enough to touch. Run a knife along the side of the pan to loosen the cake and carefully tip the pan upside-down, allowing the cake to gently fall out and onto the countertop. Set the cake on the wire rack and allow it to cool to room temperature.
 Wrap it in plastic cling wrap and place it in the refrigerator. Allow it to cool for roughly 30 to 60 minutes. The cake will be easier to form into cookie shapes once it is cool.
 After the cookie cake has finished chilling, remove it from the refrigerator and take off the plastic wrap. Use a 3-inch (7.6-cm) round cookie cutter to cut out six large sugar cookie-shaped circles from the cake. Start in the upper-most corner and press the cookie cutter completely down into the cake to cut through it. When cutting out additional rounds, the shapes should be just barely touching. You should be able to cut out two columns with three rows for a total of six "cookies," and over half the length of the cake should still be left.
 Use a 2-inch (5-cm) round cookie cutter and a 1-inch (2.5-cm) cookie cutter. You should be able to cut out three columns with two rows to make six medium cookie rounds, and you should be able to cut out six small rounds from the remaining cake.
 On the top of each round, spread a generous amount of the prepared vanilla frosting.
 Place one large "cookie" on top of another. Press down slightly to make sure that the frosting on the bottom cookie causes the two to stick together. Repeat with the other four large cookie rounds, and follow the same process to double up the medium and small cookie rounds, as well.
 In the center of one of the large cookie stacks, stack one of the medium cookie stacks, pressing lightly to stick them together. In the center of the medium cookie stack, place one of the small cookie stacks, again pressing lightly to stick. Repeat the process with the remaining cookie stacks., To eat the cookie cake, un-stack the layers and eat each one with either your hands or a fork.

