 Basically, a fad is a popular practice or interest followed only for a short time with exaggerated zeal, angelic, or enthusiasm. A fad happens when we cry "Oh, I need that!" even if it's not something that ever crossed our mind to own, have or use before and where it doesn't meet any particular need in our life. Fads happen in all walks of life but the more ephemeral, transitory and prone to needing replacement or updates, the more likely it is to be a fad. Some fad products and services include:


Toys – every parent knows that toys come and go as fast a child's interest. Unfortunately, giving in hits both the hip pocket and along with it, the last chance to train a child about delayed gratification.
Technology – in particular gadgets, which are the equivalent of children's toys. Tech fads include new gadgets, updates galore to existing gadgets and a perpetual insistence that every new object is faster, sleeker and better than the last. And if you've ever given in to buying a gadget now released in white after a run in black, you've participated in a particularly insidious form of a tech fad, wherein the color alone is the fad.
Dance, exercise and diet crazes – they come, they go and they take your money and leave you bewildered. And diet crazes can actually harm your health when taken to extremes of following.
Household items – for centuries we've needed the basics. But now the basics come in a range of sizes, colors, shapes, materials, textures, patterns and moreover, they've spawned a whole lot of new household items we just can't live without. It's a pity we had to build larger houses just to contain them all and forget we even own them.
Clothing and fashion – probably the most obvious source of fads, clothing
Knick-knacks – not quite toys, not quite tech, although sometimes an amalgamation of the two, these things are not the slightest bit useful, these are the things that you don't know what to do with really or why you're doing it but everyone has to have it; puzzles like Rubik's cubes and Newton's cradles, things permanently stuck in glass paperweights and wall items like singing fish fall into this category.
You name it, it's probable some bright spark is thinking about turning it into a fad so they can convince you it's essential to your life right now.;
, Is it the fad or is it your own sense of choice and putting the money in your savings rather than investing in more stuff needing dusting and an eventual garage sale. Save a lot of money on your own by picking the first option.
 Keep your money and your individual thinking. In particular, do not follow crazes and fads which are characterized by high sales figures for the time for products like clothing, toys, movie related products and games. Be aware too that there is pressure to call you an "old fossil" or "late adopter" if you don't leap on the "I want that now" bandwagon at the same time as everyone else. Think "so what, at least my money's in the bank still."

, They're aimed at enticing you and the repetition is deliberate, as it wears you down until you're supposed to feel like the last person alive without one of whatever it is. (Just remember, you're not. And even if you were, that probably makes you the last thinking person left.) Use the mute button with alacrity or just learn to totally switch off. And while you're at it, help your children to do the same and to dissect advertising messages for what they are rather than being serenaded by them.



Avoid buying the brand name fad that is the shown in movies and magazines. Be cool. Be smarter.
Think twice before buying too many items based on some pop singer or movie idol. It's not very individualistic to wear their styles or adopt their ideas. If you really must have their stuff, wait a bit. Most of it ends up in the sales bin within the year anyway, for phases of fame are as fleeting as the fad.
Don't be fooled into being a fan (fanatic) of the singers and movie stars. Their persona on screen and in the media is neither real nor meaningful. And since you don't know them personally, what you're actually adopting is what the marketers want you to buy, not the essence of that person you admire. Remember that what you should admire is the performance, rather than mimicking the performer.
Surf (change) the channels during TV commercials. Or mute and play a card game, surf the internet or read a chapter of a thoughtful book.
Delete email spam while ignoring the promotions.
Block or delete "pop-up ads" using a free ad-blocker that you can download.
 The initial rush and high is strong and heady, so why not take yourself to the cafe and sit down with a coffee and a magazine instead. There, think about it if you must but treat yourself to a break in the giddiness of the want first and the rush just may pass.


Resist impulsive purchases when you desire them. Remind yourself that you're likely to make a mistake by purchasing a randomly advertised item about which you know very little and didn't need in your life until you saw it.
 Talk to your friend or spouse and start to live without the latest advertised fad items and be clear of debts and unnecessary possessions. This approach may be the answer to leading a simplified and more sensible lifestyle, which will ultimately be more fulfilling and less panicked about "keeping yup with the Joneses." Learn to be a minimalist. Buying for necessity and economy is the opposite of buying desires and craving all the new stuff.
 Think about it while you are waiting, and analyze whether it's something you really do need.


A good rule of thumb is to wait 48-72 hours minimum after seeing the item first. During that time, if you can come up with a really good reason for how this item would benefit you and enhance your life, then it has a slightly increased chance of being a good choice. If not, then let it go.
Sleep before considering the idea of buying into a fad. Instead of giving in to a sales gimmick, learn to plan ahead and get some sleep so you can think more clearly. If a retailer is pressuring you, let them know that you need time to reflect. If they insist it's the "last one left", smile sweetly and remember that there is always another one somewhere and if not, well you'll live.
 If you're already in debt, you have an even more pressing need to get your financial house in order and to avoid the gimmicks and fads that lure away your hard won cash. See a budget adviser or a financial planner if you're not sure how to better arrange your finances or how to fix your debt situation.
 At one time, there was shame involved in wearing and using other people's hand-me-downs. In a time of excess though, we've come the realize that such an attitude is not only very old-fashioned but also quite ludicrous when people are swapping barely used for brand new again and again. There are so many ways to get good quality items at a quarter the price they once were, even during the time a fad on the item exists. Some suggestions include:


Shop at thrift stores and garage sales.
Look at eBay and other online auction sites. You'll find people's guilt factor writ large there with their tales of "I bought this but it doesn't fit/no longer suits me/I preferred the next model in white after I only used this one for two weeks".
 Coupons are simply another marketing and advertising strategy to get you to buy new products or to prefer different products. While it is possible to save a lot of money if you're into extreme coupon use, it's also a way of chewing up a lot of your time and causing you to focus on shopping and hoarding before all else. Return to buying only what you need from places you know have a decent price and spend the rest of your time expanding your knowledge and happiness.


Try the store brands of products instead of the advertised ones: buy whatever brand is on special. They are usually made by the same company that manufactured the brand labels anyway, so you save and brand snobbery loses out.
Be proud of needing less and then spend wisely.

