 There are some goals that are more long term than others. If you are unhappy at your job, think about ways you can improve your situation. Think about any other realistic career goals that you have in mind for yourself and try to move toward that goal. If you like the profession you're in but not your specific situation, think about looking for a promotion or changing companies.


If you want to be something different, get educated about what you really want to do, and make steps in the direction you want to go.
This will take time, so go slow and make solid, financially smart decisions. Remember, using the short term goals while you strive for change can ease the time it takes to create long term positive change., No matter your age, you can still learn new things and change your career and life path. If there is something that you have always wanted to study, figure out classes that would work for you. If you need a degree for whatever new career you want, find a degree program that you can do in your current situation.


Trust yourself and your ambition. Make smart, researched decisions about your future and how more education will help you achieve these goals., Take stock of the people in your life, both social, familial, and intimate, and decide if you are satisfied with them. Changing your life for the better also means surrounding yourself with people who share your same desire to strive for a better, more robust and fulfilling life. Take your time, listen to how you feel when you are around the people you are close to. Make decisions that empower you to feel safe, positive, and emotionally healthy. Ask those around you for help with your life changes and see how they react. This may help you decide which of your relationships are healthy and beneficial to your life.


Don't make hasty decisions about the people in your life. Think through each decision and how each relationship makes you feel. If you are trying to change you life, you need people that will support you and empower you to be who you want to be. Focus on cultivating these kinds of relationships., Decide if you are happy living where you do. Is there somewhere else you see yourself living? A change in location can change your life and perspective, but moving to a new place also takes planning, financial responsibility, and determination. It can be a good thing, but it also may upset the balance of your life and change things you weren't expecting.


Get as much information as you can as far as cost of living, job availability, consequences on your life or family, and the stress of moving to a new place before you make a final decision. 