 Are there seats? Is it a festival? Inside or Outside?


General Admission means you will be standing the whole time. There are rarely ever seats at GA shows. So, know that you should wear comfortable shoes. Flip-flops, sandals, open toed shoes, or heels are a huge 'To Don't'. Sneakers are your best shot.
If there are seats, you have the option of wearing something a little less casual, but still, keep it sensible.
If it's a festival, obviously there are no seats. Warped Tour and Bamboozle are perfect examples. You'll be out all day, for hours in the heat and sun. Comfort is key here.
Inside or Outside? If it's inside, it will be stuffy and hot, whether or not there's air conditioning. If it's outside, it depends on your area and the season. Watch the weather channel and decide from there.;
, Pick a pair that your comfortable in. Not too big or too small and be sure to wear a belt. There is a possibility that you could get something spilled on them, or they might even get a rip, so don't wear the $200 pair you just bought that day from Armani Exchange.


If you're going to a show with seats a skirt could be alright, but it's not recommended. If you do wear a skirt in a GA show, you should wear shorts or solid colored under them in case you decided to mosh or go crowd surfing. Only wear a skirt (or dress) if you're absolutely sure it won't fly up easily.
If it's an outside show, shorts are also a good option. Again, comfort is key. Don't wear them too short or even too loose. You want to look fashionable, but no one wants to be the girl who gets called a groupie just because of what she's wearing.
 It's going to be the most noticed part of your outfit. It's how you declare who you are at a show. It's important to know the weather if it's an outside show when choosing your outfit. But before choosing, keep one crucial rule in mind...



Do not wear the tee shirt of the band you are going to see! We know you like the band, obviously, because you're at the show. So don't be "that guy". The only exception to this rule is wearing the general tour dates shirt for that tour or a homemade shirt for one of the bands with lyrics or a song title on it. Most bands, especially smaller bands, really appreciate a fan taking time out of their day to make something for them and sometimes like to sign the shirts. So, if you're going to do this, make it good! Be creative and take your time, and have a group of friends all make shirts with you to wear to the show.
If it's outside and likely to be cold: Obviously don't wear a tank top. Layering can be cute and helpful if you know how to do it. Also a cute t-shirt under a sweatshirt. Or a sweater. But don't dress too warm because once you get there, you will have to keep it on the whole time (unless you want it to get stolen, then go ahead and take it off).
If it's going to be warm: Wear a t-shirt. The t-shirt could be from a different band than you're seeing, from a movie, or have some sort of quote on it. Halters are bad news if it's GA because there are tons of boys who will think about 'accidentally' pulling the top down. Just prevent the issue before it starts. Tanks could be alright, as long as they're not going to tear or fall off easily. Wear sturdy clothes.
If it's inside: Again, a t-shirt. Don't wear anything too heavy because it gets hot quick in the room and you don't want to get over-heated and pass out. Tank tops are okay, but again, stay away from halters.
Simple Rules for picking your shirt: Choose something that you enjoy wearing, something comfortable, but also something that you won't mind getting a little dirty in. Your clothes will get sweaty. And if you're a mosher or don't mind getting unnaturally close to people to get a good view, someone will spill something on you. It could also get ripped and/or stretched if you plan on moshing or crowd surfing.

Don't wear anything worth more than about $10. It can get stolen, broken, or lost.
No scarves, unless it's outside and cold then, of course you need something to keep you warm. Otherwise, it will get hot and itchy and in your way.
If you do wear rings, keep them simple and without anything dangling off or anything large.
If you want to wear a necklace, wear either a choker or something that will stay in place. Nothing extremely long, layered, or thick. Not only can it get broken or stolen, it could smack someone in the face (or you) and cause an injury. Also, don't wear anything expensive (i.e. real stones or something that was a gift).
Purses generally are going to be a hassle. Of course, if you're a girl you're going to need certain items(i.e. feminine products, make-up, deodorant). Unless you absolutely must have a bag with you, bring your phone, money, and lip balm in a pocket. If you have to bring one, it's recommended to have something which will function as an across-the-body bag with a long strap and something that is relatively substantial. Make sure it's something that you won't mind possibly getting something spilled on or scraped.
: Shoes are obviously important. You want to keep your feet protected and comfortable for hours.


Never, ever wear heels. They are not comfortable and they are not functional, in fact, they are a bit of a safety hazard. The only time it's even remotely okay to wear heels is if your 100% sure you're going to be seated the whole time. Even then, you don't want to spend the whole night with blisters on your feet and in pain.
Flip-flops are another bad idea. They can fall off and the only protection that's provided is that you're not standing directly on the floor. Your feet will get stepped on, regardless of your shoes, so give yourself a little protection. Also, it's just peace of mind to know that your shoes aren't going to fall off during the show, especially if it's GA.
Sneakers are your guaranteed choice. Your feet will be protected, the shoes will not fall off, and you'll look great while you're at the show. Great brands to choose from (the ones that most likely the bands will be wearing as well) are Vans, Converse, Nikes, Supras, and others.
Boots are also a choice, but not so much recommended. They can get uncomfortable after a while and can injure people if the shoes heavy soled.

