 Check with the human resources department to ensure that all appropriate contracts and paperwork have been signed. If the hiring process is less formal, verify with the candidate that he has accepted the terms of employment.;
, After hiring someone else for the position, notify rejected candidates within 2 days after the hiring decision has been made.


Draft notification of rejection letters as soon as confirmation of the new hire has been made. These letters should be sent out within 2 days, if possible.
Attain all signatures or approval for rejection materials as soon as possible. The mailing time frame may have to be extended if getting approval and signatures for rejection letters is difficult due to personnel schedules or other issues.
 Many candidates appreciate being notified as soon as possible so they can continue their job searches. Your rejection phone call should be concise and brief.



Get straight to the point. Address the candidate's rejection for the job opening within the first or second paragraphs.
Thank the candidate for their time. Graciously let the candidate know you appreciated the time spent preparing their resume and application and any time spent interviewing.
Include personalization. Write within the letter information pertinent to the candidate, such as a comment during the interview or specific credentials.
Exercise respect within the letter. Whether qualified or not, a candidate should be treated with respect by you and your company.
Direct the applicant to your company's website for future job opportunities. Invite the candidate to apply in the future.
Establish or reinforce your company's good reputation through the letter. It is important to maintain the integrity of the company through the hiring process.
Consider sending the letter via email. If cost is an issue, distributing the letter electronically can save your company mailing costs. Additionally, candidates will receive the e-mail sooner than a letter sent through the mail.
 Avoid discussing details about the person you've hired for the position or specific details about the candidate or the candidate's qualifications. Be vague and explain that the individual hired had more suitable qualifications or experience.

