 Review the consular services page there for the latest requirements. The website is a mixture of English and Spanish, but that page is in English.
 The main office is in Washington, D.C., but if you live elsewhere in the U.S., you will probably send your application to one of the other branches., Verify that the address is current before you mail your passport, and check that the location you have chosen accepts visa applications (the honorary consulates may not). Phoning the consulate is also helpful if you have any questions or difficulties with the process, and to verify that the process you are following is current and correct.
Be prepared for a mixture of Spanish and English. The consulate in the United States is staffed by people who live in the United States, but they also serve a population that speaks Spanish. If you ask and are patient, you can most likely reach somebody who speaks either Spanish or English. It may help, however, to read the tips in How to Communicate with a Non Native English Speaker.
 There is no set time frame or deadline listed, but your application will need a few days to get to the consulate by mail, a few days to be processed, and a few more days be sent back to you. The visa pictured in this article took just over two weeks to be returned after it was mailed, but your experience may vary, and delays can certainly happen.
If time is short, you can save some time by sending the application overnight or by courier, and by including an overnight return envelope or mailer. Contact the consulate to ask how long the application will take and whether it can be expedited.
 This is a yellow card, dated and signed/stamped by the clinic that vaccinated you. Although the western parts of Bolivia, such as La Paz and Sucre, are not considered to be at risk for yellow fever,the government of Bolivia requires the vaccination for all travelers over one year of age in order to obtain a visa. The CDC maintains a directory of yellow fever vaccination clinics.It may be wise to phone ahead and make sure your chosen clinic will have an appointment and a vaccine in stock when you arrive.
Mail the immunization certificate with your application. It will be returned to you with your passport and visa. Other parts of the paperwork will be retained by the consulate.


Obtain a current passport photograph, and enclose it. Your passport already has a photograph, so this copy will not be returned to you; it will be retained for the consulate's records.
Many businesses will take and develop passport photos for a fee, or you can make your own.
Your face should take up about 80% of the area of the photo., A printout of an electronic ticket or itinerary from an airline website will suffice., This document may be in Spanish. Things that would be helpful to state include:
your name
the name, address, and phone number of the hotel or home where you will stay
the dates when you will be staying
the names of the people inviting you and their relationship to you, if you are staying with friends or relatives.
 The form is available from the website, at the consulate office or by mail, if you request it.
Be certain to sign the form.
 You may black out account numbers., Money orders can be purchased at your local United States post office with cash, debit card, or traveler's check. They can be replaced if lost, stolen, or damaged. The money order itself costs an additional $1.10. Retain your receipt.

The fee may also be paid in cash or by direct deposit, but it is extremely unwise to mail cash.
 Because you are mailing your passport, you may wish to send the application by certified mail or another service that you can track., This may be ordinary, first class postage, or it may be the special or expedited service of your choice. Be sure to take the weight into account; it will be more than one ounce.,