 Even if your written product looks perfect, you’ll likely find that you want to make changes when you hear the words read out loud. As you read, take notes that indicate words or phrases you may want to add or delete. Use symbols to indicate where you want to take pauses.If your speech is original you can, of course, change the wording as much as you’d like. If it’s someone else’s work, you’ll need to keep the wording the same. However, you can still change the piece dramatically by choosing where to pause and how to emotionally emphasize certain words and phrases.
Use your first read-through to determine if your speech is too long or short. If it’s substantially more than ten minutes long, you might need to choose a different speech or cut large portions of it out. If it’s only a little bit longer than ten minutes, you might be able to use cut it down by speaking faster or eliminating pauses.
Keep reading your speech and taking notes until you feel comfortable with the material and have a good idea of how you want your speech to look and sound.
 Performing a speech is about more than just words. How you move your body on the stage can have as much impact on the audience as the words you say. Choose movements that emphasize the emotional state of your character or reflect the point you’re trying to get across.If your category is Policy Debate, you might emphasize a point by forming a circle with your hands or shaking your fist.
If your category is Duo Interpretation, find places in the speech when you and your partner will look at each or make physical contact.
 Tape your finalized speech, with blocking, to a wall. Practice performing your speech and only turn to the written speech when you need a reminder. This process will help you memorize the speech in the context of a performance. If you just sit down and try to memorize the words you might find that you forget them when you actually stand up to perform your speech.You should be familiar enough with your speech at this point that memorization will be like an afterthought.
If your category is one of the debate formats, you should still try to memorize your opening and closing, as well as any points that you’re sure will be brought up at the debate.
 Once you have your speech memorized and you’re able to perform it on your own with few mistakes, ask family members or friends to watch your performance. Having an audience will change how your perform your speech, so it’s important to practice this before you get on stage for your audition.Start out in an informal setting such as your living room. This will help you feel comfortable but still give you the feel for performing in front of an audience.
As you get closer to your audition, try to recreate the setting of the audition space when you perform for family and friends. If you can practice in the auditorium where you’ll be auditioning, do so. The closer your practice setting is to your audition setting, the more comfortable you’ll feel when you’re finally on stage.

