 There are a variety of snowshoes made to handle different types of terrain and outdoor activities. One type does not suit all, so you’ll want to know what you intend to do in the shoes.Recreational hiking. This is the most common use for snowshoes. Recreational shoes are best used on flat ground or lightly rolling hills. These will be simpler designs and won’t need traction that’s as strong. They will probably be the cheapest snowshoes you can buy.
Backcountry hiking. These are for people who like to go off the regular trails, and will face steep and icy terrain, probably will deep snow. These will have stronger traction and better bindings to hold larger winter boots.
Running. An increasingly popular winter exercise, running snowshoes are designed for flat terrain, usually with more tightly packed snow. These will be shorter and narrower that other snowshoes. That makes it easier to keep a more natural running stride.;
, Make sure you have the proper boots for snowshoeing. The specific boots you wear will depend on what kind of snowshoeing you want to do. That being said, there are certain types that are good for outdoor activities.Waterproof hiking boots. These are more comfortable and lightweight, while the waterproofing is important given you will be trekking through snow. Hiking boots are more versatile based on the terrain, and provide greater support. On the downside, the exterior will get soaked, and can get into the binding straps.
Winter boots. These will be warm and insulated. One of your concerns while snowshoeing will be flotation, walking on top of the snow instead of sinking into it. Winter boots have high ankles for deep snow, so if you are not expecting much flotation, they are more appropriate. These boots are bulkier, and you won’t want to wear them all day long.
Mountaineering boots. If you like to go off-trail, or really difficult terrain, these boots are insulated and warm, and will provide additional traction with the snowshoe. These tend to be very stiff and harder to move around it, plus they are generally more expensive.
 Put on all the gear you intend to wear while snowshoeing to get an accurate number. This includes your boots, jacket, packs, and any other items you will carry with you. Your weight is the most important factor in determining the size of shoe you need to buy.


Your weight will put you in a range of options for proper shoe size, and those ranges can overlap. When looking at sizes, consider that smaller shoes will provide better traction on steep slopes and wet snow, while the larger sizes offer more weight distribution for better flotation.There are some rough weight ranges you can use to determine the best lengths, though individual manufacturers will have greater specification based on the design of their shoes.100 to 140 pounds, 20 to 22 inches long
140 to 180 pounds, 25 to 26 inches
200 to 220 pounds, 30 inches
240 to 280 pounds, 35 to 36 inches



, Good snowshoes are sturdy pieces of equipment, and you don’t want to face too much sticker shock. Be prepared to spend between $100 and $300 on your shoes, depending on the quality, use, and manufacturer.It is not a good idea to buy cheap. Not only will you end up replacing the snowshoes quickly, but the frustration from using a bad pair of shoes can hurt your interest in future snowshoeing.
 This is a great way to get a feel for what works best for your needs. Perhaps do this one snow season and then head out at the end of the season to grab some snowshoes at a great bargain which you can use the next season!, There are snowshoes designed for kids, to take their smaller size into account. If your kids want to come snowshoeing with you, look for kids' sizes so the shoes aren't too big or ungainly for them to walk comfortably.One nice thing about snowshoes is that their bindings are generally one-size fits all. As long as the shoe is appropriate for your child's weight, the bindings will fit around their boots as he or she continues to grow.
Snowshoes can be a big purchase, and kids can grow quickly. Unless you plan on snowshoeing often with your kids, you are probably better off renting from a resort or outdoor gear store.
 Snowshoes designs can be different for men and women. It is important that you start searching for shoes that fit your particular gender.


Women’s shoes are designed for smaller feet and a narrow stride. Petite women in particular will benefit from women’s shoes., The first thing you will notice is the frame, the basic structure of the snowshoe. There are a few types of common frames in use, and the best one for you will depend on the type of terrain you expect to encounter.Tubular. This is the more traditional design. It won’t offer as much traction, and is better for softer surfaces like the kind seen in recreational snowshoes, or in deep powder.
Flat stock. A newer frame, this is a sturdier design that offers greater traction on steeper or icier surfaces.
Plastic decking. Very lightweight frames, usually made from plastic rather than aluminum or other types of metal. These are a little smaller, so they can help save space on a backcountry hut trip. They are best used when flotation is less important.
 Grip is provided by crampons, the teeth underneath the shoe that provide traction. When you are looking at shoes, flip them over to see where the grips are. Most will have two prongs at the toe. Backcountry snowshoes will also include a row of teeth under the heel that gives better traction doing downhill., If you want greater flexibility to either move off-trail and into deeper snow, or are carrying more weight than usual, you may want to purchase an add-on tail to provide extra length. This gives better weight distribution and better flotation., The way your shoes bind to your feet is probably the most important decision you will make when choosing snowshoes. All snowshoe straps cross over the top of your foot and behind your heel. The heel should be free to move up and down to help you walk. When you choose the bindings, you need to look for the type of material used on the straps and the number of straps on the shoes.The most common type of straps are rubber, which won’t stretch as much in cold or wet weather. Beginner shoes will have nylon straps, which are more lightweight and easily adjustable. You can’t switch out strap types, so choose wisely.The number of straps on your shoes will depend on a variety of factors including the size, type of strap, purpose, and manufacturer. In general, the more straps on your shoes, the greater range of adjustability and support you have.
When you strap in, check for any pressure points against your feet. There should not be any pressure or tightness. This isn’t something you can break in, and will probably get worse as you continue to use the shoes. If you feel tightness, look for different bindings., When you try on snowshoes, you’ll want to make sure they fit properly. If possible, try them out on snow. If you are at the store, ask if they have a good place for you to try them on. Dirt or hard surfaces may damage the crampons, so be careful.Open all the buckles and loosen all the adjustment points on the bindings. Make sure there are no obstructions like snow, dirt, or other debris between your foot and the binding bed.
Attach the binding straps. Start with the front strap, over your toes, then do the one around your heel. After those two are done, holding your foot in place, attach the remaining straps.
Check the tightness of the straps by lifting your foot and taking a few steps. The bindings should be secure, but still allow some freedom of movement.
Check for any gaps between the bindings and your boots. You want the straps done as tightly to your boots as possible to prevent snow and other debris from getting in. This can lead to wet boots, or create pressure points.
 Some will feel better than others and you won't know this until you test a range of them. Walk around in the snowshoes with your boots and socks on to see how they feel on you.
 You will probably need other gear to go along with your shoes, especially snowshoeing poles to help you walk, and a snowshoe bag for carrying the shoes or other gear.


Many retailers will off these items with the shoes as a package deal. This can be useful for a beginner. If you are a more experienced hiker looking for a backcountry experience, you’ll probably need specialized equipment that can handle difficult terrain.