 A short glass, like a highball glass, will make your drink look crowded. The mojito is meant to have lots of ice and liquid, since it's a summer cooler you're supposed to sip on and savor.A small glass may throw off the proportions of the drink as well.









The simple syrup will make your drink sweet all the way through, as sugar won't dissolve completely in cold liquids. You can skip the simple syrup and just go with the granulated sugar, just be aware it might all sit at the bottom of your glass.Turbinado sugar has a slight molasses flavor some people really like, but the grains are too big to dissolve in a cold drink. If you want to use it, you'll have to grind it in a spice or coffee grinder first.
 of fresh lime juice. If you don't get a full ounce from one lime, add more by juicing the second lime. To make sure you get as much juice as possible, place the lime on the counter and roll it underneath the palm of your hand, pressing down slightly. This will soften the lime and make it easier to squeeze.Cut the lime in half and place one half in an open hinged hand-held lemon or lime squeezer. The flat part of the lime should be facing the round bottom of the inner cup. There should be little holes on the bottom of the cup for the juice to strain through.Hold the squeezer over a bowl or glass.
Close the squeezer, bringing the top cup down on the lime.
Squeeze the arms of the juicer together. As the top cup presses down on the lime, it will turn it inside-out and the juice the lime., Let the ingredients sit for a few minutes so their flavors can intermingle and give it a little stir. If your lime juice is room-temperature, the sugar may begin to dissolve into the liquid.









If you want to deviate from the classic Mojito, now is the time! Try adding apple juice, pink grapefruit juice, lemonade, strawberry puree, or other fruit juices. You might come up with some really surprising and delicious flavor combinations!, There's debate over whether to use crushed ice or ice cubes, so just use whatever you want. This is your drink, after all.









Crushed ice will cool your drink faster, but it also means it will melt faster.Make ice cubes with muddled leaves of mint frozen inside, so as the ice cubes melt, the mint flavor seeps into your drink.
 You have an opportunity to twist the recipe again and add ginger ale or lemon-lime soda instead of club soda. You'll get the same fizz but a slightly different flavor.








Garnish your drink with a leftover sprig of mint or a lime wedge or wheel, or even a swizzle-stick of rock candy.If the Mojito is too tart, add the extra 1 teaspoon of sugar or more simple syrup and stir.

