 Contact the college admissions office and request a date and time to tour the campus.If you have already had a campus tour, perhaps before deciding to enroll, there’s no harm in doing another. This tour would be more helpful in really getting to know the area and asking more specific questions of the staff, such as the best routes to take from the dorms or how long it takes to get to the cafeteria from the library.;
, Once you’ve got the basics down from a formal campus tour, get a campus map. You can request one from the admissions office or download one from your school’s main website. On the college’s homepage, locate the search bar; it’s usually at the top of the page. Inside the search bar, type the word “map.” The search result should pull up a link to the campus map., When you have a free day, preferably before classes start, walk around campus and get to know the buildings and landmarks. Take a separate notebook to make notes of where all the main buildings are, such as the library, student common area, gym and cafeteria. These places will generally have a map of the campus located inside that can assist you in finding your way in the event you get lost.
 When you have your class schedule, take time to find each class and find the best path to get to and from each one. Note how long each route will take so you know how to prepare for each day.


Campus maps are generally easy to read and navigate. They will display a guide on what symbols stand for, such as buildings and paths, and generally provide pictures.For colleges or universities that have multiple campuses, search for the specific campus and then search for “map” in the search box. For example, Florida International University has two main campuses: The Modesto Maidique Campus and The Biscayne Bay Campus. A quick google search can provide the main page for each campus and there a quick search for the campus map should display exactly what you need.
 Practice makes perfect. After you have done your initial exploration and walk around notating key buildings and landmarks, retrace your steps back to your original spot, such as your dorm or from the parking lot. This will help with committing the buildings and paths to memory as well as fill in any gaps or holes you may have had on the initial journey.
 In the event you get lost, (hey, maps can be tricky), ask someone for directions. Most people on a college campus are friendly and always willing to point you in the right direction if you ask for assistance.

