 Acknowledge the many hardships you have undoubtedly overcome throughout your life. This is evidence of your strength and resilience. You have a pretty impressive track record of surviving. Not just you, but those around you have displayed amazing resilience. In fact, surviving past hardship is a pretty good indicator of your ability to survive future hardship. The fact most people endure setbacks to later thrive may be an indication that struggle fortifies individuals. If you are spiritual, you may even think of obstacles as being placed in your way to help strengthen you. For some believing in a higher power or an intervening force reduces anxiety and provides meaning.Spirituality does not have to be experienced through religion. Meditation, ritual, and creative expressions can all help you find meaning and comfort., Sometimes we struggle to find value or meaning in bleak circumstances. If you are finding it difficult, ask for help. Spiritual guides can help you identify strengths and resources, as well as provide comfort. Your guide doesn't need to be religious in nature, but if you do adhere to a particular religion, your church is the best place to start your search for a guide. If you don't happen to be religious, consider those involved in meditative practices, like yoga, to seek guidance.If you don't feel comfortable approaching new people to ask for guidance, try asking someone you respect for guidance. Teachers and older relatives are often great sources of guidance.
 What seems meaningless on the scale of individuals becomes more powerful in environment of the community. Communing with other will provide an opportunity for your efforts and contributions to be acknowledged. It also creates opportunity for your feelings and experiences to be validated, contributing to a greater sense of meaning.


While religious activities are natural opportunities for engaging in a community, you may not feel comfortable expressing yourself in the religious setting you grew up in. You might consider finding a different congregation to increase your level of comfort, or joining a nonreligious group.Settings where you feel judged may interfere with your ability to create meaning.

