

The formal wedding cakes we know today have their origins in 17th century England, where heavy fruitcakes were served at the wedding to symbolize fertility. But today, many people choose vanilla, lemon, chocolate or carrot cakes.;
,

The main difference between formal wedding cakes and other types of wedding cakes is usually in the style. Formal wedding cakes are elegant and, though they are traditionally eye-catchers, remain within the bounds of traditional wedding colors and decorative styles. Novelty cakes with exceptional forms and colors such as cakes made to look like the newlyweds faces, desert islands, or castles, aren't considered to be formal, though they can be appealing and fun.
If the wedding reception is going to be held in a hall with a high ceiling or a domed ceiling, the cake should be multi-tiered to make it higher and to complement the space.
Traditionally, formal wedding cakes are round, though square is also accepted for formal occasions. They are structured by adding paste, fondant, meringue or sugar decorations such as patterns, beads, flowers, birds, or ribbons.
White or ivory are the most traditional colors used for the icing or frosting on a wedding cake. However, formal colors can include brown, light blue, primrose yellow, and pink as well. Many couples choose the color of the cake to match the bride's gown, or the theme colors of the wedding.
Look at photos of formal wedding cakes to get an idea of the type of decorations that are possible.
 Ask to see some photos of their formal wedding cakes and taste some of their samples. If you like their work, discuss whether they can make a formal wedding cake to your specifications.

Tell your baker how many guests will be attending the wedding. This will define the size of the cake, as well as how many tiers it should have.
Make sure the price of your wedding cake fits your budget. If it's too expensive, get some quotes from other wedding bakers, or ask how you can adjust your current order to make it more affordable.
 Any arrangements, such as floral arrangements, should complement the cake, not draw attention away from it. Be careful with candles, as they can cause the frosting on the cake to melt.