 One of the most common excuses heard for why an owner isn’t picking up after their dog is that they forgot to bring a bag. A simple solution is to offer them one. Make sure you carry poop bags with you at the dog park or on a walk around your neighborhood and offer them to people who neglect to pick up after their pup.


If you see someone failing to pick up after their pet try saying something like this: “I notice you didn’t pick up after your dog. Do you need a bag? I’ve got plenty and I’ve forgotten one before so I’m happy to give you some!” Chances are, the person will accept your offer and pick up their dog’s waste., Making sure bags are available 24/7 can also help with this problem. If your neighborhood or local dog park does not have bag dispensers, contact your local officials to suggest they be added.When contacting your local officials, calling their office may be more effective than writing a letter or email. Speaking in person about an issue at a community meeting can also be very effective.
Whichever method you use, make sure you are polite, respectful, and provide suggestions on how to fix the issue instead of just complaining. Also, avoid sending a pre-written mass letter or email. These will most likely get a cookie-cutter response without receiving much attention. Finally, do your best to speak to someone specific. Research your officials and ask to speak to the person most likely to take action.Be prepared to support your request with information about the health and environmental risks dog waste can have. This will make your argument much more convincing and, hopefully, you’ll receive quicker action.
 In addition to having bags readily available, garbage cans need to be easily accessible as well. If they aren’t available in public places, like dog parks, place a call to your county’s waste department and suggest garbage cans be added. People will be more likely to pick up after their dog if they know they’ll be able to quickly dispose of the bag of waste.


Also, ensure these garbage cans are placed in the most heavily trafficked areas. The more convenient they are to people, the more likely they are to get used., Some people may not be physically able to pick up after their dog using a bag. They may have back problems that prevent them from being able to bend down, or have a particularly sensitive gag reflex. If you run into someone facing these problems, suggest they use an alternative method. There are several types of devices made for these issues:


The most common device is a stick with a bag attached to the end. You simply scoop the waste into the bag from a standing position, tie the bag, and dispose of it.
There are also bag-less products that suck the waste up through a tube. When you’re ready to dispose of your dog’s poop with these devices, you just press a button on the device and release the waste into a garbage can.
For those who don’t like to carry a poop bag around, there are products that allow you to clip to your dog’s waste bag to its leash until you find a garbage can. Some of these products include the Poopy Carrier, The H-Clip, and The Fifth Paw. You can also make your own carrier by attaching the bag to the leash with a binder clip.