 The ornament can be any shape or size you want, but it needs to be clear. Set the cap aside into a safe place where you won't lose it.;
, Stick a funnel into the neck of the ornament. Pour a little bit of your floor polish into the ornament. If you want to make a half-glitter, half-clear ornament, use only a tiny amount of floor polish or polycrylic; a little bit goes a long way.


Floor polish is the cheapest and easiest option, but the glitter may fall off over time. The ornament also won't be as sparkly as polycrylic.Polycrylic is trickier to use, but it offers a permanent hold and helps bring out the colors of the glitter.Can't find floor polish or polycrylic? Try a decoupage glue, such as Mod Podge.You will have to dilute it with some water to get creamy consistency like half-and-half., You can coat the entire ornament, or you can partway to create a half-glitter, half-clear ornament.If you are creating a full-glitter ornament, make sure that there are no bare patches.
 Use the funnel again, if you need to. If you are doing a half-glitter, half-clear ornament, keep swirling it to distribute the floor polish or polyacrylic. You don't want it to pool at the bottom of your ornament, but if you pour it out, you might get streaks.
 Set the ornament upside down on a sheet of wax paper or aluminum foil. Leave it for 1 to 2 minutes so that the excess liquid can drain out. If you don't do this, the excess polycrylic will drip back into the ornament and pool at the bottom.If you used floor polish, you can skip this and move on to the next step.Be careful if you created a half-glitter, half-clear ornament. The liquid may create streaks on the clear part.
 Wash your old funnel or get out a clean one. Stick it into the neck of the ornament. Pour some glitter into the ornament. Plan on using about a spoonful of glitter. You can use any type of glitter you want, but the extra-fine kind used in scrapbooking will work the best.


Don't have another funnel? Roll some paper into a cone, and stick it into the neck of your ornament instead., Hold the ornament in your palm and cover the opening with your finger. Shake the ornament vigorously to distribute the glitter. If there are too many patches, you may need to add more glitter.
 Turn the ornament upside down over the glitter container. Tap it gently to help knock out the excess glitter.
 It will need at least 6 hours to dry, but it would be better if you left it overnight. Place the ornament upside down into a paper or plastic cup.Once the ornament is dry, you can pop the cap back onto it.
 Use a Silhouette (or similar) machine to cut your initials or a Christmas greeting out of solid colored scrapbooking vinyl. Use transfer paper to transfer the letters to your ornament.


You can use matte, glossy, or metallic scrapbooking vinyl.
If you don't have a Silhouette-type machine, you can use the letters or words out using a craft blade. Be sure to cut through both the paper and vinyl.