 Modeling agencies are interested in three things -- face, body, and confidence. If you can cover these in your pictures, you'll give them the full impression of you as a model.


Your face structure and shape.
Your physique (muscles etc.) and how your body is built.
If you got "it". You have to be self-confident and able to show it. Have no fear of showing your body and have the right look in your eyes.
 If you don't want to model swimwear, then don't wear a swimsuit! If your best feature is your body, don't wear clothes that cover everything up! There are tons of types of modeling out there, so think about what you want to do and are best suited for, then dress accordingly. Have multiple outfits so that you can capture many looks when shooting easily.


The fit of your clothing is the most important thing. If a shirt is really cool, but a size too big, don't wear it -- you'll lose too much body definition.
When in doubt, going one size smaller than normal is usually your best bet, as it stays trim and form-fitting.
Communicate with your photographer ahead of time if they want any particular looks, outfits, or ideas.
 A model must exude sexuality and confidence, no matter what their position. While the rules of good posture still apply to models -- back straight, chin up, shoulders back, hips over ankles-- they may not always apply based on the pose you have to hold.


Take a deep breath and relax your muscles. Don't forget to focus on the muscles around your eyes, mouth, and jaw, which make you look tense when clenched.
Keep your shoulders back. This naturally expands your chest, making you look bigger and more manly.
Avoid looking straight at the camera, which often makes your jawline disappear., A model lives in front of the camera, so now is not the time to be shy. Remember to capture a range of emotions while shooting, even if you don't plan on using them all. A modeling portfolio needs to capture a range of "characters" that could be fit into any type of ad, so don't pick one look and stick with it exclusively. Have some fun and start making faces. Some to consider include:


A close-mouthed, serious look
Open and close-mouthed smiles
Laughter
Anger, intensity, or fierceness
Thoughtful or pensive
Romantic or sensual., Once you're on camera, act like the thing is shooting pictures every single second. Photographers often take 3-4 shots a second, and if you are always cracking a sheepish smile, looking away, or changing poses, you'll make it impossible to get a good shot. Make your shots slow and deliberate, and try not to "break" because you feel self-conscience or embarrassed.


Remember -- the point isn't to get 100 good pictures, it is to get 10-12 really great ones. So be patient and take your time with each pose, face, or shot., If you have an idea for a pose or a shot, let the photographer know. But you should also trust them and let them guide you -- they are the ones with the lens, after all. Let them, for lack of better word, "model" you. When reviewing photos, always temper any criticism with positivity or helpful suggestions. Remember that most models are their own worst critic, and complaining that you "look terrible" or "ugly" in all of the shots is a subtle insult to your photographer, as well. It makes it much less likely they'll really sacrifice a lot more energy to help get better photos.If you review the photos after the shoot and don't like any, say something! You've got to work together to find a few you like.
 You can even have a few less if it means cutting a few of questionable quality. You do not need to send a ton of pictures to impressive someone at an agency, especially if you're just getting started and haven't gotten any work yet. Instead, you need to focus on quality -- even two incredible shots (one of your head, one of your body) are really all you need to convince someone.


If a shot is on the fence, don't include it. Only submit the very best you have if you want the best jobs.