 Many loom boards come fully assembled, while others require you to place the pegs into their stands. For this design, you’ll only be using two pegs. If you’re setting up your loom board, place these pegs near the edge of the board rather than in the middle to make weaving easier., Fishtail bracelets can feature an assortment of colors and patterns.If this is your first effort making one, choose two complimentary colors. Later, you can graduate to three or even more colors.If using two colors, create the simplest pattern by alternating your colors one after the other. For example, use a red band, then a white band, then red, then white, etc.
Once you've mastered the fishtail, you can create bracelets with any colors that you like.You can even create a rainbow-colored] fishtail.The choice is yours.
 Twist your Color 1 base loom and place each loop on adjacent pegs.
 These two don’t need to be twisted into a figure eight, simply wrap a Color 2 band and another Color 1 band around the pegs in two single circles above your original loom.
 Pull it up over the peg so that it loops over the top two bands. Do the same with the left side of your bottom loom., Add a Color 2 band above the others on the pegs. Again, it should be wrapped around normally—not in a figure eight. Take your hook and grab the right side of your bottom band. Lift it over your peg and place it in between the pegs. Do the same with the left side of your bottom band. You’ll now have two fishtail patterns.You always want to have three bands wrapped around your pegs before unhooking any of them.
 As you begin to add more and more bands, you’ll need to repeatedly pull your bottom fishtail towards you so that you make room to add more bands to the pegs., You can easily test this by wrapping it around your wrist while the pegs hold onto the end. Make sure you’re not pulling it to stretch it around your wrist, or it will be too tight when you try to wear it after it’s done.


Most fishtail bracelets typically require at least 25 looms.
 Pinch your last fishtail with your thumb and forefinger and remove the looped bands from the pegs. Be sure to pinch the end of the bracelet tightly or you could lose your pattern., You will no longer need the two bands that were holding onto your pegs. Still pinching the last fishtail, slide these bands out from between your fingers., Now that you’ve removed the two extra bands, you’ll notice that your last fishtailed-loom has excess space. Take a C-clip and hook it over this elastic. Be sure to hook both sides into the clip. Now hook your original elastic onto the other side of the C-clip. Your fishtail bracelet is ready to wear.


If you prefer, you can also finish the bracelet with an S-clip.