 The coffee will help exfoliate your skin and leave it feeling soft and smooth. The caffeine in the coffee will may also help tighten your skin and reduce the appearance of cellulite.The coffee does not have to be freshly-ground. You can even use leftover grounds from your morning coffee.;
, The sugar will help further exfoliate your skin. For something even more exfoliating, you can use raw cane or palm sugar.


For an even more exfoliating scrub, use sea salt instead., If you can't find any, you can use other types of food-grade oil, such as almond oil or grape seed oil.If you are using coconut oil, melt it in the microwave first, then let it cool slightly.
 You will need ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract and/or 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon. These are not completely necessary, but they will make your scrub smell delightful, just like a latte!, Ideally, the scrub should feel like wet sand. If it is too dry for your liking, add a little bit more oil. If it is too wet for your liking, add a little bit more sugar.
 The oil, sugar, and coffee may separate over time. If this happens, simply stir the scrub up using a spoon or your finger. The scrub should last up to two months. If it does start to smell or look strange before then, throw it out and make a new one.


If you used coconut oil to make your scrub, store it at room temperature so that the coconut oil doesn't harden too much.
Use a glass jar, if you can. The oil in the scrub may degrade plastic over time; glass will last much longer.
If you wish to give the scrub away as a gift, consider sticking a personalized label onto the lid., Scoop up 1 to 2 tablespoons of the scrub into the palm of your hand. Gently massage the scrub into your skin for 45 to 60 seconds using circular motions. Rinse the scrub off when you are done.There may be some oily residue on your skin afterwards. You can wash it off with soap, or you can leave it to help moisturize your skin.
Consider buffing your skin with a dry brush first. This will exfoliate your skin and stimulate blood flow. It will make the scrub even more effective when you use it!