 -- Jesus said that you may know the "season" of His return.There are always reasons to be positive, ie: we are part of the Father's plan, and we are promised blessings through Jesus Christ the Lord.;
,, (It's not just that. Wars are not new.) There is much more of other things.
Nations will be rising in wars among nations at the end in gruesome wars.



Recognize events in the earth and the heavens:

Multitudes will die in starvation due to famines such as drought and other changes in weather.
Many will die in earthquakes in a diverse variety of places.
There will be changes in the effect of the sun, moon, stars.




Expect false prophets coming in Jesus' name:

Many people will be deceived by false prophets (including people who set a fictitious -- guessing the -- date for the end).
False prophets will or may seem to perform signs and wonders.



Be looking for the following events among groups of individuals:

Expect persecution of believers of the Gospel of Jesus Christ to shake believers if possible.
People's love of God decreasing (will grow cold) and becoming worse and worse.



Be aware of this encouragement: we are told to comfort one another as believers as you see the end approaching and the gospel is being preached to the whole world (the Bible predicts that) "and then the end shall come."Watch for a great impostor and the following events due to that one:

The "abomination of desolation" (involving a world leader who makes himself out to be God).
The great tribulation will be in progress and will soon be more clear...



Watch for Jesus' return -- expecting The Resurrection and The Rapture when the true followers will be taken up to Him:

Regarding the "rapture," the event where Christ's born again followers are caught up to meet him in the air, some main texts for that are: Matthew 24:31, Mark 13:27, 1Corinthians 15:51-52, 1Thessalonians 4:16-17, and 2Thessalonians 2:1-4.



Realize this is when Jesus claims His own but later He will vanquish the enemies of God:

Jesus' is conqueror and champion coming with love and with judgment.
Jesus judges the people upon the earth for good and evil...



