 A negative review can be tough to swallow and you may start to feel angry or defensive. You may also react emotionally if you were not expecting the review to be so poor. Resist the urge to get upset, yell, or shout. Instead, try to stay calm and collected.If you are getting a negative performance review, you may react by simply nodding your head while the reviewer discusses your performance review. Try to maintain a neutral facial tone and maintain eye contact with the reviewer.
You should also try to display open body language, where you keep your body relaxed and your hands at your sides or in your lap. Try not to fold your arms over your chest or fidget with your clothing, as these are signs of closed body language.
If you are reading a negative review of your business online or getting an in person complaint from a customer, you should try to relax your body and take a deep breath before responding.
During the review, acknowledge any negative physical reactions that you are having, such as an increased heart rate, sweating, or a turning sensation in your stomach. These reactions are normal. Remind yourself that only you can feel these and the person who is reviewing you is unlikely to notice them. Acknowledge these physical sensations silently to yourself and then continue to focus on the conversation.;
, Though it may be difficult to listen to the review, try to pay attention to what the reviewer or the customer has to say. Focus on their words and try to pay attention to any information they are giving you during the review. This will allow you identify and address your performance issues later.You may take out a paper and pen to write down notes on what the reviewer or customer is saying to you. You may also ask for a copy of your performance review and write notes in the margins.
Try not to interrupt the reviewer or customer when they are speaking. The more information you absorb, the better you can address them and improve your performance. If you get distracted or get defensive during the review, you may miss an opportunity to understand the review and identify your performance issues.
 Be professional and accept the feedback in the review. Refusing to own up to the review will only show the reviewer or the customer that you are not willing to work on your issues or try to improve.If you are getting a negative performance review, you may be required to sign the review to acknowledge you have read it and understood it. Sign or initial the review willingly to show the reviewer that you are able to own up to the review and acknowledge your performance issues.
You can also own up to the review by saying, “Thank you for taking the time to share this information with me. I take this review seriously and would like to work on improving my performance.”

