 You will need one bottle of paint for each color. Plan on having 3 to 4 different shades of the same color, going from dark to light.


You can use regular paint, glittery paint, or metallic paint.
It does not matter if the paint is matte or glossy.
The bigger your tree is, the more colors/shades you can have.
 Buy some clear, plastic or glass ornaments. Divide your ornaments into groups based on how many colors you will be using for the ombre. The ornaments don't have to be the same shape and size.


Plan ahead. You will need more "dark" ornaments for the bottom of your tree, and fewer "light" ornaments for the top.
For a fancier look, consider iridescent ornaments, or ornaments with glittery designs on them. They must still be clear, however.
 Pour some of your darkest paint color into a cup. Add a few drops of water, and stir to combine. You want the paint to be runny, sort of like cream. Don't let it get so thin that it becomes transparent, however., Pull the metal caps off of each ornament first, then pour some paint inside the ornament. If you need to, stick a funnel into the neck of the ornament first, then pour the paint in.Keep the caps in a safe place so that you don't lose them.
You don't need a lot of paint; a little bit goes a long way.
 Plug the opening of the ornament with your thumb. Rotate your wrist to swirl the paint around the ornament. Keep doing this until the ornament is evenly coated. Do this for all of the ornaments you poured the paint into.If the paint doesn't swirl easily, it may be too thick. Add more water.
 The excess paint will drip out of the ornaments and onto the paper.


Alternatively, you can set the ornaments upside down into an egg carton.
 Work one color group at a time. If you are using a funnel, be sure to clean it out first so that you don't mix paint colors.
 Pinch the wire prongs on each cap, then slide them down the neck of each ornament. Be careful not to scratch the paint.


Some acrylic paint requires curing time in addition to drying time. Read the label carefully.
The paint may pool in parts of the ornament. If this happens, swirl the paint around to redistribute it., Hang all of the darkest ornaments along the bottom of the tree. Move on to the next shade, and hang them on the next level. Go through your shades until you reach the top of the tree. Hang the lightest ornaments there.

