 If your roommate has ADHD, then the symptoms of lack of focus are more prevalent than in other people. You may feel yourself getting annoyed that they cannot focus on what you say. They may be very distracted after a short time. Be mindful of their condition. Consider these symptoms of inattention: Lack of attention or easily distracted even in the middle of a conversation
Difficulty with studying or completing a project
Overlooking details or struggling to organize thoughts to complete tasks
"Zoning out" or seeming to wander from one idea or topic to the next without focus

, Does your roommate seem to fidget or talk a lot? Does their behavior make it difficult to work or get sleep? Consider these signs of hyperactivity:Talking nonstop
Fidgeting constantly with a chair, a pen, or some other object due to discomfort and anxiety
Seeming to be constantly "on the go" or very restless
Tapping a pencil, their feet, or something else to relieve nervous energy

, Being impulsive can be about taking risks or craving excitement. It can also be about lack of consideration for others. People with ADHD may lack some of the social cues to notice things such as:Interrupting or intruding on others who are working or having private conversations
Blurting out answers or completing other people's sentences without thinking ahead
Not being able to wait their turn due to impatience
Get easily frustrated when things are going too slowly

, Many people with ADHD have co-morbid conditions such as depression or anxiety. ADHD is a medical condition that needs to be monitored by a healthcare provider. If your roommate has ADHD, he or she may also have other mental health or medical conditions. Learning disabilities are more common among people with ADHD.Medication can help people with ADHD, as well as other conditions they may have.
Counseling may be beneficial. Counseling often teaches real-life coping skills so that stressors become more manageable.
Avoid judgment or stigmatizing a person with a mental health condition. If they are in treatment through medication and/or counseling, be respectful. They are actively trying to get help.

