 Your word choice will determine which type of meter you employ; don't worry, you'll be able to hear what works and what doesn't. Let's keep going with our two examples:


Example 1, adolescent and Pittsburgh: Adolescent is stressed on the 3rd syllable. Pittsburgh starts with a stressed syllable. This means we need one more long syllable at the start, and only have room for one short syllable between "adolescent" and "Pittsburgh." So we might get: "A young adolescent from Pittsburgh."
Example 2, distinguished and New York: Distinguished is stressed on the second syllable. Combined with "from New York," that leaves us only two syllables for in between, with the second one stressed. You could solve this, for instance, by borrowing from a foreign language: "The distinguished beau monde of New York."

, This is the starting point of your story or joke. Use one of the rhyming words from your list to complete your second line.


Example 1: "A young adolescent from Pittsburgh, was just finding out how his bits work." Now that's a set up for limerickal success.
Example 2: "The distinguished beau monde of New York, was heavily dining on pork." Note how the rhyme in line 2 seems to fit with the subject in line 1, while it actually is the other way around. Audience fooled!

, While considering rhyming words for the 3rd and 4th line, save the punchline for your last line. The fun in the limerick comes in the 4 line wait for the kick at the end.


Of course the "bits" story will probably get messy -- excellent. Because limericks often border on the obscene, you could have your hero's hormones take the best of him (without making it too explicit). How about: "He dreamt every night, of a girl by his side?" That's family friendly.
Example 2: Thinking of cork and pork, maybe you notice how wine rhymes with swine. That would be a great follow-up and set your imagery well.
 Go back to your list of rhyme words and find a nice one to cinch it all together. This is the most difficult part. Don't be put off if your first few limericks aren't funny enough. Remember that it's first of all a matter of taste, and second: everything takes practice. And sometimes it's just a matter of finding the right initial word to set up your rhymes!


Our Pittsburgh example evolved nicely: "A young adolescent from Pittsburgh, was just finding out how his bits work. He dreamt every night, of a girl by his side, but his zits seemed to make all the kids smirk."
The New York one did, too. "The distinguished beau monde of New York, was heavily dining on pork. They drank so much wine, that instead of the swine, many were chewing on cork."

