 Help out around the house and don't argue with your parents or siblings too much. Get good grades, and don't ask or beg for a lot.


Don't go too far. If you never help out around the house, don't automatically start doing every chore imaginable. Do a few things, like cleaning your own plate after dinner, offering to help fold the laundry, or putting away your own things. If you jump right in, you'll look desperate, and your parents will know you want something.;
, You're going to need to have a discussion, so you'll want to plan. If you feel awkward talking face-to-face, you can make a PowerPoint. Make sure you have the good and the bad, and the bad is addressed so it doesn't seem bad.
 Include things you would say in real life, so you don't sound nervous. Many parents think that being nervous is the sign of a lie, even if it's not. It you say "yea" or "ya know" a lot, include those! Sound as nonchalant as possible.
 Note that you can make money and build career skills (video editing, photo editing, charisma, character, etc). Also note that you can be yourself and gain confidence by having a YouTube channel. If you have a family member or a really close friend (whose family knows your family) who cab show their face or post videos online, mention them. Make sure they'll give proof and can explain why their parents let them if needed.
 There's probably lots of these, so think of all you can. Make sure you have a legitimate reason for why this shouldn't be a concern or worry.


If your parents don't want you showing your face, note that people see your face everywhere you go.
If your parents don't want stalkers, promise to only show yourself and reveal only your first name.
If your parents think you'll be bullied, make sure they know that comments can be set for "under approval" or disabled completely. Also makes sure they know that you're stronger than them and will ignore them.
 If you're open with your patents, you can show them all your videos before you post them, but if your more shy with them, you can give them your channel name and let them watch.
 If you think a rule is unreasonable, stop them and explain why you think it's a bad rule. Don't overreact or get mad - be as mature possible.

