;
, or things like "did you see the that new movie yet? This gives them an idea of you being a possible friend in the future. You should smile politely as well if you want to give that friendliness a lasting affect.


It's a great idea to have a chance to communicate to someone you don't know in your school because there could be totally awesome benefits and happy endings if you were to be in a little situation. Most likely, if the person you had a conversation with was a nice person, they may help you out in coincidence later on.



Try to start conversations with other people and see if you guys have anything in common or have similar interests. Even if you are very different.



Getting to know people is very important because you will never know who will do what or what will happen next. Knowing people may help you solve many puzzles in some situations too.



You will never truly know who's the "culprit" to your social problems or the "one" you should give all of your trust to. It's best to build up a very strong foundation of common sense and increase your awareness of all of your surroundings. Do not be surprised if someone doesn't like you for no reason.
One thing to solve that is to talk to the person without freaking out or blaming. Use "I-messages" or try to be GREAT friends with that person. If they didn't like you because of a silly rumor or vice versa, don't be in a myopic state of mind. Think for a little while before you take action.
Do anything you wish to solve that problem but it is extremely critical that you avoid doing anything that: is mean or interrupts the educational environment, is harassment or assault, ruins anybody's life, will ruin your own egoism, could be deadly (literally), or doesn't make any sense at all. If you do anything that has alike consequences with that list of things before this sentence, it's a likely possibility of you getting into deep trouble. Trust me, not many people would like to hang out with a person for too long if that person gets in trouble very often.



Please, being yourself is never easy, but not being yourself could get you somewhere you wouldn't want to be. Even if you are a nerd, it's best to be in a friendly group where you feel secure and belonged honestly than being lonely, horribly confused, and a big pretender with people always being suspicious about you.
Also, if you don't feel comfortable in any stressing situation, just say so. Lying will take the skills of a super ingenious strategist for a whole day and being stuck in a tangled web of lies can lead to way more trouble than you had when you told the truth.



If you want to hang out with your friends and be together more often, join school activities such as clubs or extracurricular activities. The things that you do in school may contain people who share a similar reason to be in that activity like you or may have some of the same goals as you.
If you don't feel too comfortable with school activities, try planning a fun event where people from your school you know or want to know can come and have a wonderful time. For instance, you could tell people that they are welcome to come at a local park, movie theatre, ice rink, etc. to have some group fun with a really responsible adult to watch for safe reasons.
 It will just make people hate you.

