 A strip-cut paper shredder cuts a standard letter size paper into about 40-50 strips. This type of shredder typically produces the largest size strips of paper.


Strip-cut was the original style of shredder and offers the lowest level of security. It is still a big step above tearing something up and throwing it in the trash.
Strip-cut shredders are sometimes less expensive than other types of shredders.
To decide whether a strip-cut paper shredder will suffice, determine what you need to shred. How sensitive is the information? Strip-cut shredders are good for those who do not dispose high-level security documents.;
, A cross-cut paper shredder is also known as a confetti-cut shredder. This is the most popular type of paper shredder. It offers a higher level of security than the strip-cut variety. A standard letter size paper is cut into over 200 small square pieces.


It is difficult to retrieve sensitive information from documents fed through a confetti-cut shredder. This is good for sensitive information like bank account and credit card numbers.
Some computer programs piece together documents shredded into strips. It is next to impossible to decipher anything shredded into small confetti sized pieces.
Since the shredded pieces are so small, you can change the bags of shredded paper less often without it posing a security risk.
There is a super cross-cut shredder that will cut a standard letter size paper into over 400 pieces.
 A micro-cut paper shredder offers one of the highest levels of security available. This is the best type of shredder if you need to destroy highly sensitive and confidential documents. A standard letter size paper is cut into over 2,000 tiny pieces.


It is impossible to retrieve information from a document fed through a micro-cut shredder. This is one reason micro-cut shredders are popular with government agencies and large corporations.These shredders are for people at risk of having classified or secret information stolen.
Since the shredded pieces are so small, you can change the bags of shredded paper less often without it posing a security risk.
Within the micro-cut shredder family is the super micro-cut shredder. This will cut a standard letter size paper into over 6,200 pieces. There are also high security shredders that cut a standard letter size paper into over 13,000 tiny pieces. This does not diminish the high-level security of the standard micro-cut paper shredder., Whether you choose a strip-cut, cross-cut, or micro-cut shredder, there are affordable options. Although micro-cut shredders tend to be more costly, you can find smaller versions for home use that are relatively affordable at around $100 to $200.High-level micro-cut shredders are generally the most costly type of shredder, often starting around $300 and rising to thousands of dollars. The commercial variety can cost top dollar.