 In order to make the selection process faster and more efficient, it is important to be able to take note of the type of game you would want to play. From action games, puzzle games, role-playing games, and even strategy games, there are a ton of games available online, so it is essential that you know what type of game you would want to play in order to save time.;
, Find the Play Store icon in your device. If it is not in any of your home screens, you may find the Play Store icon in your app drawer; just tap the apps icon located at the lower right corner of the screen.
 Once you are in the Play Store, you will see several categories of apps. Among these apps is the Games tab. Tap the Games tab to see the type of games available.
 After selecting the Games tab, you will be shown different games, which may differ depending on your download history. If you already have a game genre in mind, click “Categories” at the top and select the appropriate category of the game you’re looking for.


If you just want to look for the Top Games, check out the “Top Paid” and “Top Free” tab. If you want to try top-rated games that continue to do well with gamers, then select the “Top Grossing” tab.
If you’re browsing Google Play on a PC, you may also check out the category “Editor’s Choice,” which is a collection of Google Play’s best apps. The Editor’s Choice category can be found after clicking the “Apps” tab on the left panel of Google Play’s home screen on the computer.
 Go over each app of the category you selected. The good ones are rated with more stars. Good games are often rated 4 or more stars.
 You will be taken to the app’s information page. Here it will detail its number of downloads and its star rating and the number of people who have rated.
 You will have to check all the other details of the game in order to see if the game is a good fit for you. If there is a video, take the time to view it. If it has a description, do take the time to read it. You can read more about the description of the app by tapping “Read more.”


Most importantly, read the reviews that are available because these are surely helpful in determining if the game truly lives up to its name.

