 The most important part of acting like a celebrity is confidence. Most celebrities you can name all have one thing in common: they are very charismatic. Charisma usually comes from confidence. Being secure and feeling sure of yourself will go a long way for your popularity.To boost your confidence, make a list of your talents, accomplishments, and positive personality traits. Write down specific examples on a sheet of paper.Tape the paper somewhere visible that you'll see every day, like your desk or the inside of your bedroom door. Try to take the time to read off at least a few of these things to yourself each time you see the list.
Use your positive qualities to create self-affirmations. Think or say to yourself things like: "I am smart," "I am kind," and/or "I am beautiful" whenever you start to doubt yourself.
Try to be more outgoing. Don't expect other people to talk to you first. Strike up conversations with strangers when waiting in line. Don't be afraid to introduce yourself to new people.;
, Having confidence in yourself is often a difficult skill to master. Even celebrities and well-accomplished people can struggle with having enough confidence. When you're trying to act like a celebrity, it's important to look confident even if you don't feel that way.



Maintain good posture. Other people tend to interpret good posture as confidence. Always sit and stand with your back straight and your shoulders back. Try to distribute your weight evenly and avoid hunching over.Keep negative thoughts and words in check. Try your best to avoid being critical of yourself and others.Don't gossip behind other people's backs.
Make and maintain eye contact when speaking to others. Avoiding eye contact or looking away too quickly will make you seem nervous or even dishonest. In contrast, holding eye contact will be interpreted as a sign of confidence.Try to do little things to help out other people. This can be as simple as holding the door for someone or buying a stranger a coffee.Try to give genuine compliments more often!
Many of these tricks will actually have you feeling more confident as you try your best to look it., As a "celebrity," you want to look happy with your life. Smiling also makes you feel more confident and helps to boost your charisma.


If you're worried that your natural smile isn't flattering, try improving it. Stand in front of a mirror and practice different ways to smile.
 Try to look glamorous and put together no matter how casual a photo may be. Do your best to relax your muscles to avoid looking tense. If you're relaxed, your pose will seem natural and effortless.The pose that will have you looking your best will be unique to you, so try practicing in front of a full length mirror to find the right one. Here are a few classic poses you can master:


If you want to accentuate your legs and show off a pair of cute shoes, go for a "knee pop." Simply stand with one leg straight and the other bent slightly at the knee. Because this pose photographs well from multiple angles, it's a great one to pick when you're not sure exactly how the camera lines up with your body.
Another versatile type of pose is the "hand on hip." Simply stand with one hand on your hip with your shoulders dropped and relaxed. You will look elegant without being too posed. If you don't mind your pose looking obvious, try the same stance with both hands on either hip. Instead of relaxing your shoulders, square them off and stand straight.
If you're going for a flirty, youthful look, the "kick back" may be right for you. Stand sideways in relation to the camera with just your face aimed towards it. Lift one leg up at the knee as high as you can go while still keeping your torso balanced and straight. Be sure to occupy your hands with something like holding your purse and/or playing with your hair., Many celebrities are known for their philanthropy, donating large amounts of money or starting charities of their own. Even though you probably don't have that kind of cash, there are plenty of other ways you can emulate their charitableness. Volunteer for a local organization, such as a homeless shelter or an animal rescue. You can also organize a fundraiser at your school for a cause that's important to you.
 Celebrities, by definition, receive a lot of public attention. Try to find positive ways of garnering attention from those around you.


Develop a performing talent. Most celebrities found their fame through one of the visible performing arts, such as music, theatre, or modeling. Pick one or more of these that you're interested in and become more involved in it.
Be the first to volunteer when someone asks for help. When teachers or other students need people to work at an event, give them your time.
At social events when everyone else is waiting for someone to get things started, be that person. Be the first one on the dance floor. Organize social events. Do that awkward first round of karaoke.
 Most celebrities don't try to act any certain way. They became celebrities by doing what they love, whether that's acting, singing, or some other high-profile career. People love celebrities who are down-to-earth and authentic. While there's plenty you can do to act more like a celebrity, don't lose sight of your true self.

