 Dressing in clothes that make you feel confident and flatter your figure will help you to achieve the naturally beautiful look you are going for. When you no longer have to spend time putting on makeup, you can use that time to come up with killer outfits that will make you look great and feel confident.
 Picking out a hairstyle that will flatter your face can help you to feel confident about not wearing makeup. Certain hairstyles can even draw attention to certain parts of your face, making makeup even less necessary (for example, fringe bangs will help to draw attention to your eyes).


Keep your face shape in mind when choosing a hairstyle. For more information on how to do this, click here.
Don’t panic if you have a bad hair day; messy hair can be covered up with a fashionable scarf or a stylish hat. You can also use dry shampoo to make your hair look less greasy if you don’t have time to wash it before you head out of the house.
 If you don’t have the best vision, chances are you will need to wear glasses or contacts. When you make the switch to a makeup-less lifestyle, spend some time trying on glasses or wearing contacts to see which look you like the best.


If you decide on glasses, pick a pair that will frame your face and make your facial features (particularly your eyes) pop.
 If you don’t want to wear makeup, you can still add some colors to your style without colorful mascara or lipstick. Paint your fingernails and toenails in bright, funky colors that catch people’s attention.


If you don’t want to paint your own nails, head to a salon for a manicure and pedicure.
 A healthy glow can transform your appearance, making your skin appear more radiant and your complexion smoother and more even-toned. Apply a low sunscreen and spend time outdoors; your skin will naturally begin to take on a healthy, tan appearance.


Try to avoid using tanning beds and other means to get a fake tan; these have been known to cause cancer. Instead, use a bronzer to attain a natural glow.
There are some facial moisturizers you can purchase that will help you to build up a natural-looking tan.

