 If you have small breasts, this does not mean you are under-developed or unhealthy. In fact, girls who work out a lot tend to have small breasts.


Never try to fatten yourself up or get unfit just to get bigger breasts because this would be unhealthy.;
, Remember that you don't need to impress anyone. As long as you think you're beautiful, that confidence will show and people will notice. Generally, self-confidence is seen as an attractive trait. If you're confident in your body image, people will definitely find you attractive, regardless of your chest size., If you're worried that other people won't find you attractive, remember that the right people won't find you unappealing just because of your breast size. Every type of woman is idolized by someone. Just as there are people who prefer brunettes and other people who are driven wild by blond hair, there are also people who like the look of small breasts.


Many models have small chests, and are able to sport their outfits beautifully!, Small breasts are more practical for physical activity, and are less prone to injury, sweating or other discomfort. If you need to run down the street at the drop of a hat to catch your dog who accidentally escaped, there won't be as much discomfort in your bust area when you only have a small chest to worry about., It's not as easy to detect a lump in the back of larger breasts behind all of that fatty tissue. For small-chested women, there are less layers to feel past, so it's easier to find a lump., Your chest doesn't require all that support from an uncomfortable under-wire bra! You'll look great and feel great wearing bralettes, triangle bras and bandeaus without the discomfort of a wire restricting your body., Most women love the feeling when they get home and take off their bra after a long day. For flat-chested women, they can get away with not wearing a bra at all!, For example, you can wear backless shirts or dresses. Because you don't need a bra, you have the option of showing off your beautiful back with a backless shirt or gown. You can also make a bold statement and try bandeau tops which were basically made for flat-chested women and look great on them., Women who have a large chest often experience back pain, neck pain, migraines or shoulder pain. Sometimes, the pain can be so severe that the woman ends up getting a breast reduction. If you're ever feeling self-conscious about your small chest, remind yourself that it's better than dealing with the pain that often comes with having big breasts., Most girls feel awkward having a bigger chest; they get stared at, sometimes ridiculed, and they have to wear uncomfortable bras sooner. Many girls with bigger chests envy you just as you envy them, so it's important to remember that all body types are beautiful!

