 Create a payload stage that goes on top of the rocket. You can use a Rockomax X-200 8 fuel tank as a test payload.
 This should be the first stage after the payload., These are your control circuits. They can be omitted if you are sending up a manned mission., Construct the fairing over the control circuits and payload. The fairing should be the second stage., This stops them from wobbling everywhere., Radially attach 4 RCS thruster blocks at the top and another four at the bottom., This should be stage 3., This should be stage 4., The Rhino engine on this stage should be stage 5 and the decoupler stage 6. Radially attach 4 Stratus-V Cylindrified Monopropellant tanks around the middle of the fuel tank., Place four RCS thruster blocks around the top and bottom of each tank (so 16 total on this stage)., These will be referred to as north, south, east and west. You need to split up the staging, so that east and west form stage 7 and north and south form stage 8. The Mammoth engine in step 10 should now be stage 9., Add another one on top. Add a Mammoth engine to the bottom. Rearrange the staging so that these Mammoth engines are part of stage 9 (same as the central engine). On top of the second tank, add a Rockomax-Kerbodyne adapter, an FL-R1 RCS tank, and a Protective Rocket Nose Mk7. These are your booster rockets., There should be two connecting the top tank of each booster to the top tank of the central rocket, and one connecting the nose cone of each booster to the tank in step 6., You should place four sets on each booster: one at the top and bottom of each fuel tank. Each set should be one block on the side facing away from the central rocket, and one ninety degrees around in either direction (so 12 total on each booster)., Don't use symmetry mode for this, it goes a bit funny. For each booster, you'll need to place two fuel lines, one for the top tank and one for the bottom. If you try with only one line, it may make the fuel flow go a bit dicky. Connect the north booster to the east booster, and the south booster to the west booster. Then, connect the east and west boosters to the central stage., Try two on each booster. The launch clamps should be part of stage 9., Liftoff in ten... nine... eight...