 A terrarium or aquarium with a strong lid is the ideal container for your pet hermit crab. Allocate 2.5 gallons of space per crab. So if you have three hermit crabs, you’ll want a tank which is at least 7.5 gallons in size, and will probably want to spring for a ten-gallon tank.


Decorate your “crabitat” with plastic plants, driftwood, and climbing accessories which the crabs can clamber over and hide beneath.
 Substrates which are easy to clean like sand, crushed coral, or coconut fiber are good choices.Hermit crabs also thrive in a sand/earth mix.The depth of the substrate should be about 2-3 inches deep so that the crabs can dig just as they would in the wild.
 “Hermies” need to be at about 70–75 °F (21–24 °C). Install a nocturnal heat lamp or an under-tank heater to ensure your crabbies don’t freeze. If using the heater, provide at least one inch of substrate so they don’t get too toasty. Mist the terrarium occasionally with a fine spray of dechlorinated, distilled water, or install a terrarium humidifier set to 50-80% humidity.You can use a hygrometer to monitor humidity levels.


Check the temperature and humidity levels each day.
Substrate should be at least two to three inches deep and may be of gravel or fine reptile bark bedding, which better maintains the appropriate humidity levels.
 Obtain an aquarium salt mix and combine it with dechlorinated water. Get a small bowl with a lip which angles out and fill it with the water mixture. Place it in the substrate so that the lip is even with the top of the substrate upon which the crabs walk. This will mimic the shoreline around which crabs live in the wild., Hermies are social creatures and like living with others of their own kind. When your hermie is with another, you might observe them crawling about together and interacting. Hermit crabs cannot mate in captivity so don’t worry about trying to separate the sexes.Hermies may croak or chirp when squabbling with another crab. The sound is natural, so don’t worry.
 In the wild, hermit crabs use snail shells for protection. In captivity, though, hermit crabs will need a shell provided. Crabs do not have a regular biological schedule with which you can determine how often they’ll change their shells.Some might change shells several times a week, others might change a few times a month. No matter what, though, ensure you have shells of different sizes available for the crab to choose from.


A shell’s opening should be about 1/8 inch larger around than the width of the crab’s large claw.
Boil all shells before introducing them to the crabitat. This will wash off any lingering odor which the crab finds unpleasant.
 Hermit crabs are omnivorous and eat a wide variety of things. They like fruits, veggies, leaves, and insects. Their diet should chiefly consist of commercially available pet crab food. Crab food offers a nutritious blend of vitamin enriched bits to keep your crabs healthy.You can, occasionally, give treats to your crab like raisins, honey, and peanut butter.


In order to prevent the crabs from burying their food in the substrate, offer fresh food in a separate container outside of tank. When you want to give the crabs something fresh, remove them to a separate space -- another tank, or a small cardboard box with a towel on the bottom -- and let them eat. This will ensure their tank remains clean.Crabs can go many days without eating. While molting, crabs may not eat for a month.If you see your molting crab not eating, don’t worry.
 Give your crabs fresh, chlorine-free, distilled water each day in a small bowl with an outwardly-angled lip. Place the bowl deep down in the substrate so that the top edge of the bowl and the top layer of the substrate (upon which the crabs walk) are even.
 If you see small bugs crawling on your crab’s back, or gnats flying about within the tank, your crab has developed an infestation of pests. To solve this, remove all your crabs to another temporary tank or safe location like a soft towel in your tub or in a cardboard box, then dump all your old substrate out. Rinse and scrub the tank vigorously with water, paying attention to the corners where mites and gnats like to hide. After it dries, use the vacuum cleaner hose to suck any dirt and gunk out of the tank which might remain.Next, sterilize all the tank decor and extra shells by boiling them for about five minutes in water. If you have wood or rocks, sterilize them by putting them in the microwave for about 2 minutes. Be sure to watch the wood carefully to ensure it doesn’t catch fire. Install new substrate, replace the crab toys, and put the crabs back in the tank.
Instead of throwing out and buying new substrate, you could remove all substrate and bake it in a baking sheet at 300 °F (149 °C) for 30 minutes.
Prevent future mite outbreaks by removing uneaten food scraps and don’t introduce live plants into the crabitat, since they may act as a vector for mites and bugs to enter.
Don’t buy crabs from beachside stands or mall kiosks. Crabs at these places are likely not being cared for properly, and are often left exposed to direct sunlight, heat, and cold, and live in crowded conditions where mites and bugs thrive.