 Hitting snooze and drifting off to sleep again will send you back into the sleep cycle. That can make it harder for you to get up, especially if you hit snooze multiple times.Do your best to get out of bed as soon as possible after you wake up the first time.;
, If your alarms go off within several minutes of each other, you are more likely to wake up gradually. Waking up gradually is much healthier and more natural than waking up suddenly., By forcing yourself to get up and walk across the room to turn off the alarm clock, you will reduce the likelihood of going back to sleep afterwards. Being on your feet will increase your desire to get your day started.
 If your spouse or partner has to get up at the same time that you do, have them help you wake up. If you live alone, ask a friend or relative to call you to make sure that you're awake. This will help you avoid sleeping through your alarms.
 This will help you get your blood moving and provide an extra jolt to start your day. You don't need to do a long workout. 15 minutes should suffice, or even less if you're pressed for time., A cold shower can help you shock yourself awake. A hot shower can have the same effect. If you are suffering from congestion from allergies or a cold, a hot shower can help clear out your sinuses and make you feel more alert.
 Your internal clock is sensitive to changes in light. By getting lots of natural light as early as possible, you can remind your brain that it’s time to wake up.Consider eating breakfast outside. You can also open all of the curtains in your bedroom immediately after you wake up.


If your job requires that you wake up before dawn, consider purchasing a strong light used to treat seasonal affective disorder., A breakfast full of protein and complex carbohydrates will give you lots of slow-burning energy to make sure your blood sugar doesn’t drop too low before lunch.Low blood sugar can make you feel drowsy.Foods like eggs, whole wheat bread, and fruit are good choices.
Avoid breakfast pastries like coffee cake, muffins, and scones. These are often packed with refined sugar. Sugar can give you a quick burst of energy, but it will quickly fade and you will feel tired again.
 Rather than drinking a large coffee first thing in the morning, drink smaller amounts at regular intervals. This will help you stay on track without becoming jittery or nervous., This dip is often worse among people with sleep deprivation. It can also be worse if you eat a large, heavy lunch.
 A short nap can help you feel refreshed and improve your mood if you’re sleep-deprived. Don’t nap for more than 10-30 minutes. Any longer than that can make you feel groggy afterward, and may also interfere with your nighttime sleep. Napping in the afternoon, around the midday dip, can help lower your blood pressure.Don’t take more than one power nap per day, as doing so can also interfere with your nighttime sleep.
 Since your internal clock is sensitive to light, you'll want to maximize the amount of light your body receives during the day to make sure you don't get drowsy. Sunlight is best, but any light is better than none.


Go outside periodically if possible to get fresh air and sunlight. Don't stay outside too long, though, especially on hot days, since overexposure to direct sunlight might make you tired.
 Too much heat can make even well-rested people feel drowsy. Keeping your office cold during the day can help you stay awake by stimulating your senses.
 Keep your body and mind active by engaging with others as much as possible. Talk to co-workers about work projects or topics you find mutually interesting. Take regular breaks to walk around your office or your house.
 You’ll sleep better over the long term if your brain associates a particular time of day with going to bed and waking up.Do this gradually by setting your bedtime back or forward 20 minutes every day until you hit your target. So if you typically go to bed between 11pm and midnight, but you want to go to bed at 10:30, try going to bed at 11:30pm the first night, then 11:10 the second night, and so on until you reach your goal.


If your job involves a lot of travel, try to go to bed at the same time for every time zone you’re in. So if you normally go to bed at 10:30 pm Eastern Standard Time but you travel to California, stay up until 10:30 pm Pacific Standard Time., This will help you calm down and get ready for bed. If you go to bed with a lot on your mind, you will likely sleep poorly.Avoid using your TV, computer, tablet, and phone for at least 1 hour before going to bed. These devices all produce a form of light that inhibits production of melatonin, which is the hormone that causes you to fall asleep.
You can find melatonin supplements in most drugstores. These are generally safe for short- and long-term use, but you should still talk with your doctor before using them., While drinking alcohol can make you feel sleepy, you will not sleep well as a result of drinking. That’s because alcohol reduces rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, which is the part of sleep in which dreams occur and a critical part of the sleep cycle.This disturbance usually happens in the second half of the sleep cycle. As a result, you are not aware of it until you wake up tired.
 Caffeine can harm sleep patterns if consumed within 10-12 hours of going to bed.Even decaffeinated coffee and tea can still include small amounts of caffeine. Therefore, if you are particularly sensitive to caffeine, avoid all forms of coffee and tea after lunch.


If you smoke tobacco, don’t smoke within several hours of bedtime. Like caffeine, nicotine is also a stimulant.
 Light from nighttime sources like the moon or streetlights can keep you awake, especially if you are a light sleeper.


Hang blackout curtains over your windows.
Better yet, put your bed in a windowless room.
 If your brain associates your bedroom with non-sleep related activities like watching TV, doing work, or exercising, it will be harder for you to establish healthy sleep patterns.A good way to accomplish this goal is to put your bed in the smallest room you can.
 If decent sleep proves especially elusive over the long term, you may need to find out if you suffer from a sleep disorder.


Don’t use sleeping pills unless under strict medical supervision.

