 Write down everything you have to do today, and cross off each thing as you complete them. By writing down daily tasks, you do not have to stress about remembering to do them. Crossing things off your list will likely make you feel productive. Put things on your list you have already done just to cross them off.


Order your to-do list by high priority to low priority. Assess the urgency and importance of each to help you prioritize. Think to yourself, “if I could only do one thing today, what would it be?”. That is your number one thing on the to do list. If possible, make a to-do list for the next day and refer to it before you go to sleep. By doing so, you will wake up with an action plan in mind.;
, If there is a book you want to read or a restaurant you want to try, make a running list that you have on you at all times. If you want to see a movie, you don’t necessarily need to see it today, and therefore don’t want it on your daily to-do list. Having a running list will help remind you of your “extra” to-dos. You can make a running list in a notebook you always carry or online using programs like Dropbox so it is accessible at all times.
 Take notes on the conversations you have with people. This is especially important in business conversations, but also important during interactions with friends and family. Taking notes will remind you of an important thing someone said, a task to complete that you had not anticipated, or just serve as a friendly reminder of fun times with your loved ones. You do not have to keep a notebook on you at all times and meticulously write down each word someone says. Just try to set aside a time to jot down one or two important things from each conversation that you have.
 An annual planner can be immensely helpful in getting your thoughts together. Use it to write down appointments, travel, and other important things. Refer to it daily and write down things that will happen in the long term. For example, if you schedule a conference call for 6 months from now, write it in your planner now so you won’t forget.
 Just as you get rid of unused or unimportant things in your office and at home, you must also remove unnecessary thoughts from your brain. Try meditating to remove negative thoughts like worry and stress from your mind. 