 Wear cotton and natural fibers throughout the day. Your underwear should be 100% cotton. When you exercise, wear a synthetic material (like nylon or polyester) that wicks away moisture and dries quickly.Your clothing should always feel comfortable.


Try not to wear materials that are coarse, scratchy, or trap moisture (like wool or leather).;
, The clothing around your legs should be loose enough to let your skin stay dry and breathe. Your clothing shouldn't feel tight or like it's pinching your skin. Clothing that is too tight will rub against your skin, causing chafing. Most rashes between the legs are caused by chafing.


Chafing normally happens along the inner thighs, groin, underarms, under the belly, and at the nipples.
If chafing isn't treated, it can become inflamed and infected., Always keep moisture off of your skin, especially after you've taken a bath or shower. Take a clean cotton towel and gently dab at your skin. Rubbing could irritate the rash. You could also use a hair dryer on the lowest setting to completely dry the rash area. Avoid using high heat which can aggravate the rash.It's important to keep the area dry and free of sweat. This is because sweat is high in minerals that can make your skin rash even worse.
 Most rashes caused by chafing can be treated at home without medical intervention. But, if your rash doesn't improve within 4 to 5 days or gets worse, call your doctor for an appointment. This is especially important if you suspect your rash is infected (if you have fever, pain, swelling, or pus around the rash).Removing friction from the rash, keeping it clean, and lubricating the area should give you some relief within a day or two. If you're not starting to feel better by this time, talk with your doctor.
 Your doctor will do a physical examination to see if your rash shows lesions. If your doctor thinks you have a bacterial infection, your doctor will probably order a culture. This test will tell your doctor what strain of bacteria or fungus is causing your infection and what treatment is needed. Your doctor may prescribe one or more of the following:Topical antifungals (if caused by yeast)
Oral antifungals (if the topical antifungals don't treat the rash)
Oral antibiotics (if caused by bacteria)
Topical antibiotics (if caused by bacteria)

, Since the area will be sensitive and could be sweaty, it's important to wash the area with a mild, unscented soap. Wash and rinse using warm or cool water, making sure to completely rinse off the soap. Extra residual soap could irritate your skin even more.Consider using a plant-based oil soap. Look for a soap made from a vegetable oil (like olive, palm, or soy), vegetable glycerin, or plant butters (like coconut or shea).
Be sure to bathe immediately after sweating a lot. This prevents moisture from becoming trapped in the rash area.
 Once your skin is clean and dried, you can lightly apply a powder to prevent moisture from accumulating between your skin. Choose an unscented baby powder, but check to see if it contains talcum powder (which you should only use in small amounts). If the baby powder you use contains talcum powder, use it sparingly. Some studies have linked talc to an increased risk of ovarian cancer in women.Avoid applying cornstarch since bacteria and fungi can actually feed off of it, causing skin infection., Keep your legs moisturized so they don't chafe against each other. Use a natural lubricant like almond oil, castor oil, lanolin, or calendula oil. Make sure your skin is clean and dry before you apply the lubricant. Consider placing clean gauze over the rash to protect the skin.Apply lubricant at least twice a day or more often if you notice the rash is still rubbing on your clothing or skin.
 While lubricating your skin is important, you can also apply herbal essential oils that have healing properties. You can also add medicinal honey for its antibacterial and antifungal properties.To use the herbs, add 1 to 2 drops of any of the following oils to 4 tablespoons of your lubricant:


Calendula oil: the oil from this flower can heal skin wounds and acts as an anti-inflammatory.St John’s wort: is usually used to treat depression and anxiety, but it is traditionally used to heal skin irritation.Children or women who are pregnant or nursing shouldn't use St John's wort.Arnica oil: More studies are needed to understand the healing properties of this herbal oil that's made from flowerheads.Children or women who are pregnant or nursing shouldn't use arnica oil.Yarrow oil: this essential oil from the yarrow plant has anti-inflammatory properties and supports healing.Neem oil: has anti-inflammatory and wound healing properties. It's also been used with success in children with burns., Since your skin is already sensitive, you should determine if the herbal oil mixture will cause an allergic reaction. Dip a cotton ball in your mixture and dab a small amount on the inside of your elbow.Place a bandage over it and wait 10 to 15 minutes. If you don't notice a reaction (like a rash, stinging, or itching), you can safely use the mixture throughout the day. Try to apply it at least 3 or 4 times to ensure that the rash is always being treated.


These herbal mixtures should not be used in children under 5 years old.
 Pour 1 to 2 cups of rolled, steel cut oats into a nylon knee-high stocking. Knot the stocking so that no oats can spill out and tie it to the bathtub's tap. Run lukewarm water so that the water runs through the oats as it fills the tub. Soak for 15 to 20 minutes and pat your skin dry. Do this once a day.A soothing bath is especially helpful if the area of chafing is large.

