 It may be that there is a mobile veterinarian operating in your area, or within a close enough radius that the vet could come to your address. Using your preferred search engine, search to see if you are near any established mobile veterinarians. For example, search for:


“Mobile veterinary service near Lincoln, Nebraska”
“Is there a mobile veterinarian near zip code 80226”
“Mobile veterinarian in northern Delaware”;
, If you would like to have a better idea of the physical location—and proximity to your address—of nearby mobile veterinary services, you can search for one using the Maps page of a browser. Navigate to Google Maps, Yahoo Maps, Bing Maps, or a similar browser-based online map. Then, type in a nearby town or your zip code, followed by the phrase “nearby mobile veterinary service.”


Keep in mind that, since mobile veterinarians travel to their clients, their home office does not need to be close to you. For example, a mobile veterinary service may be willing to travel over 50 miles to treat an animal.
 There are a few websites that collect and list information about veterinary offices nationwide, to give animal owners the ability to search among existing vet offices near their locations. Some of these veterinary websites also allow users to search for mobile veterinary services near their location. For example, Veterinarians.com allows you to input your zip code, and will bring up any mobile vet services within that area.Veterinarians.com will also provide you with a phone number for the mobile vet service.
 If you’re struggling to find a mobile veterinarian operating in your area, try calling an established veterinary office and ask if they can recommend a mobile veterinary service. If you’re concerned that the vet will be hesitant to give out a competitor’s name, you could explain that you live in a rural area and it’s impractical to drive to a physical veterinary office.


You can find nearby veterinary offices through an online search using your preferred search engine. Or, if you still have a physical phonebook, flip to “Veterinarian” in the white pages.
 If any of your friends or members of your social circle have pets, ask if they have used a mobile veterinary service for their animal. It may be that different friends have used different mobile vets, and you’ll be able to hear first-hand accounts of multiple mobile veterinarians.


You don’t necessarily need to limit your area of inquiry to friends alone. For example, if you have work colleagues with pets, ask them if they have used a mobile vet service in the past.
 Some—but not all—mobile veterinary services will come to your house in order to vaccinate or examine your animal. This is especially common in rural, agricultural communities in which livestock such as cows, pigs, horses, and other large animals need veterinary care. In fact, some mobile veterinary services will specialize and only treat certain types of animals—horses, for example.While you can contact the mobile veterinarian through any means that they list on their website—phone number, email, etc.—a phone call will be the quickest method.
 Many mobile veterinarians serve a large enough client base that making house calls would be logistically difficult. These vet services often travel to a handful of clinics within the community, and ask animal owners to bring their pets to the vet. When you contact the mobile service, ask them where they set up clinics within the community, and inquire about the specific dates on which veterinary services will be offered.Many mobile veterinary services will also have an online calendar that shows the locations and dates of their upcoming veterinary clinics.
 It’s common for mobile veterinary services to set up weekly or monthly clinics at animal shelters. Animal shelters can provide the space and facilities for the mobile vet to treat animals. Ask the mobile vet service if they set up clinics at animal shelters, and ask if the office can provide you with a schedule of when and where these clinics take place.If you do not yet have a pet but are planning to adopt one, this could provide a good opportunity to get your pet spayed or neutered and vaccinated.
You may even be able to adopt a pet from a shelter where a mobile veterinary service has set up a clinic, and have the pet examined the same day.
 These are among the most basic of veterinary services, and are ones that all mobile veterinary services will provide. Before you schedule a house call with a mobile veterinary service, or plan to visit a clinic at an animal shelter, call ahead and make sure that they have the vaccine that your pet needs. Or, confirm that the vet can provide a checkup for your pet.Mobile vets will typically have the necessary medical equipment to take your animal’s temperature, and to monitor their pulse, blood pressure, and blood oxygen levels.
 While not all mobile veterinary services will perform parasite control or offer pet microchip installations, some will be happy to do so. This depends primarily on the medical equipment that the mobile vet travels with. Also ask if the veterinary team will perform any dental operations.If you need a service that the mobile vet you’re speaking with does not offer, ask them if they can recommend another mobile service that will perform it.
 If you have an older animal whose poor health would make it difficult or painful for them to travel to a veterinary office, you can ask a mobile vet service if they provide at-home euthanasia. Some services which do not typically offer house calls may be willing to make an exception in the case of euthanasia.Some mobile veterinary services will offer a cremation service as well. For a fee, they will take your euthanized pet and have them cremated at an animal-cremation facility.
 When evaluating a veterinarian, the primary questions are if they have a good rapport with your pet and if the service is effective. The veterinarian should show medical expertise, and should have the necessary veterinary equipment to effectively treat your pet.


If the vet has difficult in treating your animals (for example, struggles to make a diagnosis or give a vaccine) or if your animal reacts to the vet with uncharacteristic hostility, you should begin looking for another mobile vet service.
 If the veterinarian makes a house call, make sure that they arrive on time and behave in a professional manner. Vets—and any accompanying technicians—should treat you, your house, and your animal with respect. If you’re seeing the veterinarian at a clinic, make sure that the space is clean and well-lit, and that the vet treats you and the other clients and animals respectfully.


For example, if the vet is 5 minutes late to a house call, that’s no reason to discontinue using their service. But, if the vet shows up 45 minutes late and acts unprofessionally, you may need to look for a different mobile service.
 Generally speaking, if a business is popular, it indicates that the service provided is worthwhile and cost-effective. That said, if the mobile veterinarian you are evaluating sets up clinics that are overwhelmed with clients, you may need to look for a service with which you can schedule an appointment more easily.


Conversely, if you are the only client currently using a vet service, evaluate if there are flaws or problems keeping other clients away.

