 In order to play online, you will need to have the latest version of Battlefield 2 installed. The patches can be downloaded directly from the EA website.


If you are installing Battlefield 2 from a disc, you will need to download and install the 1.41 patch followed by the 1.50 patch.;
, This is the anti-cheat program that Battlefield 2 uses, and you need it in order to connect to servers. PunkBuster can be downloaded for free from the PunkBuster website.


On the PunkBuster main page, click the "Download PBSetup" button to download the PunkBuster installation files.
Once PunkBuster is installed, click the "Add a Game" button and select Battlefield 2 from the drop-down menu. Click the "Check for Updates" button to ensure that you have the latest PunkBuster files installed.
 Once you have the game up and running, click the "BFHQ" button and then click "Manage Account" button. Fill out the fields to create your account. You will need to create an account in order to play the game online.


Your account name will need to be unique. If it is already taken, you will have to come up with a different one.
You will need a valid email address in order to create an account.
 Click the "Multiplayer" button at the top of the screen. Click the "Join Internet" button that appear underneath to load a list of servers. The server list will display the map the server is playing, the number of connected players, the game mode being played, and the ping, which is a representation of your connection speed to the server. A lower ping means a better connection.


You can use the filters at the bottom of the screen to adjust what is displayed in the server list.
 Once you have selected the server you want, click the "Join Server" button in the lower-right corner to connect to the server. You will connect to the server and the map will begin to load. Once the loading is complete, the game will begin and you will be taken to the Spawn menu.
 In order to connect to the community server list, you will need to make sure that your game client is updated to 1.50. In order to do this, you will need to upgrade to 1.41 first, and then upgrade to 1.50. The patch files can be downloaded from the Battlelog.co website, in the Downloads section.Note: The Project Reality and Forgotten Hope 2 mods have independently developed a custom server list, and will be playable after the GameSpy shutdown as long as you have the latest version of the mod installed.
 Use the "Register Now" button on the Battlelog.co website to register your soldier for the community server list. This will let you continue to upgrade and rank up.


Be sure to register with the same name that you used in the past to play Battlefield 2, so that your stats will be properly imported. If you never played BF2 before, register with whatever name you'd like.
 This is the community-made patch that replaces the GameSpy functionality with a community-driven server list. You will need to install this patch in order to connect to servers after GameSpy shuts down. The patch will be available from the Battlelog.co website, in the Downloads section.


The patch is still in development and not currently available. Keep checking Battlelog.co for information on when the patch will be released. The patch should become available before the GameSpy servers shut down on June 30th.
 Once the patch is installed, you can start Battlefield 2 and open the server browser. Select the server you want to join and connect to it as you normally would.

