 A person who is high on opiates will have constricted pupils. She may appear tired or sleepy. Despite nodding out, she may attempt to continue conversations, or speak in a slurred voice.The person may seem confused. She may experience memory lapses.
The addicted person may demonstrate poor balance, and clumsiness. She will have less control of her physical body.
Frequent nosebleeds can occur when drugs are snorted or sniffed. You may notice a runny nose or rashes around the nose and mouth.
The person's eyes may be red and glazed.;
, Someone who is abusing prescription drugs may have abrupt changes in her appetite. She may eat rarely and lose a great deal of weight.If the person is abusing a stimulant drug, she may go for days without sleeping. When she does sleep, she may sleep for long periods of time.
Insomnia is a symptom of abuse of stimulants. It's also a side effect of withdrawal from many medications.
 The person's breath, skin, or clothing may emit a foul smell. The smell is a result of the chemical interaction between the person's body and the drug. If the person is trying to crush the pill and smoke it, it may be the odor of the smoke. The person may also sweat more than usual, which increases their body odor.The person's sense of smell may be either greatly enhanced or diminished.
The person using drugs is unlikely to notice her own change in smell.
 Drug use often results in physical clumsiness, awkward movement, or visual alternation. If you notice signs of unexplained injuries, this can be a sign of prescription drug abuse.Common injuries include mild cuts and bruises. Injuries may be more severe.
The person may become defensive when asked about injuries, or she may not remember how they occurred.
The person may wear long-sleeved shirts even in warm weather to hide marks from injections.
 You may notice the person's hand or arm shaking, or experiencing tremors. The person may have difficulty forming words. Her speech may be slurred.The person may have difficulty holding a pen, signing her name, or holding a cup without sloshing liquid over the edges.
Many times these signs are symptoms of withdrawal from medication, a sign of drug abuse.
 A person abusing drugs may stop taking care of her personal hygiene needs, i.e. taking showers, changing into clean clothes, grooming hair. This is a common sign of prescription drug abuse. The person may be less able to concentrate on these activities of daily living, or they may not care.If the person is using stimulant medication, they may spend more time than usual cleaning house, despite lack of personal hygiene.
The signs of drug abuse may mimic, or even stem from, depression that is associated with drug abuse.
 Many times people who abuse prescription drugs will start injecting the medication intravenously. Look for pouches used to carry syringes and spoons.You may notice piles of burnt matches, or extra lighters used to heat the drugs.
Foil, glassine envelopes or paper bundles may be found in the person's car, in between books on a shelf, or otherwise hidden in the person's home.

