 Your dog will need a designated area to deliver its pups, or else it’ll find a closet or other secluded place to whelp. Using a box is preferable to just designating a whelp area, since overweight dogs might require emergency care. You’ll need to choose a box large enough for the dog to stretch out and nurse the pups, but one that you can lift and put in a car if you have to bring the dog to the clinic.Line the floor with newspaper before birth, since it can easily be exchanged for clean lining when soiled. After your dog delivers, switch from newspaper to bath mats or plastic placemats so the newborn pups have better footing.
Include a shelf or roll away area in the box to provide the pups with protective shelter if the mother rolls over.
 Get your dog used to the whelp box a few days before the approximate due date. This is particularly important if your dog is whelping for the first time. Bring your dog to the box and allow it to inspect and lay in it.You or a veterinarian must be present when your overweight dog gives birth, so getting it accustomed to a whelp box beforehand is essential.
 You’ll need to help keep both the mother and the pups warm after birth. Some owners put the heating pad inside the box, but if you use a heat-conductive material like wood, you can place the pad under the box.Make sure to check the pad or box regularly with the back of your hand to make sure it’s warm but not hot to the touch.
 Prepare a kit ahead of time with a thermometer, surgical gloves, scissors, unwaxed dental floss, and iodine. You’ll use the floss to tie the umbilical cords and the scissors to cut them if the mother doesn’t do so. Either way, you’ll use the iodine to sanitize the area after cutting., Try to commit the expected due date to memory and mark it on a calendar. A couple days prior, begin taking your dog’s temperature every few hours. Within a day of the start of labor, its temperature will drop under 100 degrees Fahrenheit (or 37.8 degrees Celsius). When that happens, take the dog to the vet if you’ve arranged a C-section, or prepare for a home birth.Other signs of the first stage of labor include panting, restlessness, plump or dripping nipples, and abdominal straining.
The first stage lasts up to 12 hours. Your dog probably won’t want to eat once labor begins, but be sure it has access to plenty of water.
 Regular contractions, which are clearly visible as waves across the belly, mark the second stage of labor. If you haven’t arranged a C-section, monitor the birth from several feet away, but avoid hovering. Your dog will resist delivering unless it feels that it has some privacy.On average, your dog will deliver one pup per hour. Before delivering each pup, it will pass foetal fluid. If it passes fluid and more than 2 hours go by without delivering a pup, call the vet.
After delivering each pup, your dog will remove the birth membrane and lick the pup to cleaning it. This licking also encourages the pup to breathe.
Know how many pups the vet observed on ultrasounds and keep track of each pup delivered so you know how many more to expect.
 If the mother doesn’t do so, you must immediately tear the membrane around the pup’s head. If you don’t do so promptly, the pup could suffocate. Use a towel to clean off the pup, and be sure to remove mucous and fluid from the mouth and nose so it can breath.After you remove the sac, tie the cord off about two inches from the abdomen and cut it on the far side of the tie. Paint the cut end promptly with iodine to prevent infection.
 Call the vet or clinic and bring your dog in for help if it is in obvious extreme pain, if a puppy is stuck in the birth canal, or if there’s a foetal discharge but no puppy delivered two or three hours after the discharge. Call the vet if the second stage of labor lasts more than twelve hours.These are all indications of emergency birthing complications that overweight dogs are prone to experiencing.
 If there are no complications, you should still schedule a vet visit for your dog and the pups within three days of whelping.Look for signs of infection and other post-whelping issues. Odorless reddish-brown discharges are normal for days after whelping, but black discharges with a odor can indicate a uterine infection, which requires immediate veterinary care. In addition bring your dog to the vet as soon as possible if it shows any of these symptoms:Disinterest in or ignoring the puppies.
Muscle spasms or abdominal swelling.
Refusing food or water after whelping.

