

The MetroPCS network has almost entirely moved to GSM and LTE. These two technologies rely on SIM cards and can easily be unlocked using these methods. In rare cases, your phone will not have an SIM card. This means it uses CDMA technology, and you will have to contact your new carrier to unlock it.SIM cards are usually in a small slot in the side of the phone, or tucked behind your phone battery in the back compartment.;
,

Customer service will only unlock a phone that has been in the MetroPCS network for 90 continuous days.If yours has not, try one of the other methods below.


Call MetroPCS Customer Service at 1-888-863-8768, or use the Store Locator tool at https://www.metropcs.com/find-store.html to find a MetroPCS Corporate Store in your area.Ask for the unlock code for your phone model.

The name on the MetroPCS wireless account.
The account billing PIN.
Your email address.


This email will contain the unlock code(s) along with instructions for using them. It usually arrives within two or three business days.
If you do not receive the confirmation email within two to three business days, contact MetroPCS Customer Service again. Ask an agent to reprocess your request, if necessary.


The instructions for unlocking your device will vary depending on the make and model of your phone. When completed, you will have the ability to use your MetroPCS phone on another compatible GSM wireless network.Typically, you will need to turn off your phone, insert the SIM card of the new network, turn the phone on, and enter the code when prompted.
MetroPCS will usually send you two codes: a Network Lock (NCK) code and a Service Provider Lock (SPCK) code.If your phone doesn't recognize the code you enter, try the other one. Some phones require both.


As of September 2015, the only phones compatible with this Android app are the LG Leon LTE, the LG G Stylo, and the Kyocera Hydro Elite. Find the app in the general applications folder, or inside the MetroPCS folder.


A fast data connection works best, but 3G or WiFi will usually work fine.


Confirm your choice and wait for the change to complete.


When it starts up again, the phone should be unlocked for all compatible networks. You will still need a SIM card for the new network.


There are several reasons the correct code might not go through. Here are a few possible error message types and how to fix them:Data corrupted, server note responding, no internet connection, or failure in applying unlock: Disable WiFi and find a location with a strong network signal, then try again.
Data not recognized: If you rooted your phone, you'll need to unroot it before unlocking. Look for a specific unroot guide for your model.
System maintenance error: the system is undergoing maintenance, try again later.
Other messages: follow the onscreen instructions, or restart the phone and try again.


Unlocking your phone through MetroPCS customer support is always the safer option. If you are not eligible for official unlocking, you may try a third-party service. This will probably violate your warranty and terms of service. If you're not careful, you can also fall into a scam.


Search online for an unlock service for your phone model. These services usually charge less than $10 US per phone. Try to find one with the following features:
Physical address listed somewhere on website
Secure checkout system
Refund policy
Good rating from a third-party group such as Scam Adviser or Better Business Bureau

, A reputable service only needs your phone's IMEI address in a simple online form. Find your phone's IMEI in your settings or engraved behind your battery, and enter it into the site. In most cases, you will also need to enter your credit card or PayPal information and agree to a certain charge.

An unscrupulous business can use your IMEI to imitate your phone or cause other issues. Be careful who you share it with.
Never agree to download software from a service like this.


The unlock code often arrives immediately, but sometimes you may need to wait a day or two for it to reach you by email. Once it arrives, follow the accompanying instructions to enter the code and permanently unlock your phone.
In most cases, inserting a SIM card from another network will prompt you to enter the code.

