 Although caffeine and sugars will give you immediate bursts of energy, they will lower your levels of energy overall—even later in the same day. Focus on eating healthy, balanced meals.


Eat small, frequent meals and snacks to prevent fatigue caused by hunger and to stabilize blood sugar levels. As a general rule, eat a small meal every 3 or 4 hours; this will keep your metabolism working throughout the day., More than any other food group, proteins give your body energy.Without sufficient protein energy every day, your body will become fatigued more quickly. Avoid foods that are fatty or sugary, such as cookies and chips. Also reduce the amount of simple carbohydrates, such as white pasta and rice, you consume. Look for proteins like:


Meat—including chicken, steak, and pork.
Beans and rice.
Eggs and dairy (milk, cheese, yogurt, etc.).
 Although drinking plenty of water is the best means to keep yourself hydrated, fruits and vegetables are also high in water content and will hydrate your body as well. Eat plenty of water-rich foods, like:


Watermelon and citrus fruits (oranges, lemons, etc.)
Broccoli and carrots.
Adequate hydration keeps your blood thin and able to be pumped more efficiently through the body, reducing fatigue., If you’re feeling fatigued by your level of busyness at work or by seemingly overwhelming responsibilities in general, take some time away—even just an evening—to spend with friends who make you happy.


Even a phone call can help; call a close friend and let them know how you’re feeling. Then talk about something to take your mind off your fatigue.Skip working one evening or weekend; instead, take a camping trip or a “staycation” with a group of friends.
 Part of fatigue can stem from feeling overwhelmed, or feeling like you have an impossible amount of work to accomplish. You’ll feel less fatigued if, instead of dwelling on your responsibilities and failures, you focus on your personal and professional accomplishments.


Make a list: write down everything you’ve accomplished in the last month. Seeing you accomplishments physically written down will help you feel more energized and successful.