 Making new friends can provide you with a community of support at school that can help you avoid bullying or harassment. Try approaching others, whether individuals or groups, and ask if you can sit with them during lunch or break. Be friendly and ask them questions to get to know them. The more you spend time with this person or group the more likely you will be to become friends.Try breaking the ice with a compliment, like “I really like your shoes,” “I love your jacket, where did you get it?” or “I thought the joke you made in class was funny.”Enroll in extra-curricular groups and clubs to meet new people and make new friends.
 Teachers can sometimes target students specifically and can perpetuate harassment and bullying. Tell your parents or siblings if you are being bothered by another student or teacher. They might have useful advice and can get in touch with administrators, instructors, or counselors when appropriate.Try using statements like, “I feel like my teacher targets me specifically everyday in class when I am not acting out,” “I keep getting bullied by the same student, what should I do?” or “My teacher isn’t helping me deal with a class bully and is perpetuating the problem.”
Ask your parents or siblings how they have handled similar issues., If you are being bullied or are having difficulty interacting with other students in your school seek out the advice of a school counselor. School counselors can provide you with resources and tools for dealing with and engaging other students, even if they are bullies.


Be prepared for your administrator to set up conferences to resolve conflicts with specific individuals.
 If you are having problems or wish to be left alone in a particular class, discuss your problems with the instructor of that class. Your instructor should be familiar and able to deal with interpersonal issues with students and may have some advice for dealing with bullies or generally wanting to be alone.Ask your instructor to be seated farther away from those you would like to avoid.
Ask your instructor if they need help setting up for an activity or assignment over break or lunch.

