 It will be easier to use a shovel that is made out of light plastic or has an aluminum blade and is covered with a nonstick finish.


This will make it easier to load and unload the snow. You don’t want a shovel that’s too big or that contains softer materials.
You won’t have to bend as much if you choose a shovel with a S-shaped shaft.
You can use a shovel with a C-shaped blade, called a pusher, on lighter, fluffier snow that doesn’t weigh as much.
You can apply lubricant to help your shovel move more easily through the snow. Options include non-stick cooking spray, W-D 40, paraffin wax or other similar products. Before applying, make sure your shovel is dry and warm. You can reapply as necessary.;
, Don’t wait until the storm is over because the snow and ice will have a chance to bond to the pavement, making it harder to remove later. You could always pay a neighbor kid to shovel for you.The key to success when having to remove snow by hand is to start as soon as possible.
You should shovel several times during a storm. It’s also easier to shovel less early fallen snow than thicker deeper snow, so do the shoveling in parts. Avoid heaping the snow against foundation walls, where it can melt, refreeze, and cause problems.
You want to shovel down to the pavement so that the sun’s rays will hopefully hit it and stop ice from forming on the pavement or public space. Another reason to remove the snow right away is because it will be harder to do so once it’s packed down by foot traffic or vehicles.
 You can easily strain your back or knees when shoveling. However, there are ways to prevent this. It's important not to overload the shovel; work with manageable amounts of snow. Focus on pushing the snow instead of lifting it whenever possible, and take plenty of breaks.When you have to lift a load of snow, squat and lift using the power of your legs. Keep your back straight. Avoid jackknifing your body and lifting from your lower back, will save you from getting a back injury.Make sure the shovel is long enough. If you're trying to use a shovel that's too short for your height, you will increase the chances you will strain your back.You want to pick a shovel length where the blade will touch the ground, requiring you to only slightly bend your knees and so you don't have to lean forward a lot. The shovel's handle should be at chest length if you were to stand the shovel on its end.
Keep the bottom edge of your shovel in good condition by by using a hand file or bench grinder to smooth out any dents or rough edges.
 It’s not a good idea to just shovel snow into the street or to whip it into your neighbor’s lawn. Be respectful of others. You should also be careful not to block drains.


Putting snow into the street can cause a driving hazard for motorists. Shoveling it from your driveway into the sidewalk can run afoul of city ordinances.
It’s a better idea to shovel it from the pavement onto the yard itself. You’re not going to be able to use it in the midst of a deep winter anyway. You want to make sure you don’t create another hazard in the process of removing one.
Plan ahead at the beginning of the winter to determine where you will shovel your snow. Snow storage has to last all winter, so planning ahead will save time and energy.
 It may be that you have no choice and will have to clear the public areas that are adjacent to your property. Check with your municipality.Some municipalities require homeowners or business owners to clear snow and ice from the sidewalks that are adjacent to their buildings. Some municipalities even have rules about how fast you must clear the snow and ice from the sidewalk area.
You can face a fine in some municipalities if you don’t do so, as well as facing potential liability in slip-and-fall cases. It’s not worth it, so do your homework!
You should also be careful about volunteering to shovel pavement or public spaces on property you don’t own and that aren’t adjacent to your property. It could potentially open you up to liability if someone slips and falls. Also be mindful of water runoff when snow melts. 