 No matter how excited your child is to start preschool, they also may feel a little nervous or scared. Help them understand preschool by giving them an idea of what it will be like. Tell your child where they will be going, what they will be doing, and what a normal day in preschool might include. Give them a sense of what will happen so that they can feel prepared to start with as little worry as possible.For example, say, “You are going to this building right here. I’ll drop you off at the door and say goodbye, then you’ll go inside and do lots of fun activities. You might sing, dance, color, draw, paint, or play. Then, you’ll have snack time and quiet time. When preschool is over, I’ll come back and pick you up!”;
, Some schools have a meet day where children can come and explore their classroom and meet their teacher. Have your child meet the teacher, tour the school, and spend some time on the playground. Point to things around the classroom and show your child where they might sit. Let them look around the classroom and see what activities, games, and toys they can play with at school. This should help them get excited about coming.If your child’s preschool does not have this, they might have a parent-teacher meet day. If so, tell your child about the teacher and the classroom and let them know what kinds of things they can expect. You can also bring your child to the playground and let them play there.
 Take turns being the child, teacher, and parent. Practice the roles and do common activities performed in preschool such as saying goodbye in the morning, hanging up a jacket, having circle time, singing songs, and reading stories. Let your child experience the different roles.When role playing, make preschool sound exciting and fun.
 A great way to prepare your child for preschool is to read books about preschool. Your child can learn how their favorite characters deal with the changes that preschool brings. It can help them get a sense for what preschool will be like and how to adjust to it. Some books help children cope with the uncertainty or fears they have about making big transitions and being away from parents for a longer time.Read books specifically designed for getting a child ready for pre-school. Some books to check out from the library include, “Llama Llama Misses Mama,” “I Love You All Day Long,” “Maisy Goes to Preschool,” and, “What to Expect at Preschool.”