 Potential customers will tend be less bothered by a cold call if they’re greeted cheerfully. You will sound as if you’re smiling when you actually do smile while delivering your pitch.To help you with this, have a mirror nearby to occasionally check your expression when you’re on the phone.
 Try starting with the same greeting each time. There’s no need to try to get creative at this point, since you might risk setting an inappropriate tone for the conversation before hearing the respondent’s tone of voice. For example, try either “Hello, is Ms. / Mr. available?” or “Hello, may I please speak with Ms. / Mr. ?” as greetings.
 When making cold calls it’s important to grab the potential customer’s interest in the first five seconds or so. You need to quickly give them a good reason not to just hang up. That’s why moving from the greeting right into your pitch is essential.Try not to follow your greeting with phrases like “How are you today?” These can only add to the potential customers’ sense that you’re taking up their time.Avoid saying “Is this a good time?” or “Did I call at a bad time?”You can assume that if this is the case, the person you called won’t answer, will hang up immediately, or will let you know that it’s bad time without your having to ask.
 As you deliver your pitch and follow-up explanations, try to use a simple and straightforward vocabulary. Be careful not to use technical terms without defining them, and go with alternative phrasings if you can say same thing in more basic language. Even if you detect that the person you’re speaking with is well educated, it’s always more efficient to use the most direct and universal language possible.Avoid using informal language that gives off an air of unprofessionalism. Make an effort to say "Good offer” instead of “Good deal,” “That’s fine” instead of “No worries,” “Yes” instead of “Yeah” or “Yep,” and “Please hold for a moment” instead of “Bear with me.”, Try to get in the habit of listening to how quickly or slowly you’re speaking. This way, you can make adjustments to ensure that you’re being understood. Rushing through your pitch might confuse the potential customer, but talking too slowly could make them impatient or sound condescending., A potential customer will want to know about not only what the product or service is, but also what it can do for them. When explaining the product in the pitch or answering questions, be sure to talk about performance and results. If you’re doing this right, potential customers shouldn’t need to ask you, “But what will this do for me / my company?”To have some results-based information on hand, ask your supervisor for statistics on customer satisfaction and product performance.
 Once you make a sale, try to carry the confidence you build from it into the next call. This means not being tempted to feel satisfied with one sale, and instead moving right into dialing another number. If you feel frustrated or overworked, these would be times when a break could help you. But this isn't the case when you’re doing well, since you could lose whatever knack you’ve developed even during a short break.To keep things going, don’t put the phone back on the hook after a successful call—just hang up and then dial the next number.
 Think on the bright side about what you accomplished even during a rejected pitch: you may have left the customer with a good impression of the company, or learned that a certain phrase or response probably isn’t effective. And at the very least you can feel good that you’ve crossed this person off the list of potential customers.If a potential customer is rude with you, don’t take it personally. Remember, it’s the product that is being rejected, not you.