 You should choose a catchy, but appropriate title. You want to draw the attention of the judges and visitors to your table, while keeping the integrity of your experiment. The more noticeable you are, the more likely you are to get positive attention.A good title might be “Volcanic Explosions” as opposed to just “Volcanoes.”
When you can, use vivid, specific titles like “Bioluminescence in Crystal Jellyfish” in place of generic titles like “Glowing Jellies.”;
, An abstract is a preview of the work that you have done. It introduces your experiment to potentially interested readers. A hypothesis section is a statement that describes what you are going to test.Follow the guidelines of the assignment or fair to know if you need an abstract or a hypothesis section.
A hypothesis must accurately describe what is to be tested in the experiment, and what the expected outcome is. For example, a statement such as “The baking soda will react with the vinegar in a neutralization reaction, evolving gasses and building pressure inside the volcano replica. This pressure will cause fluid to spew from the top of the replica.”

, Whether you have a hypothesis section or your hypothesis is included in your abstract, you will still need to justify why you are doing this experiment. This justification comes from showing literature where others have done similar experiments that suggest that your experiment might be of interest. Gather scientific materials related to your project and post them in the literature section on your board.


Cite previous experiments that indicate that there is a reason to expect the results that your hypothesis predicts. For example, you could cite a lab experiment that states that acids and bases give off gas when they neutralize each other to support the hypothesis that baking soda and vinegar will go through such a reaction.
 The experimental (or procedure) section will detail what you actually did. In this section, you should show the steps you took (in order) and note any significant details such as changes in color, bubbling gases, etc. The procedure section is often the largest section., In any experiment, you will use some materials. This section allows you to detail the resources that you used and display them. This is important to show that you understood the products and steps involved in your project, and it makes it easier for anyone interested to replicate the experiment., The results section should detail what happened during the experiment. Any data that can be shown on charts or graphs should be added to the board in that way. Visuals such as charts and graphs allow visitors to quickly understand your results., Your conclusion should tell the reader why your results matter. The conclusions section is not a place to regurgitate your results, but instead you should expand upon them. You can even describe how your results might be relevant to future projects or other areas of science., You should start in the top corner of the leftmost panel. Place sections down the left side, until you get to the bottom. Move to the center panel and do the same. Place your last sections in the rightmost panel moving from top to bottom., Your introductory section should come first (either the abstract or hypothesis). Next, you should show your literature that justifies the experiment. Follow the literature with the experimental procedures and materials used. End the project with the results and conclusions sections.
 The abstract/hypothesis and literature sections should be on the leftmost panel. Your work is highlighted in the procedure and materials sections that should be placed in the center panel. Your results and conclusion should be placed on the right panel to conclude the board., Your title is the attention getter for the entire project. It should be displayed in large letters in the top center of the board. This will maximize the visibility of your project., You want to use good combinations of colors, for example, white and green go well together.You also want your fonts to vary a little. For example, the board’s title should have the largest font, the section titles should be the next largest, and the sections themselves should be typed in the smallest font on the board.All fonts should be easily readable. If the font is too small or unclear, this will discourage people from reading the information.
Use bullet lists, multiple paragraphs, and white space on your board to avoid an overwhelming amount of text.
 Use a gluestick and trace the perimeter of each item that you will glue to the board. This will help keep corners from pulling away from the board. Press the items firmly onto the board in the place you want them.If you prefer not to use glue, it may sometimes be acceptable to tack items to the board.
Double sided tape is a good way to stick on things that do not stick well with glue.
 Pictures will help make your project stand out. Choose photos that are relevant to your experiment, or take your own photos during the experiment. Be sure to read the rules regarding photos. Sometimes, you will be required to provide sources for every photo. You may or may not be allowed to use photos that include yourself (or other people)., Again, read the rules first. Your lab equipment can provide a hands on component to the experiment, but it isn’t always allowed. If you used several different pieces of equipment, only bring one or two pieces that are interesting and appropriately sized to fit in front of your board without distracting visitors from your project., Having a notebook is sometimes optional, but other times it is required during the judging process. Your notebook is the first hand account of your experiments and should be kept tediously. Have it with you in case you need to refer back to it to answer a question or provide additional details.