 In addition to toys, making your pet’s home environment more interesting can keep him occupied when you’re not home. For example, leave music on for him when you leave the house. Classical music works well for dogs and cats.Choose music that is soothing, such as music with a piano or stringed instruments. Music with loud or percussive instruments, like trumpets or drums, could get your pet worked up.Talk radio is another option. Just make sure it doesn’t involve people shouting at each other.For birds, you could play a CD of bird calls or other natural sounds. Make sure the bird calls are not coming from birds of prey—this could agitate your bird.Consider leaving your television on for your pet. This can be especially entertaining for pet birds, since they could learn to mimic human speech.As with the radio and other music, keep the TV on a channel without loud or agitating noises.
 A ‘fun zone’ is a specific area that is full of fun things for your pet to do during the day. This area does not need to be a separate room. It could be a corner of a room, or maybe just a particular window.For your bird, you could construct a play stand in his cage to keep his toy stash (e.g, foraging toys, shredding toys).Potential items for your cat’s fun zone are a multi-level cat tree,a windowsill perch,and scratching posts.Putting a bird feeder outside the window could keep your cat entertained for hours when she sits on her perch.Along with some of your dog’s favorite toys, place a homemade ‘busy bucket’ in your dog’s fun zone. In a sturdy plastic or aluminum bucket, make repeating layers of treats, toys, then a towel. Your dog will have fun sifting through the bucket and playing with (and eating) what he finds., Other than the play stand, there are different ways to enrich your bird’s cage. For example, you can place different types of perches in his cage. Pick perches of varying diameters, from 1/2 inch to 5/8 inches.Select perches made of different textures and materials to keep his feet healthy.If your bird has a long tail, place the perches high enough to prevent his tail from rubbing against the cage wires.Consider moving the perches around occasionally to give your bird a chance to look at something different in your home.Mirrors can be another good addition to your bird’s cage. Be aware, though, that your bird may end up bonding with the mirror instead of you., If you have a fish, you may not have given much thought to keeping him busy during the day. Adding some variety and changing things around can give your fish something new to explore in his tank when you are not home. For example, you could change the location of some of items in his tank,like the plants and caves.


You could also add some new items to his tank,or replace some of the old ones. To keep your fish healthy, make sure the items are nontoxic.They should also be free of sharp edges that could damage his fins.

