 It's very important to wash your face before you go on your makeup adventure. Your face must be as convincing as possible for the rest of your look to succeed.


It's important to wash your face as thoroughly as possible. If your face is oily, the makeup won't stick as well. Wash and dry your face completely.
 With a makeup sponge, apply a thin, even coat of base on your face, neck, and ears. Don't just stop at the chin, because everyone will see that your neck is a different color from your face. The base coat shouldn't be your own skin color.


Usually older people are a bit paler. Just go two or three shades paler than your normal base. You may also consider going one shade darker, if that's what your character might look like.
 Look in the mirror as you wrinkle your face. Scrunch your forehead. Notice your natural wrinkles. You should add highlight and shadow to these. With a dark brown makeup pencil or small brush, draw a thin line just above each wrinkle .


Start in the middle and work outward. Just like the wrinkles on your head, your shadow line should be thicker in the center and fade out at the ends.
Do the same thing below the dark line with a lighter brown color. When you're done with your forehead, make crows feet at the outside corners of your eyes.
Scrunch your mouth and nose, and highlight and shadow those wrinkles as well.
Gently run your finger around the wrinkles to blend them in.
 Take a darker brown or purple and gently brush in a shadow above your eyes. Then add another shadow below your eyes, in the area where you'd have a black eye.


These should be as subtle as your wrinkles, and nicely blended out on the edges. You can add a highlight under your eyes, and in the corner of your eyes to help them stand out and Outline with darker color bags under the eyes.
 You can paint your lips with your base color if you want, or go lighter or darker. Many old people will not have any pinkish color in their lips.


Once the base is applied to the lips, take your shadow color and add several vertical lines on your upper and lower lips, to make them seem wrinkled. Purse your lips to get an idea of where to put them.
These lines can extend past your lips if you want to look really old, but don't make them go more than 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) past. Be selective and don't make an even pattern.
 With everything you do, remember that to make something three dimensional, you simply need to apply the appropriate highlight and shadow.


Remember that light usually comes from above, so highlight accordingly. Wrinkles are highlighted on the bottom because that's where the light would hit them. At the same time, a wart would have highlight on the top.
You might also want to use a darker or lighter color on a stipple sponge or brush to give parts of your skin a little more texture.
 Use powder on a puff to apply a light coat of translucent powder to your entire face and neck. After that, splash cold water on your face and blot dry with a paper towel or cloth.



Do not rub your face dry. This will set your makeup and let it last a bit longer without coming off on your clothes or hands as much. It will still come off, so be careful.
If you want to look like a woman, after you're done, put on bright lipstick or purple or blue eye shadow, as well as some blush.
 Now that you look like an old person, take care of your old face while you put the rest of your outfit together.


Try not to smile or laugh too much until you're ready to bring your outfit into the world.
When you put your clothes on, be careful not to smear your face. If you're wearing something tight that won't easily wear over your face, put it on before you do the makeup.
For the most part, though, putting on your clothes afterwards works best because you won't accidentally ruin the clothes with your makeup.

