 Habits play an important role in our lives but can also leave us stuck in a rut. Personal growth comes from trying new things, and can also improve both mental and physical health.You can channel your anxiety over feeling stuck into productiveness and confidence.


Change up your normal routine occasionally. Attempting something new such as trying a new restaurant with friends or attending a concert by a band you don’t regularly listen to will help shake you out of your comfort zone, reenergize, and find new inspiration.
 Plan for the unexpected and distract yourself with constructive activities to avoid feeling as though you cannot move forward.Treat setbacks as opportunities to learn — use them as an opportunity to gain new perspective and be creative. A failed attempt at something only means that one method didn't work, so what are some other ways you might approach the problem?For example, maybe you sent the manuscript for your novel to 15 agents and they all said no. What if you self-published and started your own aggressive marketing campaign? What if you found an internship at a literary agency and learned, from the inside, what agents are looking for, all the while making contacts with people in publishing? What if you started going to readings and get to know other people in the writing community with whom you can network? Remind yourself there's no single approach to any problem.
 Feeling in control of your life can encourage personal development.Try to engage in activities that give you a sense of control over your life and a sense of purpose.


Travel, try a new sport, or take class to enhance the feeling of being able to conquer any mental or physical challenge.
Stretch your limits. Attempting to accomplish something difficult like running a marathon or writing a novel can help you feel a sense of mastery over your destiny., Meeting new friends can help galvanize you into trying new activities or learning new things. New friendships also have mental and physical benefits that can enhance your quality of life.Attend local meetings of book clubs, sports teams, or interest groups to meet a variety of people.
Join a volunteer organization. While working toward a common goal of fundraising or service work, you’ll enjoy meeting and working with others in a more casual setting.
 Reaching your full potential and moving past psychological deadlocks requires challenging yourself. Work to become knowledgeable with ideas that are unfamiliar to you. Expanding your thought process with new intellectual pursuits can spark creativity and push your boundaries for the better.Expand your alternatives. Change direction and use new approaches to solve problems, even if you are unsure of the outcome. Thinking through multiple solutions can help you conceptualize all the parameters of what is holding you back.Set high expectations for projects or deadlines, and work to meet and exceed them.

