 Line up the numbers so the 2 is above the 7, the 5 is above the 4, and so on. In this method, we'll learn how to add integers that are too large to do in your head or on a number line.


Write a + to the left of the bottom number, and a line underneath it, just as you probably learned to do for smaller addition problems.
 It might seem a little odd to start from the right, since when reading numbers we start from the left. We have to add in this order to get the right answer, though, as you'll see later on.


Underneath the two numbers to the right, 3 and 1, write what you get when you add them together: 4.
 Moving left, you'll add 0+6, 5+4, and 2+7. Write the answers below each pair of numbers.


You should end up with the answer to the problem: 9,964. Check your work if you made a mistake.
 You should notice something different as soon as add the first pair of numbers on the right. 7+5 equals 12, a two digit number, but you can only write one digit beneath that column. Keep reading to find out what to do, and why you always need to start on the right instead of the left.
 7+5=12, but you shouldn't put both the 1 and the 2 underneath the bottom line. Instead, put the last digit, 2, underneath the line and put the first digit, 1, above the column to the left, 5+3.


If you're curious about how this works, think about what dividing the 1 and 2 means. You've actually split 12 into 10 and 2. You can write the full 10 above the numbers if you want, and you'll see that the 1 lines up with the 5 and 3, just like before.
 You now have three digits to add for this number, since you added a 1 to this column. The answer is 9, so your answer so far should be 92.
 Keep moving left until you've added all the numbers, in this case just one more column. Your final answer should be 992.


You can try more complicated problems, like 974+568. Remember, each time you get a two digit number, only write the last digit as the answer, and put the other digit above the column to the left, the one you'll add together next. If the last column ends up with a two digit number, you can just write it as your answer.
See the Tips section for an answer to the problem 974+568 after you try to solve it.

