 The problem with diagnosing adrenal gland disease is that vets aren't sure why it occurs in the first place. This makes it impossible to develop a single test that gives a definitive answer as whether baldness is specifically due adrenal gland disease or some other problem., The vet has to rule out all other problems which could cause hair loss. This means conducting an extensive array of tests searching for specific conditions, which can then be confirmed or crossed off the list. Once all these tests are done, and if they all come back negative, then the condition is likely to be adrenal gland disease.Adrenal gland disease is a diagnosis of exclusion, which means all other possible causes of hair loss have to be crossed off the list in order to diagnose the condition.
Many of the symptoms of adrenal gland disease, like hair loss, can be due to more serious diseases, such as Cushing's Disease.Alopecia X is not threatening, but other adrenal gland diseases can be serious if left untreated. This is why taking your dog to the vet is so important.
 The vet may want to run some or all of the following tests, which will prove or rule out other conditions which may be similar to adrenal gland disease. The tests include:Thyroid blood test
Adrenal hormone test
A urinalysis
Abdominal ultrasound
Skin scrapes
Skin biopsy
Screening blood tests

, When your dog gets this condition, know that it is a cosmetic condition. Your dog will not be in any pain. If your vet has ruled out any other underlying condition, then your dog can live a happy life with the condition., Most treatments for Alopecia X focus on helping the dog grow the coat back, but they are trial and error. Many adrenal gland problems are caused by hormonal imbalances, so dogs may be spayed or neutered. If this is not an option, melatonin therapy may be suggested.Other treatment options may be available if these don't work. However, they can cause adverse reactions, so the adverse health effects need to be considered next to the cosmetic benefits.

