 One of the typical reasons for Aloe vera plant death is root rot. In order to determine if this is the case, you need to first take the plant out of its pot.Loosely hold the base of the plant and the bottom of your pot. Tip the pot upside down, and continue holding the plant with your other hand. Hit the bottom of the pot with your hand or knock it against a table ledge (or other hard surface).Depending on the size of your plant, you may need another person to help you. One person should hold the plant base with both hands, while the other person tips the pot upside down and hits the bottom.. You might also find it helpful to jostle the pot back and forth until the plant comes loose.
If you still have difficulties removing your plant with two sets of hands, you can run a trowel or knife around the interior of the pot and try releasing it again, or push some of the soil out through the drainage holes in the bottom of the pot. If your plant still does not come out of the pot, you may need to break your pot, but this is a last resort.While releasing the Aloe Vera plant from its pot, be sure that you are keeping the plant itself as steady as possible. All the movement should be centered on the pot, not the plant itself. In other words, hold, don’t pull, the plant. Hitting the bottom of the pot will keep your roots intact, and gravity will push the plant downward.;
, Examine the roots and determine how many of the roots are still healthy. Mushy roots are characteristic of root rot and need to be removed.Any roots that aren’t black or mushy are good and can be kept.


If you see a lot of healthy roots and only a section of dead or mushy roots, you can likely save your plant without too much trouble, but you’ll need to cut away the damaged roots.You can use a sharp, sterilized knife to cut away the dead roots,but make sure to get them all.
If you notice that the majority of your plant has damaged roots, it will take a little more effort to save the plant, and it may be beyond saving. In this case, you can try to save the plant by removing the largest leaves (with a knife). Cut away about half of the plant. This method is risky. However, with fewer leaves to nourish, the small amount of undamaged roots can better direct nutrients throughout the plant., Any excess soil will hold water and could cause root rot in the future, so a smaller pot is better than a larger one.The roots of Aloe vera plants grow horizontally, rather than vertically. Aloe vera plants can also become quite heavy, and the weight of the plant can cause a narrow pot to tip over. Thus, select a wide pot, rather than a deep or narrow pot.The pot you choose should also have plenty of drainage holes on the bottom so that excess water does not sit in the soil.A plastic pot is best if you live in a dryer climate, while a pot made from terra cotta or clay is best for cooler or humid areas., This type of soil has a higher sand content and produces a well-draining environment for your plant. You can find this type of soil easily at your local garden center.You can also create your own soil mix for your Aloe vera plant by mixing equal parts of sand, gravel or pumice, and soil.Be sure to use a coarse sand (like builder’s sand), rather than a fine sand. Fine sand can clump and hold water, rather than allowing it to drain down and through the pot.Although you can use potting soil for Aloe vera plants, they will thrive better in a mixed soil.Potting soil is more likely to hold moisture and could therefore cause root rot.
 Prepare the pot by filling it with the potting soil mixture, and shake your Aloe vera plant gently to remove about a third of the soil that has attached itself to the root ball.Place your plant in the newly prepared pot and cover the top with more of the potting soil mixture. Be sure that the entire root ball is covered with the soil mixture , but don't bury the plant deeper than it was in the first pot.You can also layer small rocks or gravel on the top of the soil, which helps reduce the evaporation of water., Your Aloe vera plant needs a few days to readjust to its new pot and to repair any broken roots.