 One of the first steps you’ll need to take when establishing your business is to purchase the appropriate equipment or software.


Purchase a computer or computers that can run demanding CAD software. This computer should have a fast processor, solid graphics card, and at least 8 gigs of ram.
Buy licensing rights to CAD software.
Make sure to have sketch pads, writing utensils, and other relevant equipment you’ll need to do preliminary draft work off your computer.;
, There are a variety of specializations that your new business may be able to focus on. Because of this, you need to decide ahead of time what segment of the industry you want to focus on. Consider:


Residential and custom work.
Commercial.
Landscape design., Another important initial step you need to take is to investigate your competition. By knowing your competition, you’ll get a better idea of what challenges and opportunities you face in the marketplace.


Make a list of all of the drafting services in your area.
Research the types of services they offer.
Read reviews or ask friends and associates about their experience with other drafting services.
Based on gaps or strengths of the competition in your area, consider offering specific services. For instance, if there is a shortage of firms that offer landscape design services in your area, make sure you offer those services., A business plan provides you with an outline of how to start and operate your business. In addition, it will serve as a prospectus you can present to others if you are looking for partners or financing. Ultimately, whether your goal is to start a small business where you’ll do most of the work or a larger business where you’ll employ a number of people, you will need a business plan.


The first part of your business plan includes an executive summary. The summary provides an overview of your business plan.
Include a market analysis with information about the drafting service industry and research you've done on your competition.
The third part of your plan includes a description of your business. Although you don't want to go into extensive detail, you'll want to include different elements of what your drafting service offers.
Include your marketing strategy and how you're going to obtain customers in the marketing and sales portion of the plan.
Focus on the details of your plan in the section devoted to your product line or services. Provide specifics of what drafting services you officer, such as creating plans for commercial builders.
Include estimates on funding needed to start the drafting business and to sustain your operations over 3, 6, and 12 months., By forming social connections with other professionals, you’ll be able to make friends and associates who’ll be able to refer customers to you. Ultimately, networking with other professionals from various industries is the best way to get work.


Attend chamber of commerce meetings in your area.
Go to trade conferences and conventions for relevant industries in your area.
Consider networking with: architects, professionals in the construction industry, and professionals in the real estate industry., While networking is a great way to get business, you’ll also want to place advertisements in print media. By advertising in print, you’ll reach a larger area and get the word of your business out to people you don’t know. Consider advertising in:


Trade magazines of related industries.
Local newspapers.
Community newsletters and magazines., Social media is also an excellent method of getting the word out about your new drafting business. Not only will you be able to connect your other social connections, but you’ll reach a wider audience than just mere word of mouth or even print media. Use websites like:


LinkedIn.
Facebook.
Twitter., Before you can even start a drafting service, you need to complete the appropriate education. Without education you won’t know the standards, methods, and techniques of the drafting industry. Consider:


A technical certificate in drafting. Contact a local community college or an online educator for details.
A four-year bachelor’s degree in design and drafting.
A graduate degree in design and drafting., Another great way to gain the experience you’ll need to start your drafting business is by working for a successful drafting company. By working for a drafting company, you’ll see the ins-and-outs of the business and build a base on which to create your own service.


Secure an internship at a design and drafting firm. Such internships might be available through your college or university.
Apply for a full-time position with a leading design and drafting service in your town or city.
Find a full-time position in a relevant trade or industry, such as construction or architecture., Try to find a business mentor who’ll be able to give you guidance about the problems and opportunities of the drafting business. Your mentor will serve as a go-to person whenever you have questions. In addition, they’ll you’ll benefit from the years of experience they have running a business.


Look for a business professional who works in the drafting industry, but doesn't own a business. Typically, you want someone who has retired and/or owned a drafting business.
You can also ask a professional who owns a drafting service. However, the individual should own a business outside of your area.
Ask the professional to evaluate your business plan for any weaknesses or potential problems.
Ask the professional for any advice regarding starting and sustaining a drafting service.