 There are a number of medicated treatments and dermatological procedures available to you, but in order to know which is appropriate for you and your skin, you should consult an expert. Inappropriate use of any products or procedures could cause permanent skin damage and scarring.


Talk to your doctor about oral medications if your acne is moderate to severe. These can include oral antibiotics, oral contraceptive pills for women, and isotretinoin (Accutane). These medications are used only under a doctor's supervision.
 Retinoid skin creams brighten and heal the skin and can be purchased both over-the-counter and with prescription.Retinoids remove dead skin cells and help cells turn over more rapidly and avoid clogging in the process. They also promote collagen growth, which improves skin tone and elasticity. Results include improved smoothness of the skin and reduced discoloration and blotchiness.Retinoid creams are also excellent in treating and preventing blackheads.
For an over-the-counter cream, try RoC Retinol Correxion Instant Facial Smoother. Creams requiring prescription include Differin, Tazorac or Retin-A Micro.Retinoid creams are usually applied at night after the face is washed and dried. Within a few weeks of consistent use, you should be able to see a significant reduction in acne lesions as well as an improvement in the overall health of the skin., If your scar or acne lesions are red or swollen, cortisone creams can help calm your skin and reduce inflammation as they are absorbed by the skin cells. Cortisone is a corticosteroid hormone that reduces our body's natural defensive responses and symptoms such as swelling, itchiness, and allergic reactions. These creams can be purchased without a prescription at most drug stores and pharmacies.You should only apply cortisone creams to your skin for a few days at a time, not long-term.
 Scars often darken the skin, so you may want to lighten these areas. Look for creams with ingredients such as Kojic acid (a natural skin lightener that comes from mushroom extract), arbutin (also known as bearberry extract), and vitamin C.Hydroquinone use to be a popular ingredient in fading creams but is recommended less frequently now. It can also cause grey pigmentation in the skin., In a chemical peel, a chemical solution is applied to the skin and allowed to soak in. Within one to two weeks, the skin peels off. The goal is to cause a controlled injury to the skin in order to simulate the growth of new skin, which in turn improves your skin's surface and appearance. For example, areas that were discolored or darkened by acne will likely even out and brighten.The mildest type of peel is a glycolic acid peel that works to lighten up dark spots. It can be applied to all skin types.There are many other peel options that can be tailored to your skin needs. Other common ingredients include salicylic acid, lactic acid, trichloroacetic acid (TCA), and kojic acid.
Though you can purchase chemical peels over the counter, this is not advisable. There is too much room for error and serious injury to your skin if the procedure is not done by a professional.Consult your doctor to decide whether a peel is appropriate for your skin type and condition., If your scars don't fade away on their own, you may one to consider laser or filler treatments. In one to three separate sessions, laser skin resurfacing can even out the surface of the skin and help increase the formation of new collagen, which is key to filling in acne scars. Research has suggested that laser technology can help reduce redness and the size of scars.Alternatively, filler injections can help fill in acne scars. These injections generally require treatments every six to 12 months, but there are newer fillers that may even provide permanent results.


To get these treatments, you will need to consult your dermatologist since they will need to be performed in a dermatologist's office.
 This procedure is a recent cosmetic innovation, used as an efficient alternative to invasive treatments (such as chemical peeling and laser resurfacing) to improve skin health and reduce scarring. Generally, it is a machine-assisted exfoliating treatment that utilizes tiny rough grains or crystal scrubs, such as sodium chloride and aluminum oxide, to remove the top few layers of skin and dead skin cells.Because it produces only a superficial depth of skin removal, it is best used to treat skin with minor or superficial scars. You may need multiple or regular treatments for the best results. Results can be temporary, since your skin regenerates quickly, or they can be long lasting and cumulative.

