 These lures are quite versatile. You can use them in light vegetation, rocky bottoms, shallow flats, and through bushes and grass.


Many crankbaits include rattles that helps bass find the bait.
Another good feature to look for on a crankbait is very visible eyes. Glowing eyes seem to work best as predatory fish target the eyes when striking.
Crankbaits come either lipless or with a lip and each is effective dependant on depth and the speed at which you reel.
 Use lipless crankbaits if you’re fishing in 1 foot of water or if you’re fishing as deep as 50 feet. You will have to reel faster or use a lighter lure in shallow water, whereas you will reel slower or use a heavier lure when fishing deeper water.Use a specific lipped crankbait depending on the depth of the water because they are classified as shallow, medium or deep diving based on a 10 pound nylon monofilament or fluorocarbon line.Use square bill crankbaits or crankbaits with round, stubby lips and sharp angled off noses when fishing for bass in shallow water, around wood or rock.Deploy medium-diving crankbaits when fishing in a 5-10 foot range. If you’re fishing 12 feet or deeper, use deep-diving crankbaits.
 Lipless crankbaits can easily be ripped out of grass or bumped along a clean bottom whereas a lipped crankbait will hit something and kick outwards because the lip acts as a deflector.Use lipped crankbaits when fishing through wood cover like tree limbs or stumps.
 The shape of your crankbait determines how much movement you will get, which is important depending on the temperature of the water as bass are less active in colder temperatures.


With a more rounded-bodied crankbait you’ll get a wide wobble that is attractive to bass that are aggressive, usually when water is warmer; in contrast, a flat crankbait with narrow sides will have a tighter wiggle that is more appealing to bass in cold water who won’t react to large movements., Pair the correct size of line with your crankbait according to how deep you want the bait to run.


For example, use a 10 pound fluorocarbon line to lighten up a deep diving crankbait or you can use the same 10 pound fluorocarbon line to get a medium diving cranbait to stay at its deepest range., Crankbaits come in the full spectrum of colours but stick to the basics of bass fishing. Choose bright shad patterns, dull shad patterns, bluegills, crawfish, and contrasting patterns.Shad patterns work well in bright sunlight with the more muted patterns becoming more effective in cloudy but clear water.Crawfish works well in the spring as well as for bass in shallow water.
Bluegill works well for bass that are feeding on bream during their post spawn period or if they are around docks.

