 Elm leaves alternate along two sides of the stem. The leaf is oval in shape and comes to a point at the end. The edges of the leaf are jagged and the veins are prominent. The base of the leaf is slightly asymmetrical.Many varieties of elm leaves are smooth on top and fuzzy on the bottom.The leaves of an American elm are typically 10-15 centimeters (4-6 inches) long.Leaves of the English Elm are usually ten centimeters (four inches) long and seven centimeters (two and a half inches) wide. They sport 10 to 12 veins.European White Elms have up to 17 veins on the front of the leaf and 14 on the bottom.;
, The bark of an elm is rough and coarse, with intersecting ridges. The color is a light grey to dark greyish-brown. The bark will be deeply furrowed.The Siberian elm is an exception, and often has exfoliated bark that is green or orange in color.
The bark on the European White Elm, unlike most other species, remains smooth even into maturity.Cedar elms have lighter purplish-grey bark than most other varieties.
 Mature elms reach a height of about 35 meters (115 feet) with a trunk diameter of around 175 centimeters (68 inches).Depending on the species or cultivar, they can reach 9 to 18 meters (30-59 feet) in width. Many American species of elm will actually become larger, with some growing to 39 meters (128 feet) in height and 37 meters (121 feet) in width.


Elms will usually have a vase or fountain shape., Elm trees often have split or branching trunks.There might be two or more trunks branching up and away from the main trunk.If you see a tree with a single, central vertical trunk, it is not an elm., Use the location of the tree to determine if it could be an elm. Different varieties of elms grow in different places. For instance, American elms are common in the eastern half of the United States, from the Rocky Mountains eastward.They are less common west of the Rockies, though the can be found in California.


Siberian elms (also known as the Asiatic, Lacebark, or Chinese elm) are common in Central Asia, Mongolia China, Siberia, India, and Korea.
European elms are common across Europe. Before Dutch elm disease arrived, English elms were also common across Europe, but they are now confined primarily to Portugal, France, Spain, and England.
If you know there are many elm trees in a certain area and the tree matches approximate descriptions of elm trees, you probably have an elm tree. Look for areas likely to contain thriving elm trees.
Elms adapt to a variety of climates and planting situations, including poor or mildly salty soil, extreme cold, atmospheric pollution, and drought.However, they prefer areas that are in full sun to part shade with well-drained, but moist, soil.

