 Chamomile is a herb commonly used to help relieve anxiety, nausea, and insomnia. Drinking a warm cup of chamomile tea before bedtime can help you get a comfortable, full night’s sleep, reducing daytime drowsiness. To make chamomile tea, steep a tablespoon (2–3 grams) of dried chamomile flowers in 1 cup of boiling water for 10 minutes, then strain and drink before going to bed.


Ask your doctor before using chamomile if you are taking other medications or herbs for insomnia, if you have low blood pressure or if you are pregnant.
Avoid chamomile if you are allergic to flowers in the daisy family., Lemon balm is a herb often used to reduce anxiety and promote sleep. It is also often combined with other calming, soothing herbs, such as valerian and chamomile to help promote relaxation. Lemon balm is available as a dietary capsule supplement with a recommendation of 300 to 500 mg tablet that should be taken three times daily, or as needed.


To make your own tea using lemon balm, steep one teaspoon of dried lemon balm in a cup of boiling water for five minutes, then strain and drink before sleeping.
Pregnant or breastfeeding women and those with hyperthyroidism should consult with a doctor before using lemon balm., Valerian is a popular alternative to prescription medications for anxiety and insomnia. It is considered safe and gentle and it helps reduce these conditions. It can help you fall asleep faster and improve the quality of sleep you get each night. To help improve sleep, make valerian tea by steeping 1 teaspoon of dried root in 1 cup of boiling water for 10 minutes. Drink a cup before bedtime.


Valerian is also available as a powdered and fluid extract.
Do not take valerian without consulting your doctor if you are taking other prescription medications or herbs for sleeping problems and depression. Also ask your doctor before giving valerian to a child., Narcolepsy can often put you at risk of experiencing anxiety and depression. St. John’s wort is a herb used to treat mild to moderate depression. It is available as a liquid extract, capsules, tablets, and commercial teas. Ask your doctor which form will be right for you. Supplements typically have 0.3% concentration of hypericin, which is one of the active compounds in the herb. Take a 300mg dose of this supplements three times a day. It may take three to four weeks to show significant improvements.


Don’t stop taking St. John’s wort all at once, because that may cause unpleasant side effects. Gradually lower the dose before stopping.
St. John’s wort should not be used to treat severe depression. If you experience thoughts of aggression or suicide, call 911 or see a doctor immediately.
If you feel drowsy or experience sleep attacks more frequently, discontinue use.
People with attention deficit disorder and bipolar disorder should not use St. John’s wort.
Do not use St. John’s wort if you are taking medications such as antidepressants, sedatives, birth control pills or allergy drugs. Pregnant and breastfeeding women should also not use St. John’s wort., Rosemary is a common garden herb that can help reduce bouts of narcolepsy by improving memory and concentration. Try using rosemary in your food for a period of three to four months to have fewer bouts of narcolepsy. Rosemary may improve circulation and enhance digestion as well, which can increase the alertness of the mind.


Total daily intake, whether added as flavoring to meals or used as a dietary capsule supplement, should not exceed four to six grams.
Rosemary may cause dehydration and hypotension (low blood pressure). High doses of rosemary can induce seizures in rare cases. It should only be used with recommendation from your healthcare provider.