 Instead of saying to yourself, “Well, that article didn’t turn out the way I wanted it to,” you should say, “The article wasn’t perfect, but I did my best and I’m proud of that. Others will surely appreciate my hard work.”


Stay aware of your own negative thoughts. When you think, “I’m so dumb,” stop yourself and envision that thought as a red balloon. Picture the words written on the side of the balloon.
Imagine yourself letting the balloon go. Watch it float up into nothingness, never to return.
Then, imagine hundreds of blue balloons descending, each with a positive mantra written on it, such as, “I am a winner.”

, Your temper might interfere with your ability to form friendships with others. Learn to take control of your emotions and don’t let them control you.Before you say or do something out of anger, think about how you’d feel if someone said or did the same to you. Breathe in slowly through your nose, then exhale through your mouth for slightly longer than it took you to inhale.
Find a positive outlet for your frustration and anger. Go for a run or ride your bike. Take up a martial art. Any kind of exercise is a good way to blow off steam.
Look for alternatives to violence, yelling, or other angry reactions. In the end, these reactions will not solve the problem or situation that inspired them. If someone said something rude to you, for instance, express your feelings in a mature way. Say, “I don’t like the way you’re treating me. You owe me an apology.”

, Learn to identify self-defeating or critical thoughts and feelings and challenge them wherever possible.The quickest way to disprove the lie that you have nothing of value to offer is to pursue your hobbies and interests. Whatever it is you love doing, continue doing it. The more your practice, the better you’ll get. After about 10,000 hours of practice doing something, you will have attained mastery in that particular hobby or skill. Having an exceptional talent can increase feelings of confidence and self-worth.
Provide encouragement for yourself. Every day when you wake, look in the mirror and say, “I have a life worth living and many people like me.”
Surround yourself with friend who care about you. Lean on them for support when you’re feeling blue.
 Children who are bullied or neglected by their parents are vulnerable to exploitation by others who give them the attention and validation they crave.Stay away from gangs, terrorist organizations, and cults, especially those that adopt a family-like structure. As a child of parents who treat your siblings better than they treat you, you might be lured by promises of love and affection. However, these arrangements are always temporary and designed with an eye on future benefits for the one who offers the apparent love and affection.


Remember, real love is given selflessly, without any expectation of anything in return.
 However, it is important to recognize that your parents alone are responsible for their behavior.


Your sibling has nothing to do with their attitude toward you. Maintain a positive, healthy relationship with your sibling.If your sibling is old enough to understand what’s going on, talk to them about how your parents are mistreating you. Seek their advice and encourage them to speak up on your behalf.
 Children of parents who show favoritism to another child often have a hard time in school.Find a well-lit, quiet place to study. Do all your homework each night, and use a daily planner to schedule time for yourself to review for tests, write essays, and complete important projects ahead of time.


Stay organized. There are many apps available for your phone and tablet to help you better manage your time and keep track of your assignments. The Complete Class Organizer and iHomework are among the best.
Attend all your classes and take notes in each class.
Ask questions when you are confused or don’t understand something.
 Depression -- a persistent feeling of sadness and a lack of energy -- is a common side effect in children who were regularly treated poorly in comparison to their siblings.A common course of treatment will combine antidepressants with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).


CBT is a therapeutic method that helps you confront your negative thoughts directly and identify counterexamples to construct a logical case against feelings of depression.CBT helps you focus on your feelings and experiences in the here and now in order to develop healthy coping mechanisms to change your depressive thought patterns into more positive ones.
If you believe you have depression, consult a therapist to help you get on the road to recovery.

