 Shoes that are too large can hurt just as much as shoes that are too small. Large shoes won't offer you enough support and cause your foot to move around too much, leading to chafing and scrunched toes. Shoes that are too small will leave your feet feeling cramped and aching at the end of the day. Fortunately, it is possible to stretch shoes out a little bit; it is also possible to fill shoes in to make them smaller.


Keep in mind that some materials are easier to stretch than others.
 They will provide extra cushioning inside your shoe and prevent your foot from wriggling around too much.
 A heel grip is an oval-shaped cushion with adhesive on one side. It can be made from gel or foam covered with moleskin. Simply peel the backing off the heel grip, and stick it to the inside of your shoe, right where the heel is. It will add extra cushioning to the back of the shoe, which will prevent your heel from getting chafed and keep your foot in place.
 If your new loafers or work shoes are too large and your toes keep sliding forward and getting scrunched, try filling out the toe area with some lambswool. This breathable, airy material will be more comfortable and less-likely to wad up, like tissue.You can also try using some cotton balls.
 A shoe tree can either maintain the shape of your shoe or stretch it out, depending on the length or width of the tree. Insert the shoe tree into your shoe in between wearings. This technique works best for leather and suede, but will not work on rubber or plastic.
 Spray your shoe with some shoe stretching spray, then tuck the stretcher into you shoe. All shoe stretchers are going to be a little bit different, but most will have a handle and a knob. The knob will adjust the length and the handle will adjust the width. Keep turning the handle and knob until the shoe material is snug, then leave the stretcher in the shoe for six to eight hours. Once the time is up, turn the handle and knob the other way (to make the shoe stretcher smaller) and pull the stretcher out of your shoe. This is a great option for too-large loafers and work shoes.


There are different types of shoe stretchers available, including ones for high heels. A two-way stretcher might be the most useful, as it can stretch both the width and the length of your shoe.
Some shoe stretches have attachments for ailments like bunions. Insert these attachments before using the shoe stretcher.
Shoe stretchers can only break in shoes and loosen them so that they do not feel so snug or tight; they cannot make your shoe whole size bigger.
Shoe stretchers work best on natural materials, such as leather and suede. They may work on certain types of fabric, but will not be very effective on synthetics and plastics.
 Doing so will give your toes more room to move, which may reduce squeezing and soreness throughout the foot. Stretching only works with shoes made of leather and suede, however. If you have an expensive pair of dress shoes that you don't want to ruin by stretching yourself, this is a good alternative.
 You can do this by filling two Ziploc bags partway with water and sealing them tightly so that there is no air left inside the bags and the water doesn't slosh out. Plop each bag into the toe of each shoe and stick both shoes into the freezer. Leave the shoes there until the ice freezes, then take them out. Pull the bags out of the shoe, then slip the shoes on. The shoes will conform to your foot shape as they warm back up.This helps stretch shoes out to some extent because water expands as it freezes.
This will only work on natural materials, such as leather, suede, and fabric. It may not have much effect on plastics and pleather.
Keep in mind that if your leather or suede shoes become damp, you may see some staining. Consider wrapping your shoe with a towel to protect it.

