 By default, Facebook does not have a mechanism that allows you to input static HTML on your profile. In order to use HTML coding, you will need to add a Facebook app designed to display static HTML or FBML boxes.Do a Facebook search for "HTML box" or "FBML box." Several apps should pop up in the search results.
Quickly review an app before you install it. Look in the "About" section to verify that it will do what you want it to do, and do a quick Internet search to verify that the app is legitimate instead of being a scam. Search something along the lines of "App Name legitimate" or "App Name scam."
Since these applications do not strictly violate Facebook policy, they are not usually banned unless proven to be spam.
Once the app is installed, you can place the stat counter code inside the HTML or FBML box it displays.;
, There is no single HTML code that will generate a generic page counter.As a result, you will need to do an Internet search for "free HTML page counter" or "free HTML statistics counter."


Review the terms of the counter service carefully before using it. Make sure that it does not require any personal information, including login information for your Facebook account, and make sure that it is 100% free.
Know which sort of HTML to look for. A CGI script is the best option. These scripts display a graphic counter that changes each time someone views your page.
Avoid PHP counters, since these typically require you to save the script in a text document within your website's directory. You do not have a directory of pages and files associated with your Facebook profile. In short, these counters will not work on Facebook.
Javascript counters are an acceptable option. Facebook does not permit the use of Javascript on its website, but there are free converters online that will convert Javascript into a usable HTML code. Do an Internet search for "free Javascript conversion" to find one

, Follow the on-screen instructions to create the HTML code for your Facebook page.


Note that many free counter services will require you to create an account before you can use them.
You may need to specify the website URL you plan to use your counter on. In this case, it would be the URL for your Facebook profile or timeline.
 Once the code is generated, copy and paste it into the HTML box made available by the HTML or FBML box app you installed.


You may need to confirm the code by pressing an "OK" or "Confirm" button before it will be applied to your profile.
Depending on the app you use, this counter will either show up on the app page or on your timeline.
 Since this method only shows you how many views your profile has had rather than who has visited it, you will need to monitor the numbers and think carefully about the reasons they may spike or drop.


If a friend or old love interest just returned to town after being away for a long time, he or she may be responsible for any spikes in page views.
If you just made a new friend or met someone knew, he or she may be the cause of an increased number of page views.
If you just broke up with someone or had a falling out with a friend, this could result in a decrease in page views.
If you suspect that someone has been following or stalking you, and you see your counter numbers rise, this may back up your suspicions.

