 When you’re ready to lie down in bed, place your neck in or on your neck pillow. Do this in the spot you want to sleep so that you don’t have to move out of the proper position, which may increase your risk of neck pain.


Make sure that the back of your shoulder(s) and your head are touching the surface on which you’re lying., Once you’ve put your head down on the neck pillow, it’s important to see if you are in the proper alignment. This can ensure that you protect your neck and get the most comfortable night’s sleep possible.Make sure your neck pillow is supporting you without your head tilting forward or backward if you are a back sleeper.
See if your neck is supported and your nose in line with the center of your body if you are a side sleeper.
Keep in mind that both of these will work if you are a combination sleeper.
 Neck pillows are designed for back, side, and combination sleepers.Most professionals don’t recommend sleeping on your stomach because it not only can cause neck pain but also strain your lower back., It takes your neck about 10 to 15 minutes to relax and settle onto your pillow. Before your start thrashing around because you’re uncomfortable, stay in one position to see if that’s best for you. If not, move into a different position until you find one in which your neck can relax.Remember to give yourself one week of sleeping on a neck pillow to figure out if it is the right one for you. If the pillow still isn’t comfortable after a week, consider returning it and/ or getting another option.
 Most neck pillows have lobes to help keep your neck properly aligned during the night. If you’re new to sleeping with a neck pillow, you may find it difficult to sleep on the side with the lobes. For the first few weeks, consider sleeping with the lobes facing downward to help your head and neck adapt to the need sleeping position.Recognize it may take a bit of trial and error to see where on the pillow is most comfortable with the lobes facing downward. Go with whatever provides the most support and is the most comfortable.
 After 1-3 weeks of sleeping with the lobes facing downward, turn over the pillow to the lobed side.This allows the pillow to return to its natural shape and can ensure that you get continued excellent neck support.


Consider turning over your any pillow you have every few weeks.

