 The easiest way to create a stop-motion video for Instagram is to use an app called Flipagram, available for free for Android and iPhone.
,,, You can also find Flipagram in your list of apps.,, You can enter a username and password, or sign in with your Facebook or Google account., This will open the New Flipagram screen., This allows Flipagram to use your pictures and camera., The easiest way to do stop-motion is to string together a sequence of still images., Hold your camera so that you can clearly see the image you're trying to capture.

For best results when creating a stop-motion video, mount your phone on a tripod or other stand to keep it stable and ensure that each shot is lined up properly.
 You'll see it added to a list of previews at the top of the screen., Slightly move the subject so that it is transitioning to the next point., You'll see it added in the preview list after the first shot., If you're shooting for 12 frames per second, you'll need 720 pictures to complete the entire time., You'll see this in the upper-right corner.,, This will format the video for Instagram.,, You'll see this at the bottom of the preview., A quicker speed will result in a smoother video., You can search for music to add from Flipagram's online database., This will display the various filter options that can change the colors of your video. Some effects require that music be added first.,, You'll need to turn this option off in order to share the video to Instagram:

Android - Turn off the Post to Flipagram slider. This will display the other sharing options.
iPhone - Tap the Post to Your Followers option to turn it off. You'll see the Save as Hidden option appear at the bottom.
 Once you've turned off posting to Flipagram, the process for sharing to Instagram is a little different for Android and iPhone. You'll need to have Instagram installed for it to appear:

Android - Tap Instagram in the list of apps that appears at the bottom. If you don't see it in the quick list, tap More and then select it from your list of apps. Tap the → button in the upper-right corner after selecting Instagram.
iPhone - Tap Save as Hidden and then tap Instagram. If you don't see it listed, tap See More. Tap Next to open the video in Instagram. Tap Open if prompted by your iPhone.
 The video will be loaded in Instagram now, and you'll be shown the available effects. Tap any you want to add, and then tap Next when you're done., This will post it for all of your followers to see. You can add a caption first if you'd like, or choose to send it directly to someone.