 The Basic Brown is one of the most common dragon species. It also one of the least dangerous dragons, making it a good choice for training or keeping as a family pet. The basic brown is fully herbivorous -- which means it doesn't eat meat.


Basic Browns are medium-sized dragons which come in all shades of brown. They have prickly spines all the way down their back and tail and have regular-sized teeth and claws.
Basic Browns are not particularly good hunters, but they can be very fast when they need to. In general, they are not aggressive, but they can fight well when angry.;
, Gronkles are boulder class dragons, remarkable for their laziness and stupidity. They are very slow movers -- especially the fatter ones -- and sometimes have difficulty getting into the air. Despite this, Gronkles can be pretty fearsome in battle, thanks to their enormous strength.


Gronkles are medium-sized dragons with bulky bodies that come in various muddy shades of brown, black and beige. They have an impressive range of armory skin, including dagger-like fangs, thick, fire-proof skin and a spiky, clubbed tail that kind of rock. However, the Gronkle's most fearsome feature is its ability to shoot molten lava instead of breathing fire.
Gronkles are often very cranky, but they can almost be sweet-natured towards their rider and hatchlings. This makes them relatively easy to train.
 Driller-Dragons are pretty fearsome-looking, so they are often trained as guard dragons to protect Viking dwellings.


Driller-Dragons are always black in color and have a huge horn on the end of their nose which rotates at dangerously high speeds. This drill-like horn can cut through materials like wood and rock with alarming ease.
Driller-Dragons do not have many distinctive features, aside from their huge horn. They are not particularly intelligent and their small brain is housed in a bump on top of their heads, which resembles a large pimple. However, Driller-Dragons are very loyal and can respond well to training.
 The Electricsquirm is an example of a nanodragon -- a very small dragon that still packs a punch! The Electricsquirm conducts an electric current which gives a powerful shock to anyone who touches it.


The Electricsquirm is transparent in color, but glows with a white or yellow light when producing electricity. The only place you can touch an Electricquirm without getting a shock is its tail -- which is an important point to remember during training. Picking up an Electricsquirm by its tail will also prevent it from biting you, as it can be quite prone to nipping.
Despite their small size, Electricsquirms are a very useful dragon, as their glowing body can be used as a light source in the absence of candles or torches.
 Monstrous Nightmares are huge, terrifying dragons that are very fast and very aggressive. They can be extremely difficult to train, so only experienced dragon trainers should attempt it.


The Monstrous Nightmare has red, purple or silver scales,and corresponding wings and spikes. They have large teeth and extendable claws, and a slightly poisonous bite. The Monstrous Nightmare's most impressive skill, however, is its ability to coat itself in spit and then light the spit on fire -- turning the dragon into a terrifying fireball.
If you can manage to train them, Monstrous Nightmares are a fantastic asset -- they are ferocious in battle and make excellent hunters. Some good training tips include clamping the Nightmare's mouth shut to disarm its poisonous fangs and fireball ability, pinning its horns to the ground (which is seems to enjoy) and above all, treating the Monstrous Nightmare with the respect it deserves.
 The Raptortongue is a shy and mysterious dragon species whose major skill is the ability to almost completely flatten their bodies, so they can fit through even the smallest of spaces. This is made possible by their triple-jointed ribs.


Raptortongues are chameleons, so their color changes depending on the background they are trying to blend in with. They grow to about the size of a lion and have regular-sized fangs and talons.
The Raptortongue's ability to squeeze into small spaces and blend in with its surroundings (combined with its speed and radar capabilities) make it an excellent spy dragon -- perfect for sending into enemy camps to retrieve objects or information!

, The Sabre-Tooth Driving Dragon is a relatively large dragon (about twice the size of a lion) that is trained primarily to pull Viking sleighs during the winter.


Driving Dragons are completely white in color, with large pointed spikes protruding from their heads and two terrifying sabre teeth. Sabre-Tooth Driving Dragons are evergreen, which means that they don't need to hibernate during winter.
Driving Dragons are a little bit unpredictable -- although they don't move too quickly, they are very strong and can be aggressive during a fight. Several Driving Dragons are reported to have eaten their owners, so train with care!

, For beginner trainers, the Sniffer Dragon is an excellent choice -- they are extremely gentle and non-aggressive, making them the perfect companions or family pets.


The Sniffer Dragon is a pale aquamarine in color. This dragon's most distinctive physical feature is its huge, hairy nose, which gives the Sniffer Dragon its fantastic sense of smell.
Although these dragons are not good fighters, their highly-tuned sense of smell makes Sniffer Dragons excellent trackers -- so they can be used to sniff out enemies or find any lost friends.
 Night furies are the rarest of all known dragon species. They are extremely intelligent, displaying significant tactical skills in battle and a great curiosity for learning new things.


The Night Fury is blue-ish black in appearance with piercing yellow eyes. Its body is more streamlined than other species and it has the largest wing-to-body ratio of any dragon, making it an excellent flier, in terms of both speed and precision. The Night Fury uses echolocation to find its way in the dark, making it extra deadly at night.
The only way to train a Night Fury is to earn its trust and respect, which can be extremely difficult. However, once that trust and respect has been gained, the Night Fury is fiercely loyal and protective of his trainer and will defend them at all costs. The Night Fury can also be quite playful and mischievous once it becomes comfortable with its trainer., Some dragon species are simply too dangerous or difficult to train and should be avoided at all costs. Some examples include:



Exterminator dragons: These are large, terrifying dragons with transparent skin that displays their internal organs (including their two hearts). Exterminators can lay waste to entire landscapes with their fire and enjoy killing for the sake of killing.







Skullions: Skullions are an unusual species of dragon in that they can't see, hear or fly (they have no wings). However, they have an acute sense of smell and a lust for blood that makes them highly dangerous and untrainable.







Doomfangs: Doomfangs are terrifyingly large dragons that live in the sea, with black scales and hypnotic green eyes. They breathe strange blue flames that kill by freezing rather than burning. The Doomfang is a dangerous predator and should be avoided at all costs.