 Your plain old physician can be the best place to start when seeking professional help for emotional stress. You may have several physical symptoms in addition to emotional ones associated with your stress, and your doctor will help diagnose the symptoms.Based on the symptoms, your doctor will also be able to help you decide whether you should see a counselor/psychologist or a psychiatrist.As actual doctors, psychiatrists can prescribe medication, and much of the treatment may deal with medication management.Licensed psychologists and counselors, on the other hand, have PhDs and MAs (respectively), but they are not MDs and cannot prescribe medication.
Psychologists and counselors will use a variety of therapeutic tools aimed at helping you change the behaviors or ways of thinking that lead to your stressful reactions to situations.Psychologists are more likely to do academic research in the field of psychology in addition to working with patients as well. You won’t necessarily receive a better form of care from one or the other. The key is to find a licensed professional who listens and with whom you feel comfortable sharing your emotional stressors.
Some instances, such as those dealing with depression or anxiety, may call for both a psychiatrist to manage medications and a psychologist or counselor from whom you can learn other coping techniques., If you and your doctor don’t feel your situation warrants medication, a licensed psychologist or counselor can help you find other techniques for dealing with emotional stress in addition to being great listeners. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is one example of a technique to help cope with emotional stress and the related anxiety.With CBT, the therapist helps you become highly aware of your own patterns of thinking and behavior with the goal of helping you to avoid the emotional stress involved with those common patterns.Even if your doctor decides that your situation warrants a medication prescription, you should still consider seeing a therapist as well. Medicating the problem can help you to manage the symptoms, but it won’t assist you in dealing with the root causes of the stress.
 Emotional stress can easily lead to too much depression or anxiety for a person to manage on his or her own, and this can occasionally mean the use of mood-altering medications while dealing with the worst parts of an emotionally stressful situation. A wide array of drugs are available and meeting with a psychiatrist will help him or her prescribe the drug best suited for your situation.Commonly prescribed medications in these situations include: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as Celexa, Lexapro, Paxil, Prozac, and Zoloft; selective serotonin and norepinephrine inhibitors (SNRIs) such as Cymbalta and Effexor; and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) such as Nardil and Parnate.Your psychiatrist may prescribe any of the above for symptoms of depression, whereas SSRIs specifically have proven effective for treating anxiety disorders.Most mental health professionals will suggest the use of a medication in combination with the other steps here. Relying on a medication alone is far from the most effective way to deal with an emotionally stressful life event.
Always take the medication exactly as prescribed, and consult with your psychiatrist before stopping usage.
 Many people quickly feel discouraged with the therapy or counseling process due to the lack of immediate results. Talking through your emotionally stressful issues, learning techniques to handle them, and normalizing those techniques as part of your standard reaction to stress will not be a quick process. Have patience with the treatment and keep up with your appointments for as long as your therapist suggests in order to reap worthwhile results from the process.

