 This is where you will evaluate how much and what type of information you will need to collect. Brainstorm about what your paper will look like. Plan how you will approach the assignment. Think about how many pages your paper needs to be. Your teacher or professor may specify what type of sources to use.


Make a list of your own deadlines for different steps of the writing process. Allow yourself enough time for each step. This works best if you either write deadlines into your planner or calendar, or even make your own small calendar for this assignment to post in your work area. Think about key terms or topics you will need to look up like the Anglo-Saxons, the Great Vowel Shift, Old English, Middle English, Beowulf, The Norman Conquest, Geoffery Chaucer, and Shakespeare.;
, Do a brief internet search on the history of the English language just to become generally familiar with the topic at hand. The internet is not a great source for this type of history-based nonfiction topic, but you could get the basic idea of what types of information you will be discovering and sorting through.


During prewriting (the process during which you prepare to write), think about your audience. Presumably, the audience is your teacher or a reader who knows a little bit about the topic. The tone, academic level and writing style should match with the audience.
 Before you start writing, you will need to find sources to use in the paper. Since this is a research paper, you’ll want to find reputable sources to cite and take information from. Think about what types of sources would be appropriate. In this case, they may be English, history or language related from your school's electronic database. If you aren't sure how to access it from a computer, call or e-mail your library staff at the school. They are always there to help.
 Use the local library or school library resources and employees to find books on the topic “history of the English language.” Many schools have librarians specially trained to help locate hard-to-find research resources. Don't be afraid to ask any questions you might have. You are learning, after all. , Your school or local librarians are there to help you find related nonfiction books. The internet doesn't have all the in-depth historical information you need for this sort of topic. In general, it's good to use other sources besides just the internet.
 Look through the books, academic journals and other materials you’ve collected about the history of the English language. Take notes on the information you think is important or put bookmarks or sticky notes on pages you want to revisit. You’ll need to think about what information you want to incorporate into your paper.


Someone’s blog or a “sketchy” looking web site are not good sources. Try looking for governmental, academic or news related sites, if you plan to use any.
 Glance through each source before deciding to use it. Make sure the type of information the source contains are what you can use in the paper. You'll gain basic knowledge on the topic and get a good idea on how you want to structure the paper.
 Keep track of all the good sources you found for your paper. Academic and in-depth information is often found in academic journals accessible through the school's systems or in nonfiction books. If you found a good source at the library, take it out, or request copies of the pages you'll need. Carefully note where any copied pieces of paper came from. You can also bookmark information electronically or in books. Keep all your sources in one place.
 Label all the sections of information you want to cite in your paper. Keep track of what topics each section of information cover with notes, sticky notes or other methods. Remember, you are the master of your own organization. The more organized you are, the easier it will be to make an outline, and ultimately write your paper.


Remember you are mostly looking for the highlights and main points from sources since your paper only will have so many pages. You do not have to become an expert, but you will have to pull out key facts and summarize information presented.
Label any quotes you want to include in your paper. Remember, quotes are always used word for word and must be cited properly. Only use quotes that you think say something important in a great straightforward way. 