 Usually thinking while leaning against a wall, but you must not look sad or depressed, not happy either, just thoughtful. The trick is to always convey the message that you are a self-sufficient individual that doesn't need attention or approval from anybody. You must learn first to live by your own and love yourself a lot. This crucial step will come off alone if you really are an individual who loves his own being.;
, You don't start anything that doesn't need to be started, you don't yell/LOL and you don't get in anybody else's problems. The point is: you don't need attention.
 Not always black though, but maroon, navy and gray are serious and formidable colors. Wear clothes that don't show too much but are comfortable.
 Never talk about irrelevant things (weather, tv shows) or about your issues or your life (trips, family problems), doing this is an attempt to build rapport with a person, which translates to a need of attention and/or approval. Just stick to what is needed to say and give your opinion only if somebody explicitly ask for it or you know it is relevant to speak up, otherwise keep your mouth shut. However, if some person tries to build rapport with you (starts talking with you), talk to them but keep your opinions to yourself, don't argue, let them talk and you just listen. This is the foundation of being mysterious: they never get to know anything about you.
 If somebody ask, deflect the questions with funny or slight-sarcastic remarks, even the infamous “guess” works here, but without looking like a jerk, you don't want the "jerk" reputation, you are above that. Don´t talk when it is not needed, be quiet, and participate only when asked or really necessary.
 Get lost for days that nobody knows where have you been, be super smart but never be seen studying or asking for help.
 That certain something must make you stand out but must be acceptable and natural, kinda an "inborn" trait (not dyeing your hair green or doing a tattoo on your face). It is important that you stress your individuality but always consistent with your "I-don't-need-approval" personality: avoid anything that attracts much attention.
 Never snap at people if they disagree with you. Never yell, look excited or angry while talking with somebody. Never be affected by what a person says to you (be this good or bad).
 This will make you a dominant person and people will respect you. Remember, there is power in the eyes (the soul windows) and a powerful, confident gaze makes you a magnetic person.
 Stoic means never showing too much of ANY (sad or happy) emotion and having a calming and cool disposition even in difficult or stressing situations. This may intimidate the people around you but it shows that you have your emotions under control and that nothing affects you, also, it will make you seem smart. Stoicism will give you Sprezzatura.
 This is a VERY crucial step, without charisma nothing else in this article matters. Charisma comes from the inside, feeling so good with yourself as you are that you don't need approval from the outside, it is an ineffable force that draws people in. And no, you don't need to “smile” or “be kind” to have charisma like those magazines will tell you, Hitler never smiled and he was so charismatic that many people, including generals, businessmen and socialites of all kind threw themselves to his feet. Charisma is neutral, you can be Jesus Christ or Hitler and still have thousands of people willing to be with you and even work for your cause.
 Eat healthy, take showers and wear clean clothes, but don't become vain or self-centered, in fact, be well dressed but have that careless untidy look, it will send contradictory signals which is a powerful trait for guys.
 Yes, intelligence is more powerful than muscles, but never show off, you don't need that.
 The magnetic guys ALWAYS have a purpose in their lives and nothing separates them from that path, may it be their career, being the most powerful super-villain, detective or whatever, they stick to it with all their heart and due to this they excel in it, whatever it is.

