 Attach the yarn to your crochet hook using a slipknot, then work a foundation of 12 chain stitches.


If you do not know how to work a chain stitch or make a slipknot, please consult the "Tips" section.;
, Chain an additional three stitches, then double crochet once into each stitch of your foundation chain. Turn the work when you reach the end of the row.


Check the "Tips" section if you do not know how to double crochet.
The foundation chain and first row are not part of the cable stitch itself. Instead, they merely provide a base for you to work your first cable stitches from.
 Create a turning chain of three stitches, then double crochet once into each of the first two stitches of the previous row.


A turning chain is a set of chain stitches that brings your row height to the point it needs to be at for your next row.
This step begins your first cable row.
 Work one triple crochet into the next stitch, catching the front posts of the previous row's stitch only. Work one more triple crochet into the stitch after that, catching the front posts only again.


Check the "Tips" section for instructions on making a triple crochet.
When you work a front post stitch, the hook will enter the stitch through the front, go around that front post, and then come back out to the front again., Work one double crochet into each of the next two stitches.


These two double crochets balance out the two that come before the cable stitch. The number of stitches you make here should always equal the number of stitches you made prior to working the two front post triple crochets.
This step completes one basic cable stitch. The basic cable stitch, in general, is made simply by forming stitches around the posts of the stitches in the row directly below them.
 For this example, you will need to double crochet once into each of the next two stitches, front post triple crochet once into the two stitches after that, and double crochet once into the final two stitches of the row.


If you had a longer foundation, you would have needed additional sets of cable stitches after that.
Completing this step completes a full cable row.
 Turn the work, then create a turning chain of three chain stitches. Double crochet once into each of the next two stitches.


This step starts the "wrong side" row. The purpose of this row is to balance out the cable row, so the stitches will essentially be the reverse of those on your cable row.
 Work one triple crochet into the back posts of the first front post triple crochet you run into. Work another triple crochet into the back posts of the second front post triple crochet from your previous row.


To work a back post stitch, insert the hook beside the post from the back, go around the post, and bring the hook out through the back again.
 After working your back post triple crochets, work one double crochet into each of the next two stitches.
 For this row, you will need to work two double crochets, two back post triple crochets, and two final double crochets to reach the end of the row.


No matter how many stitches your previous row has, you should mirror the stitches made in that previous row. Double crochet once into each normal double crochet. Back post triple crochet into each front post triple crochet.
 At this point, you already have a full set of basic cable stitches. If you want a longer cable pattern, alternate back and forth between cable rows and wrong side rows until you reach the length you desire.


Once you reach your desired pattern length, the project is finished.

