 Beat the eggs lightly, until liquid, then start adding the sugar slowly. Use a whisk or electric mixer to whip the eggs and sugar until they are light and fluffy, starting to hold their shape slightly. They should leave a trail when you pull your whisk out of the mixture.
 It needs to be small enough to fit into your double-boiler, and it should have a handle to help you grip and stir it.
 Place the pot in your double boiler and leave it there. Lower the heat to medium-low and watch it until it is melted, but not mixed. Do not stir., This should happen quickly, forming a silky smooth chocolate sauce. Let it cool for 5-10 minutes. It doesn't need to be cold, but it definitely shouldn't be hot.
 Pour the mixture slowly into the eggs, keeping the beater going the entire time. Keep mixing until everyone is one consistent liquid.
 When overworked, flour gets tough, so skip the mixer and just fold it in buy hand, working from the outside of the bowl inwards. Flour will give your fondant it's body and slightly thickens up the inside "sauce."









Make sure the flour is sifted, or free of chunks. If you don't have a sifter, simply whisk it with a fork before adding., Leave about 1/4 inch between the top of your tin and the pour line -- just shy of the very top. If you have any left over mixture, refrigerate it while you prepare more tins.
 Cooling the batter will keep the center from cooking too quickly. If you want more cake-like fondants, you can skip this step. However, the dish will almost always come out cleaner, with a better texture, if you chill the batter first.
 When done, they will have a nice, firm cake appearance, and they should come out of the pan cleanly with a butter knife. Serve hot, turning them out immediately after the come out of the oven. A dollop of whipped cream or vanilla ice cream will be heavenly.








If you use wider dishes, you'll need longer cooking times! A 3" wide, deeper dish may take up to 10-12 minutes.
A good indicator of "doneness" is when the edges of the cake start to pull away from the edges of the pan(s).