 This is important because of two reasons:


If you book 21 days in advance, you can get domestic flight tickets for cheaper.
If you have flexibility in the schedule, you can take advantage of the biggest offers and discounts.;
, Choose a travel website that offers details of flights, hotels, holiday packages and offers. Leading travel websites also help with visa procedures. You should also be able to see contact details on the website, as well as their terms and policies. If you are still unsure, simply opt for a travel website that has a popular brand ambassador.
 Sometimes you can get discounts on round trips. ·
From. This is your city of departure, where you would be boarding the flight. ·
To. This is your destination city, where you are headed. ·
Leave on. Date of departure ·
Return on. Date on which you wish to come again ·
Number of passengers. You would need to fill the number of adults, children and infants traveling together, since all three categories may have different airfares.
Once all the information has been filled, you can click on Search or Find Flights

, Once you have identified a travel website that gives comprehensive information, you should consider factors like departure time, arrival time, duration of the flight, whether or not there it is a direct flight, which airlines are servicing that segment and, of course, price.
 Typically, a good travel website displays the search results sorted by Price. However, you should consider your priorities and sort the search results accordingly.
 Check to see if the portal allows you to filter all the flight details based on certain parameters. For instance, if you have a budget, you can filter the search to display only those results that cost less than the price specified by you. You may also choose other filters, like departure time, duration of flight, refundable tickets only, business class only or some airlines that you prefer.
 India has a number of leading airline companies servicing the domestic segment. Since there is a lot of competition, each airline offers something unique. If their offer and your special requirements match, it would be easier to make a choice. For instance, Air India allows hand baggage weighing up to 8 kgs, while other airlines usually allow up to 7kgs. Similarly, Indigo and Spicejet are low-cost airlines, while Air Vistara has comfort of flying as the primary objective.
 A travel website not only gives you comprehensive information and allows you to filter the results, but it also offers some of the best deals and discounts. If you've already planned the destination and schedule of your travel, booking hotels and flights together can make it more economical. If, on the other hand, your travel plans have more flexibility, you can look for attractive packages, like Goa packages. Some of these packages include travel, accommodation, meals and sightseeing. You can even choose multiple destinations with packages like Himachal Pradesh packages5, which would include a visit to the most popular cities and towns of this spectacular state.
 Once you have found something attractive, make the booking immediately. Offers and deals expire and you may not have another chance at getting a good discount.
 Some travel websites allow you to add travel insurance while paying for the flight tickets or holiday packages.
 Before your flight tickets are booked, you would be asked to fill up the personal details of all the travelers. Ensure that all the fields are filled and the information is correct. Some of this information will be printed on your ticket, so it is best to double check after filling all the fields.
 Choose one that is most convenient for you.
 Once your payment has been made, your ticket is sent to your email ID. There is no need to take a printout of the ticket. If you have a smartphone and can access your emails on it, you can simply show this e-ticket at the airport.
 After your booking is confirmed, check the flight details on the ticket. You should also check other things like how many hours prior to the departure time do you need to be at the airport and if there are any restrictions on things you can carry with you.

