 Russet potatoes - also known as Idaho or baking potatoes - are the best potatoes for baking in the microwave. This is due to their high starch content, which yields extra fluffy baked potatoes. If you don't have Russets, the next best thing are yellow-fleshed potatoes - such as Yukon Gold - which are moderately starchy and yield a creamy, slightly dense baked potato.





;
, It is important to give your potato a good wash before microwaving, especially if you're planning on eating the skin. Be sure to remove any stubborn dirt. If you have one, a bristled scrubbing brush is great for cleaning potatoes. After washing, pat the potato dry with a clean paper towel.
 Rub a little olive oil into the skin of the potato, then sprinkle with salt and pepper. This gives the potato a little extra flavor and will help to crisp up the skin.
 This allows steam to escape and prevents the potato from exploding in the microwave. You should aim to prick the potato three or four times on each area: top, bottom, and two sides. Alternatively, you can cut a deep "X" onto the top of the potato, using a knife.
 If you want, you can wrap the potato in some wet paper towel first. This will help to keep the potato moist and prevent it from shrinking, but it will also result in softer skin.
 Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. Most medium to large potatoes will take between 8-12 minutes to cook at full power.








Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already. After that, if it still doesn't feel fully cooked, continue to microwave it in 1 minute bursts, checking after each minute.If you are cooking multiple potatoes at once, you will need to increase the cooking time by about two-thirds. For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes.
If you prefer crispy skinned potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then transfer to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400ʡF (204ʡC) for 20 minutes. This method is great if you want oven-crisp potato skins, in less than half the normal cooking time!, You can check if a potato is cooked by sticking a fork in the center; if the fork goes in easily, but the center is still a little firm, the potato is ready. When in doubt, it is best to err on the side of undercooking, as an overcooked potato may burn or explode in the microwave.
 This allows the core of the potato to finish cooking using the heat that is trapped in the inner layers. It also helps it to become fluffy on the inside without over-drying on the outside. Wrapping it in aluminum foil after taking it out of the microwave will speed up this process. Just be careful when touching the potato - it will be extremely hot!









If you are saving a potato for someone who's running late, wrapping the potato in aluminum foil will keep it warm for a remarkably long time. Just be sure to do this as soon as it comes out of the microwave, to conserve as much heat as possible.
 Cut the potato open and garnish it with your favorite toppings. Keep it simple with butter, salt and a little grated cheese, or jazz it up with some sour cream, green onions or chives and some crispy bacon. For a more complete meal, top the potato with a generous helping of chili con carne or some fluffy scrambled eggs.








