 Males' plumage is copper and gold and they have red faces and long tails. Females are brown and harder to spot. They are the size of large chickens.It is often illegal to hunt females.
Pheasants have very good hearing and eyesight.;
, Depending on where you live, you will be subject to various regulations and licensing requirements.


You may need to tag and record your hunts.
You may be required to wear orange.
Some locations require hunting education.
Be aware of your locality’s rules regarding age, as well as load and firearms., While hunting pheasant without a dog is possible, it will be much easier with a dog to track and locate birds for you.


Labradors are good at tracking and flushing pheasant out of heavy cover. They are popular options.
Pointers are good for finding birds in light cover and notifying owners., There are a variety of options, and you will want to keep in mind not only your target, but long hours of walking and carrying the gun.


Stick with a gun that weighs less than 8 pounds.
A 12-gauge shotgun is always popular for hunting pheasants, although 16- or 20-gauge are possibilities.
Double-action shotguns are most common, although some hunters prefer semi-automatics.
Lead shot is often banned on public lands, so you’ll need steel. Pheasant hunting requires a heavy shot, like size 4.
 It's likely to be wet and cold, and you'll be doing a lot of walking on uneven terrain., It’s usually in the late fall through the early winter, but the specific dates can change based on where you live.


The best pheasant hunting in the U.S. is in the Midwest and Plains states like Iowa or South Dakota, although pheasants can be found in other parts of the country., You can't just hunt anywhere.Public grounds often provide good hunting during cold weather or later in the season, but you will be competing with many other hunters, as well as their car doors and noisy friends possibly scaring off the birds.
Public grounds can be more challenging, and more dangerous since there will be less control over who is there and what they are doing.
Arrive early, and try to find less popular spots.
 Dogs can smell better in cold, wet environments. It’s also easier to track pheasants in mud and snow., The birds are out looking for food in lighter cover at those times and are more easily located.



If the weather has been dry, the birds will gather near water.
 They offer several benefits, including guides.


They often begin earlier than hunting season on public lands, so you can practice with your dog. This is particularly useful for young dogs who need more training.
You will have the opportunity to get comfortable with your gun, and you can practice shooting clay pigeons, which requires shooting ahead of your target.
Clubs offer a variety of cover to experience.
Clubs release the birds throughout the day and you can request varying degrees of difficulty., Your dog will be especially helpful you are alone, so be sure to hunt into the wind.Drive around a strip of cover and position downwind.
Move toward an open area or an obstruction to slow the birds.Rises and ravines are also good positions because you have cover, and birds are obstructed.,


Groups can cover much more ground.
The social aspect of group hunting is an attraction for many hunters.
 Be meticulous. If you are in a group, coordinate your patterns.


Pause frequently to confuse the birds and make them nervous.
Be very quiet at all times. Use hand signals to other hunters rather than shouting to each other. From the time you arrive on the grounds, to the moment you leave, be very quiet.
Be patient.
 When your dog stops and points or quivers, get close to him quickly and quietly.


If you a using a flushing dog, such as a Lab, the dog will flush out the rooster.
A pointing dog, such as German Short-haired Pointers, will point to the bird, allowing you to do the flushing.



Pheasants have three toes pointing forward, with the middle often being longer.Tracks are more easily visible in mud or snow.
Pheasants like corn, so look for corn patches. They are attracted to the green and shade.
Pheasants also like thick cattails and marshy areas.
 Make your shot only after the bird is above human height. You will have about a two second opportunity, so you need to be very quick.


If you hit the bird and killed it, good job! Most dogs will retrieve the bird for you, or you can get it yourself.
Dress and cool the meat as soon as possible to avoid spoilage.
If you did not hit the bird, just try again next time!

, A dirty gun could misfire or malfunction.,


Always be aware of where your muzzle is pointing.
Disengage the safety as you approach the point.
 Your reaction time will improve with practice. Don't risk unintentionally firing.


Know what you are pointing at, but also what is behind it., You may not be required by your state, but wearing bright colors could save your life.
 If everyone walks shoulder-to-shoulder, there is much less of a chance of accidentally firing on each other., Birdshot can spray out, and could hit a dog or person.


Do not aim at water.
 Drugs or alcohol will impair your judgment and reaction time.
 Hunting is a cherished hobby for many families. But aware of your state's age restrictions before setting out.


Consider weather conditions when taking a child hunting.
Always emphasize safety when teaching a child to hunt.,


Choose your location carefully. Get permission beforehand if necessary.

