 It's a red, green, yellow, and blue sphere-shaped app. Do this on the host computer.

If you don't have Chrome installed on your machine, you'll first need to install it.
 This will take you to the Chrome Remote Desktop page in the Chrome store., This blue button is in the upper-right corner of the Chrome Remote Desktop window., This will install the Chrome Remote Desktop app in your Chrome browser and open the Chrome Apps page in a new tab when finished., It's an image of two computer monitors with the Google Chrome icon on one of them.

If the Chrome Apps page doesn't open type chrome://apps into the Chrome address bar and press ↵ Enter.
 This step will vary based on your browser settings, but you'll likely need to select a Google account to use, then click ALLOW., Click the Get started button below the My Computers heading., It's in the bottom-right corner of the window., It's a blue button near the bottom of the pop-up window. Doing so will download a setup file (Windows) or a DMG file (Mac) onto your computer.

Depending on your Chrome settings, you may first have to select a download location and click Save.
 To do so:


Windows - Double-click the Chrome setup file, then click Yes when prompted.

Mac - Double-click the DMG file. Click Okay on the pop-up window, then open the Apple menu





, click System Preferences, click Security and Privacy, click Open Anyway next to the "chromeremotedesktophost" message, and click Open when prompted. Click and drag the Chrome file onto the Applications folder.
 Go back to the Chrome apps page and click Chrome Remote Desktop to reopen the app if necessary., Do this in the "PIN" and "Re-type PIN" fields., Doing so will enable remote connections on the host computer, meaning that the computer is now ready to be accessed by another computer., This should be the computer you want to use to connect to the host computer. Make sure you're logged into the same Google account on the second computer as you are on the host computer.

For example: your host computer might be a home desktop, and the second computer might be your work computer.
 It will be beneath the "My Computers" heading., This is the PIN you set for the host computer., Your host computer’s display will be shown in your Google Chrome browser.


You may experience a slight delay when performing actions on the host computer, as commands need to be sent through the internet in order to reach it.
Click the Disconnect button in the top menu to end the connection.
Use the Send Keys button to send key commands to the host computer, such as Ctrl+Alt+Del and ⎙ Print Screen.

