 In general, dwarf hamsters have thickset bodies, large cheek pouches, and short tails. Make sure it does not have any nasal or eye discharge, nor any other signs of illness. Russian dwarf hamsters are particularly prone to diabetes. A hamster suffering from this condition will drink a lot of water and urinate more frequently than other dwarf hamsters.Be sure to consult your veterinarian if you suspect that your hamster has diabetes.
 A recently weaned or an extremely stressed out dwarf hamster may come down with a disease called “wet tail.” Your hamster experiences diarrhea — the excessive moisture from this causes its tail to become literally wet. Consult a veterinarian for a proper diagnosis and treatment.


Tyzzer’s disease causes diarrhea in young or stressed hamsters. This is a disease that needs veterinarian treatment. Certain antibiotics can cause and exacerbate this condition, so don’t treat your hamster on your own., Like dogs and cats, dwarf hamsters can suffer from parasites like tapeworms. Tapeworms are the most predominant, so be on the look out. When you clean out your hamster’s cage, be on the lookout for signs of diarrhea and little white rice-like worm segments.If you suspect that your dwarf hamster has a tapeworm, see a veterinarian. Bring a stool sample with you. With the help of a microscope, your vet will be able to properly diagnose your hamster. Your vet will prescribe a dewormer for you to use. It will come in either a topical or an oral form. Follow the instructions on the product in order to administer., Dwarf hamsters are susceptible to cold viruses just like humans. Occasionally, this can escalate to pneumonia. A dwarf hamster with pneumonia will have eye and nasal discharge. It will also stop eating. This is serious. Call your veterinarian immediately., Dwarf hamsters are prone to abscess formation as well, often caused by their teeth. This is most common around their head and cheek pouch areas. Assesses are essentially infected pockets of puss that will appear underneath your hamster's skin and fur. If present, they will be sensitive to touch. Your hamster will resist your inspection. Contact your veterinarian about how you should proceed. In many cases, the abscess will heal on its own, but if it gets too bad, your vet will probably have to lance and treat the spot.