 Skim through the textbooks. Try to buy your textbooks a few weeks before the semester begins for a glimpse of your classes.
, Why are you buying the textbook for it to collect dust? They have textbooks and lab manuals for a purpose. You will be graded mostly on the book because this is mainly the bulk of the class. Professors are usually here to interpret and clarify the text, and sometimes give their opinion; you are to learn most of the material yourself.
 Highlight the parts emphasized, and listen to the way your professor relates it to what you've already learned. Remember that the professor may be biased so if you tend to not agree with the professor, just stick to the facts.
, For each lecture hour you should expect at least 1-3 hours needed for study- more if it's a challenging class. Studying could involve reading the book, checking out your notes, assignments, using the DVD with the book, browsing the web for information on your class, etc. Many colleges have online learning tools and assignment portals that help you learn your stuff.
 If you have to be social, it is great to have a study group. More shy college students benefit with this.
 If you must make the Saturday night party, know you'll have to spend the afternoon at the library. If you're spending the day hitting the books, plan an hour off at suppertime, and a treat for dessert.
, Midnight power walks make great memories.
 12 credits is a good amount of credits to schedule for each semester. That will ensure up to 12-24 hours of studying, assuming that each class has at least 1 hour of studying per credit.
 These might not be covered by the professor because he'll assume that you're already reading the text. So beware, even things not lectured on may appear on the test.
 This is not high school, where you can just get on the honor roll. The grades you get may affect the amount of money you get in your paycheck, or the chances of even getting a job in this economy.
 Allow yourself to get enough sleep without wasting the entire day. Set a curfew and stick to it, and get up at a reasonable time in the morning. Set your alarm!;
, Figure out which finals you need to study for first.
 Cut yourself off from the world while you study and focus on your work.
 Those are a good way to get an idea for what the final will be like, and an excellent idea to get a good concept of what will be on the test.
 They can only help, and will give you a good idea of what you should know. Many teachers also drop hints about specific questions that will be on the final.
 Set aside time to de-stress. You don't want to burn yourself out before the final!

