 Consider how many hours you can dedicate to reading per day. Take into consideration all of your obligations. Write down your routine to determine how much time you can realistically set aside for reading. Calculate the time you spend:


Sleeping
Working
Attending school
Doing misc. activities (sports, extra curricular activities, studying, homework, etc)
Having free time where you will not be reading

, Once you have a dedicated amount of time you have set aside to read, consider how many pages you have to read every day to finish the book by the end of a week. For example, if you have a 300 page book to read in 7 days, you can realistically expect to have to read about 43 pages per day. That is 300 pages divided by 7 days.


If you want to determine how many pages you have to read per hour using this calculation, divide number of pages per day by hours you expect to read per day.For example, if you plan on reading for two hours a day, that would be 21.5 pages per hour. You may need to spend more or less time reading every day depending on the length of your book and how fast you can read.
Consider reading as much as you can in the first day or two of the week. Rather than spacing out your reading evenly, you might try to read most of the book in the first two days of the week. This will give you a head start and provide a cushion in case you have to skip a day. For example, if you have a 300 page book to read, try reading 100 pages on the first day of the week and 75 on the second day. Then you will only have to read 125 pages over the next five days.
 You will retain more of what you read and be able to read more easily if you are in a quiet environment that is free of distractions. Some good ways to minimize distractions include:


Reading in an empty, quiet room.
Reading in a library.
Using noise-canceling headphones to create a quiet environment.
Putting on white noise or soft, non-distracting music to help you concentrate.
 It is easy to get lazy and stop reading before you should. If you have a set number of pages to read in a certain amount of time, set a timer for yourself. Force yourself to read until the timer goes off.


To stop burnout, consider the “20 minutes on, 5 minutes off” method.This is where you set a timer for twenty minutes and force yourself to concentrate without taking breaks. When the timer goes off, let yourself spend five minutes doing something you enjoy (or nothing at all!)

, Studies have shown that readers retain more and read more quickly by using something that points to the text.This allows your eyes to follow along with the text. The simplest pointer to use is the tip of your finger. You can also try:


Using a ruler and placing it under the line of text you are reading.
Following along with the point of a pencil.
If reading an Ebook, setting the font to have a single line of text visible when reading until prompted to a new page.
 By skimming a text, you can read more in a short period of time. However, you may not retain the information that you read. One way you can retain more and still read quickly is to read the introductory paragraph(s) and conclusion paragraph(s) of each chapter. These should highlight the main arguments and findings of the chapter.By doing this, you will also be more likely to understand the entire chapter if you have the key argument/idea in mind while you read.
In the introduction, look for the author's argument. Generally, an introduction is made up of an attention grabber (usually the first part of the introduction) and then the key argument/thesis statement/research question. This is the sentence(s) you want to look for; it will give you exactly what the author intends to discuss in her writing.Similar to the introduction, the conclusion also should contain the author's initial argument. It should also contain some sort of findings or conclusion of key points. It will help to give you a general idea of what the writing is about.
This technique is mostly used for non-fiction in which you are trying to process information. You can do this while reading fiction, but you might miss character or plot development.
 This technique requires you to train your eyes to make less movements when reading a page.To learn to speed read, try to:


Cover text you have already read by using an index card.
Train your eyes to stop on fewer words by trying to not focus on each individual word.
Try RSVP (reading rapid serial visual presentation) software. This software will flash a single word at a time on the screen, training your brain to recognize words more quickly.

