 Make sure for the make up you use bright colours. However, some Oshare Kei wearers keep their make up natural-looking (such as Teruki from An Cafe) , so you don't need to wear too much make up if you don't want to. Black eyeliner is commonly used in Oshare Kei. Look at pictures for ideas. There are videos of Cure Style Council on YouTube (Cure is a Visual Kei magazine in Japan), or you can just look up Oshare Kei make up tutorials - there are plenty of them.;
, Oshare Kei is all about bright colors. You can find many items at local stores which can be coordinated into an Oshare Kei outfit. Remember: Bright colors are key, but try to add some darker colors too, or you will just look 'Decora'.
 Animal print and polka dots are also good for Oshare Kei. A good place to get darker Oshare Kei like things is Sex Pot Revenge, a brand that An Cafe have worn before. As mentioned before, many things can be found in local stores. You just gotta shop around. Some Visual Kei clothes can also be classed as Oshare. You can find some things on eBay, but be careful and make sure you read the feedback and reviews of the items. Some Oshare Kei artists, such as Mashiro (ex:Himeyuri/x) and Waka (Danger Gang) incorporate clothing from the Lolita fashion. Make sure you get educated on Lolita fashion before wearing any of it.
 Wear a fluffy jacket, or one with cute prints on it. Animal print, cartoons, anything as long as its bright and colorful. Remember, you can always sew your own clothing!

, For skirts, get cute bright ones, and layer. Wearing bright leggings or knee high socks with skirts looks best, in my opinion. Get colors such as pink, purple, yellow or green. Any bright colors. You can layer the skirts, but make sure you don't look Decora, unless that's the look your going for.
, Striped socks, socks with bows on them. You can also layer them, but again, not too Decora. Pastel colors paired with bright colors look wonderful.
 Ones that compliment the outfit are best.
 Beads can also work. Some Oshare Kei wearers wear plushies on necklaces (JunJun from DOG in the PWO, Bou ex:An Cafe). These can look cute, but can be a bit much, and again look more Decora.
 Make sure it doesn't look scraggly. You could straighten your hair, curl it, dye it bright blue, anything! But it's got to be clean and neat looking. Look at pictures for inspiration.
 But don't go too over the top or you'll look like a sticker collection. Fake eyelashes also look good.
 But if you have them, leave them, they look great!

, Converse, platform shoes, ugg boots, Lolita shoes and even slippers can work - just make sure they are bright and colorful.
 A few of my favorite Oshare Kei bands are An Cafe, x, Decola Hopping, SuG, Lolita23q, LM.C and Aicle. There are many more than this, however. Decola Hopping are fairly unknown by now, and many people don't listen to them because of their weird name, but I promise you, they are amazing. You have to listen to them!

, If these aren't your thing, don't listen to them, your music taste is your music taste!

, Well, not cosplay, because a lot of time, money and effort goes into that too... so I guess don't look BAD cosplay. Make sure you do enough research. Remember to be creative! Good luck and have fun!

