 Most language editors agree that the quickest, most effective way to learn a new language is through immersion (in other words, putting yourself in a situation where you have to use the language near-constantly in your daily life.) There's no better way to do this than to go somewhere where Spanish is spoken and stay there as long as possible. Spanish is the official language of 20 countries (plus Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory) — spending time in any of these countries is an invaluable experience for anyone attempting to learn Spanish.The problem here, of course, is that it's very difficult to travel or move to a different country for free. If you're young, the best way to do this may be to enroll in a study abroad program through your school and apply for financial aid to cover the cost. If you're out of school and work for an international company or organization, you might also try transferring to a branch in a Spanish-speaking country.
 You don't need to go to a Spanish-speaking country to meet Spanish speakers — try looking for new Spanish-speaking friends in your local community. Making connections with Spanish speakers at work, school, or elsewhere allows you to practice the sort of casual, everyday Spanish that the vast majority of Spanish speakers use in their daily lives (plus, it's always great to make new friends.) Once you know each other fairly well, many Spanish speakers will be more than happy to allow you to practice your Spanish, so don't be shy!

, Don't know any Spanish speakers in your local community? No se preocupe — don't worry! It's still possible to communicate with Spanish speakers from other countries and sharpen your language skills while learning about a different way of life. Though you won't be having in-person interactions, the practice you get from the experience can be quite valuable. See below for just two great ideas.


One of the best ways to practice your Spanish with actual Spanish speakers from around the world is to participate in educational video chats. For instance, on the official community forums for Skype video chat, users can arrange language exchange sessions where two Skype users who speak different languages teach each other their languages from across the globe.In this case, if you want to learn Spanish, all you need to do is find a user from Spain or Latin America who wants to learn English and you're ready to start learning one-on-one!
If you can't (or don't want to) use a video chat service, you can still use the old-fashioned method — getting a pen pal — for a somewhat slower-paced experience (but one that's still worthwhile.) Try using a pen pal site like Mylanguageexchange.com to connect with a Spanish-speaker from abroad via email or snail mail., While communicating with actual Spanish speakers is generally the best way to learn the language, for some skills (like verb agreement and conjugation), it can be useful to take a more formalized approach to studying so that you can get the foundational knowledge necessary to carry on an actual conversation. In this case, Spanish textbooks can be a major help. Below are just a few places you may be able to find Spanish textbooks for cheap or free (as a general rule, the older the book is, the cheaper it is.) Don't be too worried about your textbook being out of date — while Spanish is continually evolving just like any other language, the fundamentals aren't likely to have changed.


School book sales/fundraisers
Libraries
Used/recycled bookstores
"Used" sections of online book retailers
Friends or acquaintances who have purchased textbooks for past courses
Public domain databases/ebook repositories