 Let's say you want to make a single box for each of the 12 cubbies in a cube-shelf. Determine the height, width and depth measurements for the space(s). Another thing you'll want to consider is what colors the book spines will be. Consider going with all browns and black or gray shades that coordinate with just about anything and would also look like antique books. But don't be afraid to go more colorful - this could result in a really modern or fun look!;
, This will allow wiggle room for the boxes to easily slide in and out of the shelves. The depth measurement can also be adjusted so your 'books' sit further back on the shelf and not right up to its edge, especially if you plan to make the 'book' spines more three dimensional. Reduce the depth by about 1/2 inch (1.27cm) if you want a bit of a ledge and know you will make some spines more three dimensional than others.
 The dimensions used in this example are shown here. (Keep in mind the depth of the foam core as well - two panels equal about 1/4 inch (6.35mm) in this case.)

, Be as precise as possible so that all the edges will line up and result in square corners. 

, Be sure to have a cutting mat placed below the board and use the edge of the ruler as a cutting edge guide if you're not good at free-hand cutting.
 Use the X-Acto knife to get clean corners and cuts on the tape.
 This will become the base for attaching the book spines to.
 Pick out which titles you want to be displayed together on each box front. They can be themed or completely random. For authenticity, try finding out the page count of each of your titles so the book thickness will be realistic - otherwise you could end up with a very "abridged" version of War & Peace! See the "Tips" section for more ideas on selecting book titles.
 Don't make any books skinnier than 3/4" (2cm) though as smaller sizes become increasingly difficult to work with the later steps. Try to plan out how the actual spine should look so you have a nice variety of styles and fonts across the books. (Search online for images of "antique books spines" for design ideas.)

, This allows you to have a finger hole to pull the box out of the shelf. This is essential if you're making them fit snug and won't have a way to grasp the sides of the box.
 Try to pick colors that go with the title (a black cover for Dracula makes a lot more sense than a pink one!).
 Cut out this shape.
 Repeat this step for the other fold.


Now use your fingers to crush the fold as flat as possible.



Then go over it with pen or marker to finalize it. Be careful not to smudge the ink and give it a minute to dry before touching again.



At this point you may want to place a weight or two on top to keep the paper from lifting up (you can use the duct tape rolls for this).
, For these you may may want to cut your paper a bit wider than the space left so they curve out a little and give you a more three dimensional effect on the spines. Keep gluing them until all the books are done.
 Don't get stingy with your glue here, you want this to stay put!

, Be very careful with this step so you don't ruin all your work on the book spines.
