 Early summer is the peak of the season for hiring limousines. You will probably be able to secure a better price if you hire a limo outside the months of May and June. You’re also likely to get a better rate on weekdays.Sunday through Thursday are typically the least expensive days, while Fridays are about 20% less than Saturdays. Most limousine companies have hourly minimums on Friday and Saturday nights.Events you may want to hire a limo for include airport transfers, weddings, nights out or day trips, bachelor or bachelorette parties, city or wine tours, concerts, A to B transfers, proms, client meetings and special events. Most limousine companies have special airport transfer rates and special A to B Rates.;
, Once you know what you want, call a selection of companies and obtain written quotes for your event. You can look in a local directory online or in other directories such as the yellow pages. However, a great way to find a satisfactory limo service is by word of mouth.Try asking family members, friends, or co-workers if they’ve used a limo service they were pleased with.
 Ensure the company has valid certification. Ask if they have liability insurance and professionally trained drivers. You may also want to ask if they are a member of the National Limousine Association. Find out how long the company’s been in business.Ask to see proof that the company and driver have the proper license and certification for commercial hire, with respect to local, state and federal laws.Ask if the company’s drivers undergo official criminal background checks and drug testing., Find a limo service that has a good record of customer satisfaction. Look for comments indicating that the service was friendly, professional, and showed up on time. You can also check the company’s rating with the Better Business Bureau, and whether they have record of any complaints about that company., A lot of limo companies offer special packages based on the event type. For example, a prom package might include non-alcoholic drinks, cake, and goodie bags. Ask what packages are available and what is included in each package.Carefully weigh the price and value of the package “extras.” Similar to hotel package deals for special occasions, it will probably be more cost-effective to bring extra props or food yourself rather than getting a package deal.
 You don’t want to end up with a bill that’s far higher than you expected, so gather details ahead of time. Ask if there are mileage charges, and if so, what they are. Find out if beverages (alcoholic and/or non-alcoholic) and ice cost extra. Expect to pay any applicable road tolls or parking fees.Try asking, “Does my time begin at pickup or when the limo leaves your location?”
Find out if a tip is included in the quote or separate.
Make sure to specifically ask, “Does this price cover everything?”

, Ask about a deposit: limo companies generally ask for a deposit of 20 to 50 percent down. If they’re asking for more than 50%, you should be wary and will probably want to look elsewhere.Ask how the remainder of the balance will be paid, For example, will it come off of your credit card or will it be due via cash or charge at the end of the event?

, Most limousine companies offer six-, eight-, and ten-passenger vehicles. There are also larger options such as Hummer vehicles, “extra stretch” limos or limo busses. If you’re going on a date and there will only be two of you, you may want to opt for a sedan.A standard four- to six-passenger limo runs about $60 to $65 an hour, whereas a stretch limo for six to eight people is $150 to $175 per hour.Party bus limos for fifteen to twenty passengers cost $125 to $175 per hour.
A sixteen-passenger limousine rental is about $97-$107 per hour.
A twenty-five-passenger limo bus costs about $225-$300 an hour., You’ll be more comfortable with extra room rather than filling the limo to its maximum seating capacity. People are different sizes, so as a rule of thumb you’re better off getting a limo with seating capacity for two more spots than you intend to fill.For example, if you have four people in your party, opt for a six-passenger limo.
Try to book a vehicle that has room for at least one to two last minute extra people than are in your party, just in case.
 There are various extras you may want included. For example, some limos have a TV, VCR or DVD player, a sound system, car phone, sunroof or Jacuzzi.Verify that the limo will have fully working seatbelts, as well as air conditioning or heat upon request., Ask if the color, size and make/model of the vehicle are guaranteed. It’s important to view the exact vehicle you’ll be riding in beforehand to make sure you approve of it. If the company refuses to do this, look for a different provider.Ask if the vehicle has had regular inspections and is certified as both safe and mechanically sound. For instance, the vehicles should be DOT inspected and approved.Make a note of the license plate of the vehicle you are hiring to ensure that you get the correct vehicle on the day of the event.
 Ask who specifically you should contact if you have any complaints or concerns before, during or after the limo service. Write down the contact’s name, telephone number and email address. Bring this information with you., If gratuity isn’t already included in the bill – or perhaps even if it is – don’t forget to give gratuity to the driver at the end of the event. Professional drivers often make low hourly wages, and they typically rely on tips.Give the driver 15 to 20% of the total cost of your rental. Base the amount you give on the level of service you received.

