 Taking along a supportive friend or relative can help make shopping for a bikini become a fun social event. It’s also good to have a second set of eyes when trying on anything!
, Wearing a color that flatters your skin tone can really boost your confidence. Black is always a great choice, but if you want to wear something colorful, pick a color that makes you look great!People with dark skin look fantastic in neons, whites, and other very bright colors.
If you’re very pale, try jewel tones.
Tanned skin looks great in metallic colors.
 Don’t worry about what’s trendy this summer. If you’re worried about how you’ll look on the beach or at the pool, go for a bikini with a simple, classic design. That way, you won’t have to worry about whether all the straps are connected or if the fringe is tangled., Everyone’s body is different, so a bikini that looks amazing on your friend might not be the best choice for you. Try on several different styles and pick the most flattering one.If you have a large bust, make sure your top has wide, comfortable support straps.
High-waisted bottoms look great on petite people or shoppers who want more stomach coverage.
Try bottoms with adjustable ties if you’re pear-shaped.
If you’d prefer to keep a little more covered, try a tankini or a bikini with boyshort bottoms or a matching sarong.
If you want to accentuate a small bust, choose a top with ruffles.
 Always try your bikini on, even if you’ve bought bikinis in the same brand before. Many manufacturers don’t have a standard size, and different cuts can fit the same body very differently. Most stores require you to leave you underwear on to try on bathing suits, to make sure you're wearing something suitable., Bikinis are often sized differently from regular clothes and underwear. Having to leave the fitting room to change sizes can be upsetting, so bring a range of sizes in with you from the start. If you’re shopping for mix and match bikinis, make sure you have multiples sizes in tops and bottoms., Make sure your bikini can withstand swimming, running, and stretching. Lift your arms, bend at the waist, and practice sitting down and getting up., Don’t just buy the first bikini that looks okay on you--you want to look amazing! Go to a few different stores and buy the very best one you can afford. If you’ve got your friends and a good attitude, it will seem like a fun day out instead of a chore.