 Directors don't want people who can't do what is needed for the production. If you want to be noticed you have to be good. It's a sad and simple truth. Practicing will make you improve.


Take singing instructions. Most people, mainly young singers, get taught to sing and taught technique that is so helpful.
Dancing is a required skill. Stage schools will improve this. It doesn't have to be ballet! Many schools offer modern, street tap and other dancing styles!
Acting is obviously a key thing. Acting isn't about being able to show off or brag. Most acting is about being realistic. And musical theatre although may in some productions be more wild doesn't mean it has to be so strange it's unbelievable. Realistic acting uses eyes and facial expressions much more to show emotions.
Body language is used also to show who your character is! You need to be the character! If people can tell you're acting then that's not good enough! If somebody watching you starts to believe your character; for example, when on a soap opera somebody is poisoning somebody else, you as an audience think: "I hate her!" then that's good because you believe that she would kill somebody and this shows that they are a good actor! Remember, soap operas do not usually translate into West End shows.;
, This will help you get auditions if you are good enough.
 It's your agent's job is to get you auditions. You need them. You can't make it without one so if you can't get one, then you are wasting your time. You will need a professional photographer to take head shots. Amateur shots will seem unprofessional. Think of how the director will see you compared to other people auditioning. He sees a badly taken photo that looks edited of a girl, he sees the next photo; a flattering yet truthful photo of a person. Photographers are paid to do this. They know what they are doing. If you aren't willing to spend money on a photographer then this isn't the job for you. Acting is hard work so get used to it or don't do it. This isn't celebrity stuff. So, you will need a portfolio that includes clear head shots along with a CV or Resume to show any past work/ experience you've done.
 Get involved and don't ever assume you are the best actor or whatever out there. You won't be working all the time - 90% of actors are unemployed.


If or when you get invited to an audition, say yes. Even if you don't like the sound of it, still go along.This is because your principal will then know you are willing for anything.
 Even if it's a triple threat audition and you're rubbish at singing, etc if you have potential elsewhere, you are likely to get it if you are very good, or perhaps noticed. You may not be 'Christine' for 'Phantom Of The Opera' but perhaps you would make a good 'Nancy' for 'Oliver'?

, You don't get offered the leading role unless you have worked your butt off and shown that you are good enough to learn the lines and dance. There aren't many leading roles but if, for example, you become an extra but prove yourself to be very talented and a good actor/ actress, they might make you an understudy of a main part, so it's not like an overnight thing where you wake up and you suddenly have a leading role.


You need to react to actors well and be a good people person, get yourself in there and get noticed and make friends in the right places. A good word may make a difference.
 Even if it's the part of an extra, everyone gets nervous. If you suffer from stage fright, imagine everyone has a hole in their sock. That's what Winston Churchill did to stop him being nervous whilst making speeches.
!

