 If you have reason to think that a difficult business client is a narcissist, try to plan ahead in your dealings with them. It is important to avoid openly argument or disagreement. This will only make them angry or, worse, lead them to turn on or undermine you. Try instead to anticipate. Imagine what sort of demands they might spring. This will allow you to be prepared upfront without having to enter a confrontation or give ground, both of which, in view of narcissists’ inability to empathize, could be disastrous for your business relationship.
 Choose your words carefully. A narcissist will read criticism into very innocuous comments, resulting in a tantrum or a potentially damaging, unprofessional display. Tread lightly around a controlling business partner or client, knowing that the least word could set them off. You might not have a choice about dealing with a client, and your job may depend on getting along with them.


Literally watch what you say, as well: take down the minutes of your meetings and telephone calls. Communicate very clearly about your project, timetables, and your client’s expectations. This will give you support in case they make new demands or accuse you of breaking an agreement., Controlling people are often perfectionists; some of them, like Steve Jobs, are indeed visionaries.In a business situation it may be best to play to your controlling client’s narcissistic tendencies. Stroke their ego without being servile. For example, lead them to think that your ideas and suggestions are really their own. Try to finesse them to a desired end rather than being goaded into an argument.
 The perfectionism of a controlling client will make it difficult to please. Expect constant demands on your time and to hear that your work is not good enough. Do not be surprised if the client tries to threaten or bully you or to accuse you of mismanagement. Challenging a narcissist will get you nowhere because, to them, they are always right and you are always wrong. By the same token, however, do not show hesitation or weakness. If you must, gently hold your ground and insist upon your initial agreement, using notes as back up., You may have to spend a good deal of your time and resources on a controlling client. They will feel entitled to it and put demands on you. Make the project easier by putting things in writing if you can, at the beginning, including your rate of pay and how much time you can reasonably expect to devote to the project. Be gentle but firm. You have other clients to serve. Insist also on a by-the-hour rate rather than flat-rate payment. This will give you some protection from your client’s exorbitant demands, and at the very least will mean that you won’t end up working free overtime.