 Use a USB cable compatible with your device to connect it to your computer.


Windows Media Player cannot sync with iOS devices.;
, If you're using a device like an Android phone, you'll need to unlock the screen before the device can connect.
 Windows will automatically check for any necessary drivers for your device when it is connected for the first time. In most cases, these drivers will download and install automatically, but it may take a few minutes.
 If you're connecting an Android device, you'll need to enable MTP or File Transfer mode for the USB connection:


Swipe down from the top of the Android screen.
Tap the USB notification. This only appears when the Android is connected to your PC via USB cable.
Tap "File Transfer" or "MTP." This will make your Android's files accessible in Windows.
 You can find this in your Start menu. You can also open the Start menu and type "Windows Media Player" to search for it and quickly open it.
 If your device is successfully connected and recognized by Windows Media Player, it will appear at the bottom of your library list in the left frame of the Library view.
 You'll find this in the upper-right corner of the Windows Media Player window.
 This will cycle through all connected devices and drives.
 For example, to add music from Windows Media Player, click the Music library in the left frame.
 This is in the Sync tab underneath your device on the right side of the window.
 You'll see the available space on the device adjust automatically as you add more content. If your device supports multiple types of content, such as music and video, you can add all of it to the same sync list.
 You'll see a progress bar appear as content begins to transfer.
 This will display a list of all the items that were synced to your mobile device or to your computer. You'll be able to see any items that were not able to sync as well.
 Once you've synced the content from your computer to your device, you'll be able to start playing it immediately. The process for this will vary depending on your device.


For MP3 players, your new songs will be available just like any song on your device.
For Android devices, you'll find the content in the associated apps. To play your synced music, open your music player app. To play synced video files, open your video player app.
 If you get an error message saying that Windows could not install the drivers, you'll need to get them yourself:


Disconnect the device.
If the device came with a disk, insert it into your computer.
If you don't have a disk, open the device manufacturer's support website. Search for your device model and check the Drivers or Downloads section for an installer.
Run the installer from the disk or the downloaded file. Follow the prompts to install the driver.
 Windows Media Player can detect most MP3 players and Android devices. It will not work with iOS devices like iPhones and iPads.
 Updating Windows Media Player may help with issues connecting a device:


Press Alt to display the menu.
Click "Help" → "Check for updates."
Click "Update" to install any available updates.
 Some users have reported that making an adjustment to Windows Services can make a device appear in Windows Media Player when it isn't being detected:Open the Control Panel.
Click Administrative Tools.
Double-click Services.
Right-click Portable Device Enumerator Service and select Properties.
Set Startup type to Automatic and then click Start.
Check Windows Media Player for your device.

