 If you already have a Facebook account, finding your Facebook friends on Instagram is easy, but the process varies slightly depending on which type of device you have. For Apple products, start by opening Instagram and going to your profile by clicking the button at the bottom right of the screen., Once you're at your profile page, access your Settings menu by clicking the button in the top right of the screen. The icon should be a small picture of a silver gear.
 Select the option at the top of the Settings menu to proceed. The wording for this option may change based on the version of Instagram you have, but it should always be the topmost option.
 You will be redirected to your Facebook app and asked to verify your choice to connect Instagram to Facebook. After giving your permission, you will automatically be redirected back to Instagram.
 You should now see a list of Instagram users who are also friends with you on Facebook. Scroll through this list and click “Follow” next to the names that you would like to keep updated on. These people’s pictures will now show up on your home feed.


Note, however, that users with restrictive privacy settings may need to manually approve your follow request.
 Launch Instagram and click the button in the bottom right corner of the screen (which should look like the outline of a person) to open the Profile tab. Click on the button in the top right of the screen to open your Settings menu. The button should look like three small, square dots stacked on top of each other (like a traffic light.), On the Settings menu, click the option at the top of the screen, which should read "Find Friends" (the precise wording may change based on which version of Instagram you have.) On the next page, click "Connected to Facebook."

, If you haven't already connected your Instagram profile to your Facebook account, you will be asked to give permission to access your account. Give Instagram this permission to continue. You should not need to do this again in the future unless you change your Instagram or Facebook profile settings.
 You should now see a list populated with Instagram users that you are also Facebook friends with. Simply scroll down the list and click "Follow" next to each user that you'd like to follow. As noted above, some users may need to manually approve your follow requests.


You may also click the "Follow All" button at the top of the screen to automatically send a follow request to every user in the list.
 While the methods for finding Facebook friends on Android and iOS are virtually identical, the process is slightly different for Windows phones. To start, go to your profile tab and click the button in the bottom right corner of the screen. The icon for this button should be three dots in a horizontal line, like this: . . .
 Click the "Settings" option from the life options on the screen. On the next page, click "Find & Invite Friends." Finally, click "Follow your Friends."

, On the next page, you should see options to find friends from both your Facebook friend list and your phone's contact list. Click the option for Facebook to proceed.
 You should now see a list with Instagram users that also appear in your Facebook friends list. Click "Follow" next to each user that you'd like to follow on Instagram. This step is virtually the same as in the methods above.

