 No matter where you come from, what language you speak, or how you were raised, there's a good chance that you'll chuckle at a video of someone in a scary mask popping out of a trashcan and scaring his friend. Pranks and practical jokes (especially ones that involve physical humor) have a universal quality because almost anyone, anywhere can enjoy them. On top of this, they're very easy to shoot — a simple cell phone camera will usually do the job.



Examples: "Extremely Scary Ghost Elevator Prank in Brazil," "Drive Thru Invisible Driver Prank."

Viral Tip: Use common sense and stay safe when you're shooting your prank. Don't try to shoot anything that could conceivably leave anyone hurt or in jail. See our article on simple pranks for a few ideas to get you started.;
, Simple monologues are some of the easiest viral videos to shoot — all you need is the camera in your computer or laptop and a funny idea to get you started. Most of the most popular viral monologues are funny (sometimes accidentally), so stay away from serious speeches and political diatribes for the best chance of going viral.



Examples: "Leave Britney Alone"

Viral Tip: The biggest difficulty with monologue videos is that there's not much for your audience to look at besides your face and whatever is right behind you. This means you'll have to be creative to keep your viewers' attention — use humor or an emotional performance to separate yourself from the pack.
 In the age of the viral video, you don't necessarily have to be able to belt like Whitney Houston to become a music sensation. Giving a funny lip sync performance over a catchy song is an easy way to get your video noticed online. If your performance is ridiculously over-the-top, all the better!



Examples: "Numa Numa Song," countless Let It Go lip syncs.

Viral Tip: Remember that you don't have to lip sync for the entire song — a thirty-second lip sync of the funniest part of the song can be hilarious, but a four-minute video of the entire thing can be a little much.
 Don't be afraid to tug at your audience's heartstrings when you're chasing viral success. Cute or heartwarming videos can be immensely popular, and one of the easiest ways to capture pure, undistilled cuteness is to turn the camera on your family. Record something truly adorable (like, for instance, a relative's enthusiastic welcome home after serving a tour of duty abroad) and you will score big with grandmothers everywhere.



Examples: "Charlie Bit My Finger," "David After Dentist," etc.

Viral Tip: If you have young children in your family, you may be sitting on a comedy goldmine. Kids often aren't afraid to act silly, stupid, cute, and earnest the way that adults can be, so keep your camera rolling on any young ones.
 Can't think of a good idea for your viral video? Put your own twist on an idea that's already popular! At any given moment, there are usually at least one or two video memes experiencing popularity on sharing sites like Youtube, so hop on board before the trend grows stale — simply add your own unique charm to the existing formula.



Examples: Countless "Harlem Shake" videos, Downfall spoofs, "Keyboard Cat" mashups, and many, many more.

Viral Tip: If you want to get popular off of an existing meme, your best bet is to put your video out as soon as possible. The popularity of video memes usually burns bright, but short. For example, the "Harlem Shake" video craze of early 2013 peaked in mid-February with millions upon millions of daily views. However, by as early as the start of March, viewership had fallen drastically.