 Plyometrics incorporate jumping movements and strengthen the muscles. This type of exercise also increases the speed and agility you need for most sports. Do these exercises to help get your body used to quick movements and using a lot of power.You need to land lightly while doing plyometrics so that you catch your weight on the balls of your feet. Roll back to your heel, knees slightly bent and hips straight.
 You will hop over a cone to increase strength and control of your MCL. Practice doing several sets of 20 reps. Stand with a 6 inch cone to the left and hop to the left over the cone landing softly as described in the plyometrics step.


Repeat this with the cone to your right, hopping to the right.
Now, jump forward over the cone. Practice jumping backwards over the cone too.
Do not snap your knee back to straighten it. Keep your knees stable.
 You should practice hopping over the cone with one foot, doing 20 reps. This will further increase the power, strength and control you have over your MCL. Hop forward and backward over a 6 inch cone, landing lightly on the balls of your feet and maintaining a slight bend at the knee.


Switch feet and practice hopping over the cone with the other leg.
 Do 20 reps of the scissors jump to increase strength and power. This will help significantly with jumping during sports. Make sure your knees are stable during this exercise, and do not allow your knee to cave in or out.


Use your right leg to lunge forward, keeping your knee directly over your ankle.
Push with your right foot so your left leg moves into the lunge position.
 Sprinting trains your knee, ankle and hip to remain stable during sudden movements. This increases strength and agility. Practice shuttle runs regularly to maintain speed, strength and dynamic stability.


Start at a cone and sprint forward to a second cone, a short distance away. Run backwards to the third cone and forward to the fourth. Practice going forward and backwards from cone to cone.
 Diagonal runs are basically shuttle runs that focus on the outside of each leg and foot. This stabilizes the knee, ankle and hip complex. It also increases agility and makes your MCL stronger.


Run to a cone placed to your left. You will want to pivot off the left foot as you run to the next cone. Pivot off your right foot to the next cone.
Maintain proper form and don't allow your knees to bend inward. Always keep your knees slightly bent so they are directly over the ankle joint.
 A bounding run involves running across 44 yards. You will start at shorter distances and increase your distance over time with practice. This exercise has multiple benefits, increasing flexibility, strength, power and speed.


You will want to begin along the sidelines. When you run, push your knees high up toward your chest. As your legs come down, land on the balls of your feet. Your hip needs to be straight and knees slightly bent.

