 You will need documentation that proves your right to the kind of asset you are attempting to claim. You may need proof of residency, in the form of bills, or proof of ownership, in the form of property deeds. You may need copies of your tax forms. Be persistent, even if you do not have needed forms, as it is not uncommon for long-neglected assets to be difficult to claim.


If one state office cannot help you, call another.
Ask if there is alternative documentation you can provide, such as tax records.
Ask for a form to fill out explaining that you need to file a claim but do not have the required documentation. If the office with which you are speaking does not have such a form, another office might.You may have a right to an approximation of money in cases of insufficient recordkeeping., If one of the searches comes up with unclaimed money for you, you can follow the instructions online. Instructions will vary depending on what money you are owed. Provide scans of any documents you are asked to provide. If you have trouble, contact your state treasury department by phone or by email.
 Check the state treasury website of the state that owes you money. Download the "claim form" and print it. Fill it out. Visit a notary public and have it notarized. Mail to the address stipulated on the state treasury website. Follow any additional steps your state might require.


To find a notary, go to the American Society of Notaries and enter your zip code.
Alternately, ask if there is a notary at your local postal office or bank.
 If the funds you are fighting for are significant, it could be worth hiring a lawyer. For instance, if you are trying to claim stocks or bonds that have been sold without your permission, or an inheritance that is yours but is held by the state, you might come up against passed statutes of limitations or other obstacles toward your obtaining your property. If your claims have been denied despite your best efforts, discuss your options with a lawyer.


If you find you cannot prove that you are the sole claimant, you may need to provide some form of protection to the state or property holder before your money is released. Ask if you can buy a surety bond to protect the state against future claims.