 The methods discussed above are great for keeping your broccoli fresh in the short term, but if you have so much broccoli that you don't think you'll be able to eat it all before it goes bad or you simply don't plan on eating it right away, consider freezing it. Frozen broccoli can stay good for over a year, so you'll have plenty of time to incorporate it into your dishes before it goes bad.However, freezing broccoli isn't as simple as tossing it into the freezer and forgetting about it — first, it has to be prepared in a process called blanching. To start, you'll want to prepare a large pot of boiling water along with a similarly large pot or bowl of ice water.
 While you're waiting for your water to boil, take the opportunity to use a knife or a pair of kitchen shears to cut the broccoli heads into small chunks. The head pieces should be no more than an inch or so across on any side, with stems no more than an inch or so long. Dividing the broccoli heads into smaller pieces is important — if you don't do it, the boiling water may blanch the broccoli unevenly by affecting the outer edges of the broccoli more heavily than the protected inner portion.


You can even use your bare hands to break up the broccoli heads if you need to. Simply grab pieces of the head and pull them off of the main plant so that you are left with a cluster of florets (the "bushy" part) and a short stem. If the florets are more than about an inch and a half across, split the cluster again.
 When you've separated all of your broccoli bits into separate pieces, dump them into your boiling water to blanch them. They don't need to boil for very long — about three minutes is plenty. Stir periodically to ensure that the broccoli pieces are evenly blanched.


The purpose of blanching is to help preserve the broccoli when it is frozen. All vegetables contain enzymes and bacteria that can cause the color, texture, and taste of the vegetable to become unappetizing during freezing. Blanching kills the bacteria and disables the enzymes, which means that the broccoli will maintain its original delicious properties better after it's frozen.
 As soon as your broccoli pieces have boiled for about three minutes, drain them with a colander or strainer. Then, when the excess hot water has flowed through the colander and poses no danger of burning you, immediately dump them into your ice-cold water. Let them soak in the ice water for about three minutes, stirring occasionally to ensure that all of the pieces come in contact with the cold water.


The purpose of the ice water is to immediately cool the broccoli down so that it doesn't continue cooking. The broccoli is boiled to blanch it, not to cook it — if it's allowed to keep cooking, the broccoli will eventually become soft and unappetizing. Putting hot broccoli pieces directly in the freezer doesn't cool the steaming broccoli down as quickly as the direct contact of ice water, so the latter is a better choice for our purposes.
 After the broccoli has soaked in the ice water for about three minutes (it should feel about as cold as the water when you touch it), pour it into a colander or strainer and allow it to briefly rest. As it rests, toss the broccoli occasionally to allow trapped moisture to drain. After a minute or two, pat it with a clean rag or paper towel to remove any excess moisture.
 Transfer the broccoli pieces into a plastic bag with an airtight seal and label the bag with today's date. Squeeze the excess air out of the bag, seal it, and toss it in the freezer. At this point, you're done! Once it freezes, your broccoli should keep for up to a year.


To get the maximum lifetime out of your frozen broccoli, use a low-temperature "deep freezer", not a zero-frost freezer, as the latter periodically cycles above freezing to melt the ice in the compartment, which can reduce the life of the broccoli.Specialty vacuum-sealing devices (like the FoodSaver) are great for freezing vegetables. By removing all of the air from the bag or container that the broccoli is stored in, they can extend its freezer life and keep the broccoli fresher than with ordinary freezing methods. However, these devices can cost upwards of $100.For many recipes (especially baking recipes), you won't want to defrost vegetables before cooking, as this can throw off the moisture content of the final dish. However, for recipes that call for defrosted broccoli, all you need to do to do is soak the broccoli in room temperature water for a few minutes to thaw it.

