 Thiamine, which is commonly referred to as vitamin B1, plays an important role in nerve function. Thiamine deficiency leads to cardiovascular and nervous system problems. Wet beriberi, a condition caused by thiamine deficiency can result in an enlarged heart, edema and heart failure. Because of this, it is important to include vitamin B1 foods in your diet to keep your heart healthy.Foods rich in vitamin B1 include:


Beans
Cauliflower
Asparagus
Broccoli
Tomatoes
Spinach
Cereals
Brussels sprouts
Nuts
Lentils
Lean meat;
, Potassium plays a role in keeping your heart healthy. Potassium helps to regulate your heartbeat and helps with the contraction of your heart muscle. If you have high blood pressure, a condition that can lead to an enlarged heart, your should increase your potassium intake.Foods rich in potassium include:


Tomatoes
Potatoes
Bananas
Dried fruits
Spinach

, Edema, one of the major causes of heart enlargement, may occur because of excess amounts of sodium in your blood. Excess sodium can cause breathing problems and can cause your heart to work harder. Try to eat homemade foods, as it is easier to keep track of the amount of sodium you eat at home than at restaurants. Some low-sodium foods include:


Milk
Corn
Fresh meat
Eggs
Cream cheese
Dried fruits

, Your blood cholesterol level can go up when you eat a lot of fat. Moreover, excess fat is one of the major reasons for obesity, high cholesterol and high blood pressure, all of which play a role in the enlarging of your heart. Limit your fat consumption to 5 to 8 teaspoons daily. Fatty foods to avoid include:


All fried foods, particularly deep fried foods
Fast foods
Packaged foods
Lard and butter

, Turmeric contains curcumin, which can help prevent heart failure. It also decreases your cholesterol and triglyceride levels while increasing your good cholesterol levels. Turmeric has yet another secret weapon to fight heart enlargement: polyphenol. Polyphenol can help to prevent and treat an enlarged heart.Take 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper and crush it. Add ½ teaspoon of turmeric powder to the crushed black pepper and mix well. You can take this mixture three times a day.
You can also add a pinch of turmeric to each of your meals.
 Allicin, which is found in garlic, can help to lower blood pressure. When your blood flow runs more smoothly, you have a higher chance of reducing your heart to its normal size. Allicin also helps to prevent the production of bad cholesterol and aids in producing good cholesterol, which helps to improve heart health.Eat two raw garlic cloves a day. Include garlic regularly in your food as well.
If you don’t like raw garlic, you can take garlic supplements.
 Green tea is rich in antioxidants, which help to increase good cholesterol, prevent oxidation of bad cholesterol and aid in improving the function of arteries. Thus green tea can help to fight heart conditions.Add ¼ teaspoon of green leaves to a cup of boiling water. Switch off the stove and allow the tea to sit for 3 minutes before you filter and drink. Drink up to three cups of green tea a day.
 Asparagus is a rich source of vitamins and minerals. This natural diuretic contains neither fat nor cholesterol. It also does not contain sodium, which can lead to edema, one of the major causes of heart enlargement. It works well to strengthen heart muscles. Asparagus contains glutathione, which improves your defense system and helps to lower high blood pressure thereby aiding in the treatment of heart enlargement.You can eat asparagus or drink asparagus juice. To help the flavor of the juice, you can mix in some honey.
 Cayenne pepper is a rich source of vitamin C, which is essential for collagen synthesis. Collagen, which is a structural protein, helps to maintain the integrity of internal organs, blood vessels, skin and bones. Cayenne peppers also contain selenium, an antioxidant that can help your heart to operate smoothly.Add ¼ teaspoon of cayenne pepper to 1 cup of water and mix well. Drink two cups a day.

