 This will give your body time to build up muscles so you will be ready when the ski resorts open.;
, Getting in shape to snowboard may take some time, so plan on exercising at least 3 times a week for 30 minutes.


Triceps are the muscles located between your shoulders and elbows. You will use your triceps muscles to help you get up or flip your board from heel to toe edge when you are sitting on the ground.
Sit down on the floor. Place your feet flat and bend your knees when you do triceps snowboarding exercises.
Put your arms behind your back with your fingers flat and facing forward.
Lift your bottom off the ground using your arms. When you prepare for snowboarding, you may feel some stiffness or get sore. Better to feel the pain now so you can feel strong on the snow.
 Your calf muscles are located between your ankle and knee, and you use these muscles to help you stop and turn a snowboard.


When you are getting in shape to snowboard, you may hold weights in your hand while you do calf lifts.
Stand up tall and straight, and lift your heels off the ground so you are standing on your toes. Count to 10, and then release.
 You will need strong stomach muscles to get from a sitting to standing position when you snowboard.


Lay on the floor on your back.
Keep your head and arms on the ground, straighten your legs, and raise them 5 inches (12.7 cm) to 10 inches (25.4 cm) off the ground. This snowboarding exercise will strengthen your abs while decreasing your waistline.
Hold this position for 10 to 20 seconds.
Try doing 30 to 100 sit-ups every day to help strengthen your abs.
 To carve down the slopes, you need to have strong legs.


Lean against a solid wall and act like you are sitting on an invisible chair. Hold this position for 1 to 5 minutes. To get in shape for snowboarding, you want to strengthen your thigh and back muscles.
Do 8 to 10 squats every day. Stand up straight with your feet flat on the ground. Lower yourself into a squat, hold for 5 to 10 seconds, and slowly stand back up.



Try jump roping. Jump roping is a great snowboarding exercise that can be done inside or out, while increasing coordination and cardiovascular endurance.
Ride your bike, walk or jog outside to prepare for snowboarding.
Training your heart and lungs can be accomplished with plenty of fun activities, including swimming, soccer, skate boarding and hiking.

