 When a new device (e.g. a printer, a hard drive) is connected to your PC, Windows will attempt to install the appropriate drivers automatically. You’ll see a message near the clock that says “Installing device driver software.” Watch the bottom right corner of the screen for these messages.If Windows is able to install the drivers on its own, you’ll see “The device is ready to use”. The device should now be ready to use.
If Windows cannot install a driver on its own, check your device's packaging for either a disc with the drivers or direction to a website in order to download them.;
, Your device will likely come with instructions on how to find driver downloads on the company website. Locate a link called “Drivers,” “Software” or “Support,” then download the latest drivers to your computer.


If your device came with a disc you can also install drivers from the disc. Insert it into your CD drive and an installation wizard will help you install the drivers you'll need.
If there is no installation wizard, press ⊞ Win+E to launch File Explorer, then double-click your CD/DVD ROM drive. Look for a program called “setup,” “autorun,” or “install” on the disc—double-click it to run the installer and get your drivers.
 If you downloaded your drivers from the website, find that file and open it. This should launch an installation wizard that will walk you through installing the drivers.
 If you've correctly installed your drivers - your device will work now. Test it out to be sure.


If you installed drivers for a printer, try printing a document or photo.
If you installed sound drivers, try playing a YouTube video or playing a CD. Make sure your speakers are turned on and the computer volume is not muted.
 You should only have to manually update third-party device drivers if instructed by tech support.


If you're using Windows 7 or Vista, double-check to make sure drivers update along with regular operating system updates. Press ⊞ Win+E to launch search, then type “update”. Click “Windows Update”, then “Choose how updates get installed”. If there is no checkmark next to “Give me recommended updates the same way I receive important updates”, place a checkmark into the box.
 If you were instructed by tech support to update a particular driver, follow their specific download instructions to acquire the update.


If you were given a CD or DVD that contains the updated drivers, insert it into your drive.
 If you downloaded a driver update that ends with .EXE, double-click that file to run the installer, then follow the prompts to update the driver.


If your drivers are compressed into a .ZIP file, right-click the file, select “Extract all,” then choose a location you’ll remember (such as the Desktop). If you see an .EXE file in the extracted folder on your desktop, double-click it to run the installer.
If your driver update is on a CD or DVD, press ⊞ Win+E to launch File Explorer, then double-click your CD/DVD-ROM drive. If you see an installer that ends in .EXE, run it and follow the prompts.
If you found an installer and ran it through to completion, your drivers will now be updated. Test your device to be sure it works properly.
 Launch the search window by pressing ⊞ Win+S and search "device manager" to locate. If you don't have an .EXE driver file to open, try this method.
,


For example, if your new device is a wireless card, expand “Network adapters,” then select your card.
,, Follow the prompts on the driver update screens to complete the installation.
 Use your device after updating its drivers to make sure the update was successful.


If you experience any issues with your device after updating the drivers, contact the manufacturer to request additional support.

