 Kids, like adults, are surrounded by images of people at the top of their game, succeeding and accomplishing important goals every day. Your child may be frustrated when they realize they can’t emulate their favorite singer or baseball player. Teach your child that no one is born knowing how to do anything perfectly., You could use their childhood idol as an example. You could say, “Yes, LeBron James is incredibly talented. But he didn’t just get where he was by walking in off the street and trying out for the team. When he was your age, I bet he was shooting baskets at the park every day.”, If a child is disappointed that they’re not a star tennis player, they are likely not going to feel very good about themselves. Help your child understand that most goals take a long time to accomplish, and that they can take baby steps every day to work towards that goal.Encourage them to be proud of the effort they put in and the progress they make, rather than focusing on how far they are from achieving a goal.
 Building a child’s self-esteem does not mean avoiding discipline. Ignoring a child’s mistakes means that you are depriving them an opportunity to learn from wrongdoings and make other choices to change their behavior in the future. Provide teaching opportunities while disciplining your child, rather than limiting your discipline to criticism.Instead of saying, “Your dresser is a mess! All your clothes are just thrown in there and now they’re wrinkled! You can’t seem to keep anything neat!” you could say, “Have I shown you how to fold your clothes? Let me show you. It’s helpful to have a good way to organize your dresser, so you can find something easily. Your clothes won’t get so wrinkled, either.”
It’s okay to tell your child that you are upset with something they did. It’s important to teach a child that their behavior impacts other people. For example, you could say, “Mommy is very upset that you hit the baby. We never hit each other, because hitting hurts. What will you do the next time you are upset that the baby took your toy instead?”
Avoid name-calling or using loaded language when disciplining, like “You’re so clumsy!” or “Can’t you ever get this right?” If you find that you are losing your temper, give yourself a timeout.Establish clear boundaries and rules in your home. Indicate consequences for not following the rules, and follow through with them as necessary. Your child will feel confident in knowing what is expected of them., If your child shows a natural ability in sports, the arts, or another area, give the child plenty of opportunity to develop those talents.If they are naturally talented in these areas, they will see how some effort will easily pay dividends. Then you can show them how hard work can carry over into other aspects of their lives.A child’s talents and success will improve their self-esteem and make them feel more confident that they can accomplish goals in other areas.
If your child feels daunted by a difficult task, remind them of their previous successes. For example, “Do you remember your piano recital? You had a really difficult piece to play, but you practiced note by note and page by page until you mastered the piece. Because you worked so hard, you had an excellent performance. The same goes for your math homework. Look at this problem by problem and keep trying until you get it right.”

, Through athletics, kids learn that they can practice to improve their skills and achieve goals, building self-esteem. It also helps kids learn to handle setbacks and defeat.Enroll your child in a team sport to learn teamwork, sportsmanship, and make new friends.
Allow your child to participate in the decision as much as possible. If there are a variety of sports to choose from in your area, let your child pick which one they would like to try out.
If your child is not into team sports, find a solo athletic activity they could participate in, like martial arts or dance.
Sports also help your child stay physically fit and healthy, which further boosts self-esteem., Children as young as two can have basic chores around the house. Having chores helps children feel more valuable, building self-esteem, and it also helps build resiliency and self-discipline. Sometimes work must happen before fun.You may want to make a chore chart to help your child see their responsibilities and track their completion.
Assign chores according to age and ability. Give kids jobs that they will be able to complete with little to no adult supervision.

