 When your wife discovers your affair, it can have a devastating effect on her and your marriage. She is likely to lose her trust in you, which will be difficult to overcome if you intend to stay married. Your affair might also damage her sense of self-worth. Aside from the repercussions you’ll face, you will have hurt your wife immensely., Most cheaters eventually feel a sense of guilt and shame. Though your wife is likely to shame you and remind you of why you should feel guilty, much of your guilt will be internal. Knowing that you did something that caused pain and unrest in your marriage is likely to haunt you whether the marriage ends or not. This can even break down your sense of self-worth., They will feel the tension and disconnect between their parents. This tension will make them feel insecure and stressed at home, and often lead to behavior problems. Whether you choose to continue or end your marriage, your children's lives will be changed by your affair.If you choose to remain married, your children will be living in an emotionally unstable home as you rebuild the trust in your marriage. Children understand and see a lot more than adults think.
Cheating parents are also linked to long-term trust issues in their children.
 For the most part, married couples usually have the same friends. This means that when you cheat, those friends will feel forced to choose a side to offer their support (and it probably won’t be yours). Whether you divorce or not, your friends will likely be uncomfortable around you and/or your wife for a long time.
 There are many reasons that cheating is difficult to get away with. Even if you keep your affair a secret in the beginning, you are likely to get careless or make a mistake like forgetting to delete a text message from your other lover. You also have to worry about the other person contacting your wife, or people you know seeing you with the other person. The constant stress and worry of getting caught should be considered before jumping into an affair.