 Fairy houses can be short and fat, taller and skinny, simple and cottage-y, ornate and castle-y, rounded and soft, angular and dramatic, and so on. decide which style you like before you start planning your design.






;
, Think about where windows, doors, pathways, and chimneys might go. Remember, it needs to be physically possible for you to construct the fairy house, so don’t get carried away!








, You can use a milk carton, a birdhouse, cardboard, wood, or twigs to make the house structure. You can even transform a dollhouse into a fairy house. Remember that you will be decorating it at the end; even if you don’t like the way the structure of the house looks, you can cover this up later on.
 Find leaves, mosses, branches, pebbles, acorns, dried grasses, and other natural items to decorate the house. If you plan to glue the house together, make sure the materials are dry; glue won’t stick to anything wet.
 If you want to keep your fairy house indoors, it might be nice to make a base to set the house on. Take an old piece of cardboard or scrap wood and decorate it to look like an outdoor setting. Add moss to look like grass, twigs to look like miniature trees, and pebbles to look like boulders. You might even want to build the fairy house in a container garden.
 Glue cardboard, wood, and other materials together using a hot glue gun or perhaps wood glue. It may be too costly or time-consuming to make your whole house out of clay, but oven-bake clay is great for turrets or windows and comes in many useful colors. You can add towers by using paper towel tubes, toothpaste boxes, or whatever else you can think of. Ex:









Stack twigs like Lincoln logs. Lay two twigs down parallel to each other, then lay two different twigs on top of the first two so that they cross them. (They should look like a square with overlapping corners.) Keep stacking them this way until the walls are as high as you want them to be and then add a roof.













If building an outdoor house, make the walls and roof of the fairy house and then cover the whole thing with dirt or mud to make a rounded hobbit-house. Press flat stones into the sides to create walls and add moss to the top to make a thatched roof. Leave a hole where you want the door to be and add a hollow stick, reed, or piece of bamboos to make a chimney. Press a few pebbles into the dirt leading up to the doorway to make a path of stepping-stones.
 Cover the floors with sands, leaves, or moss to create soft padding. Make a hammock from the fronds of a fern or a piece of stocking and add scraps of fabric for curtains. Turn an upside-down teacup or saucer into a table and use acorn caps as bowls. You can even add “wallpaper” made of dried leaves, leathers, or hand-made paper. If you want to add furniture, you can either use doll furniture or make your own:









To make a table, for example, gather some dry twigs, both skinny and thick, from your backyard. Cut four pieces and glue them together to form a rectangular frame that’s the size you want the tabletop to be. When this has dried, lay twigs across the top and glue them to the frame. When the top has dried, cut four pieces to the same length and glue them underneath to form the table legs.













Clay furniture is much easier to make but does not look as rustic. There are no real directions: just carefully mold some air-dry or oven-bake clay into furniture.
For more ideas, see How to Make Your Own Dollhouse Furniture.
 Once you have made your structure, you can decorate it with doors, vines, etc. Rustic and natural features will seem more realistic. Birch tree bark has a beautiful look and you can use both sides. Don't forget to include landscaping!








,