 These are the basic tools for drawing, and depending on the artistic quality, they can range from simple and inexpensive, to professional grade.


Pencils come in different strengths. For dark, wide lines, use the soft grade pencils, like 1B <lighter darkest="">6b, and for fine, light lines, harder leaded pencils, H1<darker lightest="">H6. For sketching, an "HB", or common number 2 pencil is fine.
Paper, as well, comes in different stocks, grades, types, and weights. Newsprint is a cheap, light sketching paper, but does not tolerate much erasing (without tearing) and is usually not suitable for matting and framing. 20# drawing paper is a basic, inexpensive sketch pad paper, fine for doodling, sketching, or even matting and framing. For practice, regular computer printer paper will work.;
, You have a basic slightly curved line for the stem, and an irregular round shape for the flower, so start the drawing so that the finished image "fits" your page.
 Bring your pencil up, making the line of the stem, and don't be especially concerned if it is straight, since in nature, flower stems seldom are. Draw another line parallel to the first, making the stem thicker than a simple single line.
 These are guide lines, so make them soft and light enough to be erased or unnoticeable when your drawing is complete.
 Elongate, or stretch the teardrop shape, out to the circle guide line you drew earlier. The individual petals are very elongated teardrop shapes, so make each one long and thin.
 You may want to erase out some of the overlapping lines of these shapes to make the illusion of depth more realistic, as the "petal" (each teardrop shape is an individual petal of the flower) on top covers the part of the petal underneath it, so those lines will be invisible in nature.


Add smaller petals on top of the others. Again you will need to rub out extra lines that are hidden because of petals overlapping.
When/If colouring, make the petals in the center a darker shade of yellow than the ones at the back.
, These will be shaped like a teardrop, with serrated (saw-tooth) edges. They should be shortened tear drops, rather than elongated like the petals.

