 Seriously, how long would it really take you to change the child's diaper again on a child that was once diapered continuously? It will be no longer now than it was once before.


If your child just wants to be briefly placed back in diapers, you may be able to deal with the change to diapers for a day and then move on back again to the normal regimen in a matter of days. The upside of this move may be that it allows the child to feel supported in their choices and to move quickly through this phase, without a power struggle.;
, Even if they have the same feeling as you, you should feel the sense that your partner can stand by your side and help you in supporting your decision.


It's also a good idea to consult your child's physician and make sure there are no medical implications involved in the child wearing diapers again.
 Realize that your child asking to be diapered again may very well just be a "phase", and diapering may need to be done for only a short period of time (lasting between a few days to a week or two). Most children will later recognize that they enjoyed the great feeling it was not to feel all wet and icky all the time or remember what it was like when mom and pop didn't have to embarrass them into getting their diaper changed, and want to rid themselves once again.Be careful if the child lets this "phase" go beyond a week or so; it's an awful addicting thing that some children don't even realize they are doing.


Allowing a child who is originally potty-trained to wear a diaper again for long periods of time may irreversibly change the child's attitude to the use of the toilet. Don't let this phase linger onwards for too long.
 Don't talk to your child in the same baby-like talk you would give to an infant, but explain to them (with age-appropriate language) that they are loved no matter if they are diapered or not. Give them a hug and kiss, and even a gentle caress in your loving arms might be all very well what it might take to convince them not to transition backwards to a period where they are again diapered.


With all the giggling and smiling and twisting and turning going on, it'll all be worth it in the end, Them asking for diapers sometimes is just a plea for parental attention, and your hug may be all that it takes to prove to them that they've received your undivided attention and not want them to return to diapers.
 Listen to hear exactly what they have to say, and see if they have any convincing reasons to be in diapers. Be supportive of their opinions, but avoid making promises you would not willing to keep; this is their chance to talk and explain their decision to you. Make sure to explain your reasoning for why you can or can't diaper them, trying to rebut every point they just made.
 Especially in older children (who may or may not be telling you the complete truth), bedwetting may be occurring. If the child bedwets (due to stress or peer-related issues or some other psychological factor), they sometimes wet the bed because of stress, peer-related issues (like bullying), or other psychosocial factors. Consider whether your child may be worried about the possibility of bedwetting.


Keep an open ear, if they make any notion that they are bedwetting. Bedwetting is 100% treatable, and bedwetting diapers could help assist while waiting for a doctors appointment for the child. Change them into diapers only during the nighttime hours (starting at about sundown) and don't change them back until the next morning when the child awakens.
For temporary measures, if this is a nighttime problem, let them go around in diapers for that night only!


,, You'll need the same supplies you needed when they were babies: diapers (of the appropriate size), diaper rash cream, wipes, etc.


Plan on allowing them to wear heavier-weight diapers at night and even throughout the main course of the day. Let them keep a complete pack of diapers in their backpack and refill them as they come close to being emptied.
Some children allow their diaper stacks to run out quicker than others, so if you find them going beyond having to add back more every single day, you will know they are abusing the privilege.
 Show them how to loosen, remove, and later re-assemble their new diaper's diaper-tapes. Only when you feel they are ready to maintain this task on their own, should you feel they will be able to keep up in their diapering duties.


Make sure that they realize that they should only do this in a restroom, and to make sure no one else can see them bringing some of their diapers into the stall with them.
 Even cleanup and placing their diapers into the trash can and disposing of any soiled baby wet wipes, must be observed by the child, and can show them that it's a lot of hard work to be diapered again at their slightly older age.


Be open about the consequences of diapering again. Let them run into a mild diaper rash and explain to them how the rash relates to them wearing the diaper again (and prepare the "fix" for the rash). Be supportive in your explanation, and have them apply the diaper rash cream to the affected area.
 The school nurse might have a convincing plan in place to allow diapering to take place inside their restroom or in a darkened area when no other children are present; however, let the nurse tell you of their specific plan in relation to when this event happens.


If the nurse asks you if you have any appointments coming up with the child's doctor, tell them that you think the child is just going through "a phase" that could soon go away given the child has ample amount of time to grow out of the phase.
 Inform them that your child is going through "a phase" that may seem odd to them. Make sure they realize that the child may have to leave class occasionally to go to the nurse or private changing room in the restrooms to change their diaper.
 Realize that this phase will most-often be short and will eventually break away, so support them and love them through this part of their life. Only you can help your child conquer this "phase" without its latter ill-effects.
 If they still find themselves enjoying every diaper-change that you help them with, you'll need to act to remove the addicting diapers from the child and make them unenjoyable.


Explain to the child that the diaper budget will not allow you to buy diapers for them anymore after a period of a few days (no more than 2-3 weeks), and if the child doesn't stop, they will be stopped immediately when they notice there are no more diapers in stock and have to run around everywhere without something on their body (even to the local area markets) (but be prepared to bring along a pair or two of undies for the child- as most then decide to give up the diapers).
Prepare to potty-train the child for a day or two and potty-train at night for a night, as most children lose sight of how to use the toilet after being successfully potty trained.
Most children will break out of the phase alone, but monitor the situation closely as soon as you find that you've had to tell the child that their diaper budget has been expended.
Helping to keep the child in school during school hours can sometimes deter the children from wearing diapers. As they see that their schoolmates aren't using them anymore, your child may also lose interest in their diapers.
If they don't stop with little help, consider talking to them on a weekly basis, to see if they still feel the same way as they once did when they chose to ask you to diaper them again. Give the idea a total of two weeks before seeing your pediatrician for advice on where to go from here. Continue to hug them and give them the positive encouragement they always require to break them of this habit.
 Pick a time when you can have a proper talk.
 Ask them why they feel the need to be diapered once again. Keep up with the discussion, and thoroughly listen to their answers. Help them compile a list of things you and them can do alone to improve the feeling of being diapered again rather than result back to the use of diapers. Not providing a good enough/any solution to each and every bullet they help list can result back to the use of diapers on your child. Help them thoroughly think through each issue and why the new solution might be better than to go back into diapering them.


If your child is afraid of wetting the bed, talk through other solutions, like using plastic bed sheets (to help minimize the mess) or absorbent underwear (to help deal with minor accidents)to minimize mess, Reassure the child that bedwetting is okay and will pass soon; try your best to help them avoid embarrassment over it and help decide on actions (other than diapering) that will help.
If your child is fascinated with a younger sibling or friend's diapering, talk them through why babies need diapers and why they, as the older child, shouldn't need to be anymore. Explain to them that their sibling or friend used to have diapers too, but now enjoys a whole range of skills and perks that come with aging. Draw a connection between the fun things that the child can now do - like playing with friends, going to school, and going on field trips - and being a big kid who wears underwear.
 If your child is focused on the idea of being a baby again, brainstorm other ways to get this need met. You can play "house" with the child, (taking turns to be a parent or baby) or do regular activities to provide quality bonding time with the child (as the child will get one-on-one attention with each parent). Suggest the various options to your child, and make them sound way-more fun than being diapered again.
 Don't emphasize the embarrassment in an attempt to shame the use of diapers, but don't also hide the fact that diapering might lead to awkward encounters at school. Make sure your child has thought through what they would do if any peers figure out they are wearing diapers again. Be kind and supportive in your decision, but help your child consider the potential social ramifications of wearing diapers as a school-aged child. This discussion and thought process to this may put them off the idea, by this time anyway.
 If your talk has given light to options that might give the child the same feeling they're seeking without diapering, now is the time to focus on those.


Make a game-plan to deal with bedwetting or accidents, and let your child be part of the planning.
Emphasize the benefits of being a big kid who doesn't make it routine to wear diapers again; encourage them to feel accomplished and grown up in all things they do. Reward and reinforce "big kid" behavior across the board, not just when it comes to toilet use. Provide lots of encouragement when the child participates in age-appropriate activities.
 Give them lots of hugs and kisses throughout each day. Express empathy for their reasoning, as you hear them out. Make sure they feel heard and supported. (Especially shortly before the next step, should you complete this step, as most children won't connect the two together and the love will help bridge the gap and prevent them from hysterically crying "My parents don't love me anymore!")

, Although most parents choose explanations that focus on aging/development and health concerns, there are a variety of reasons why it may be ill-advised to diaper the child once again. Be age-appropriate in your decision but straight with the child about it; if you're not going to do it, don't make promises that you won't keep. Be supportive but clear.
 Look for all opportunities to bond and be positive with your child.
 Don't be punitive or tell them to stop asking the same question endlessly, but do steer your child towards a more appropriate - and even more highly preferred - topic or activity when it comes up. Then make whatever you do next - fun and exciting - as this will reinforce their switch away from the discussion of diapering and onto the next "fun" thing you plan on doing with them.

