 Before you do anything, it's important for you to understand what you actually want to happen. Do you want the guy to never call you again or do you just want him to ease up with the frequency of the calls? Have a clear understanding of your own feelings before you confront him about it.;
, If you really want a guy to stop calling you, you need to let him know. Don't put off the conversation because it's awkward. The problem is not likely to go away by itself!In-person conversations are usually best if you're in a relationship with the guy. This conversation will probably be hurtful to him, but it's more polite to confront him in person and give him the opportunity to talk to you about it instead of sending a text or a Facebook message.
If you're friendly with the guy, talking in person or over the phone is probably better than an impersonal message.
If you don't really know the guy or he makes you uncomfortable in any way, don't meet him in person. A text or Facebook message will do the trick.
Try to provide the guy with a simple reason for why you do not want him to call you. It's usually better to say something that has something to do with a lack of compatibility instead of insulting him with personal attacks. Saying, "I don't want to see you anymore because our personalities are not a good fit for one another" is better than saying, "I don't want to see you anymore because I think you're lazy and stupid.", Be very clear about what you want. You don't have to mean or insult the guy, but make sure that you are firm enough that he understands that you mean what you say.If you never want to hear from him again, make sure he understands that. Don't send mixed messages by saying you can still be friends if you don't want to be.
If you are trying to maintain some kind of relationship or friendship with the guy, but you don't want him to call you as often as he has been, be sure to explain exactly how often you are comfortable talking with him.
Some guys will keep asking you questions in order to keep you talking to them. Once you have said what you need to say, you do not need to keep indulging him by answering his questions. Tell him you have nothing more to say about the matter and walk away.If the guy does not abide by the boundaries you have set, it's important that you don't cave in and talk to him.