 Just as you protect you skin with sunscreen, your eyes also need added protection on sunny days. If you find yourself squinting or straining your eyes outside, wear sunglasses.


Look for sunglasses with 100% UVA or UVB protection.Choose a brand you feel comfortable wearing. You'll be less likely to make the effort to slip on your sunglasses if you feel unattractive or uncomfortable in them.
Too much exposure to the sun can increase your risk for cataracts or macular degeneration so sunglasses are a must on bright days. If you wear contact lenses, talk to your eye doctor about getting lenses with added UVB and UVA protection.;
, If you work a job where airborne materials are a hazard, use safety goggles at all times. You should also wear eye protection during contact sports, like ice hockey, as well as helmets and other protective material that keeps your head and eyes safe from injury., Many people spend the bulk of their workday using a computer. If this is the case for you, you need to be conscientious about how you treat your eyes. Eye strain, marked by blurry vision and difficulty focusing, is a common problem for office workers.


Every 20 minutes, rest your eyes by looking at something roughly 20 feet away for about 20 seconds. Every two hours, take a 15 minute break from the computer screen. Your eyes will benefit greatly from the rest.Keep your computer screen away from windows or lights, which can cause a glare. Dim your screen if the brightness strains your eyes. You should also tilt the screen so your eyes are level with the top of the monitor. Looking downward slightly when you work can take some strain away from your eyes.If you work long hours in front of a computer, consider wearing sunglasses or goggles at work. This can take some of the strain away if your eyes aren't looking directly at the screen.If your eyes feel dry, pause and blink for a few moments., When traveling, keep your eye health in mind. If you wear contacts, make sure to pack extras, as well as your contact case and solution. When on an airplane, the air tends to be dryer and more irritating to the eyes. Consider purchasing air drops from a local drug store to use when on an airplane., If you wear contact lenses, make sure you care for them properly. Always wash your hands thoroughly before removing or tampering with contact lenses. Take them out overnight and let them rest in clean solution. Always place new solution in your lens case rather than using the same solution from the night before.Make sure you keep track of when you need to replace your lenses. Wearing older lenses can increase your risk for an eye infection. How long you can wear your contact lenses varies depending on your brand. Some can be worn for a month while some are good for a few months. Make sure you ask your eye doctor how long you can safely wear a pair of lenses before they need replacing.

