 The referee will spin the spinner, call out the moves, and supervise the game.









Remember to switch off so that everyone gets a chance to play. Some players may prefer to spend more time on the mat, while others may be content to sit back and call the shots.
If you only have two people--not enough for two players and a referee--you can play without a spinner. On each "spin", count to three: one player calls out the color and the other player calls out the body part. Alternate who calls what.
 Remember to remove your shoes. The referee should keep off the mat.









For two players: Players should face each other from opposite ends of the mat, near the word "Twister". Place one foot on the yellow circle and the other foot on the blue circle closest to your end of the mat. Your opponent does the same on his or her end.
For three players: Two players face each other on opposite ends of the mat, near the word "Twister". Each player places one foot on the yellow circle and the other foot on the blue circle closest to his or her end of the mat. The third player faces the center from the red-circle side of the mat, placing one foot on each of the two middle red circles., The referee spins the needle, and then calls out the color and body part on which the needle lands. All players must obey this direction.









For example: "Right foot, green!" or "Left hand, blue!"

, You must bend down to your right, keeping your feet where they are, and touch one of the red circles with your right hand.
Do not move any body part until the spinner says so. You may lift a limb, briefly, to allow another limb to pass by, but you must immediately place it back upon the circle from which it came.If you are already touching a color with the limb that has been called, you must move your limb to another circle of the same color.
No two players can touch the same spot at the same time--so make your moves wisely! If two players do reach for the same circle, the referee must decide who got there first.
 If a player falls, or lets an knee or an elbow touch the mat, he or she is eliminated from the round. The last player standing wins the round.









Players should only ever touch the mat with their hands and feet.
Remember to switch roles each round so that the referee gets a turn on the mat. Consider making a rule: the first person to fall has to be the referee next round!

