 Your ability to positively affect those around you is a reflection of your personal integrity. The degree to which those around you are willing to follow you – more directly, the degree to which others trust you – depends foremost on whether people believe you to be a person of integrity. While this all may sound melodramatic, it’s immensely important. It’s also rather straightforward.Treat everyone with respect.
Don’t participate in something you would be upset to learn that someone else had done.
Be honest, especially in regards to your failures.
 For one thing, you will diminish your own and other’s productivity if you easily become frustrated with minor mistakes or temporary setbacks. If you find yourself frequently getting frustrated with those you lead, take a step back and reflect on your perspective of those around you.Treat your colleagues as your equals. Impatience with others is an indication that you view them primarily as something to be used to accomplish a certain task.
The next time a mistake is made, take the opportunity to address the issue calmly and with your mind towards prevention and education. Take care to do so without being patronizing.
 It’s been proven time and time again that positive reinforcement is more effective than punishment or other reactionary protocols. Not only do people simply respond well to kindness, a leader that is friendly is more often admired.If someone isn’t meeting your expectations, approach them with the intention of understanding why they are struggling, and be ready to propose a path that they might take to get back on track.
Let people know when they’re doing well, too. This will increase confidence, moral, and comradery.
 One of your primary roles as a leader in almost any context is to help those you lead learn to take on new responsibilities. Give them the necessary opportunities to practice doing so by delegating appropriately challenging tasks. Delegating tasks that others can accomplish also allows you to focus on the responsibilities that are unique to your leadership position.Avoid the classic pitfall of taking on too much by trusting your team to handle the responsibilities you assign them. Remember that taking on too much is a surefire way to lose control, not contain it.
Articulate your belief that those you lead can accomplish particularly challenging tasks, as this will motivate them to put their full effort into the task at hand.
Clarify your expectations. The more clarity you provide about what needs to be accomplished, the more likely those around you will be able to help make it happen.

