 Many bonds make payments to bondholders known as coupon or interest payments. These are typically made either annually or semiannually and are calculated as the percentage of the bond's par value. The interest accumulating against the bond's face value must be recorded as it is incurred, and an entry must be made recognizing coupon payments. Consider a $1000 bond with a 12 percent coupon rate (for a total of $120 annually) that makes coupon payments semiannually.


If the issuing company prepares financial statements annually or quarterly, the interest expense needs to be recorded only as the coupon payments are made. Using the previous example, there would be two entries per year in the general journal. Each entry would debit Interest Expense for $60 and credit Cash for $60.
If the company prepares monthly financial statements, journal entries will also be needed each month to recognize the accrued interest. In the example above, each month the firm would debit Interest Expense for $10 and credit Interest Payable for $10., If the bond sells above or below its face value, the discount or premium must be amortized (allocated to the income statement) evenly over the life of the bond.


Consider a $1000 bond that sells for $1050 and has a coupon rate of 12 percent and a length of five years. When the bond is sold, the account named Premium on Bonds Payable will have a $50 credit balance. This balance needs to be amortized by the same amount each time a coupon payment is made.
The amortization will be recorded in ten equal parts (semiannual payments for 5 years = 10 total payments). This means each part will be $50/10, or $5.
When a coupon payment is made on the above bond, the journal entry will call for a debit to Interest Expense for $55, a debit to Premium on Bonds Payable for $5, and a credit to Cash for $60.
An opposite entry is made to amortize a bond discount. Assuming the same bond terms but at a discount price of $950, the amortization would be recorded at each interest payment as a $65 debit to Interest Expense, a $5 credit to Discount on Bonds Payable, and a $60 credit to Cash.A similar entry is made to account for zero-coupon bond interest. For example, imagine a zero-coupon bond sold at a discount for $1,780 with a face value of $2,000 and a duration of 2 years. This represent an annual "interest" rate of 6 percent.
This 6 percent rate is recognized each year with a debit to Interest Expense and a credit to Bonds Payable, both in the amount of the interest that year. This would be $107 in year 1 and $113 in year two., Bond issuance costs may be also be amortized over the life of the bonds. To do so, divide the total issuance costs by the number of months until bond maturity and then recognize that amount each month in the Bond Issue Cost Expense account. When the bonds reach maturity, the issuance costs will be fully amortized.

For example, imagine your bond issuance costs were $12,000 and your bonds mature in 5 years. Divide the $12,000 by the total number of months to maturity (60) to get the monthly expense, which would be $200.
Each month, recognize a debit to Bond Issue Cost Expense (an Income Statement account) for $200 and a credit to Bond Issue Costs (a Balance Sheet account) for $200., When the bond comes to maturity, the face value is given to the investor in cash. The journal entry for recording the maturation of a bond calls for a credit to Cash and a debit to Bonds Payable, both in the amount of the bond's face value. This holds true for bonds sold at a discount or premium as well, because the bond's book values will have been amortized to meet their face values at this point.For example, a $1,000 bond's redemption would be recorded as a $1,000 credit to Cash and a $1,000 debit to Bonds Payable.
 In some cases, it might be to the corporation's advantage to redeem bonds before their scheduled maturity. This means that the corporation will have to pay bondholders the "early call" price stated in the bond covenant. If the bonds were sold at a premium or discount, this could represent a loss or gain for the corporation. The gain or loss is calculated by determining the bond's current carrying value and subtracting it from the cost of early redemption.


For example, imagine a bond with a par value of $1,000 that was sold at a premium that has been amortized down to $50, for a total carrying value of $1,050. The early call price is stated at $1,200.
The loss on bond redemption would be the difference of these two prices, which is $150.
The entries made would be debits to Bonds Payable for $1,000, Premium on Bonds Payable for $50, and Loss on Bond Redemption for $150. There would also be a credit to the Cash account for $1,200.