 Installing a traditional tile backsplash in your kitchen requires several different items. Make sure you are fully prepared before starting your project.


The materials you need to have prepared before you begin include your tile, tile adhesive, and grout.
Make sure you have the necessary tools, including a notched trowel, tape measure, sponge, level, utility knife, and a tile cutter. You may need spacers for tiles that are not attached together in sections.
You may want to use something to cover your countertops during this process to keep them clean.;
, In order for the tile adhesive to stick the walls, they must be free of any dust or grease. Wipe them down with a damp rag, and give enough time for them to completely dry.
 It is important to make sure you get a good measurement so you know exactly what size you should cut your tiles.


Choose a stopping point, either directly below your cabinets or at an arbitrary point on the wall.
Make sure that you have enough tiles to fill the measured space, as well as a few extras for precaution.
Use a level and straight edge to mark your stopping point along the wall.
 Use your trowel to smooth the tile adhesive across the wall, working in small sections. If you apply too much at once, it will begin to dry before you get a chance to attach the tiles.


Always start applying your tiles from the bottom center, and working outwards from there.
Don’t apply the tile adhesive to the backs of the tiles, as it will be more difficult to attach them to the wall.
 Press them into the tile adhesive on the wall, using a level to make sure they are even. Push them a few times to make sure they are secured to the wall.


If your tiles are not attached together in sections, use spacers to make sure they are all evenly spaced.
Wiggle the tile a little bit against the wall to ensure suction with the adhesive., Attach all remaining tiles to your wall using this method, until you reach the edges. Before you stick your tiles to the edges of the wall, cut off any excess or oddly shaped corners to make sure the fit is perfect.


Always cut out holes for outlets or odd edges prior to attaching the tile to the wall.
Any empty spaces can be filled with pieces of spare tile you cut to size with your tile cutter or utility knife.
 Use your (cleaned) trowel to spread grout evenly across the tiles. Don’t worry about covering the tiles, as that is what is supposed to happen. You will remove the unnecessary grout later.


Spread the grout at a 45 degree angle in a sweeping pattern.
Allow a few minutes for the grout to set, and then use a damp sponge to clean off excess grout. All of the cracks between the tiles should be filled, while the remaining tiles should be cleaned of all unnecessary grout.
 After the grout has completely dried, clean it off again with a dry cloth.
 If you want, you can apply a grout sealant to help protect your tiles. Add a small line of silicone caulk to the bottom edge of your tile to seal out water and prevent mildew growth.
 Once you have completed all the installation steps, managing your new backsplash is easy. Wipe it down occasionally with a generic kitchen or glass cleaner to keep your backsplash looking its best.