 To edit and update your Privacy and Safety settings, you must access to your user account on Facebook.;
, Enter your registered email address and password in the fields at the top right corner of the page. Then click the “Log in” button to access to your account.
 You need to update the Security Settings, Timeline and Tagging Settings, and Privacy Settings to ensure the basic safety of your Facebook account.


Click on down arrow at the top right corner of the page. A drop-down menu will appear. Click “Settings” to browse your Account Settings page.
 You can update your Security Settings to protect your account from unauthorized logging in. This saves your account from being hacked online.


Click the “Security” tab from the left panel to browse the Security options, such as “Login Alerts,” “Login Approvals,” “Code Generator,” “App Passwords,” “Trusted Contacts,” “Your Browsers and Apps,” and “Where You're Logged In.”
Click the “Edit” link next to the “Login Alerts” at the top. Click on radio buttons next to both boxes “Email” and “Text messages” to mark and enable these security options for your user account. Whenever your account will be logged in using any new device or browser, you will get a “Log in” notification through Facebook notification, email, or text message. If it is not you, you can instantly take steps to protect your user account from unauthorized access.
Click the “Edit” link next to “Login Approvals” to set a security code for your account whenever you log in using a new browser or device. If you have this, whenever you or someone else will try to log into your account, a security code will be sent to your registered phone number. You will need to enter this code correctly in order to access your account. Check the box next to the option to enable it, and set a security code as Facebook suggests in the dialog box that appears.
Review your browsers and login information carefully by clicking the “Edit” links next to “Your Browsers and Apps” and “Where You're Logged In.” In these menus, you can check the devices where your Facebook account was logged in, when, and where. By checking this regularly, you can be alerted of any unauthorized logging into your account. You can also remove any data from the history list here if you want by clicking “Remove.”

, The Privacy Settings sets your preferences in sharing your contents with a particular type of audience. To begin, click the Privacy tab at left panel. Under the Privacy tab, you can control “Who can see my stuff?” “Who can contact me?” and “Who can look me up?”


Click the “Edit” link next to “Who can see my stuff?” at the top then click “Public” at bottom to open a drop-down menu. Choose your preferred audience type—“Public,” “Friends,” or “More options”—to set who can view whatever you share through Facebook. Click “More options” and set the privacy to “Only me” so that only you can view your own posts, or to “Custom” to select specific users who can view what you share. You can also limit your old posts by clicking on “Limit Past Posts” and enabling it.
Click the Edit link under the “Who can contact me?” to set your friend request and messages privacy. Set whom you want to receive friend requests from in the drop-down menu. If you want to get friend requests from anyone on Facebook, choose “Everyone,” but if you want to restrict getting friend requests to just friends of friends, select that from the options.
In the same “Who can contact me?” menu, click on the box next to “Strict Filtering” to set your message settings. If you choose “Basic filtering,” your friends and other people on Facebook can send you a message. Choosing “Strict Filtering” restricts the message option for other people who are not your friends. You can avoid getting spam messages from unknown people by enabling this option.
Click the “Edit” link under “Who can look me up?” to set the visibility of your profile to the public. For all options under the “Who can look me up?” option, it is best to set the audience as “Friends.” That way, only people whom you personally know can see your profile or contact you.
You can uncheck the box next to “Search engine linking” to prevent search engines from indexing your user profile in search results. Many spammers try to collect Facebook profile lists using search engines to do illegal tasks, such as hacking. You can easily stop search engines from indexing your Facebook profile by enabling this option.
 Here, you can set your preferences for who can post on and view the contents of your Timeline.


Click the “Timeline and Tagging” tab at the top left sidebar, and set your preferences for each section by clicking on the “Edit” link next to it. Choose “Friends” in the drop-down menu under the titles “Who can see things on my timeline?” and “Who can add things to my timeline?” This way, you can protect your contents from being viewed by unknown people and to keep your Timeline clean from being posted with spam contents by others.
By selecting “Friends,” only your friends will be able to view the contents on your Timeline. And unless you change the privacy settings each time you post, “Friends” will be the default settings.
 Try to avoid posting statuses, photos, videos, and notes that discloses your private life or seems inappropriate to others. Always set up custom settings before posting any content on your Timeline. Disclosing your private information may bring about unexpected trouble in real life.
 When you update your profile, it is better not to enter all accurate information and to set the privacy option for each type of information. To begin editing your profile, click the “Edit Profile” link at the top left corner of your News Feed, just below your profile name.


Click on each tab listed on left side panel on the About page to edit your profile information—“Work and Education,” “Places You've Lived,” “Contact and Basic Info,” “Family and Relationships,” and “Details About You.” For each information type, you can set who can view the information you set.
To edit an information type, hover your mouse over the information heading (for example, “Work and Education”). An “Edit” link will appear to the right of the heading; click it to edit the information for that category. When you’re done editing, make sure to click “Save changes” below the information fields.
Remember, you should choose “Friends” or, in some cases, “Only me” as the audience type to keep your profile information safe. For “Places You've Lived” and “Contact and Basic Info,” it is recommended to set “Only me” as the audience type to keep your present contact information private. If possible, avoid putting your phone number, mailing address, credit card number, year of birth, and your home address in your profile information.
 On Facebook, you might want to interact by making friends, liking pages, joining groups, or installing third-party apps. It’s fun to do, but always be careful when doing so.


You should not accept any friend requests of people whom you do not know personally.
Never engage yourself with unfamiliar and unusual pages or groups. Try to check the group’s “About” section and the number of your friends connected to the group before joining. If you are unfamiliar with the group, or if your friends are not group members, you should avoid that group.
Beware of installing unknown third-party apps on your user account as these may steal your login information. Always review the permission options of third-party apps carefully. If an app requires too much information and extra administration power during installation, do not install the app.
You must be careful about these engagements to prevent cyber-bullying and identity theft.
 It is unwise to use the same password for your other online accounts on Facebook. Your password should not be something obvious, such as your mobile number, birthdate, or name of any family member. It is also a great idea to change your password often and to never leave your Facebook account open without logging out (especially when using a public computer).


To change your current password on Facebook, go to Settings and click the “Edit” link next to “Password” under the General Account Settings page. Enter your current password on the first field and the new password in the next two fields. When done, click “Save Changes” to change your password.
 Sometimes, a person can try to make trouble in your life through cyber bullying. When you encounter this, ignore the harassment and block that user from your account. To block a person, visit the person’s profile page and click the gear icon at the bottom right of the cover image. In the menu that appears, click “Block” and follow the on-screen instructions. Once blocked, that person can no longer view your profile.


If worst comes to worst, save any evidence of cyber bullying and report the abuse to abuse@Facebook.com. The Facebook team will review the reported contents and take action.
 There are many well-known antivirus softwares in the market, such as AVG, Norton, Kaspersky, or BitDefender that can protect both your PC and monitor your online activities, especially on Facebook. You can also use some social media monitoring services and tools, such as How Sociable, Hoot suite, Cyber Alert, Quintly, and Soft Activity to keep yourself safe from any predators, cyber-bullies, and reputation issues.
 Problematic privacy issues and cyber bullying may go out of control sometimes. If you get yourself in such conditions, it may be best to close your Facebook account.


To close your Facebook account, go to the Settings page and click “Security” at the top left corner, under the General tab.
Click “Deactivate your account” at the bottom left corner, and a new page on account deactivation will load. Click on a radio button to choose a reason for deactivation, and edit other available managing options related to your account.
When done, click “Confirm” at the bottom to deactivate your account. Remember, you can open a new account anytime using a different name and profile information if you want.

