 Before you can begin negotiating, you need to know what you want. If you stumble into negotiations without giving any thought, then you will find negotiation a frustrating experience.


Do you want to make legal decisions for your child, involving issues like medical treatment, religious upbringing, or where the child goes to school? If so, you will want to ask for legal custody.How much time do you want to physically spend with the children? Do you want the children to stay with you during the week? For the entire school year? This is called physical custody or, in some states, parenting time.;
, Although you can negotiate your own child custody arrangements, you should still research your state law. This will give you some idea what will happen if negotiations break down. How will a court decide child custody? What factors will a judge look at?


For example, you might be surprised that the law doesn’t favor mothers over fathers, even if the children are very young. Instead, a judge will ask who has been the primary caretaker of the child. This analysis focuses on who has taken responsibility for the child’s bathing, meals, health care, and extracurricular activities.The judge will also consider what is in the child’s best interests. This includes things like continuing a stable home and promoting the children’s relationships with their siblings.
Some states prefer that parents share custody and will use that as a starting point of the analysis.
 Part of the best interest analysis focuses on each parent’s capacity to raise the children in a healthy and supportive manner. You should assess how a judge would analyze the other parent’s ability to raise the children—and your own ability:Do either of you have physical or mental health problems?
Does either parent have drug, alcohol, or sexual abuse problems?
Do either of you use excessive punishment or emotional abuse?
How committed are you to helping your children maintain healthy relations with the other parent? If you try to alienate your children from the other parent, then the judge will not look kindly on you.
 You might want your children to spend 100% of their time with you. However, based on your research, you might realize that is not a realistic goal since judges want each parent to have parenting time. Accordingly, you need to assess how realistic your preferred arrangement is.


For example, you might want most of the parenting time with your children while limiting the other parent to occasional visits. This probably isn’t realistic, unless the other parent has drug/alcohol problems and is violent.
The other parent also won’t agree to unrealistic arrangements, and you probably won’t be able to come to an agreement outside court.
 You might not be able to look objectively at your situation. If so, then you might want to meet with a family law attorney for a consultation. Explain your situation and discuss whether you are able to get your preferred custody arrangement.


You can get a referral by contacting your state or local bar association.Call up the attorney and ask to schedule a consultation. Also ask how much the consultation will cost.
Make it clear to the attorney that you want to resolve the issue outside of court. They might have practical tips you can use as you negotiate informally with the other parent.
 You are probably feeling a lot of emotions if you are going through a divorce. However, you need to schedule some time to focus on discussing child custody issues with your spouse. Ask if there is a good time to meet so that you can talk.


You should say, “We need to talk about custody issues. When is a good time to talk?”
You probably won’t be able to resolve all issues at once. But you need to make that first appointment.
 You will not have a productive discussion if you talk all over the other parent. Instead, you need to signal that you are prepared to listen—and then actually listen. You can help put the other parent at ease by doing the following:Sit with an open body style. Don’t cross your arms or legs or angle your body away from the other parent.
Make frequent eye contact with the other person, especially when they are talking.
Summarize what the other person said. This shows that you are listening. For example, you can say, “I think I just heard that you want custody during the entire week. Is that right?”

, You should be open with what you want and explain your reasons why. You want the other parent to know that you have given the child custody arrangement quite a bit of thought, and offering solid reasons for the arrangement is the best way.


For example, you can say, “I think we should split the parenting time. Maybe Sunday through Wednesday morning with me, and then Wednesday evening through Saturday with you. We’re both tied to this city with our jobs, and it would be best for Jimmy and Megan to spend time with both of us equally.”

, It can be easy to get sidetracked when you have your meeting. One parent might want to start talking about why the marriage fell apart. Now is not the time for those discussions. Instead, you need to stay focused on the children and what is in their best interests.If you need time to discuss other issues—like division of property and debts—then schedule separate times to meet to talk about those issues.
If either one of you is too emotional, then you should think about attending therapy together or individually.
 You should come to agreement on big issues first. Once you get these out of the way, you can sweat the details. Sometimes people get caught up in the details first and the negotiation breaks down when it doesn’t have to. Alternately, you might want to tackle some smaller issues if you can’t agree on anything and just need to get the ball rolling. The following are big issues you and the other parent will need to reach agreement on:Parenting time. Come up with the exact days and times when the children will be with each parent.
Anti-move provision. One parent can easily move with the children, particularly if they have the bulk of the parenting time. You can include a provision where the parent is required to give the other adequate notice of any move.
Decision-making authority. You should identify events and specify who has the power to make decisions regarding school, medical care, and religious observation.
Communication. Ideally, you do not communicate through the child. Don’t say, “Tell your Mom I can’t watch you next weekend.” Instead, you should decide how to communicate parent-to-parent, such as by email.
How you will resolve conflicts. You can’t plan everything in advance. Accordingly, you should decide how you want to resolve disputes when they arise. For example, you might decide that you will jointly participate in mediation.
Drug or alcohol treatment. If one parent has a substance abuse addiction, then they may agree to seek counseling or treatment. Something similar should be agreed upon if the other parent has a history of domestic violence.
 You should try to make your parenting plan as detailed as possible. By doing so, you can reduce potential conflicts later on. For example, you should come to an agreement on the following issues:Holidays and vacations. Who will the children spend winter break with, for example? Who will they spend summer vacation with? Sometimes, it is best to keep the summer schedule the same as the school year schedule to minimize disruption.
How the children will be picked up. You can minimize face time by having a parent pick up the child at school and then dropping them off at school at the end of their parenting period.
Which extracurricular events each parent will attend (if you both don’t want to attend the same ones).
Decision-making authority for minor issues, such as who will pay for extracurricular activities or act as a chaperone.
 Don’t trust your memory. You might not be able to resolve all issues in one meeting, so you should keep detailed notes about what you agree on. Both of you should take notes so there is no disagreement.


If only one person takes notes, then a disagreement might erupt about what you exactly agreed to during a prior meeting. If you both take notes, then you can each look at your own notes.
 You and the other parent might hit a wall and not be able to come to an agreement. If so, you can each seek out a lawyer who specializes in collaborative family law. This type of practice focuses on working together outside of court to build consensus and resolve family disputes.Each parent should hire their own lawyer who specializes in collaborative law. You can get a referral from your state bar association.
You and the other parent will have to sign a written agreement in which you agree to negotiate fairly and in good faith.
 As part of collaborative family law, your lawyers will meet with you and the other parent in a neutral place, like a conference room at a law firm. You will then discuss the issues honestly, looking for areas of agreement.If you reach agreement, then the lawyers should draft a parenting plan for each of you to sign.
If you can’t reach an agreement, you may want to participate in mediation—or you might need to head off to court and have a judge decide the dispute.
 In some states, the judge will send you to mandatory mediation after you file for divorce.Mediation is ideal, especially if you can’t afford lawyers. In mediation, a third party (called the “mediator”) listens to you and the other parent and helps guide you to an agreement. A mediator isn’t a judge and won’t decide who is right or wrong.You should stop into court and ask if mediation is available. If you’ve filed for divorce, then the court might have sent you or your spouse information already.
Even if you aren’t divorcing, mediation might be available to resolve child custody disputes.
 If there isn’t a court program, you can find mediation services on your own. You and the other parent will split the costs of the mediator, who will probably charge $70-400 an hour, depending on where you live.You can get referrals from the following places:Your court might have a list of approved mediators.
You can contact your local or state bar association and get a referral.
You can look online by doing a general Internet search. Type in “family law mediation” and “your city.”
You should check the phone book. There should be a section for mediation.
 The mediator will probably call you ahead of your first mediation session to ask you questions. Alternately, the mediator might have you fill out a questionnaire. The purpose is to help the mediator understand what issues are in dispute.
 At the start of the session, the mediator should explain ground rules, such as the fact that anything said in mediation is generally confidential.The mediator will then identify the key areas of disagreement and try to get each side to start talking.


You might need multiple mediation sessions. In fact, mediation usually takes five to ten hours, which can be completed in one to two weeks.You should continue to attend so long as you think progress is being made.
 If mediation is successful, then the mediator can help you draft a parenting plan (also called a “custody agreement”). You should read it closely and make sure you agree with its contents. This agreement is a contract between you and the other parent.After you both sign the agreement, you will need to file it with the court.
 Some courts publish fillable forms you can use to create your parenting plan. You can check the court’s website or visit the court clerk and ask.


If no forms are available, then see Create a Parenting Plan for tips on what the plan should look like and what information you should include.
 The judge must approve the parenting plan. However, the judge should readily approve the plan so long as it isn’t too one-sided.Your court clerk might have a motion form you need to fill out and attach to your parenting plan. Stop in and ask the clerk.


If you have yet to file for divorce, then you can submit the parenting plan along with your divorce petition.
 You might have to attend a hearing, depending on your circumstances. The purpose of the hearing is for the judge to find out that each side has voluntarily entered the agreement and that it reflects their intent.If you are getting a divorce at the same time, the judge might spend a few minutes of the hearing talking about the parenting plan before moving onto other issues, like the division of property.
 If the judge approves, they should sign off on the parenting plan. You can get the signed court order or decree from the court clerk.Stop in and ask.


Keep your copy of the parenting plan handy. You need to follow it to the letter, so always have it available and read it.
 At some point in the future, you may realize that the parenting plan no longer works for you. It may be time to revisit it. You can discuss changes to the plan with the other parent, much as you developed the initial parenting plan. You may need to go through mediation again if you can’t reach agreement.


You can’t change the parenting plan on your own. You also can’t retaliate if the other parent fails to follow the plan.If the other parent violates the plan, you can go into court and have the judge sanction the parent. Talk to an attorney.

