 The funniest people do not force their funny side. They wait for an opportune moment to make a funny observation.


The best moments of humor and levity do not happen by force. If you're striving to be funny in day-to-day life, do not behave as if you're at a comedy club. Engage with people in serious conversation and when you think of an amusing observation, feel free to throw it in. Just do not enter a conversation planning to make people laugh. Allow it to happen at its own pace.
Use moderation. Most comedic experts adhere to the "Three Gag Rule." That is, in any situation you should get in no more than three funny comments in a row. You do not want to look like an attention hog., A great way to be funny without joking is to tell funny stories. Did you have a funnier than average childhood? Did you have an awkward experience at prom in 11th grade? Do you have hilarious stories about you and your friends from college? Have a host of funny stories on queue to make people laugh.


Try to think of the moments in your life that you laughed the most. Are these moments appropriate to share? Would others be amused? Try to think of funny stories to share with others. This is a great way to make people laugh without cracking a joke.Sometimes, how you tell a story is just as funny as the content of the story itself. Listen to podcasts like "This American Life" where people tell amusing anecdotes. Read David Sedaris essays and watch clips of his readings. Pay attention to how speakers tell the stories, where they pause, smile, and laugh themselves. Try to learn how to tell a story in an amusing fashion., If you want to be funny without telling jokes, try simply being silly. Being a silly or goofy person can make people laugh.


Play harmless pranks on friends and co-workers. Talk in a funny voice. Sing a silly song.Do not try to force silliness, however, as people tend to be annoyed at cultivated goofiness. Focus on things that are amusing to you. It's easier to make people laugh if you're using material that comes to you organically., A great way to learn to be funny is to spend time around funny people. You'll learn how to insert humor naturally into a situation through observation. Hang around friends, family members, and co-workers who have a reputation for having a great sense of humor., You don't have to limit funniness to yourself. People tend to be drawn to those who bring out the humor around them. When in conversations, try to encourage people to embrace their own funny sides.


Ask people for funny stories. Start a conversation by asking, "What's the funniest thing that's ever happened to you?" or "What's a stupid thing that always makes you laugh?"Laugh at other people's amusing stories and compliment them, saying something like, "That's so funny!" People crave being around funny people but might feel annoyed if you always hog the spotlight. Make room for others.