 The field of human rights can range from helping overturn wrongful convictions to helping women seek refuge from violence. Cast a wide net and gather the contact information for as many organizations as fit your interests.
 Using the information you gathered in law school and through online searches, create a list of law firms that practice in your specialty of human rights.This can range from organizations like the Southern Poverty Law Center,to large international firms working on economic justice cases around the world., A great way to find out whether an organization is a good fit for you and build a network in human rights law is to conduct information interviews. Arrange to meet with people who work in human rights organizations, NGOs, or law firms.
 London is a center of the global human rights movement. Many companies, law firms, and non-governmental organizations have offices in and around London.There are opportunities for lawyers to practice American law while gathering the skills needed to qualify for admittance to the English courts., The career center of your law school may have assistance with resume writing. As a new graduate, you may not have a lot of professional experience. List all of your education, your student organizations, clinics, internships, and academic achievements., Many organizations have internship programs. Most are unpaid or low-paying. However, the experience and contacts can be invaluable.Internships with high profile organizations are very competitive and you should apply as early as possible.If you belong to a church, check for mission and internship opportunities with the church's charity or legal arm., Whether you land an internship or seek interim employment, begin searching for a permanent position. Most organizations and law firms have online application procedures.


Create a dedicated email address with your name, as in @mailservice.com. You can use free sites like Gmail that can be accessed from any computer or smartphone. Do not use a "cute" email address like "funnymonky@mailservice.com" for professional correspondence
Do not rely on a "message phone." Even if you use a pre-paid service, you need to have your own phone number with voicemail.
Follow the directions on the site to the letter. Submit your documents exactly as requested. Do not attach files to an email unless directed.
Name your documents files so they identify you. Do not create "mycoolresume.pdf." Name your files .filetype.
 Most Human Rights organizations are headquartered on the east coast or in major cities. However, other smaller organizations working for everything from voting rights to domestic violence are located in less populated areas. An advantage here may be a lower cost of living while you are gaining experience. Match your interests to the organization, not just a location.

