 Your parents may actually be open to the idea of moving closer. However, they may act the opposite because they don’t want to encroach on your lives or lose their own independence. You can help them get reintegrated into your life by talking to them about increasing your level of contact. This means more phone calls and more visits.

Over time they may start to appreciate your caregiving efforts and slowly come around to your original proposition.
Be sure to see if this is okay with your parents first. They may be satisfied with the current level of contact they have with you.
 In the planning phase prior to the move, contact extended family or family friends who live near your parents. If no family members are able to assist, contact a neighbor, caregiver, or a health care professional that may assist in understanding your elderly parents' basic needs.

Working with someone else can help you better understand the daily needs of your parents that you may not have encountered living away from them.
Arrange a trip to visit your parents in their own home and community and schedule a caregiving coaching session with their providers. Their geriatric provider may help you set up a group meeting with you, your parents, their health care team, and possibly a social worker. These meeting will help you gain a clear picture of how the move would not only impact your parents, but also how it may impact you.
 Again, it can help if you slowly introduce your parents to the idea of moving. Invite them to stay with you for a week or so in order to get acquainted with your area. Or, if possible, you can even conduct a trial run in which they find a temporary rental or assisted living facility in your area., Grandparents are usually over the moon at the prospect of spending more time with their grandchildren. When your parents come to visit, give them the chance to spend quality time with your children.

Remind them of how much they miss out on by being so far away. Show them the video of your baby’s first steps. Get them seats at your daughter’s recital. Offer for them to babysit while you go on a date, if they’d like.
Helping them transition into the role of close-by grandparent may convince them in a way that your words could not., While they are in town, give them a tour of potential apartment buildings, rental homes, or assisted living facilities. Ask them about their location preferences and show them some options. Introduce them to some elderly neighbors and tour the local community center.If your parent will be living with you, prepare a room just for them during the trial run.

