 Giving back to others can often help you feel as though you are living a more full life. Volunteer your time in some way on a daily or weekly basis. This could be volunteering for a few hours at your local homeless shelter once a week. Or perhaps you volunteer your time by helping a sibling study for a class one day a week.Try to volunteer even a small amount of your time on a daily or weekly basis to feel as though your day to day life has purpose. Even helping a neighbor shovel their walkway or assisting a stranger by holding the door for them can be seen as giving back to others.
 You can also give back in more obvious ways by supporting a worthy cause in your neighborhood or area. You may support a cause by donating money to an organization or by volunteering your time for the organization. You can also promote the cause on social media and tell others about the cause as a show of support.


For example, perhaps you are passionate about women’s rights and want to support a local organization that focuses on providing educational opportunities for young women. You could donate money to the organization or volunteer at their local offices.
 The people you surround yourself with can act as a support network and help motivate you to embrace any challenges life throws at you. You can also feel your life has more meaning by being there for your loved ones and by letting others depend on you. Offer your time, energy, and support to your loved ones on a continual basis.For example, you may try inviting your family over for dinners once a week so you can all stay connected with each other. Or you may spend more time with close friends and nurture your relationships with them by being a good listener when they have issues or problems they need to talk about.
 Empathy can be a powerful way to connect with others and feel your life has purpose. Showing empathy towards others means you try to put yourself in the position of someone else and connect to them on a person to person level. You can show empathy to lose closest to you, such as family and friends, as well as strangers on the street or people you have just met. Having empathy for others can help you feel more connected to others and allow you to give back to others in a meaningful way.For example, you may show empathy for a classmate by simply asking them about their day. You may also ask them how they are feeling, especially if you know they are struggling with issues at home or at school.
You can also show empathy for others by actively working against harmful things like hate speech and racism in your day to day life. If you see someone acting harmful to others, online or in person, say something. Speak up and use your empathy to help connect to anyone who is being discriminated against, bullied, or put down.

