 Taking the time to think about your personality and evaluate your shyness can help you gain the self awareness necessary to market yourself effectively. Once you know how shy you are and which situations seem to exacerbate the problem, you can prepare yourself to handle challenges. Ask yourself:


Have I always been shy?
Am I shy both at work and away from work?
Is my shyness related mostly to the job search itself?
Was I considered a shy person in my last position?;
, If your answers to the questions above suggest that most of your shyness is related to finding a job – marketing yourself, handling interviews, meeting potential employers and colleagues, and the like – then understand that preparing for these specific situations can help you overcome the problem.
 If your shyness seems to be a generalized personality trait, not a manifestation of anxiety about the job search, then you’ll have to think about your strengths and weaknesses and decide how to proceed. You do not need to become an extrovert to find a job. You can work to step outside of your comfort zone while focusing on finding a job that fits your strengths and weaknesses.
 By understanding your abilities, you can determine which jobs might be a good match for your skills. Consider your strongest personality traits and your most relevant work-related skills, and go from there. If, for example, you are an extremely detail-oriented person and an analytical thinker, and you have experience preparing complete financial reports, you might decide that a financial analyst position is right for you.
 In order for you to feel capable and successful, you need to find a job that plays to your strengths. Make a list of your skills, experience, and other qualifications, and look for jobs that match.
 If you are a very shy and introverted person, you may never feel comfortable working as a motivational speaker or a sales professional. Focus on jobs that require a bit less in terms of assertiveness and interpersonal communication. Examples of jobs that are best for shy people include:


programmer
financial clerk
scientist
writer
manager of web content

, Remember that the job itself is only part of the equation; ideally, you also want to find a work environment in which you’ll feel comfortable. For any job posting you see, try to find out what the company culture is like. If, for example, you’re interested in a programmer position but find that the company in question is very fast paced and stresses collaboration and frequent meetings, you may decide not to apply. The company website is a good place to start; read its “about us” and “careers” pages to glean what the company is, how it operates, and what it expects from its employees. In addition, try:


conducting a keyword search of the company on the internet. Doing so will help you uncover reviews and articles about a particular company. You may wind up with a better understanding of how a company runs and whether its employees are happy.
viewing company and employee social media pages. The company’s social media profiles may provide additional information about the company. Employees’ profiles can be especially helpful, as they may suggest whether the company attracts people with similar personalities, interests, and abilities. Ask yourself whether you would feel comfortable working with those people.
 Once you have determined which potential jobs you might feel happy at, apply! Do not pass up an opportunity because you lack confidence or are worried you will come across as shy and introverted in interviews. Take the first step, and send in your application. If you target the right jobs, you may be pleasantly surprised to find that you get called for interviews.
 Start small – you do not have to go to a big event and speak to everyone present. Target one or two employees, and contact them by phone or email, whichever you are more comfortable with. Just make the initial contact and express your interest in a company or job; doing so can be extremely beneficial as you search for employment.
 Going into an interview can be scary, and it’s fine to feel anxious – there are so many unknowns that most people get nervous in these situations. The best way to prepare, however, is to review your resume and practice what to say when asked standard questions like “Tell me about yourself.” Knowing how you will explain your experience, education, skills, and career objectives will help you answer tough questions with confidence and poise.
 It is crucial to be able to illustrate your strengths by giving examples of past successes and accomplishments. For example, if you have decided that high attention to detail is one of your strengths, you should be prepared to provide an example: perhaps you reviewed prepared reports and discovered inefficiencies, saving your previous company money.
 Eye contact, good posture, and firm handshakes are important elements of an interview situation. Everyone needs to practice these kinds of nonverbal communication, but shy people may need to be particularly attentive to the issue. Practice! Try, for example:


holding a conversation with someone you know while maintaining constant eye contact.
sitting up in a chair with good posture for 30 minutes.
practicing firm handshakes.
 Remember: you would not have gotten the interview if you were not qualified to do the job. At this point, you just need to express yourself confidently and focus on your strengths. Stay positive throughout the interviewer, and try to express your confidence and enthusiasm verbally and non-verbally.
 After your interview, send a brief note thanking the potential employer for his or her time. If you want to clarify a point or two that you made during the interview, you can do so at this time, but don’t say more than one or two things, and don’t apologize or characterize your interview negatively. Focus on your enthusiasm about the job.

