 These are available from most electronic gadget stores and hardware stores. The cost should start around $15 and no more than $30 or you will be paying for way more than you need.
 The most common batteries for a multimeter are 9V and 12V. Check with the retailer when buying the multimeter. These costs will be recovered from your savings in battery purchases for your other gadgets.


Some manufacturers refer to "cells" with their products. A cell is a generally small piece of technology that creates electricity through a chemical reaction. Batteries are composed of several identical cells wired together.,, Line them up vertically (top to bottom) on your work surface so that the knob end (positive or +) of each cell is on your right and the flat surface end (negative or –) of each cell is on your left.
 The DCV range that you will be measuring is from 0 volts to 2 volts. A brand new AAA, AA or D cell will all show a reading of just over 1.5 volts.
 This action will also turn on the power and the display will show something like 0.00 or .000. If there is no display in the multimeter window, check for a manual on/off switch and turn it on. (Some multimeters may not have a 2V range in which case use the 5V range).
 The red lead connects to the positive (+) and the black lead to the negative (-). Most multimeters have the leads permanently attached. The other end of the test leads is called the probe end and looks like a metal pin.
 Touch the red test lead probe to the knob on the end of the battery (+). This should be on your right. At the same time touch the black test lead probe to the flat surface end of the cell (-). This should be on your left. Make sure to hold the leads firmly in place to ensure an accurate reading.
 If the display is flickering or changing, you do not have firm contact with one or both ends of the cell. Adjust contact with the cell until you obtain a steady display.


If the display reads 1.5 or greater, the cell is good and is a keeper. If the display reads between 1.49 and 1.40 the cell is suspect and may be retained, depending on its application, for a short time if need be*. Use a permanent marker to quickly identify it as likely failed if you do need to continue using it. Test this one first the next time.
If the display reads less than 1.4 volts, dispose of the cell and replace it.
 When you are finished testing all of the cells turn off the multimeter. Some multimeters have an auto shut off feature which will turn off the multimeter when detecting no activity after a short period of time.

