


Warp Thread: The long, strong thread running over the loom
Weft Thread: The thread you string the beads onto and then weave under and over the warp thread, creating the weft thread
Dowel: The round wooden stick at either end of the loom.;
, In particular, Be careful not to split the thread with the needle as you work your way across the warp, as you will then not be able to pull your warp thread through the weft thread.
 Tie one end of the thread onto the pin on the dowel.



Pull the thread over the top of the loom and wind around the pin on the other dowel. Make sure that the thread ends up in the groves on the top of your loom, such that the thread is straight as possible.
Pull the thread over the loom and then wind it under the pin and over the top of the loom again. Make sure to always use a separate set of groves. Continue warping the loom with sufficient threads to accommodate the required number of beads to obtain the width of your piece. You will need one more thread than the number of beads. This will also depend on the size of the beads you are using, if the beads you are using are bigger than the spaces between the threads, go back and add an extra empty grove in between each thread.
Thread from the outside in. This is to keep the threads tidy on the pins and prevent a bunch of knots when the threads are removed from the loom.



This way of warping is absolutely essential for this method.
 Here, there is enough thread on the loop to hold 8 beads.
 With your other hand, push the beads up through the threads.
, You also may need to add another weft thread, to do so, just repeat the steps for adding the first weft thread. Once the desired length is reached, work the thread back and forth a few rows. Make sure this row is secure so the beads don’t fall off.
 The weaving part is done. The rest is finishing.
, Snip only the thread that is knotted, just above the knot.
 Again, snip only the thread that is knotted, just above the knot.
,, Then take it one row at a time on either side of the centre.


Keep the tension even. Don’t pull the thread too tightly as this will cause your beadwork to scrunch up. If you do pull it too tightly, just smooth it out again. After each pull, your thread will become longer. Continue like this until you have pulled all the threads through.
You will also notice that you once you have pulled a thread through, the ends are pulled completely onto the bead. On the left hand side, the thread (which was the long thread) is now also pulled completely onto the bead.
,