 Most toddlers are bundles of energy when they are well rested. Their attention span is rather short and they tend to move from one thing to the next very quickly. However, when they are overtired, they will move more slowly.


They might sit in the same spot and stare blankly into space.
This is especially noticeable when they are eating, because they will often pause with their spoon or fork halfway to their mouth.
They will also walk more slowly, shuffling their feet as they go.
If they have to walk for a long distance, they will insist on being carried. If they are not carried, they will often sit down on the spot and refuse to walk any further.
 When some toddlers get overtired, they tend to whine, with their voice getting higher in pitch and their words extending in length, especially those ending in the “ee” sound. Other toddlers will talk very quietly, as if it takes all of their effort to speak.


In addition, most toddlers will not enunciate properly when they are tired. Their words will seem to run together, and if there are any breaks in their speech it is not likely that they will occur at syllables or ends of words.
These things make it very difficult for anyone to understand what the toddler is saying.
This, in turn, adds to their irritability, because the toddler cannot express their wants or needs clearly.
 Overtired children are often able to fall asleep when it's not bedtime, perhaps while being driven in a car or while watching cartoons. Conversely, they may refuse to to sleep when it's bedtime. Although sleep is what an overtired toddler needs the most, they will tend to resist taking a nap or going to bed.


Often they will have a temper tantrum or a meltdown at nap time.
Once the toddler is finally laying down for a nap, it might be difficult for them to actually fall asleep. It is likely that they are having trouble relaxing and settling down because their minds are on overdrive processing all that they have seen and done so far that day.
 Too much jumping, climbing, or running may seem confusingly energy-intensive. However, although it seems that kids are full of energy, this kind of hyperactivity suggests that is their time for rest and sleep. Very often, this hyperactivity results in long repetition of a single action.


For example, jumping or running around the table over and over again.
 Toddlers might also refuse to eat, even their favorite foods, when they are very tired. They might just poke at the food or sit and stare at it. Sometimes, they might push the whole bowl or plate across the table or onto the floor. When your child refuses to eat or is picky with food, it gives you a sign that the time for a meal has passed, and that it is time for him or her to sleep.
 If you notice that your child is staring blankly during play or when you talk about something, it's a sign that he or she is overtired. This is because the child cannot focus on what you are saying because he or she is mentally fatigued.

