 Exercise enough that you stay in reasonable shape. With intense peer pressure, fitness is pretty high up on the priority list for most rich kids. Those habits follow them into adulthood.Group exercise and spin classes are especially popular among the wealthy.;
, Just like exercising is important, eating healthy keeps the body in good condition. Most rich families stay away from junk food.Wealthy families dine out a lot.Make it a habit to eat out on a regular basis, but still order healthy options from the menu whenever possible. Pick a favorite restaurant and suggest that you like to take your rich parents there.
Lots of rich kids eat fast food. It’s harmful to some of your other goals (like staying in shape), but you don’t have to avoid it completely. Feel free to indulge once in a while., Most wealthy families have boutique medical plans that give them 24-hour access to care. Healthcare is important to the rich, so it should be important to you (or, at least, appear to be)., Good skin is a sign of good health and youth, two things the rich value. Get plenty of sleep and avoid activities that will ruin your skin., Grooming habits are important to the wealthy. Stay clean, get regular haircuts, and maintain good hygiene., Walking with confidence shows you’re comfortable with who you are. Conveying a message like that will minimize the chance that other people will ask you questions out of suspicion. Stand up straight, smile at people, and nix any nervousness before you go places., If you can wear designer clothes, that’s ideal (most rich people will be able to spot your knock-offs). Rich kids start wearing designer clothes as toddlers, so familiarize yourself with designers.A good rule is to buy 1/3 of your current clothing items but spend 3 times as much on each item.If you can’t create a wardrobe of designer clothes, make sure you have a lot of formal items.Wear nice clothes out often. Wear them to the market, to restaurants, to coffee dates. You can dress down, but you still want to appear put-together.
Rent designer accessories, like jewelry and handbags. It’s especially good to do this when new, hot items come out.Women, wear heels. Heels will make you look taller and more authoritative. Skip the flats and go for stilettos.Hire a tailor. You can find clothing deals that might not be your size, and have them tailored. A well-fit outfit can look like a million dollars.
Be familiar with fashion. Make it look like you’ve been familiar for many years.
 Your car is going to be one of your most valued status symbols.


You don’t need a brand new car, but even a used luxury car will go a long way.Find out what car brands other rich families own to help guide you in your shopping experience.
 Most rich families grow up in a nice home that’s professionally decorated with a budget in the millions.You don’t need a million-dollar budget, but you will need to make your home presentable.


Many wealthy people decorate their homes with vintage items from flea markets in foreign cities like Paris.Hit the local flea market to see if you can find something with character.
Learn to create things yourself. A little DIY can go a long way. You can find items that you like on a site like Pinterest and recreate them yourself.Adorn your home with items like scented bath soaps, high thread-count linens, and fine dinnerware. These details will be familiar to your guests; they’ll notice it if they’re missing.Don’t be afraid to put pictures up of your family, but make sure they’re either pictures from vacations, or formal family portraits.
If they ask whom your decorator is, tell them it’s a family friend in Malibu (decorator to the stars) who flew out to help you decorate your place.
 A lot of wealthy people love art. They buy pieces and hang them on the walls of their homes and vacation homes. Rich kids grow up learning that this is a strategy of investment.It’s a good idea to know something about the artists of your pieces, just in case someone asks.
If you don’t want to collect art, you can collect something else. Displaying something you’re interested in (like a collection of books) is classy.
 Carrying cash will come in handy when you need to tip the bellboy or valet. It’s also good to have tangible money accessible at all times.
 As far as they know, you’ve been doing this all your life. At least, you can start now. Learn from them; pick up their habits, go where they go.


If you develop a real, close friendship with any of them, it might be time to come clean. If they like you, your status won’t matter to them.Network. If you aren’t actually rich or come from a rich background, it’s not too late. You might land a nice job by knowing the right people.
 You’re trying to put out a specific persona to your social world, so be conscious of the things you’re posting and saying on all your social media accounts. Make sure what you post, and what you do and say in real life, match up.Facebook tagging is the perfect way to name-drop, and “checking in” is a great way to show you know where rich people hang out.
 Rich parents make their kids volunteer from a young age. Volunteering helps you climb the social ladder and look like a philanthropist. Wealthy people love that.Pretend you volunteered when you were young (if you didn’t), or tell stories of volunteering (if you did).
You can also give this vibe by supporting a charity or trust and going to their formal events.Join a country club. The trick here is to make it look like you’ve been in country clubs all your life., Rich kids have hobbies. Their parents put them in music lessons, send them to summer camp, or dressage school.This will also help you find other people in your new circle who share your interests.
 Rich parents spend a lot of time teaching their kids good manners and habits.Showing selflessness will gain you favor in this crowd.When you’re out, always be polite to the service staff, and tip them well., Different classes have different rhetoric. Wealthy kids grow up, on average, better educated.Reading classic literature might help. Most private schools require the classics as required reading.
Test yourself on advanced vocabulary.
Learn any slang your social circle uses.Be ready to tell people where you got your education. Make sure it’s an Ivy League education. Be vague in your descriptions in case they attended that college. Use phrases like, “ugh I’d rather just forget my college days” or “those years are such a haze for me.”

, It’s assumed that those around you already know that you come from a rich family. By drawing attention to this fact, you’re making yourself look suspicious.If someone asks about your past, tell them you don’t like to talk about it.
 Pay for your friends’ meals once in a while. This shows you aren’t stingy. Being generous is a virtue in the rich community. It shows that your rich family taught you good habits.