 Placing pressure on yourself to go on a vacation you think you’re “supposed” to go on will only add to the depression you’re feeling. Instead, select a destination that will allow you to get what you want out of the vacation. Going somewhere you can’t fully enjoy or a place that makes you feel inadequate will only make your depression worse.


For instance, if lying around doing nothing on a beach will make you feel even more tired and down, avoid doing so. If you think it is just what you need, however, go ahead and book this type of vacation. If adrenaline rushes are your thing, consider going hiking or to an amusement park, then choose something that will make you feel alive. Tailoring your vacation to match your personality and mood allows you to fully enjoy it and get what you need.You may not always have control over the events or destination of your vacation, such as if you are traveling with family. If this is the case, make sure you carve out some time for yourself, and talk to whoever is in charge of planning to see if you you can schedule something you really enjoy.
For instance, if your family is going on a beach vacation but that's not something you enjoy, you might say, "Hey Dad, I just saw that the hotel offers snorkeling lessons. Can I sign up?" Or, "Mom, there's an amusement park 20 minutes from the hotel. Do you think you and I could go one day of our vacation?";
, Those with depression have to be very careful when selecting where to go and for how long. Disrupting your life and routine dramatically may be too much for you, which can result in you feeling worse. Instead, choose a place that allows you to maintain yourself, but also create the vacation you desire.


Choosing a place with a different time zone may be too much for your body to handle. Jet lag can cause you to feel even more run down, which can defeat the purpose of your vacation. Instead, go somewhere that allows you to do what you need to feel good.
Additionally, going somewhere that is completely out of your comfort zone may be too overwhelming. For instance, if you live in the country and are used to quiet, going to a big city that is fast-paced and extremely populated may be too much for you to handle.If you can't avoid traveling to a different time zone, take steps to help you adjust and recalibrate your sleep cycle. You can try taking melatonin 30 minutes before you want to sleep, or take a bath using lavender oil, which can make you feel sleepy and relaxed. Try to get some sun during the day, as this can help reset your sleep/wake cycle., If you rely on others to help you during your struggles, you’ll need to have access to them whenever you need their support. This means you’ll have to plan your destination accordingly. Choose a location in which you can get in touch with your friends, family, and doctor whenever you need them the most.


For example, avoid choosing a place that has a drastically different time zone, or one in which they’ll be asleep when you’re awake. If you can’t get in touch with them, you may feel isolated and alone, which will only make you feel worse.
Ask your therapist if they are willing to do a phone or video session while you are gone.
You’ll need to have access to strong phone signals and the wifi if this is how you will contact your support team. Choosing a remote destination in the middle of nowhere may not be the best choice.Call ahead to the hotel where you will be staying and make sure they have internet accessibility and ask about the strength of their mobile phone signals.
 In addition to staying in touch with your therapist and support team at home, it may be wise to bring a loved one along for the trip. Invite those who bring you peace of mind, help you relax or make you laugh.


While it may seem like a depressed person needs to have a companion on vacation, many find that solitude helps them feel better. So, it's up to you whether you bring someone along or merely keep in touch with your support group back home.You know yourself better than anyone. Will it help to have your best bud dragging you out of bed each morning with excitement? Or would you rather plan your day as you please on a solo trip?

