


When they are talking, stop talking to your friends, reading, writing, or playing on your phone (which is often not allowed anyway), and look right at the teacher.
Listen to what they are saying.
Think about how it applies to you.
When they are done talking, complete the instructions they have given you quickly and efficiently.;
,


Raise it either high above your head or bent at the elbow.
Don't look too eager to ask your question, but don't look bored, either.
Make eye contact with the teacher and wait patiently.
If the teacher says not to ask questions yet, put your hand down and wait until they are ready again.
When the teacher calls your name, makes eye contact with you and nods, or points at you, ask your question.
Be loud enough for the teacher to hear, but don't shout.
Enunciate your words.



Wait until they sit back at their desk.
Stand in line (if there is one), and wait patiently.
Ask your question loud enough for the teacher to hear, but quiet enough not to disturb others.
Thank the teacher for their help.
 Work quickly so that you can have time to do other things you need or want to do- but don't rush. Do your best work (and use your best handwriting).


If you have a question, ask the teacher in person (see above).
If you don't finish your assignments in class, you may need to take them home to work on there.  Ask your teacher what he/she would like you to do.
Keep track of when your assignments are due.
Complete your homework the same way.
 There will be a lot of people, so prepare yourself for that.


Look for gaps and openings between people to squeeze through (sticking close to the walls often works well).
Keep track of where your next class is. If it's your first day, carry around a list of your classes, teachers, and locations in your pocket.
Know the school so that you can get around.
If you need to use the restroom or get a drink, and there is one nearby, do so quickly, if there is time. You may want to get a map of the school and plan out when is a good time to go to the bathroom and get stuff from your locker.
You have roughly five minutes (depending on the school) to get from one class to the other, and get to your locker, get a drink, and go to the bathroom if you need to, so hurry. It may be helpful to have a watch and time it.
If it's too hard to get to your locker between every period, try going after every other period- before school get the stuff for first and second period, after second period get the stuff for third and fourth, etc.
Memorize your locker combination and get a lot of practice using it.
If you can't get to where you need to be in five minutes (this is called being tardy), you may get detention, have the school call your parents, and get suspended or expelled if you continue to be late.
 If you can carry around a backpack or bag, it may be helpful, but if you can't, you certainly don't want to get in trouble!


Oftentimes it's against the rules to wear hats.
Some schools do not appreciate students eating snacks in the halls or classrooms.
If you have health issues or concerns, talk to the administration office. You may want to bring a parent with you when you do this, as some secretaries can be very cross or strict.
 If you are going on vacation, are sick, or have a doctor's appointment, do not just miss school. Have your parents call the front office and tell them that they know you are absent and are okay with it. If you don't, you could get detention for an unexcused absence. You may even be suspended or expelled if it happens too often.


Talk to your teachers in person to see if you need to do make up work, or if they have a website you can check to find missing assignments.
 The curriculum the junior high uses may be very different from the curriculum you used at home.


If you don't understand some of the material, because you were studying something else, have your parents explain this to your teacher.
If you've already covered the material, you don't need to shout it to the world. Talk to your parents, and, if you decide you should, talk to the teacher about getting something new to do. There is no need to say this in front of everyone else.
You may have already covered the material (or you may be at the same place as your peers are), but with different terms or slightly different methods. This can really throw you off track, so consider talking to your parents about studying the textbook together if you have a problem.
 When you see someone, smile at them (give your best smile). Wave or beckon them over if you know them. If you don't, introduce yourself.


If you already know them, call them by name to show that you remember them.
Ask them about their day or compliment them on something (I really like the way you did your hair. Will you show me how to do it?).
Make eye contact. Don't stare at the rest of their face, hair, clothes, or even what they're holding (unless you are complimenting that thing, then look at it for a few seconds before going back to eye contact).
Be genuinely interested in what they have to say.



Which people have been friends since kindergarten?
Which people don't have many friends or look left out?
Which people like a few close relationships?
Which people like lots of loose relationships?
Which people have a crush on each other or are dating?
Try to figure out which people would like to have you as a friend.
 If someone doesn't have a lot of friends, they would probably welcome it if you talked to them.


Decide which kinds of people you like to hang out with.
Get to know more people - variety is good.
 If you are being bullied, get help immediately.


Look the bully in the eye and tell them to stop. Explain that you do not appreciate the behavior they are demonstrating.
Don't resist physically unless they are already hurting you - but even then, only shove them away so that you can go get help.
Talk to your parents, a teacher, or another adult you can trust.
If you see someone else being bullied, go up to the bully and tell them to stop. Then invite the person being bullied to go sit with you.
Talk to an adult if someone else continues to be bullied.
 With electives, pursue your interests! Consider what your friends will be doing. Consider what you want to do. Then decide how much you want to pick your choice and how much you want to be with your friends. Choose which electives you think will work best for you.

