 If you’ve gathered all of your paperwork and think that you can stay on top of the communications with your creditor, then it may be a good idea to pursue everything on your own. However, you may also want to look into working with a debt settlement company. They can negotiate on your behalf for a consolidation loan or a settlement number.Some people also choose to work with a debt settlement lawyer. They usually bill by the hour or charge a percentage of the eliminated debt. Make sure that your contract terms are clear before working with a debt lawyer or company.
No matter the path that you choose, be prepared to be as honest as you can about the hardships that you are facing. Honesty and candor is the best policy. Also, it helps if you can show a history of on-time payments from well before.
 If you choose to go with a debt relief company, then do your homework before signing anything. Enter the company’s name into an online search and read all of the available reviews. Look for reviews that span a good amount of time from the past to present. Follow your instincts before reaching out to particular company., Contact the Attorney General for your state to see if the company in question has the correct licensing to work in debt relief. You can also if they’ve fielded any complaints for the company. Check with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) as well to see if the company has kept in contact with them or used them to arbitrate any complaints., Some settlement or consolidation companies may want a particular payment at the start of the process, or they may require monthly installments of a percentage of the final debt. Ask them to carefully outline any additional fees that could accrue over time. Be aware that, even after all of this work, a creditor is not obligated to accept your offers of a settlement.You should also be aware that interest will continue to accrue on your debts as you pursue consolidation or a settlement. If the process takes a while, you may end up paying more for the debt and also paying a debt relief company’s associated fees., If you are drowning in debt and feel as if consolidation or settlement won’t work for you, then you may want to consider filing for bankruptcy. This will allow to you erase your present debt, while also allowing you to keep some of your property. However, it will damage your credit in the long and short term.