 Before you start planning your sleepover, make sure you’ve spoken to your parents or parental guardian about it. Tell them that you want to host a movie marathon sleepover and let them know you’re very excited to try this sleepover out. Once they’ve approved the sleepover, tell them you will let them know the rest of the details after you talk to all of your friends.


You could say something like, “I want to try something new with my friends this weekend, and I really hope you say yes. I want to have a movie marathon sleepover! Our living room is definitely big enough and it will be so fun. Is it okay with you?”
You may want to add something like, “I was thinking of inviting between seven and ten people. Are you okay with that number?”;
, Once you get the approval from your parents, they are probably going to want you to tell them exactly how many people you’re inviting and what their names are. Grab some scrap paper and a pen and jot down the names of your closest friends. If there are a few other people you’d like to get to know better and you think they’d enjoy a sleepover like this, write down their names, too.


Once your list is made, bring it to your parents. Don’t start inviting your friends until your parents confirm their approval of the list.
You can say to them, “Here’s my list of friends for the sleepover. I really want to invite them all, if you’re ok with it. I will clean up after everyone once the sleepover ends and everyone leaves, I promise!” Follow through with that promise.
 Now that you know who you’d like to invite to the sleepover, choosing a date will be much easier. Talk to your friends about their upcoming plans and activities for the next couple of weekends. Once you’ve asked everyone, choose the date everyone can make it to. Aim for a Saturday, since this is usually the best day of the week for a sleepover.If not everyone can make it to a certain date, go with the second-best option.


Let your parents know the date you’ve chosen so they can be prepared for a full house.
You could say, “I’ve picked a date for the marathon sleepover! It’s this Saturday. Is that okay with you? If you have plans or if that’s not a good day for you, please let me know and I can choose a different night.”

, Now you can officially invite your friends to the marathon! You could just tell them the plans, but why not make it fun? You could create a Facebook event for the marathon and invite your friends that way. Present them with mock tickets that you've printed up that say "Admit One" and include all of the relevant information. Make sure it's clear when the start time is so that no one will arrive late and miss the beginning of the first movie!


If one or two of your friends seem less than thrilled about the idea, ask them why. Some kids don’t like to spend a night away from home or perhaps they have a difficult health issue. Try to work around any issues that come up.You could pull your friend(s) aside and say, “I noticed you didn’t seem very excited about the marathon sleepover like everyone else was. Do you not like the idea, or is there some other reason? I really want you to come, but only if you want to.”

