 If you want a truly show-ready horse, keep their coat in perfect order all the time. Grooming your horse every day does two things: increases emotional bonding, and increases the health and shine of their coat. A win-win situation, huh?


Spend the most time with a curry comb to work out dirt and loose hair that cause your horse to appear dull and dusty.
Be sure to pick your horse’s hooves on a daily basis as well. Keeping them clean will make it more comfortable for your horse, and better-looking in the long run.
Spend time brushing the dock of your horse’s tail to stimulate hair growth. Your horse’s tail will end up becoming fuller and more healthy as a result of spreading the natural oils and stimulating the hair follicles.;
, There are many different feed products on the market that are full of the nutrients necessary to enhance the thickness and shine of your horse’s coat and mane/tail. If your horse is able (based on dietary circumstances), incorporate one of these grains into their regular eating throughout the year, at least several months prior to a show.

You can also feed your horse small servings of dried bread crumbs. This really will make their coat shine, just be careful to not make your horse sick!







, If the mane and tail of your horse are constantly ratted and full of debris, it will be very difficult to get them looking good in time for showing. Brush your horse’s mane and tail thoroughly every time you groom them, and rub in some cocoa butter once every few days. This will act as a conditioner, making their hair thicker and softer over time. When necessary, use a detangler to help reduce the number of knots.



Braid their mane and tail occasionally (when flies are low) to keep the hair from getting in more knots.
 A horse that is underweight, overweight, has worms, or any other illness/ailment won’t show as well. Make sure that you are keeping your horse’s health in mind throughout the year, instead of doing last-minute worming and medication the week of a show. A healthy horse will work better and be much more presentable than an unhealthy horse. You should also ensure that your horse is up to date on its vaccines and meets any other important health standards. 