 Most Netgear routers contain a label that features the default access address, as well as the default username and password.;
,


Try navigating to http://www.routerlogin.com, http://192.168.0.1, or http://192.168.1.1 if the URL ending in .net fails to bring up a field for login credentials.
If you are not connected to your router wirelessly, use an ethernet cable to establish a direct connection between your computer and the router.
 These are the default login credentials for Netgear routers.


If the default login credentials do not work, the username and password may have been changed from their default values. Skip to Part Two in this article and follow the steps to restore your Netgear router to the original default settings as outlined in step #1.
 You will now be logged into your router and can modify settings as desired., Resetting your router will restore the original factory settings, as well as reset the username and password.


Power on your router and locate the “Restore Factory Settings” button on the back or side of your router.
Use a pen or paper clip to press and hold the “Restore Factory Settings” button for at least seven seconds until the “Power” light begins blinking.
Release the button, then wait for the router to restart. The Power light will stop blinking and remain in a solid green or solid white state.
Repeat steps #2 through #4 in Part One to log into your Netgear router., In some cases, a faulty ethernet cable or port can prevent you from accessing your router’s settings., In some cases, refreshing or renewing your IP address can help establish a connection between your computer and the router. Follow these steps to renew your IP address on any computer running Windows or Mac OS X.
 Since Netgear routers use JavaScript in their web interfaces, firewalls and pop-up blockers can prevent you from being able to access the admin page.



Follow these steps to disable the firewall on your computer, and use these steps to disable pop-up blockers in the browser you’re using to log in to your Netgear router.

