 You may choose to hire an outside accountant to review your financial procedures and suggest changes that could help the company. Review the advantages of each change with your accounting or bookkeeping department, since they will have to work with it on a day-to-day basis.


Ensure that you have the support of management and the accounting department before making the switch. It is difficult to make company-wide changes without endorsement of the people who will be training others.;
, This person should have extensive experience in company-wide projects. Knowledge of the bookkeeping and accounting departments will allow them to understand the budget, resources and support that is needed.
 Changing accounting systems requires you to invest in a manager, employee time, training materials and more. Set a realistic timeline with your project manager and accounting department.
 Once you have chosen what accounting system you will use, you will need to take time to customize it to your needs. Consult with the designers at the company where you buy it to choose the features you need.
 Examine your current infrastructure and create a different training plan for each department that works with the accounting software. If the accounting program does not provide you with a training manual, consult with a technical writing company to provide you with an accurate manual.
 Your staff will be able to test out this system, but you should still be able to suggest changes for more successful procedures. Some businesses set up small modules and employees send feedback early on in the process.
 If many people need to be trained, you may want to do this in separate waves. Use the pilot system to train them.
 Once the system is set up by the software or financial company, you can begin on your final timeline for implementation. Migrate the data from your old accounting system to the new system.


Set up procedures in case of problems with historical data migration. This is an extremely important part of your implementation, and the accounting system provider should be on hand to ensure that the system is fully operational.
 Start with the financial departments and go live for the entire company. Build in some extra time for learning the new system during your employees' work day.
 Have a company contact where you purchased the accounting software and create refresher training courses for anyone who needs more help.


Many companies provide webinars or group sessions for ongoing support. Consider this valuable feature when you choose your new accounting system.

