 Your overall health has a major impact on how you look. Many celebrities, especially performers who must rely heavily on their looks, follow strict diet and exercise programs.To stay healthy, you should aim for a half hour or more of physical activity a day that combines aerobic activity with strength training.

Eat a healthy diet full of fresh fruits, leafy green vegetables, and lean protein.Stay hydrated by drinking about eight 8-ounce glasses of fluid each day.Avoid potentially dangerous fad diets. Many celebrities are proponents of things called "detox" or "cleanse" diets that claim to flush out "toxins" from your body.These fad diets typically combine fasting with some type of fruit, vegetable, herb, or supplement. Despite their popularity, there is little evidence that these diets work, and they can cause serious side effects.Although many celebrities are known to indulge heavily in certain vices, such as drugs and alcohol, you should not try to imitate them. Many of these celebrities "burn out" or even die very young. You don't want to ruin your health, especially before you've made your mark on the world.
 Many celebrities have a posse, squad, or entourage they are rarely seen without. If this is something you want to go for, try doing everything with a group of your close friends. Encourage them to do things like coordinate outfits or match hairstyles. The most important thing about a squad is that each of you will always be there to have each other's back.
 This doesn't mean you should run out and spend a lot of money on expensive clothes. Instead, simply put some effort into planning your outfits. The simplest way to look more put-together is to simply wear clothing that fits properly. Likewise, wearing clothing that you feel comfortable in will help you to feel more relaxed and confident.

Try emulating your favorite celebrities' style. Pay attention to what they wear and how they do their makeup. Is it outrageous or classy? Do they have a signature color or favorite type of jacket? You may choose to copy a certain outfit completely or simply take inspiration from it.
Try making your own style look like it belongs to a celebrity's. Instead of taking cues from someone else, simply make yours stand out a little more. Is there a jacket or pair of shoes you save for special occasions? Wear them more often. Are you the simple T-shirt and jeans type? Make sure your clothes are always clean and looking new.
Underdress while shopping. Clerks at high-end retailers are more likely to assume that someone shopping in gym clothes is a celebrity over a person in elegant garb. This is because celebrities are less likely to feel the need to flaunt their status., Many celebrities wear large sunglasses for two main reasons: Sunglasses hide tired eyes, making flawless makeup less necessary.

Large sunglasses also work to obfuscate their features, making them less recognizable. By wearing a pair yourself, however, you will not only look more like a celebrity but also raise the possibility of actually being one., Almost every press photo is showing off the result.

Don't feel discouraged if you can't look as flawless as your favorite singer. In everyday life, even he or she won't look nearly as good as that red carpet appearance.

Celebrities also often employ professional chefs, personal trainers, and assistants to manage their everyday lives. If you feel overwhelmed trying to keep up with all these tasks, remember that your favorite celebrities would have trouble doing it by themselves, too.

