 While you're out of the dungeon or queued in the DUNGEON FINDER, put all your healing spells in one line and totems on the other so you can shift between the two fast.;
,, This way, if you run out of mana while in combat double click on the potion and continue healing.
 If all the members' health is maximum you don't need to keep healing them and spend mana on nothing. Also, use smaller healing spells if your targets' health is not bad, but as soon as it is 60% or less use the greater spells. This way, your mana will be high enough to support your greater and lesser healing waves.
 If you die no one can heal them. *duh*

, Also, if you are attacked, run to the tank and stay there until he is in the monster's aggro.
 So when the need/greed stuff is on always pick those items, because they will help you boost your abilities. In other words, if you don't know which items are for healers go to DUNGEON JOURNAL and look up the dungeon and equipment, going on dungeon runs is very useful for healers because of the money and you don't suffer durability damage if you don't get attacked.
 This is your main priority for dungeons. Whenever this is on cooldown, cast it under your tank (or under your dps if you are healing a raid as raid heals, especially if there's constant damage on them). This spell with heal multiple individuals at one time, and when used with cooldowns (Ancestral Guidance, Ascendance, etc.) you will copy those heals onto other individuals in the dungeon/raid.
 Your tank must ALWAYS have this on. It starts with nine charges, and slowly reduces until it is gone. This buff heals the tank when they are hit, then requires a recast. Fortunately, whoever has Earthshield receives more direct heals, making it easier to heal your tank.
 Your Healing Totems are no longer long lasting totems like previous expansions; cooldowns must be balanced for proper healing. Healing Tide Totem has a 3 minute cooldown with large heals for multiple individuals, lasting 10 seconds, while Healing Stream Totem will heal the lowest health individual for 15 seconds with a 30 second cooldown. With the skill Call of the Elements, you can reset the cooldown on Healing Stream Totem immediately.
 These buffs MUST be active at all times. This assists in mana/healing in general.
 Your haste will help for casting spells while spirit helps keep mana regenerating in a fight. With proper gear at high levels, it will become difficult to run out of mana.
 Riptide is generally cast on Tanks as they take damage to assist the Earthshield on damage mitigation, while Chain Heal is used on the party/raid when large amounts of damage is being dished out to multiple individuals. This will be the main source of your mana loss.
 With proper glyphing, you can regain mana easier/heal more targets. For example, whenever healing is a low priority, you can use Glyph of Telluric Currents to cast Lightning Bolt and regain 2% of your mana upon hitting the enemy, while with Glyph of Cleansing Waters you can restore 5% of a targets health when removing a harmful effect with Cleanse Spirit (only helpful if it is a cleanse-heavy fight).
 Here is where decisions are purely up to the player, yet it is always important to factor your play style into your choices. Are you someone who often forgets to use a move? Maybe a passive factor is better for you. Do you think you are good with cooldowns? Consider moves that have longer cooldowns, reserving the skills for desperate measures.
 If you raid/dungeon with a healer doing better than you normally do, ask! Sometimes, the smallest suggestion can change your gameplay style forever.

