 Probably the most tried-and-true method for increasing one’s cleverness is to seek additional training. Is there a new skill that would aid in your job performance? Seek out additional training outside of work. This will lead you to perform better at your job, feel better about yourself, and to be seen as a clever over-achiever.There may be some way for your employer to pay for this training.
In some cases, additional certifications may lead to a raise or even a promotion.;
, Much like gaining additional training, increasing your knowledge can boost your cleverness at work. Are there any books that might help you be a more efficient worker? Is there a skill you could teach yourself that might make your work day go smoother? Spend some time at home increasing your knowledge, and before long you will see positive results at work., At first it may seem strange, or even impolite, to lead with your accomplishments. However, being able to put your success on display at work will only lead to improved inner-confidence and improved outer-image! Don’t be shy. Don't be afraid that you are bragging. Simply share what you have earned, honestly and directly.Place awards or diplomas on display.
If your work sends out a newsletter with personal updates, use that channel to share any big success stories.
Simply let the people you work with know. State, for example, “I’m really pleased that my paper was accepted for publication. This is wonderful for me.”

, Whenever you are feeling less clever, you will be more likely to second guess yourself and stifle your input. Do you best to put this aside! Share your thoughts and opinions as soon as they come to you (before your doubt has the opportunity to stomp them). Hurry up and press send on that email, or raise your hand and share your thoughts in a meeting. You will feel better and be seen as an assertive go-getter., If you want other people to see you as a competent peer and treat you with respect, you must do two things: you must treat others this way, and you must treat yourself this way. In short, you must be a representative of the type of work environment you’d like to see.

Treating others with respect may be more natural that treating yourself with respect. Begin respecting yourself by watching the way you talk about yourself. Don't say anything about yourself that you would not say about a colleague or friend.

