 In this method, you'll use water, glow sticks, and several other common ingredients to make water that doesn't need a black light to glow. As in the methods above, start by filling a clear container, like a bottle or jar, with water. You'll also need a few other things before you get started:


One or more glow sticks
Scissors
Dish soap
Hydrogen peroxide
Waterproof gloves

, Take each glowstick, find the glass vial within, and bend the stick until you feel a "crack." The tube should immediately begin to glow — this will be easiest to see if the lights are off. Repeat this for each glow stick. The more glow sticks you use, the brighter your water will be.


Glow sticks are available at party stores and many department stores (especially around Halloween.) They are generally very cheap — a 100-pack can cost as little as $12.Try to find the largest glowsticks available, so that your water can offer the most luminescence as possible.
 Put your gloves on. Using your scissors, carefully cut off the tip of each glow stick and pour the glowing liquid within into the water. Mix the water and the glowing liquid.


Be careful — remember that each glow stick contains broken glass.
 Your water should now be glowing, but with a few extra ingredients, you can make it even better. Measure out a few capfuls of hydrogen peroxide and pour them into the mixture, then squirt in about a half-teaspoon of ordinary dish soap (e.g., Palmolive, Ajax, etc.)


The two chemicals in a glow stick are diphenyl oxalate (in the plastic tube) and hydrogen peroxide (in the inner glass vial.)When you crack the tube, the glass vial breaks and the two chemicals mix, producing light. Adding extra hydrogen peroxide is the same as adding more of the chemical in the glass vial, which makes the reaction brighter. Dish soap contains chemicals that reduce the surface tension of the water, making it easier for the hydrogen peroxide and the diphenyl oxalate to mix.
 When you're finished, seal your container and shake it (or just stir it) to make sure that all the ingredients have mixed. When you're done, your water will glow with or without a black light (though a black light can enhance the effect.)


This mixture is not safe to drink.

