 Sometimes you may feel gas moving through your system and feel like you need to release it. Do not hold it in if you feel the need to pass gas. Find a private area and try to pass some of the gas. Holding in gas for “social purposes” is only going to make the discomfort worse.


Take a bathroom break.
Take a walk around the block (the movement and exercise will usually help move the gas out faster).
Have a “coffee break” to give yourself the time and the room to pass some gas.
 Regular exercise can help to stimulate your digestive system and may reduce the gas buildup. Aim for 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day. You can even spread your exercise throughout the day in 10-15 minute sessions. For example, you could go for a 15 minute walk on your lunch break and then do a 15 minute workout video later in the day.Just try to find something that you enjoy and will stick with in order to incorporate more physical activity into your daily routine.
 Some individuals may be more prone to intestinal gas because of food sensitivities (lactose intolerance, gluten sensitivity), the types of foods in their diet (rice is more easily digested than potatoes, for example) and the types or populations of gut bacteria residing in their intestines —the gut flora can vary depending on where you live, what you eat and your overall state of health:. Try avoiding the following foods


Wheat products
Milk and other dairy products
High-fat foods
Beans
Cruciferous vegetables like Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli
Onions
Apples
Corn
Oats
Potatoes
Fruits such as pears, prunes, and peaches.
 Probiotics help to promote helpful gut bacteria that improve digestion. They can also lower the amount of "bad" bacteria in your system that can cause infections or other problems. Taking probiotics can help to balance your "good" and "bad" bacteria and keep your body working like it should.Eat yogurt. Yogurt containing active cultures of bacteria can replace and renew normal gut flora. Studies have shown that yogurt with probiotic containing lactobacillus or bifidobacterium strains have been especially effective in improving symptoms for irritable bowel syndrome.
Incorporate probiotic foods, such as miso, tempeh, kimchi, sauerkraut, and pickles.Consider taking a probiotic supplement. Look for a probiotic that includes information about the dose, genus, species, and strain of the probiotic, number of organism that will be alive by the use by date, and the company’s name and contact information., Some gas in the digestive system comes from swallowing air while eating — this may be due to gulping, eating or drinking too fast and not chewing enough.You can reduce the amount of air swallowed and help prevent excess gas if you eat your food at a slower pace and chew it well. Try putting down your fork between bites and chewing each bite 40 times for maximum nutrient absorption., If your intestinal gas does not improve within 2-3 weeks, call your physician for an appointment. Your gas may be due to another condition or a medication you are taking. Be sure to discuss any other symptoms that you have been having as well as any medications (prescription or over-the-counter) that you are taking.Call your physician right away if your gas is associated with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, heartburn or GERD, unintended weight loss, or blood in the stool.