 With the shemagh completely open, match one corner with the corner diagonally opposite from it, folding the square in half and into a triangle.









This particular tying method is a good option if you want to use the shemagh to protect your head and face from cold winds or hot sun.;
, Pull the folded edge of the shemagh over your forehead, positioning it somewhere between your hairline and your eyebrows.









The excess material should drape over the top of your head and down the back, not in front of your face.
If you have tied a bandana in the past, then a good way to think of this initial position would be to act as though you are preparing to tie a really large bandana.
The two ends of the shemagh should be about equal for this style, so position the folded edge with the middle resting on your head.
 Pull the right side around to the left so that it wraps completely under your chin. Pull the end over your shoulder and toward the back of your head.









Hold this end in place with your left hand while working with the left side to prevent it from loosening. A shemagh needs to be fairly tight in order to be effective.
 Grab the leading or folded edge of the left side with your right hand and pull it all the way across your face, toward your right side. Unlike the right side of the shemagh, this left side should drape across your nose and mouth, not under your chin.









Pull the right end over your shoulder and toward the back of your head, as well.
 Use a tight overhand or double knot to secure the shemagh in place. This knot should be at the back of your head, roughly around the back center, and it must be tight enough to keep the shemagh on your face.









Do not tie the knot so tightly that you make it difficult to breathe or turn your head, but make sure that the material is taut against all parts of your neck, face, and head.
 Adjust the shemagh as needed so that the material covers the top of your head and lower half of your face without covering your eyes. After this step, the shemagh is complete.









One major advantage of this wrapping style is its versatility. You can pull the bottom off your face to create a simple headwrap, or you can pull both the bottom and top portions down so that they sit around your neck, creating a scarf.

