 Go find friends that will love you for you! Just go up to people in your class and start a conversation. Nothing deep, just keep it light and simple. Put a little humor in it if you want to.;
, Never try to be a wanna-be. If people see you trying to be popular, they will think you are a loser. Be nice to everyone. Gossiping is never okay. You can be cool without gossip!

, Try a new sport out, something you would like and something you think you will be good at. If sports aren't your thing, try a club or start one. Find people a good way to be popular!

, Avoid looking at the popular crowd and see what they are in to. Never try to steal any of their boyfriends and do not try so hard to get in.
 It is not cool to copy other people's style.Try to be creative and create your own style., Don't try to act like someone else, because it isn't you! It's your life, so be yourself.
, Don't be afraid to reach out to anyone and everyone- jocks, glams, dramas, punks- 'cuz there are really cool people everywhere. Don't be afraid to pal it up with guys and girls alike!

, You know, the group of girls/guys that act like they're all that and a pack o' chips, but are just full of backstabbing BS. (I refer to them as the Untouchables) They really won't do anything to you if you don't do anything to them. Be friendly, but don't be stuck up. However, if you hear them bashing any of your buddies, immediately stick up for your friends. This may come as a surprise, but this will actually RAISE their respect for you.
 Basically, stay true to yourself, don't conform to others, but get out there a little. Pick up some magazines, go shopping, and get ideas. But don't change who you are, or who you look like, because that's what's "in" this season. Basically, just think about what you wear, but don't go nuts over it.
 Don't feel compelled to cake it on.
 Get some exercise, without agonizing about it - run, take some dance lessons, get involved in a team sport, do something active you enjoy. Watch what you eat, and make sure that you take care of personal hygiene as well. Don't freak, though! Everyone's body is changing in middle school.
 Although it may seem a little nerdy at first, believe me, your friends will find you cooler if you skipped watching Glee to study for your test than if you don't study, flunk the test, and are grounded for a week.
 Join the group. Just find the person who is right for you. Having a boyfriend/girlfriend is an excellent way to become popular. They can introduce you to their friends and you will become more popular. Never be too flirty in public. It's not cool. Just act like you would with your other friends.
 Always have it on you, and have a stick ready to give out. That will make you cool in many people's books.
 Take part in sports, after school stuff, volunteer work, clubs, and even the school musical. It will help you to make friends, and you'll have a lot of fun. Plus, the more things you take part in, the more people that will know who you are.
 In the end, you want people to think that you are cool. Have fun, kiddos!

