 Knowing what you are eating ahead of time is essential to avoid throwing out food or over-buying. It also helps you match up ingredients between meals, meaning you can buy some things in bulk to save money. Start small by planning only your dinners, making use of leftovers and carrying over ingredients whenever possible. As you get used to it, expand to plan lunches and breakfasts, ensuring you have the perfect amount of food at the right price.


Buy fruits and vegetables "in-season" to save money and get fresher food.
Always buy generic or store-brand products. They are just as good and much cheaper. Generic medication must be exactly the same as name brand, too., Restaurant food will rack up your budget quickly, leaving you with little for the rest of the week. Luckily, healthy foods are often the cheapest, and they are versatile enough to be in many dishes:Fruits and vegetables
Canned tomatoes and beans
Ground turkey
Peanut butter
Whole-wheat bread
Tuna
Eggs, milk, and plain yogurt
Oatmeal
Seasoning to make different meals with similar ingredients., The majesty of the internet has made finding deals easier than ever. Head to Craigslist or Ebay or, better yet, your local flea market. You'll save money, and you'll save perfectly great things from rotting in a landfill.If you're willing to clean or fix up objects a bit you can often get them for next to nothing. Don't ignore lightly worn or dirty items.
Be ready to bargain. This doesn't mean you have to be harsh -- let people know your situation and a decent compromise and most people will give you a discount.
 You can shave off some dollars from your "essential expenses" if you buy more things at once. You can grab toiletries, food, and cleaning supplies through the internet or at bulk stores to slash your expenses down bit by bit. Note, however, that you likely need to pay more upfront to get goods in bulk.Unit price, the small "price per pound/ounce/gallon/etc." at the bottom of the price tag, is essential when buying in bulk. The bigger the item, the lower the unit price.
 There is so much to do that costs absolutely nothing -- and all you have to do is look. Check out bars with free music, local art galleries or museums (that often have free nights), or your Parks and Recreation Department calendar. The classics -- going for hikes, setting up game or movie night, adult sports leagues -- are also great ways to make your own fun without spending a dime.


Join a group or adult team to get weekly fun for almost nothing.
Many cities have websites devoted to free activities, like San Francisco's SF FunCheap.com. Do some online searching to see what's in your area., Know what you are buying before you go to the store, and stick to it. Making lists of priorities, essentials, and goals will help you keep your head on straight when shopping, allowing you to make the most of every dollar. Remember -- every time you buy something you should ask, "do I need this? will this significantly increase my quality of life a week or month from now?" If you come into each store with a plan you can avoid impulse buys or indecision.

