 Stomach bloating and torsion in dogs can sometimes be fatal. Calling your vet as soon as you are able to identify and detect the symptoms of stomach bloating in your dog will help you determine whether or not your dog needs immediate medical attention. Only your vet or another trained professional will be able to accurately diagnose your dog’s condition. Be sure to give your vet an approximate arrival time so they can be ready to treat your dog immediately.Call your vet and describe symptoms by saying, “I think my dog is suffering from torsion, they are trying to vomit and are displaying anxious behavior” or “My dog’s stomach is very tight and they are not walking around very often.”
Remember, only your vet will be able to treat your dog’s bloating or torsion.
 Your vet should be able to give your dog an x-ray once you bring them to their office. An x-ray will help determine whether or not your dog has stomach dilation (bloating) or GDV (bloat and torsion). Bloating can often be treated with less invasive procedures whereas bloat with torsion will often require an emergency surgery.
 Surgical correction is often needed in cases of bloating and torsion. The immediate concerns of GDV surgery are to return your dog’s stomach to a normal position and identify any damage done to the stomach or spleen. However, depending on your dog’s condition, and how long they have been suffering from torsion, there may be limited options.Ask your vet when euthanasia should be considered. Your dog’s chances of survival will be poor if they have suffered from cell death or perforation of any kind.
 This should not be done unless you are comfortable with the known causes and symptoms of bloating and torsion. The first step in treating any case of bloat and torsion is to call your vet immediately. Once your vet is notified that you are bringing your dog in for treatment, consult first aid guides detailing specific actions that can be taken, like Kifka.Remember that first aid is first aid and not treatment.

