 Chemicals we use to wash our homes, cars and even our bodies get washed down the drain and into the sewer system, but they often end up in the groundwater. These chemicals aren't good for the plants and animals that make up our ecosystems, and they aren't healthy for human consumption, either. Whenever possible, use natural, healthy alternatives to chemicals.For example, instead of using a heavy-duty cleaner to scrub your bathroom or kitchen, use a mixture of vinegar and water or a baking soda and salt paste. These natural household supplies get the job done just as well, and they won't pollute the water when you wash them down the drain.
Try making your own laundry detergent and dish soap. If you don't have the time, buy detergent made with all-natural ingredients.
When you can't find a good alternative to a toxic item, use the least amount you can get away with and still get the job done.
 These powerful chemicals are sprayed directly over the ground, and when it rains they seep deeper and get into the groundwater. You probably just want aphids to stop eating your tomatoes, but spraying the garden with pesticide will do a lot more than that when it gets into the groundwater that humans and other organisms need to survive.
 Large doses of medication are difficult for water sanitation systems to remove from the water supply, and they end up impacting everyone who drinks the water. Each medication on the market has specific instructions for how it should be disposed. If you need to throw medication away, find out the proper way to do it instead of resorting to flushing.


There are a few highly controlled medications that authorities recommend flushing in order to keep them out of the wrong hands. These are exceptions to the general rule that medications should not be flushed.
 Some substances should not be thrown out with the trash, because they'll seep into the ground and poison the groundwater. If you have a toxic chemical and you're not sure how to throw it away, contact your local sanitation department to find out where there's toxic waste disposal site. Take it there to make sure it gets handled properly.


The US Environmental Protection Agency has a list of different types of toxic waste here.
Keep in mind that items like CFLs, batteries, and other special products require special recycling. Some states even require these items to be recycled in order to prevent mercury from ending up in water and soil. Check with your waste management company to find out what options they offer for recycling these items., It's important to take good care of the water we do have and conserve it as much as possible. Wasting water uses up a valuable resource and has a big effect on the environment. It's easy to take measures in your daily life that help you use less water and preserve the health of your region's ecosystems. Here are a few ways to save water:


Fix water leaks promptly.
Use water-saving devices on your faucets and toilets, like a low-flow showerhead.
Don't wash dishes with the water constantly running.
Replace old toilets and appliances with newer models that use less water.
Don't water your lawn excessively, especially if you live in a dry area.

