 A large brick or concrete wall will work well for this experiment. You can test the wall by clapping your hands or yelling and listening for an echo. If you hear a strong echo, it’s a good wall to use., A 50 m (54.5 yd) distance is suggested because it should give you enough time to make accurate measurements. Because you are taking into account the distance the sound will travel from you to the wall and back to you, you are actually measuring a distance of 100 m (109 yd).


Measure the distance with a tape measure. Try to be as accurate as possible with your measurements.
 Stand in front of the wall at the measured distance and clap your hands slowly. You should be able to hear the echo as you do it. Speed up or slow down your clapping rhythm until your clap coincides with the echo from the previous clap.If you are perfectly in sync, you should not hear the echo, but only your clap.
 Have your friend start the watch on the first clap and stop on the last clap. By clapping 11 times you will have timed 10 distance intervals for the sound of the clap to reverberate off the wall. In essence, the sound has traveled 10 times the initial 100 m distance.Clapping 11 times also gives your friend enough time to start and stop the watch accurately.
Perform this step multiple times and average the times together to get a more accurate measurement. To average the trials, add up all the times and divide by the number of trials.
 Because you clapped 11 times, the sound actually traveled 10 times the distance. 100 meters multiplied by 10 is 1000 meters.
 This will measure the speed of the sound of the clap from your hands to the wall and back to your ears.


For example, let’s say it took 2.89 seconds for the 11 claps. To find speed we take the distance, 1000 meters, and divide by the time, 2.89 seconds to get a speed of sound of 346 m/sec.
The speed of sound at sea level is 340.29 m/sec (1,116 feet per second or 761.2 mph).Your calculations should come close to this figure, but may not match it exactly, especially if you aren’t at sea level. At higher altitudes, the air gets thinner and the speed of sound is slower.
Sound travels faster through liquids and solids than it does through air because sounds moves more quickly through materials of higher density.