 This is a program that ensures that doctors and other healthcare professionals stay fully up-to-date on when antibiotics are needed and advised, and when they are not. It helps to prevent the unnecessary use of antibiotics, and to guide the best possible decision-making on behalf of doctors in this area.
 Treatment with Saccharomyces boulardii in those who are not immunocompromised with C difficile also may be useful.Those with lowered resistance/low in white blood cells can be attacked in the gut by the usually good bacteria, so caution is in order to be able to fight off good bacteria becoming infectious, as well as the bad bacteria. When recovering from C-Diff, the patient may be healthy enough to take tens of billions of units of multiple strains of good-bacteria/-germs (called probiotics) -- if the immune system is strong so probiotics can help fight off bad C-Diff germs and prevent overgrowth by the C-Diff. Good bacteria can get where it does not belong when immunity is low.
Good bacteria may be killed by almost any antibiotic(s). But only a few can kill C-Diff because it has a spore form/similar to a pupa that is not killed easily, if at all, by most antibiotics.
Occasionally, while healthy, take good-germs (probiotics) as a preventive of initial overgrowth by C-Diff.
After antibiotic treatments and with the immune system in tact, the patient might need large amounts of probiotics as a precaution against recurrence(s). The good bacteria is crucial for not allowing a new over powering infection. Active culture yogurt may help some but are not sufficient.

There are also products sold as prebiotics (pre/before vs pro/for). These are forms of saccharides/like indigestible sugars that are said to be food to strengthen the good-bacteria/probiotics in the intestines.
 Add a plastic, cover-all gown, if you must have contact with the patient, the bed, bed rails, door handles and furniture used by or possibly contacted by the patient.It is key that doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals wash their hands regularly. Ideally, healthcare providers should put on sterile gloves or wash their hands every time they enter and exit a patient's room. The plastic gown must be put on in the hall and then be taken off inside the room/at the door of the infected patient's space and disposed of in large waste can in that room.


Washing, or putting on fresh gloves when you enter, ensures that you do not bring any Clostridium difficile spores into the uninfected patient's space.
Washing or removing gloves when you exit ensures that no germs (including possible Clostridium difficile) are transported out of the patient's space in a way that may infect others.
 This includes wearing a gown, a mask, and gloves every time they enter the space, and throwing these out immediately after use so as not to contaminate anywhere outside the space.


If you are around someone with undiagnosed diarrhea (i.e. the cause is not known, so it may be Clostridium difficile), it is key to avoid touching shared surfaces or shared objects if you do not want to catch (or pass on) the infection.
 Do not only use cleaners claiming to kill 99.9% of germs. C-Diff is in the 0.1% not all killed by that kind of cleaner. Disinfect any shared surfaces, door knobs, doors and door frames, equipment, or other objects the patient -- or any visitors' gloves may contact.Use a diluted bleach solution, wipes or spray to clean the environment that may be contaminated with Clostridium difficile spores. This is the most effective mode of cleaning, and it is what is required in hospital settings (and at home).


Always use gloves when cleaning and sterilizing equipment, the surrounding environment, and other shared objects.
Continue to practice diligent hygiene and cleaning practices until a Clostridium difficile infection has been ruled out with diagnostic tests.
 If the test comes back positive, the lab is to inform the staff immediately so that appropriate precautions can be maintained around the affected person.

