 Attending a school trip with your child is a great way to spend a lot of time with their classmates and teachers. Usually, students will be given notice that chaperones are required for an upcoming field trip and need parent volunteers. Take these opportunities when they become available. If you want to be more proactive with your approach, you can call the school's office and ask if there are any upcoming school trips that you can chaperone.Understand that being a chaperone means setting and enforcing limits on children for their own safety.Ask the staff and faculty what they need help with the most.;
, Your school may have a parent-teacher association that helps parent and teacher connections and helps drive initiatives inside of the school. Becoming a member of your local PTA will give you additional resources and insight into the operations at your child's school. To find your local PTA, look at the National PTA's website.If you are having issues finding your local parent-teacher association, give your school a call or send an e-mail to the National PTA at info@pta.org.
 A great opportunity to get connected is to volunteer as a classroom helper. While classroom assistant jobs are often labor intensive paid positions, there may be opportunities to volunteer to help younger kids work on developing on their foundations, such as reading and writing. Check the school's policies and call them to see if there are any volunteer opportunities to become a classroom helper.
 Events like book fairs, family fun nights, or festivals held at the school during school hours can use more volunteers to help set up and manage the event.Contact the school or speak to the teachers who are organizing the event to see where you can lend your assistance.


Other opportunities to help organized sports team or a specific club may also arise.
When you call, you can say something like "My son Trevor told me that there's a book fair coming up in February. I was wondering if you'd need any parent volunteers or if you could connect me to the right person to speak to."

