 In some countries, every citizen has health insurance as a right. In the United States, things are little more complicated. However, with some research, anyone in the U.S. can obtain the health insurance they need. Your prison might help sign you up for health insurance, but don’t rely on them.


Visit the www.healthcare.gov website. This has information about enrolling in health insurance. Enter your state and answer questions.
In some states, you will qualify for Medicaid if your income is low enough. If you’re straight out of jail and unemployed, then you’ll probably qualify. Medicaid is free—you don’t pay a monthly premium, though you may have to pay a little for prescription drugs and office visit.
In other states, you can’t get Medicaid based solely on income. Nevertheless, people in all states can purchase health insurance through the website. If your income is low enough, you will receive a subsidy that will help pay a part of your monthly premium.
 Begin by talking to your doctor about your options. They might know of available treatment programs nearby and whether you qualify for treatment. Ask if your insurance covers the treatment program.


In the U.S., you can also find treatment programs by calling 1-800-487-4889 or visiting http://www.findtreatment.samhsa.gov.
 Alcohol and drug addiction treatment can take many forms. Generally, however, it involves long-term monitoring. You typically can’t cure addictions quickly.You might take medication. For example, you can take medication that will ease your withdrawal symptoms from the drug.
Treatment also involves behavioral therapy. You will learn how to cope with your cravings for drugs and develop strategies for avoiding future drug use.
 People who have been incarcerated for long periods of time often suffer from other health ailments—high blood pressure, obesity, and mental health problems. You need to address all of these if you want to succeed outside prison.


If you’re depressed, you might need mood stabilizers or antidepressants.These can help you overcome addiction and maintain a positive outlook on life.
The healthier you feel, the more confident you will feel. Make sure that a healthy diet and regular exercise are parts of your lifestyle.

