 Wikis are collaborative, so if individual writing ability, grammar, syntax, etc. is required for assessment, evaluation can take place before posting. A draft submission process is helpful for this. If collaboration is a learning requirement or a desired exercise, then students can use the wikiHow platform to compose and post their instructions. Students can use their draft folder on wikiHow to write and edit their work before posting to the community.

Sylvia (2014)and Bosman & Zagenczyk (2011)suggest applying Bloom’s cognitive domain levels, such as remembering, understanding, applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating, when evaluating social media assignments.
Consider giving students the option to expand or rewrite an existing article. Since wikiHow has more than 180,000 articles, it can sometimes be challenging to come up with a unique topic for a new article. There is a lot of low-hanging fruit, particularly articles called "stubs" which have been flagged as being in dire need of editing. A list of stubs (filtered by category, if desired) can be provided specifically for the assignment (ask here).

Offer extra credit if the article is chosen as a Rising Star or featured on the home page. It's acceptable for students to ask for quick consideration for featuring.

;
, Understanding the community policies and guidelines before beginning is important.

Have them read the Writer's Guide. Suggest that they review featured articles on the wikiHow home page as examples of the level of quality they should strive for.
Have students create their own account in wikiHow. Encourage them to use their real names (or an obvious variant) for authentication purposes, but it's worth noting that as a wiki, recognition of sole authorship is counterintuitive.
Online privacy and the rules and responsibilities of contributing to the wikiHow community should be discussed. Real-world applications of wikis can also be integrated into this discussion, such as project management tools or open-source software development.
 Encourage students to choose a topic related to their program of study. The most effective instructions come from procedures that are familiar to students. Instructors may prefer to keep topic generation open to all subjects.

Students should also search wikiHow for existing topics (to avoid duplication) and the list of requested topics to help them decide. Naturally, unique topics are encouraged, and they seem to be the topics that draw the most attention. Brainstorming exercises can be used to generate topic ideas. Duplicate topics run the risk of getting merged or deleted, since on a wiki, collaboration to build a single high-quality page is encouraged over the creation of multiple pages on the same topic. If a student is unsure whether their desired topic is a duplicate of an existing article, they can always ask here.
Research for topic selection can be completed as an alternate assignment. You might ask students are asked to research two topic ideas, submit a proposal, and meet with the instructor to discuss their topics. In the meeting discussion, students are asked:
Whether there is an existing topic in wikiHow
Whether they have experience performing the task
How they plan to visualize their procedure
By the end of the meeting, the most suitable topic is chosen and the student can begin drafting their article.


Drafts are important for two reasons:

Instructors can focus on the mechanics of writing technical instructions, such as, grammar, syntax, mood, audience awareness, etc.
It helps to prevent plagiarism


To create a draft folder in wikiHow, click on Switch to Advanced Editing under the article title in the template. This opens to a separate text editor in which students can begin writing. This editor allows authors to track changes, submit links and references and also to save images.

Students should create a separate Word/OpenOffice/Pages document as back-up, which can also be used for editing and draft submissions.
 Visual communication is an essential component of technical instructions. Depending on the subject matter of the instructions, there are many different visuals that can accompany the text:

AutoCAD drawings, schematics, isometric drawings
Screen shots, code strips/packets Photos, images
Students are encouraged to use as much imagery as possible. Techniques to enhance the images, such as using arrow or circle overlays, can be incorporated into a visual communication lesson or exercise. Copyright laws around the use of images found online can also be part of a discussion. Students are encouraged to find and read policies on the use of proprietary images and Creative Commons licensing.
 The final stage of the assignment will be to pull together the final drafts of the text and incorporate the visuals in wikiHow.

This is also the opportunity to incorporate tips, notes, cautions, warnings or dangers associated with the topic. Warnings and tips are essential components of technical instructions, as there are usually dangers to equipment and personnel in a technical environment, as well as helpful tips which come from experience. This information can be as simple as a reminder to back up essential data, or life-threatening dangers. Also, there is a section to document references if secondary sources are used. Students should be encouraged to monitor their article after posting for comments from community members.
 An email introducing the topic and the link is usually sufficient. If you would like to see the final draft before it's edited by the community, have students submit their back-up draft at the same time. Another option is to look at the article's history (accessible when logged in) to find a the last revision made by the student (or have the student send you a link to that revision).