 Certification is not required for medical coders. However, having a certification is beneficial for your career. A certification will let your employer know that you have a certain level of proficiency and knowledge.


Certified medical coders have more opportunities for career advancement, higher salaries, and more employment choices. Certified coders typically make 20% more than non-certified coders., Both the AAPC and the AHIMA offer certifications. Deciding which exam you will take will help you prepare for the exam. Both of the certifications are nationally recognized.


The AAPC offers multiple certifications including Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coding (COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC), Certified Risk Adjustment Coder(CRC), Certified Professional Coder-Payer(CPC-P), and specialty certifications for certain practice areas.You need to have two years of experience to become fully certified. If you do not have two years of experience, your certification will be considered apprentice status.
The AHIMA offers m the Certified Coding Associate(CCA), Certified Coding Specialist(CCS) and the Certified Coding Specialist-Physician-based(CCS-P). They do not offer an apprenticeship status certification like the AAPC. The AHIMA recommends that you have 6 months of coding experience, have completed an AHIMA approved program, or completed another coding program before sitting for the exam.You should consider if you would like to work in a hospital setting, physician's office, or a specialty practice to help you decide which certification is right for you.
 Attending an accredited program and actual work experience as a medical coder will help you do well on your exam. The AHIMA and AAPC have study guides and online exam preparation resources. They offer discounts on exam training materials if you are member of the organization. Both organizations offer in person exam prep as well.People who take prep courses are more likely to pass the exam.
Talking with people who have passed the exam before is another way to help prepare you for your exam. They may also have study materials that you can use.
You may have to join the organization to take the exam.
Be prepared to pay an exam fee and submit your transcripts and resume if required.
 After you have passed your certification exam, you are required to participate in continuing education to stay certified. The amount of Continuing Education Units(CEUs) depends upon which certification you have received. Check with your accrediting organization so you are clear about the requirements.


For the AHIMA, the CCA, CCS, and CCS-P, you are required to have 20 CEUs during your two year recertification cycle.The AAPC requires 36 CEUs for one certification.You should take advantage of any on-the-job training offered in your workplace. These often count towards your CEUs.
Other activities beyond getting CEUs may be required to maintain your credentialed status as well.

