 If you've been gaming, this may be a difficult habit to pick up. Your 8 fingers (not your thumbs) should be on the home row -- a, s, d, f and j, k, l, ;. This maximizes the efficacy of your hands by spreading them out across the length of the keyboard.


See those little ridges on the f and j keys? That's to help you. If for some reason your sense of sight were to be heinously taken from you tomorrow, you'd know where to put your hands. Line up your pointer fingers on those keys and spread out your next six fingers accordingly.
ALWAYS RETURN TO THE HOME ROW. You may find yourself asking, "Why?" Just do it. When you always know where your fingers are, there's no need to wonder what they're doing or what letters they're about to push. What does that mean? With enough practice, your eyes will always be on the screen. Eventually you'll know where every key is in relation to your fingers, making your manual dexterity the only obstacle to your speed.
 This makes the most logical sense -- if you only had six fingers to type with, you couldn't even reach certain areas of the keyboard in a sprightly manner. So if you have all ten of your fingers, be thankful and put them to good use. You'll type that much faster for it.


If you have to hunt and peck at first, that's normal. Ease yourself into spreading your hands out over the keyboard. With the 8 on the home row and your thumbs on the space bar, start typing. Let each finger have the letters around it and only use the finger that is closest.
 Once you have a pretty good idea where all the keys are, cover your keyboard. You'll remove the temptation to look down at the keys, which ultimately just slows you down.


If you don't have the side of a box to use, just cover your hands (and subsequently the keyboard) with a scarf or something similar. If you have to use the backspace often, that's fine. That habit will diminish with practice.
 With technology nowadays, typing isn't just words and phrases. To type quickly and get your work done, you also need to know how to manipulate your computer to perform as efficiently as possible. Instead of parading you cursor around the screen, know keyboard shortcuts to get the job done even faster.


Here are some useful shortcuts:Ctrl + Z = Undo
Ctrl + X = Cut
Ctrl + S = Save
Ctrl + A = Highlight everything
Shift + arrow = Highlight next letter
Ctrl + arrow = Navigate text cursor to next word without highlight



