 There are many types of sea salt and related sea salt products on the market. Teach yourself about famous sea salts such as fleur de sel and flaked sea salt, as well as the more unusual varieties such as Hawaiian sea salt.Buy sea salt recipe books. Sea Salt: Recipes from the West Coast Galley is a recipe book that brings together seasonal and local recipes from Canada’s Vancouver Island.Sea Salt Sweet is a book that explores dessert recipes that use sea salt.These books can be purchased at local book stores or online.
The book Himalayan Salt & Dead Sea Salt offers tips for using artisan and sea salts for health and beauty.;
, Crystalline sea salt is gathered from coastal areas in Portugal, the United States, and the Pacific Rim. It is commonly used to add flavor to already cooked meals. You can pick it up at gourmet cooking stores or online and should expect to pay approximately $2 to $15 per pound., If you are cooking vegetables or shellfish, you can use a pinch of flaked sea salt to enhance the taste of your meal. One of the most common brands is Maldon, which derives from England’s Essex Coast. You can pick it up at speciality cooking stores or online for $6 per 8.5 ounces., You can add a pinch to your freshly cooked meal. It is a specialty, hand-harvested sea salt from the coastal salt ponds of France. Williams-Sonoma lists hand harvested fleur de sel at $11.96 for 8.8 oz., If you are cooking seafood, pork, or ceviche, you may enjoy some of this coarse ground sea salt. You can find either red or black varieties, with the red sea salt getting its color from the mineral Alaea and the black salt getting its color from charcoal. These salts are full of trace minerals. You can find Hawaiian sea salt at specialty cooking stores or online. Amazon lists 16 oz of the red variety at $10.35., Himalayan salt derives from ancient sea salt deposits and is usually from Pakistan. It can be coloured white or pink. These salts can be used for cooking fish, meats, vegetables, and other common dishes. You can also add some of them to the rim of your glass for a mineral rich cocktail. Himalayan sea salt can be purchased at health food stores, gourmet cooking stores or online. You can find two pounds of Himalayan sea salt on Amazon for $9.99.

