 In a large bowl, combine ¼ teaspoon (1.24 g) of ground black pepper, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of turmeric powder, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of lemon juice, and salt to taste. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are well mixed.Some recipes also include minced ginger and garlic in the marinade mixture, so you can add them if you want. However, ginger and garlic are incorporated in the sauce later, so you may not want to load up on those flavors depending on your tastes.;
, Once the marinade is mixed, add 1 pound (450 g) of boneless chicken that’s been cut into medium size pieces to the bowl. Toss in the chicken in the marinade to ensure that all of the pieces are well coated, and allow it to marinate for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.Cover the marinating chicken with plastic wrap before you place it in the refrigerator.
 The dish gets most of its spicy flavor from peppercorns, but they must be crushed for use in the sauce later. Take 1 ¼ teaspoons (3.5 g) of whole black peppercorns, and crush them. Don’t reduce them to powder, though; they should have a coarse texture after crushing.Crushing the peppercorns is easiest with a spice or coffee grinder, but you don’t need an appliance to do it. You can use a mortar and pestle, or place the peppercorns in a sealed plastic bag and use a rolling pin, meat tenderizer mallet, or the back of a heavy pan to crush them., Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of a neutral cooking oil to a large skillet, and heat on medium until the oil is hot or starts to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes. Next, mix in 2 large onions that have been sliced, and cook until the onions are brown, which should take 5 to 7 minutes.Canola or vegetable oil works well for the recipe.
 After the onions have browned, add 2 ½ teaspoons (12 g) of crushed garlic, 2 ½ teaspoons (12 g) of grated ginger, 1 to 2 green chilies that have been cut in half lengthwise, and 1 sprig of curry leaves. Let the mixture cook for another 3 to 4 minutes.Add the chillies based on how spicy you want the dish to be. If you prefer a milder flavor, go with one chili. If you want a spicier flavor, add two.
You’ll know when the mixture has cooked long enough when the spices start to give off an aroma.
 Once the garlic and ginger have cooked long enough to release their flavors, stir the crushed peppercorns, ½ teaspoon (2.5 g) of garam masala, and ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) of fennel powder into the pan. Mix well so the ingredients are fully combined, and allow them to cook for 2 to 3 minutes.Garam masala is a spice blend often used in Indian cooking that you can find at most Indian markets.
Make sure to stir the mixture periodically as you heat it to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 After you’ve incorporated the peppercorns and other spices into the mixture, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of soya sauce, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of tomato sauce, ¼ cup (59 ml) of water, and salt to taste to the pan. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully incorporated into the sauce.Some recipes use chopped tomatoes in place of tomato sauce if you prefer a thicker sauce.
 Once the sauces, water, and salt have been incorporated, remove the chicken from its marinade and add it to the pan, stirring well to ensure that all of the pieces are coated with the sauce. Allow the mixture to cook for 5 minutes on high, stirring the entire time so the chicken doesn’t burn.You can tell that the chicken is ready when it starts to brown.
 When the chicken has fried for several minutes, mix an additional ½ cup (118 ml) of water into the pan. Allow the mixture to come to a boil, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes., After the pan comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low and cover the pan. Let the mixture cook until the chicken is completely cooked through, which should take approximately 20 minutes.While the chicken is cooking, check on it periodically. If the liquid appears to have evaporated, mix in a bit more water to help maintain a sauce for the chicken., When the chicken has finished cooking, uncover the pan, and mix in another sprig of curry leaves. Stir well to fully incorporate the leaves, and allow the dish to cook for 5 to 7 minutes on low., When the dish has finished cooking, remove it from the heat. Leave it uncovered and allow it to cool for approximately 5 minutes before transferring it to dish or platter for serving.You can garnish the pepper chicken with lemon or lime slices or chopped coriander leaves.
Pepper chicken is usually served with rice.

