 Consider shirts, bracelets, dresses, and necklaces. You might go with slogans announcing your sexuality, symbols, rainbows, or flag color schemes (e.g. black, grey, white, and purple for asexuality).


Make sure that any clothes are purchased from an LGBT-friendly organization. For example, FCKH8 has a less-than-pretty track record with the LGBTQIA community.;
, Read LGBT+ books, watch Gay & Lesbian movies, and look at pictures of pride events and same-gender couples. Allow people to see you with this media, and when they see other hints too, they'll start wondering.
 Bringing up the subject can place it in their minds, and their reaction will give you a feel regarding how they might respond to you coming out. Here are some subject matters to try:


Marriage equality
The Trevor project
LGBT+ celebrities (e.g. Ellen Degeneres)
Human rights
Things happening in the LGBT+ community

, Frame it in the context of asking for advice regarding this friend. This will help you get a sense of the person's openness, and it will help that they are imagining their words reaching an actual person. You may choose to describe this "friend" as being exactly like you, or as being something related (e.g. a bisexual friend when you are pansexual).


"Dad, I'm looking for some advice. One of my friends is asexual, and she wants to come out to her parents, but she's really nervous and she doesn't know how. Do you have any tips I can pass on to her?"
"One of my friends recently came out to me as genderfluid. I want to support them, but I'm not quite used to the idea. I was wondering if you had any advice."

, If you are homosexual or bi/pansexual, this will suggest that you find people of the same gender attractive.


"Wow, he looks really hot with his shirt off."
"I absolutely love her! She brings such a cool and poised presence to her scenes, and she has the most beautiful eyes."

, If you are transgender, you may want to start dressing in more gender-neutral ways, or ways that suggest your binary gender (if you aren't nonbinary). Try tweaking your wardrobe, cutting/growing out your hair, or messing with accessories.


For some people, gender and gender presentation are very different. This is okay. You don't have to dress to match gender roles if it's uncomfortable or undesirable for you.
 If you're a closeted gay man who loves interior design, give home decor advice. If you're a girly lesbian, perhaps you want some extra glamour to look like a lipstick lesbian. A little stereotypical behavior is one way to drop hints.


Only meet the stereotype if it feels genuine and comfortable to you. Some LGBTQIA people match the stereotypes pretty well, and some don't. Neither way is right or wrong.
 This challenges the idea of compulsory heterosexuality and suggests that you might not be straight.


"So, your ex-boyfriends..." "Exes."
"Yes, I'll bring my partner to the office party."
"Actually, I don't have a boyfriend or girlfriend right now."

, You need friends who are like you, and it'll suggest to others that you aren't straight or cis. (Win-win.)

, Your identity is a valid and important part of you. Straighten your back, stand tall, and smile. It is okay to be yourself.

