 Expect your hands to grow numb or sore from having to hold the reins over the course of long rides. If possible, avoid using a thick rein made of rope. Instead, use a thinner rein made of leather, which is usually lighter and less taxing in the long run.Also, wear gloves to prevent blisters.;
, Cover the saddle with a seat saver whose cushioning absorbs most of the shock before it reaches your rear. Store your seat saver somewhere warm and dry after your ride.Keep in mind that some seat savers’ material (especially foam) may act like a sponge if it gets wet. This means it will become just as hard as your saddle if temperatures dip below freezing.
 If your knees feel strained as you ride, play with the length to find one that helps alleviate the pain. Length is a matter of personal preference, so don’t feel obligated to copy a more experienced rider if their preferred length causes you pain. As you shorten and lengthen your stirrups, remember:You want to find a leg position that allows your legs to comfortably exert enough force into the stirrups to raise your butt a little. This prevents you from sitting with all of your body weight on the saddle, which will make your butt sore.
 Whenever you go downhill, let your feet follow gravity. Straighten your legs in a forward direction as you descend. Do this to lessen the amount of pressure that your knees have to bear.Only use loose stirrups to straighten your legs forward. Sticking them out to your sides as if you were doing a split causes your muscles to tense up all over., Make sure they are tall enough to cover your ankles, which will keep them supported as you ride. Opt for a heel between 1 and 1 ½ inches to prevent your feet from spilling out of the stirrups. At the same time, avoid boots with heavy treads, which may cause your feet to become stuck in the stirrups, preventing a quick dismount in an emergency. Do not wear the following:Waffle treads
Thick treads
Hiking boots
Winter boots
Sneakers
Sandals and flip-flops

, For upstairs, stick to sweatshirts and T-shirts so your arms and upper torso aren’t restricted. In colder weather, opt for layers topped with a vest to keep your arms mobile. Downstairs, favor tights, jeans, and sweatpants. Be sure that they are flexible enough to allow your legs to move freely.Although you want your clothes to allow you freedom of movement, they should still be form-fitting or close to it. Loose clothing may become caught on your equipment or surroundings, which can lead to injury.
Don’t wear pants that easily become twisted or bunched up as you move in them.

