 The trench coat is a classic piece that works well for nearly any woman's wardrobe. A coat with a hood will provide you with added protection from the rain, but even a trench coat without a hood can work if you plan on carrying an umbrella. Consider a standard beige trench, a sophisticated burgundy trench, or a vibrant red trench, depending on your personality.;
, A double-breasted coat flatters many women, but women with larger busts should consider a single-breasted coat, instead. Additionally, belted coats look lovely on girls who want to define their waist and show of their curves.
 Materials like cashmere and thin cotton weaves work best under a well-fitted coat since they do not add extra bulk. Conversely, you should avoid heavy wool sweaters and over-sized garments. These pieces may make you look lumpy beneath your coat.
 When the weather is gray and cloudy, your spirits naturally sink. Adding bright, cheerful colors to your wardrobe is a good way to keep your spirits high. Choose colorful coats and umbrellas to add a splash of color to your rainy day attire.
 Outerwear and accessories in black, chocolate, or deep red create a sophisticated appearance. If a boost to your confidence is enough to lift your mood on a rainy day, stick with neutral or subdued colors that give your appearance a mature twist.
 Brightly colored rubber boots can give off a childish vibe, especially if they are speckled in daisies, polka dots, or other loud prints. If you want to wear a colored rain boot, opt for bold, solid colors over patterns. Alternatively, a rubber riding boot or a leather boot with a waterproof coating can give your look a sophisticated edge.
 Do not carry any bags in this material or wear any shoes made with this material. Unprotected leather can also get ruined in the rain.
 Look for a bright color or pattern to liven up the dreariness outdoors, or opt for a chocolate brown or red umbrella with a wooden handle for a mature, chic look. Have fun with it, and choose an umbrella that suits your personality.

