 If you overdid it during the last holiday, think about how much you drank. Don’t try to break the record, but instead do your best to scale back so that you won’t be feeling rough the next day or two. When you’re drinking and start to feel pretty good, it’s time to switch to water, not pound shots.


If you’re worried about looking like a party pooper, there are plenty of ways to look like you’re drinking without actually consuming alcohol. For example, grab a cranberry juice or sparkling water over ice and add a lime wedge. You could also consider volunteering to be the designated driver.
Remember, never be self-conscious about obeying your limits or turning down a drink. It’s a sign that you’re resolute, and your body will thank you the next day!

, If overeating is your vice of choice, avoid going to parties on an empty stomach. Have a great garden salad, brown rice and grilled fish, or whole wheat pasta with a lean ground turkey sauce.If you’re on a specific diet, make yourself a small meal in accordance with your diet so you’ll be less likely to dig into the party’s treats.
In addition, drink a couple glasses of water beforehand so you’ll be less likely to be hungry.
 A 2016 study sponsored by the American Physiological Society showed that increasing exercise the week prior to overeating can reduce inflammation and increase metabolism. That means exercising more in advance will help your body deal with all the extra fats and calories that come with holiday overindulgence, which will help avoid the need for a detox.However, this and other studies also suggest that even a brief period of overeating can affect how your body metabolizes food.  

, Don’t get down on yourself if you sneak some cheat foods or have an extra drink. However, try to plan ahead and give yourself permission to indulge in something you’d really appreciate.For example, if you set reasonable expectations for yourself, you’ll be more likely to stick to them. Say to yourself “It would be best if I didn’t have any dessert, but having a small slice of Aunt Sue’s apple pie would be much better than going for grandma’s glazed sugar cookies. I know I love apple pie, and I can definitely stop after one slice. But I’ll just keep going in for cookie after cookie if I get started with those!”
The same goes for alcohol: think about your personal preferences. For instance, you might be more likely to drink two beers and stop, but if you drink wine you could end up going for the whole bottle.

