 To show respect for yourself, Try to give yourself the same consideration that you give everyone else. Don't short-change your own ideas and wants at the expense of others. You're worth it.


Know when to ask for help. Have respect for your own abilities and skills, but learn to recognize when you're out of your element. Don't make it harder on yourself than you need to.
Treat yourself to well-deserved trips and gifts every now and again. Spend time with your friends and do fun things in your free time.
 Drinking to excess on a regular basis or habitually self-deprecating yourself will tear you down in mind and body. Try to work actively to build yourself up and surround yourself with encouraging, enlightening, helpful people.


Are your friends the kind of people you want to be around? Do they ever criticize you or Try to keep you down? Consider moving on.
 Make regular visits to the doctor to make sure you're healthy and fit. Take care of health problems as soon as they arise and don't put off "bad news." Avoiding the doctor's office because you don't like it isn't showing respect for yourself and your own well-being.



Exercise regularly and eat well. Start developing easy routines, even walking a few miles a day or doing some light stretches to get in touch with your body and maintain it. Cut out junk foods and eat a variety of nourishing foods.
 When you want something, go out and get it. Don't let your fear about stepping on toes get in the way of making things happen that will better your life and achieve something positive for yourself. If you've got an opinion, share it. If you want to change jobs, start a band, or take up acting in your 40s, do it. Make a decision and follow through.
 We all get caught in ruts, many of them of our own making. Develop plans for yourself and specific steps for carrying them out. Plot an upward trajectory for yourself to keep yourself moving forward in life and staying satisfied. Show respect for yourself by being the best version of yourself you can be.


Consider making a five-year plan to get where you want to go. If you're a student, what are your college plans? Your after college plans? How might you realistically achieve those goals?
If you're in the working world, are you happy in your job? Are you doing what you love? What would it take to get paid for your passion? How long would it take to make it happen? Is it possible? Answer these questions honestly and specifically to develop a plan of success.

