 Before you begin looking into specific camps, take some time to consider what precisely you hope the child gets out of the experience. Is the goal to build social skills? Learn a sport, activity, or skill? Help with academic performance? Enhance therapy efforts? Or just get away for a bit and have fun?Make an honest assessment of the child’s physical, mental, and emotional abilities and limitations and consider how a camp setting can accommodate — and, ideally, build upon — them.Involve the child in the process. Ask the child what they would like to do in camp, or what about going to camp excites or worries them.
The more specific you can be in your goals, the more specific you can be when looking into therapy camps.;
, While a summertime, “sleepaway” camp on a rural lake may be what comes to mind for you, there are a wide array of camping options available for kids with or without special needs. Some camps, for instance, have a special focus or theme, such as equine therapy camps that are geared toward autistic kids.Depending on the child’s needs and interests, you may want to first look into half- or full-day programs held at a local park, community center, etc. Or, consider day camps (so the child can sleep at home each night), after-school camps, activity programs or workshops (at a museum, nature conservancy, etc.), and the traditional overnight camps., Many kids with special needs will derive the most benefit from therapy camps that are geared toward working with kids in similar circumstances. However, you might also believe the child would be best served by attending a “mainstream” camp — for instance, to attend with a sibling without special needs. If so, know that a camp cannot legally deny a child entry based on disability status, and must provide reasonable accommodations.Your insurance company, school district, or relevant government agency that deals with special needs children may be willing or obligated to provide some amount of financial support to enable a special needs child to attend camp and receive appropriate accommodations. Do some research and be persistent in seeking sources of financial support.
 You should read lots of brochures, examine websites, and visit prospective camps if possible to help weigh your options. Often, though, the most persuasive information comes from other parents, caregivers, or therapists for special needs children.


Consult with the child’s physician, therapists, and teachers regarding the best type of camp setting for him or her, along with any specific camp recommendations. Talk to the parents of classmates and friends — and perhaps the other children themselves — about their experiences and opinions regarding certain camps.

Watch for red flags. Some camps, especially ABA-based camps, may force unwilling children into compliance, or use abusive strategies.Ensure that this camp provides a respectful environment, with full access to everything the child needs (that isn't dependent on compliance).
Of course, in the end, you have to make the decision about what camp is right for your child. Welcome (and solicit) others’ advice, but trust your own judgment.
 Many therapy camps have a particular program focus that targets particular therapeutic and skill-building benefits for special needs children. For instance, many camps use nature exploration or interacting with animals as a means to foster physical, emotional, and social development.Nature therapy camps usually involve guided nature walks and discussions, and have been shown to reduce stress and increase relaxation and immune function in some children.
Horticultural programs teach basic gardening skills and can help improve coordination, balance, endurance, memory and task skills, and socialization.
Equine therapy camps offer physical benefits through horseback riding as well as developing emotional skills via the connection between the child and a particular horse.There are also programs that utilize therapy dogs or other pets.
 As with any other child (or adult), expressing oneself artistically can help special needs kids to recognize, explore, and share their feelings, and make connections with others through shared activities.Art therapy programs use painting, sculpting, and other methods of artistic creation to foster creativity, behavior and motor skill management, and emotional well-being.
Drama camps help kids express feelings, solve problems, and explore their inner selves through acting.
Music therapy camps can help develop communication, eye contact, pattern recognition, creativity, and fine motor skills, among other benefits.
 Adventure camp programs are among the most popular types of special needs therapy camps. Engaging in activities like rock climbing, rope course navigation, mountain biking, canoeing, and so on with other kids can provide a range of physical, communication, and emotional benefits.You can also find sport-specific programs and camps, such as adaptive basketball, baseball, swimming and biking. Being able to take part in sports with other kids like them can fuel feelings of inclusion and pride in special needs children — and they tend to be a lot of fun.
 Some camps focus specifically on helping develop practical life skills so that special needs children are better prepared to live independently or semi-independently. These can provide a nice complement to life skills programs offered at school or elsewhere.Such programs often focus on practical skills like using the phone, communicating with strangers, making purchases, getting a job, and using a bank, as well as basic safety skills.
 A good therapy camp for special needs kids should have an overarching program philosophy that includes clearly stated goals. This philosophy should be readily apparent in all brochures, web pages, etc., as well as when conversing with staff members. These sources also shouldn’t be shy when it comes to describing the program’s history and track record of success.For instance, if you are considering an equine therapy camp, the website or other materials should clearly state what benefits they believe Asperger’s / autistic kids receive from interacting with horses, and how exactly these benefits are developed through specific activities and programs., If it is at all possible for you to personally meet the people who will be interacting with your special needs child on a daily basis at camp, by all means take advantage of the opportunity. Think of it not simply as an interview process, but also as a means of developing a rapport and common understanding regarding the child’s particular circumstances and needs.


At some camps, you may find that much of the staff is comprised of eager teens and young adults, while at others you may find primarily adults with more specialized training. There are pros and cons to consider when weighing enthusiasm against experience, so make time to talk to several staff members who would be interacting with your child.
Ask about the camper-to-staff member ratio at each camp you are considering. There is no “magic number,” but in virtually every case, lower is better. Some experts consider a 1:1 camper-to-staff member ratio to be ideal when dealing with severely disabled children, for example., Here, you need to think carefully about the child you intend to send to camp. Do they thrive in a regimented daily schedule, where everything is predictable, recurring, and comforting? Or, does the child do better in a setting where quick adjustments and adaptations are made? Essentially, ask yourself whether a highly structured therapy camp would provide comfort to or additional anxiety for the child.The camp should be able to provide you with sample daily schedules, and give you information regarding how rigidly they are adhered to.
Ask how they would respond to certain possible situations — for instance, the child not wanting to go to lunch, really enjoying crafting class and wanting to stay longer, or panicking about the notion of going swimming. Ask questions relevant to how the child in question tends to act and respond.
 Never just assume that a camp has a functional food service program, or adequate medical resources, especially when you are dealing with a special needs child. No question is too basic or too mundane to ask. If on a tour, ask to see the eating, sleeping, bathing, etc. arrangements in person.Take special care in examining and asking about the medical facilities and policies regarding injuries and illness. Make sure the camp can deal effectively with your child’s daily and potential medical needs.
Have the camp’s communication policy clearly spelled out for you. How often can you contact the child or the child contact you under normal circumstances? How minor or serious does a situation at camp involving your child need to be before you are contacted?

, Some kids, special needs or not, will immediately embrace being at a “sleepaway” camp and enjoy every minute of the experience. Others will have a great deal of difficulty adjusting, and may simply not be cut out for it. Encourage your child to try a new experience, but don’t force him or her into a situation just because a certain camp is highly recommended or tailored to his or her particular disabilities.If it works best for your child to start with a local after-school or day camp program, and possibly move up from there, do it. If your child will be comforted by attending the same camp as a sibling or good friends, strongly consider the possibility.
There is no “one size fits all” approach to therapy camps. Do what is best for your unique child.
 Once you have chosen a camp, make sure its staff members have all the information they may need to effectively work with your child. Make sure in particular that the camp director and counselors who will be dealing directly with your child are well informed.Consult with your child’s doctor regarding specific medical information that should be shared with relevant members of the camp staff. Draw up a document listing your child’s medical conditions and medication and therapy requirements.
Also share strategies that tend to work for you when dealing with your child. How do you get them to eat? Get ready for bed? Calm down? Open up and express feelings?

, Therapy camps are supposed to be new and different experiences in comparison to normal daily life. That does not mean they need to be a complete break from familiar comforts and patterns, though. If you can help ward off the homesickness that is most likely to occur early on during camp, you may make the entire experience more enjoyable and meaningful.Pack up a few photos, books, comfort items, or a handwritten note as reminders of home and reminders that you are close at hand and always thinking about the child.
Be judicious in deciding how many reminders to send along, though. Base your selections on your child’s unique personality and needs. Leave room for the camp to be new and different as intended. Be clear that you are just a phone call away, but don’t promise or try to call all the time.

