 Having a regular shower and maybe occasionally indulging in a warm bath are essential to good hygiene and keeping clean. Keep the water temperature a cozy warm rather than boiling hot. While you are washing, you could shampoo and condition your hair, use your favorite shower gels/body scrubs and wash your face. Afterward, pat skin dry and apply a rich body butter( dry skin would benefit from this) or body lotion ( oily/combination/normal skin) and face cream.;
, Use heat appliances sparingly and when you do, always use a heat protection product. Good styles for school are those which are classic or your favorite cut. You could straighten for cool poker straight locks, curl some stands for romantic waves or leave naturally to dry (but still pat dry after washing and gently brush/comb when almost finished for silkiness, not static).
 Body sprays are good for an all over blast of freshness, body mists for a light spritz and perfumes for a quiet, heavy scent. Keep fragrances sweet,light/lightly heavy and something you love.
, This is the best, and maybe even the most effective beauty tip you can and should try. Not getting enough will leave you tired and even feeling sad, so aim for at least 8- 7 and a half hours every night. Wear comfy pyjamas and have soft duvet covers for your extra snug as a bug in a rug. You'll feel so much better after shut eye time.
 In the morning, a splash of cold water and just cream is a good wake me up.
 Wash hands, smother on a hand cream and when it is fully absorbed, use a pale pink, peach or clear coat of nail polish for a glossy sheen.
 It's easy to think its just hard work and no fun or that you have no time to spare, but you can just as effectively tie in some to your normal life. You could take up a new hobby in your spare time that you do have or just try simple things like contributing to PE lessons, playing in the park with your friends and walking the dog.
 For your base, use concealer/powder/foundation if you want to, but use very little, putting too much on will make you look strange. A tinted moisturizer, with a little color ( to always match yours) is ideal. Use a few flicks of mascara on your eyelashes, soft lip balm to keep your lips smooth and lipgloss for a gorgeous shine. Use eyeliner and shadow ( light, though) for a more noticeable statement. These looks are all very natural but equally amazing!

