 You know your computer and how it runs better than anyone else. If it was working okay before but suddenly starts behaving oddly, it might be a sign of age or a broken part but the following issues could be just as likely to be signs of a hacking:


You have standard programs and files that won't open or work.
Files that you didn't delete appear to have disappeared, have been placed in the bin or have been deleted.
You cannot access programs using your usual password. You find that your passwords have been changed within your computer.
There is one or more programs on your computer that you didn't put there.
When you're not using the computer, it is connecting itself to the internet frequently.
File contents have been changed and you didn't do the changes.
Your printer may behave strangely. It may not print no matter what you do or it will print different pages that you did not command it to.;
, Here too you can find possible signs of having been hacked:


One or more sites refuse you access because of password failure. Try various of your usual sites; if the password access continues to be barred, this may be due to having been hacked. Did you respond to a phishing email by any chance (a fake email asking you to change security details/update passwords)?
Your internet searches are being redirected.
Extra browser screens may appear. They may switch on and off without you doing anything. They may be a shade darker or the same color but you'll be able to see them.
If you've bought a domain name, you may not be able to obtain it once you've paid for it.
 Here are some other things that might occur when hacked:


Fake virus messages. Either you have virus software or you don't; if you don't, such messages will automatically alert you. If you do, then provided you know what your program's messages should look like, then you'll also be alerted to the messages being fakes. Do not click on it; it's a scam to get you to release credit card details in a panic to get rid of viruses on your computer. Be aware that the hacker is already controlling your computer (see What to Do below).
Additional toolbars appear in your browser. They may carry messages about "helping" you. There should only be one toolbar. Be suspicious if they multiply.
Random and frequent pop-ups appear on your computer. You'll need to get rid of the program that is doing this.
Your anti-malware, virus software doesn't work, appears disconnected. Your Task Manager or Registry Editor may also be out of action.
People in your email address list get fake emails from you.
Money is missing from your bank account or you get bills to pay for online purchases you haven't made.
 In particular, if your mouse cursor is moving around the screen and performing real actions that have actual results, a human is at the other end manipulating this. If you've ever had to allow access to work I.T. to fix your computer remotely, you'll know what this looks like when it's done for benign purposes. If it's not authorized, then you've been hacked.


Check your personal information. Google yourself. Are there returns of personal information online that you haven't personally released? This may not show up immediately but keeping an eye on this possibility may be important if personal information is released.
 The best thing to do while continuing to investigate is to disconnect from the internet and online connectivity. That way, if a hacker is still in your computer, you've just removed the source of connection.


Pull the router plug out of the socket to be absolutely certain there is no connection!
Print this page off or PDF it before powering down so that you can continue to follow the instructions offline. Or, read it on a separate device that isn't hacked.
 Keep it disconnected completely and use your computer's safe mode to reopen it (check the computer's operating manual if you're not sure what to do).
 Anti-virus, Anti-spyware, etc.) OR if programs and files won't work or open. If you find anything, uninstall it as best you can. If you don't know how, get a computer-savvy helper or call mobile computing help to come and do it for you.
 Again, get someone knowledgeable to help you if you're unsure what to do.
 Then do a complete system restore and update the computer.
 Ask them for advice about what to do next to protect your funds.
 Warn them to delete the emails and to not follow any links if they have opened them.

