

While chest muscles won't enlarge your breasts, they can make them look larger. Therefore, focusing part of your exercises on your chest can help you work towards an hourglass figure.One simple way to work on your chest muscles is to do push-ups. Lay face down on the floor, with the balls of your feet touching the floor. Lift yourself off the floor with arms, keeping your body straight. You don't need to go down all the way to the floor, but you should at least go down until your elbows form a 90-degree angle.You can also try dumbbell flys. On your back, hold a dumbbell in each hand. Bend your arms so your hand meet above your chest. Keeping your arms bent, bring the dumbbells outward, until you eventually straighten each arm all the way out, like you're going to give someone a hug. Bring your arms back to your chest. Try repetitions of six or eight with rests in between.;
,

Part of the hourglass figure is a trim waist. To have a trim waist, you need to lose weight overall, as focusing just on your waist is not possible.Do aerobic exercises such as biking, swimming, or running. Try to get in about 30 minutes a day.Eat well. Focus on fruits, veggies, whole grains, and low-fat protein, such as fish and poultry. Try to skip foods with processed sugar and trans fat. Stick to healthy fats such as avocado, nuts, and fish.Pick up good habits, such as getting enough sleep. Also, don't smoke. Improving your habits makes you healthier overall and helps you lose weight.,

To get a toned rear, you need to focus exercises in this area. Try doing squats and lunges to help build muscle. In addition, try to pick aerobic exercise that will build muscle in this area, such as running.,

Before putting on makeup, take some time to gently massage your face. The purpose is to get your blood pumping to your face, as well as to reduce any swelling or puffiness.Try applying a massage cream first to help with the massage.When rubbing, rub from the center of your forehead outward in circular motions. Similarly, when you rub the skin near your eyes, rub from the bridge of your nose outward, both above and below.Go down your nose and rub your nostrils in an up and down motion. Move outward from the center of your face around your lips. Move in circular motions up your cheeks. Finally, using your whole hand, move from the center of your face out to your ears. You can wipe any excess cream off at the end.,

If you're using a liquid foundation, it's important to warm it up in your hand first. That way, it won't sit on top of your skin. Rather, it will be more readily absorbed into your skin, helping it glow.,

Powder can keep you from looking shiny. However, stick to the forehead, nose, chin, and sides of your face, skipping the eyes and cheeks. That way, you won't look shiny, but you will glow in all the right places.,

Lopez often has very dramatic eye makeup. The makeup makes her eyes pop, pulling the focus there.For instance, try applying a gray eye shadow to your eyelids. Use a black or dark eye liner on both your upper and lower lids. Finally, add two coats of black mascara.If you want to go even more dramatic, try a trick that Lopez's stylists use. They often add fake eyelashes to enhance her eyes.,

That is, pick a nude or light color for your lips. Lopez often has a nude lip to help her look flawless. Pick a color in your skin tone, though it can have a hint of pink or shimmer.,

Lopez often sports a high ponytail for an easy every day look or even a look for a night on the town. She keeps it tightly pulled back, but often lets it loose in the back with messy curls or waves.,

Lopez often sticks to just wearing earrings, but they usually make a statement. Sometimes, she chooses larger-than-life hoops, but she also sports smaller versions that are elegant and classy.,

Lopez favors skin-tight dresses. Often times, they have cutouts that are a bit revealing. She's not afraid to show off her body. In fact, she often has dresses that have cutouts along the sides.,

Lopez sometimes sports dresses that use lace as a way to reveal some skin. Other dresses she chooses use other sheer fabrics in much the same way, strategically placing opaque fabric or even sequences over parts of her body.,

Lopez radiates wherever she goes. You may be tempted to try a tanning bed or stay outside to tan, but a safer bet is a spray tan or lotion. Don't forget to put on gloves before you apply it, though, as it will stick to the palms of your hand and your fingertips.,

Don't pick one that's too dark for your skin tone. If you want to go darker, just apply the tanner more than once. In addition, skip the sprays. Creams, lotions, and mousses are much easier to use and make for better results.,

By getting off the dead skin first, you'll end up with a more even tan.It's also important to moisturize for the same reason. Apply a light moisturizer before you apply the tan.,

In addition, add a bit to your hairline. This precaution will help keep the tanner out of these areas.,

Go with your arms, legs, torso, and back first. Next move on to your knees, feet, ankles, and neck. You can buff out any place that's too dark with a towel.,

After you apply tanner, put something you don't mind staining, as tanner can stain. In addition, pick something loose, that won't stick too closely too your skin will the tanner absorbs.