 Frankincense has long been used as part of the practice of aromatherapy, using natural fragrances to counteract a wide range of afflictions. The next time you’re feeling depressed or overwhelmed, dab a little frankincense oil on your wrists or burn it in a scent diffuser. The calming effects of the dry, earthy, spicy aroma will help you instantly feel more at ease.Fill the air with frankincense while you work, study or meditate.
Essential oils like frankincense just smell good, even if you’re not a believer in holistic treatments.;
, Squeeze a few drops into a steaming bath and breathe in the rich vapors. As you soak, you’ll feel the tension in your muscles fading and your worries slipping away. Frankincense also works wonders as a natural moisturizer, so your skin will feel soft and smooth long after you climb out of the tub.If you prefer a hot shower, try infusing a washcloth or loofah with frankincense oil before you lather up.
Enhancing a bath will save you the trouble of applying a moisturizer as a separate step., Forget about addictive sleep aids and medications that leave you feeling groggy. A less disruptive alternative is to burn some frankincense oil in a vaporizer on your bedside table as you drift off. You’re certain to experience a full night of restorative sleep as the pleasant fragrance gently comforts and banishes restlessness.The relaxing floral notes of frankincense can help you fall asleep faster and stay asleep longer.
 Combine frankincense oil with a splash of peppermint, sage or juniper essence for your next couples or self-massage session. Not only will it glide over your skin like velvet, it can actually promote muscular relaxation and help heal damaged tissue at a deeper level. After a few rubdowns, you’ll never need to book an appointment at the spa again.Work frankincense oil into sore, aching muscles and joints rather than relying on oral pain relievers.
Rub a drop of oil into your temples or between your palms and breathe slowly and deeply when you begin to feel stressed out.

