 The physical aspect of an emotional response is characterized by a change in breathing, heart rate, blood flow, and muscle tension. This response is in reaction to a thought or event, and is accompanied by an emotional feeling. Be aware of your body and notice when these characteristics begin to change. This indicates that you are responding emotionally, and allows you to moderate your response appropriately.If you are walking down the street and you see someone you’d rather not talk to, you might notice that your heart begins to race or that you hold your breath until they pass by. These are indications that you are having an emotional response to the situation.;
, If you find that you are frequently having an emotional response, you should journal or record the things that lead to such a response. This way, you can start to recognize trends and be prepared when you are going into a situation that will cause you be become emotional.For example, many people get emotional about having to speak in public. Understanding your emotional response to public speaking will allow you to better prepare yourself when you know you’ll have to talk in a meeting or speak to a crowd.
 Once you have recognized that you are having an emotional response, you need to pinpoint what emotion you are experiencing. Anger, anxiety, happiness, etc., are all emotions, but result in different actions. Knowing what emotions you associate with a certain thought or event can help you to manage your emotions more effectively.Ask yourself “What am I feeling right now?” If you don’t know how to describe it, start going through a list of emotions “Am I happy? Am I sad? Am I angry?”

, Mindfulness is being present in what you are doing right now. If you practice being fully focused on your current actions, your mind will wander less. Simple ways to be mindful include walking with no destination, savoring what you eat and drink, breathing deeply, and meditating.Mindfulness is not judging or worrying about the present. It is also not thinking about the past or future.
 Having a positive mindset is crucial to having positive emotions. Your mindset can be affected by your thoughts, environment, and actions. Surround yourself with positive people, look for positive media, eat a healthy diet, and exercise to keep a positive mindset. Avoid things like bad news, negative friends, and binging on unhealthy foods or drugs., Relaxation will decrease your heart rate and blood pressure, allow you to breathe deeper, and lessen the tension on your muscles. In other words, relaxation is the inverse of an emotional response in your body. To manage your emotions, learn to relax. Ways to relax include mindfulness, exercise, meditation, guided imagery, yoga, massages, and deep breathing.