 Giving yourself a long-term goal to work towards can help ease you out of your fast food habit. Make sure you set a realistic and specific goal that you can achieve over time.


Set smaller goals along the way to your long-term one. Maybe you start by skipping the drive through on Mondays or plan to eat breakfast at home. Trying to tackle multiple goals at once can be difficult.
Being realistic with goal setting is important. If you feel that never having fast food again is not realistic, set a limit to how much you can have. Maybe you allow yourself a fast food meal once a month.
Track the progress of your goal overtime. This can help motivate you and keep you on track towards your long-term goal.
 Use your journal to note your meals and snacks for a few days (ideally a few week days and a few weekends). This will give you insight into how much and how often you're consuming fast food .


Also note situations that cause you to choose fast food most often. For example, do you go through the drive-through on the way to work for breakfast? Or do you have a long commute home and stop by for a quick and easy dinner?
Take note of any moods or emotions that may trigger you to eat or crave fast food. You may notice many days you don't consume fast food. It might occur more often when you're stressed, angry or frustrated. Understanding your connection between food and mood can help give you some insight into your fast food habit.
Don't have time to journal? Download a food journal app for an on-the-go version of your food journal. Having the app accessible on your phone can make it a little bit easier.
Think about why you make the fast food stops. Trying to identify the underlying cause for your fast food addiction is an important step in breaking the habit.
Note how you feel after eating fast food. You may feel regretful, guilty, or ashamed. If you notice negative feelings and write them down, you can reference them in the future before deciding to get fast food. Remembering how bad you feel after eating it may help you avoid it.
 If you haven't accounted for the calories you're consuming in fast food meals, you might be surprised at how much you're actually consuming. Take a day and tally up all the calories of your typical fast food meal. The number might be enough to give you the motivation to drop the habit .


Try figuring out how far you'd have to run or bike to burn off that meal. It usually takes a considerable amount of exercise to burn off the calories from a fast food meal. For example, you have to bike a full hour at a high speed to burn about 800 calories, that's half a pizza...
Compare the calories in your fast food meal to a similar meals that you could make yourself at home. It'll help you realize how many more calories you get from fast food.
 One of the benefits of fast food is that it can be pretty cheap - especially with menu items that are $1.00 or less. Even with these low prices, fast food can still add up.


Keep your receipts and add up how much money you spend in one week. It might be more than you think.
Give yourself $10 or $20 in cash and see how long that lasts you throughout the week. It's easy to swipe a credit or debit card. Cash is sometimes harder to part with.
 Having a set meal plan in place may help keep you to stay organized and focused throughout the week . You won't be wondering what you're making for dinner or bringing for lunch - it's been determined already!


Take an hour or two during your free time to write out your meal plan. Make sure to include breakfast and snacks for each day too.
Consider including recipes or meal ideas for quick, easy-to-prepare meals to help you with your busy lifestyle.
After your meal plan is finished, write up the corresponding grocery list. You'll be able to buy only what you need.
 Having healthy food on hand is key to giving up fast food. Shop weekly for meals and snacks so you always have another, healthier option ready-to-go.


Stock up on lean protein, fruits, vegetables, whole grains and low-fat dairy products.
Purchase ready-to-eat products that require little to no cooking and can be eaten on-the-go. Examples include whole fruits (like an apple or banana), individual yogurts, -washed and cut salads or vegetables or precooked lean protein (like grilled chicken strips).

