 Go onto Word, Wordpad or something that you enjoy writing on.


Lovely stationery can be inspiring, if you're the "I like to hoard stationery" type. Don't neglect the value of texture, aroma and vibrancy of good quality writing materials. They can provide the encouraging kick you need to sit down and write.
Don't neglect the value of audio either. Perhaps you prefer talking your book into a microphone as you pace or go for a hike. There is no right or wrong here. If that works for you, then do it. If you're really lucky, you might even have someone willing to take dictation for you or copy across your spoken notes.;
, For many people, this means choosing a spot, such as a study with a window view, or a cozy nook somewhere. For others, it means moving about often, visiting cafes and sitting under trees. Work out what combination of writing spaces works out best for you and arrange for it to happen.
 Do you enjoy romance novels? Vampires? Fantasy? Horror? If you like any of those topics, write about one. You could put romance and horror into one, or vampires and romance together, like Twilight.


If you're keen on non-fiction, that's a possibility too, although it won't be covered by this article.
 Jot down a title if you can––may be a source of inspiration. However, it's not essential at this stage. If the title just isn't coming to you, skip this step and wait for the story itself to suggest a title to you.


Think of a key image you may want to convey. For instance, in "To Kill a Mockingbird", the mockingbird is mentioned only a few times, but because it was mentioned in the title, it has a greater meaning than it normally would.
 First, you'll need to get some inspiration. Reading books about the subject you're writing about may help you to come up with a list of inspiring ideas for your own writing. Use such material to get yourself thinking about stories and plots and what you're writing about.
 Go into a dark and silent room (it's best when you're home alone), stuff your face into a pillow, and just think. Bring a notebook, and whatever comes to your mind, write it down. (Or speak it into that audio machine.)

, Once you have several good ideas you like, it's time to work on plotting. Take your favorite idea, and work with it. Develop a plot an an outline, characters, and never forget to always put in crazy plot twist. Keep your readers on the edge of their seats.


If you're looking for a program that will help with outlining, Scrivener is a useful writing program that helps with outlining.
 Think about what you're writing about. If it's about animals, spend time around the animal you're writing about (or, any animal), and study it, and how it acts. As for researching it, look it up, read books about it, and so forth. This can only do you good. Say you're writing about some brainiac computer people who code websites and games and stuff. In that case, learn everything about computers that you can, learn the code language they use, and so on.
 This is the really fun part.


Name the characters. A name can be anything. It can be random gibberish you make (put together letters you like), the meaning can have something to do with the story, or, it can simply be a name that sounds pretty, to you.
Once you have your name, start visualizing your character. What do they look like? What do they talk like? What do they like to do? And, the most important, and hardest question: What are they like? What's their personality? Personalization (the art of making personalities for characters) is both fun, and, hard.
Don't make them too much like you. They have to have faults. They have to be really unique.
 For the first line of your novel, make it as unique is possible. Avoid totally clichéd lines that people have used so many times who knows who started them, such as "it was a dark and stormy night". Make it as perfect as possible.


Tip: The first sentence should have something to do with the ending. It's really cool when books start and end with the same something (same first and last line, same place, etc.).
Remember you have to please the first-line-judgers (first-line-judger: noun. a person who judges a book, not by its cover, but, by its first line).
Or, ignore the rules and be a good author by following what you know works.
 Don't be afraid to change a few things. Write more and more, every day, until you have a consistent word count going every day (maybe 1,000?).
 One excellent way is to join National Novel Writing Month. National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo) is a writing challenge, you have to reach 50,000 words, in the month of November. It's something you can do, even adults with a full-time job and it's also suitable for children.


Look it up at nanowrimo.org. If it's anywhere near November, I sign up for NaNoWriMo. 1,667 words a day keeps you on speed track.
If you're nowhere near November, you can always sign up for Camp NaNoWriMo (campnanowrimo.org). Camp NaNoWriMos are in April, June, and July.
If you're not close to any of those months, and don't feel like waiting for them, you can do your own NaNoWriMo. Organized one with your friend. Still try to get 50k words, but, also, try to beat their word counts!

, Spend a whole month working on your typing speed. Measure it in wpm. Typingtest.com is a great site for testing it.
 Schedule each day, before you go to sleep, and leave several hours aside for writing. Take advantage of the weekends and any spare time.


Don't update your word count every 5 minutes; though it will be very hard to resist it, it wastes time.
 Then pick up the writing again and aim to complete it. Writing can be fun, but if you start to feel bored or want to do something else, write again later. If you aren't in the mood, your story won't be as great as you want it to be.
 It's easier to read, and makes the story seem much more professional.
 If you enjoy it, it'll be completed much faster.
 It's not that hard, and it's not like many people say it is. Editing is perfecting. Perfect your novel. Fix grammar and typing mistakes, root for and fix plot holes, change anything necessary, and, unnecessary, and make it as perfect as possible. Stick to one or two revisions only, and you'll save years of time. Just be ruthless when you do it.


Leave it alone for a week or so. Don't forget to go back to it, after a week, though. The first step to editing is reading through your novel. Print it out, and grab your tools (a pencil, a highlighter, and something to look stuff up on). Read it over, however many times you want. Highlight anything you think you need to change, make little notes with your pencil on the margin, and get your novel ready to edit on the computer.
Go to your computer. With your novel beside you, read over your novel, changing and perfecting. Go through it several times.
 Always take criticism kindly. It's only to help you. Email your work to friends and family, print it out and send them copies, and have them give you critiques. You can publish samples of it on author sites for help, too. Once you're done getting feedback, write all your notes down.
 Make any further changes you think are necessary, and perfect it more.
 Search up book editors online that will take copies of novel. When you've found a suitable editor, send it to them. Take their feedback, and fix anything. When they say it's good, now it's time for a publisher.
 The first step is to look up good publishers. Here is what to look for in a publisher:


Do they publish books you like?
Do their published books often have mistakes? (Typos, missing pages/pages out of order, etc.)
Do they publish books in your book's genre/age level?
Will they publish your book if you don't have an agent?
Are they well-known?

, Once you've found a few publishers you're absolutely certain you like, send in your novel to your top 30. Be prepared for rejection, a lot of publishers are picky about what they publish. Don't take rejection too hard, either. It's bound to happen at least once, even with the greatest novel. Harry Potter was rejected seven times, before it was accepted.Don't be afraid to try many publishers at once; the first one to accept it gets it!

, If that doesn't work out, at least you wrote a novel!

