 Make sure that you respond to your friend that you asked to make sure you're okay. You don't want them to become falsely alarmed! Additionally, you can text them when you're arriving to the location, when you're leaving, and when you make it safely back home. It would also be polite to let them know if your date is going long.
 While you're on your date, of course you will have the opportunity to talk and get to know each other better. Don't waste this opportunity with small talk about the weather or your food. Use it to ask meaningful questions, like if they have any close friends, what their family was like growing up, and what their current most important goal is.Questions like these will reveal to you what kinds of values and mindset your date has, and give you greater insight as to whether this is someone you'd be interested in continuing to see.
 Only you can determine for yourself what you are comfortable with, whether it's if you want to move on to a more intimate setting, reveal more detailed information about yourself, or engage in sexual activities. If your date starts to pressure you for things you are not ready to do, don't feel like you have to give in to their desires. Just tell them a polite but firm no.


A good partner will not be impatient and will respect your boundaries and opinions.
Someone who continues to pressure you after you have said 'no' is putting off a very strong red flag.
 Listen to the things that your date is saying and be on the look-out for warning signs.A date is the time for a person to be putting their best foot forward to impress you, and their behaviors will only become more relaxed with time. If they are behaving in ways that make you uncomfortable or anxious, this will probably not improve over time.


They show up inappropriately angry or in a bad mood, which may or may not become directed toward you.
They treat the waitstaff, employees, or strangers at any place where you meet poorly or aggressively.
They refer to their exes or members of the opposite sex using derogatory language, or call them "crazy."
They insult you or put you down.
They tell you information that directly contradicts things they've told you previously, ie: it looks like they're lying to you.
They make strange comments that seem out of place, like talking about their machete collection or punching exes.They ask questions about your or offer details about their sexual or marital history that seems inappropriate for a first date.
They start making explicitly sexual comments or advances, or reveal their genitalia in public places.
 Your brain has a way of trying to communicate with you when it recognizes logically that something dangerous or unsafe is happening by manipulating how you feel; we often call these feelings "gut instincts." When your brain registers that something unsafe is happening, it will create feelings of unease and tension in your stomach.Do not be afraid to listen to these feelings!


Do not fall into the trap of feeling like you have to explain away or excuse a date's bad or strange behavior.
 There's nothing wrong with going out for a drink, but it's generally inadvisable to get drunk. Drinking leads to lowered inhibitions, the reduced ability to assess risks and make good choices, impedes the ability to give consent, and makes it harder to fight back should someone try to sexually assault you.It can also lead people to being aggressors of sexual assault.
 Regardless of what you are drinking, whether it's alcohol or water, do not leave your glass unattended, even to use the restroom. GHB, Ketamine, and Rohypnol are all fast-acting drugs commonly referred to as "date rape drugs" that can be slipped into a beverage without you ever knowing it.Only accept drinks directly from a bartender or waiter; don't even let it pass through your date's hands.


If you leave for the restroom and come back and forgot to finish your drink off before-hand, ask for a new one. If your date has a problem with that, the issue is with them, not you.
 Although it would be nice to be honest if you're not into a person or not feeling safe with them, it is impossible to tell how someone may react to hearing that kind of statement. Particularly if you're feeling unsafe, there may be good reason for that, and you don't want them to react violently. So have some reason prepared for just-in-case, and don't be afraid to use it!


If you arrived by public transportation, you could say that you have to leave to catch the bus.
If your friend drove you, say that they have to pick you up early because they had a schedule conflict on their end.
Get your friend to text you about a sick pet or a breakup and say that you're needed elsewhere.

