 The appropriate time to whisper in a girl’s ear can vary, but at least make sure that she’s enjoying your company, and hasn’t been shying away from you. If she laughs at something you say, smiles frequently while you’re talking, and consistently makes eye contact with you, the chances are good that she finds you likable. If you began speaking as part of a group, and she breaks off from that group to talk to you alone, this is also a likely signal that she’s interested in getting to know you., A good way to get an idea about whether she’d be comfortable with close contact such as a whisper, is to touch her hand or arm lightly while making a joke or confiding something. If she seems okay with this, then she’d probably not have a problem with your whispering to her. But if she draws back from you, and the tone of the conversation deteriorates after that, it’s best not to try making any further contact.
 If you’re at a bar or nightclub, a good way to begin working your way to earning her affection is to ask if you can buy her a drink. If she accepts, this is an indication that she’ll at least give you a chance to show that you’re worth her time. If she’s with a group of friends, offer to buy them something as well. If you’re up to something subtler, and there happens to be a jukebox onsite, offer to buy her a few songs.If you ask her for a drink, and she says no thanks, explaining that she doesn’t drink, take her word for it. But don’t consider it as a rejection, even if you offer her a non-alcoholic drink without success. She may really just not be thirsty.
For the jukebox, you could try, “Did you notice the jukebox in the corner? How about I get some platters spinning—anything you’d like to hear?”

, A bold gesture such as whispering in her ear may come off more naturally if the two of you are already doing something fun together. If you’re at a bar, getting her to play an arcade game, pool, or darts with you will allow you to shift the tone of your interaction from formal to informal. Once you’ve a had a laugh together, you’ll both be more in the mood for flirting involving bodily contact.Some ways to suggest this would be, “How about getting away from the crowd for a bit and trying our hand at Space Invaders?” or “I’m sure you know a good trick shot or two at the pool table. I’d be thrilled if you could show me.”

, Be sure you know just what you’re going to say, and how to say it, before whispering. Pretend you’re on stage, and need to deliver your lines convincingly. You can whisper sweet nothings, secrets, or whatever else you fancy, as long as it will fit with the tone of the conversation you’ve already been having. If you want to make her laugh, and the joke is slightly off-color, you can whisper the punch line in her ear. If you’d like to come off as seductive, be careful not to use descriptive language that might offend most people, especially if you’ve only recently met her.


If you’ve only met that day, try something simple and attentive that is not likely to offend, such as, “Has anyone told you how pretty you look tonight?”If you’re feeling confident, you could try a suggestive phrase such as, “Have you seen how beautiful the moon looks tonight?”

