 Safety is paramount any time you are working on your vehicle. Start by putting on protective eye glasses to protect you from any falling material under the hood of the car, sparks or battery fluid in the event the battery becomes compromised. You may also want to wear gloves. Make sure the area you are working in is well ventilated and lit sufficiently to allow you to see where you are going and what you are working on.Gloves are not necessary but may protect your hands from small pinches and cuts while working on your vehicle.
Make sure there are no children in the area while you work on the battery of a vehicle as sparks could fly if positive and negative cables come into contact with one another.;
, In order to properly charge your battery, you must first identify the type of battery you have. You can usually find this written somewhere on the battery, but you may need to check the manufacturer's website if the label is too worn to read or missing. You should also find out the voltage of the battery by looking on the battery’s label or by checking in your vehicle owner's manual. Types of batteries include:Wet cell batteries may be serviceable, which means there are things you can do to help improve the charge and the life of your battery.
VRLA Batteries (Valve Regulated Lead-Acid Battery) are completely sealed and require no maintenance. These batteries come as Gel Cell or Absorbed Glass Mat batteries and are less common in cars unless purchased as an after-market modification.
 Pick a charger that is appropriate for your battery and purposes. Most chargers will work for all types of batteries except Gel Cell batteries. There are fast chargers that can charge your battery quickly or even provide you with a jump start, as well as "trickle" chargers that provide a slow but longer lasting charge. Many newer chargers come with a microprocessor to monitor how much the battery has charged. These digital chargers will then stop the process automatically when the battery is fully charged. Older, simpler chargers must be stopped manually to prevent dangerous overcharging and should not be left alone for extended periods of time while connected.Read the charger's instruction manual to make sure you are using your particular unit correctly.
Even new digital chargers should be monitored closely while charging to ensure it functions properly and stops before over-charging the battery.
 It’s important to disconnect the battery before conducting any repairs or maintenance on your vehicle. Most of the time you will be able to charge the battery without taking it out of the car, but if reaching the battery or fitting the charging cables in the engine bay or trunk where the battery is located proves difficult, remove the battery from the car completely while you charge it.If you are unsure where your battery is located, check the owner’s manual for your vehicle. Some vehicles have the battery in the trunk, while most have it under the hood.
Disconnect the negative terminal first, then the positive when removing a battery.
 Any dirt or grime on the battery terminals can prevent the charging cables from establishing a strong connection to the battery, so it’s important to clean the terminals thoroughly. Use baking soda and a wet cloth or a sandpaper pad to wipe away any grime or rust. Make sure the terminals are bare metal before moving on to the next step in order to ensure a strong charge.Sometimes you may find the battery has a solid charge, but dirty terminals were preventing the electricity from flowing.
Do not touch the terminals with your bare skin, especially if there is any white powder on them. This powder is usually dried sulfuric acid, and it can burn your skin if you come in contact with it.

