 For knowledge is limited, whereas imagination embraces the entire world, stimulating progress, giving birth to evolution." - The only difference between a smart and a not-so-smart person is his ability to use his ability of imagination and creativity.;
, Revolutionary ideas always sound stupid. If people don't laugh at it, then there is something wrong with it! The key is to have many ideas all the time. Once you decide what idea you are going to devote your energies to, stop thinking of more. Never fear folly and rejection. It is usually an indicator that you are on the right path. A genius must be fearless.
 This is the important lesson that a genius must master. For him to reach the realm of the extraordinary, he must expand his thinking, explore places unexplored and think thoughts that no one else thinks. This isn't as difficult as it looks. A common man thinks from a fixed quota of thoughts throughout his life. Considering the limitations one himself places on his thoughts, to unleash one's intellectual reserves is a conscious decision.
 A wise person avoids it." This follows from above. As your level of thinking extends beyond common boundaries, what looked like a barrier before becomes an apparent opportunity. Something that can be utilized or avoided all together.
 Don't be under the delusion that most geniuses are original in their thoughts or work. Most of their ideas were derivatives of something else. Even Shakespeare wasn't completely authentic. Creativity is the mother of genius. Combining two unrelated things in unique ways begets a product which looks brand new. Never reveal the sources of your inspirations. This one tact decides whether you are perceived as a genius or a fool. Remember the story of the apple falling on Newton's head? It isn't true, but its an example of what happens when you disclose all the links."

, Perseverance is the ultimate ingredient. Your ideas can gain the momentum required to become established as the works of a genius only if you are strong willed in the face of opposition and misfortune.
 A genius doesn't waste time reminiscing about the past or worrying about the future. The only thing that we have is a succession of moments: the present. For the genius, work ceases to be 'work,' it is his spirituality. His very purpose. He gives his 100% to the present.
 Let your guiding lights be your principles and not the average man's quest for fortune and fame. Work for the joy of it. Do it as your form of service to the world. Do it for your satisfaction. Chances are that you'll have gained everything the average man seeks and much much more.

