 The person for whom you write an affidavit should be someone you know very well.


Typically you would be asked to write an affidavit if you are close to the couple and have spent a lot of time with them. In the affidavit, you will relate facts or circumstances that support their marriage as a legitimate one, rather than simply a marriage of convenience to obtain U.S. permanent residency or citizenship.Additionally, you may be asked to write an affidavit if you are a close family member of the couple, or a religious leader who knows the couple well.Although affidavits aren't required by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), most immigration attorneys recommend submitting several affidavits along with the petition for permanent residency.While your affidavit doesn't necessarily provide objective proof to the USCIS of the couple's relationship, it does demonstrate that the couple happily lives together and is planning for the future.;
, Before you start writing your affidavit, you should outline the points you want to make about the couple's relationship.


You may be able to find sample affidavits, or the person for whom you're writing the affidavit may provide you with one. However, you should only use any samples you have as a guide to the types of information that can be included in your affidavit – don't copy them directly.You may want to review documents or talk to your friends to make sure you have dates and times correct. For example, if you went to the couple's wedding, you may double-check with the couple to make sure you have the date of the wedding correct.
Ultimately, you want to present facts and observations that cause you to believe that the couple is sincerely in love and intends to remain together.In some cases, the couple is no longer together. Affidavits still can be used to demonstrate the good faith intent of the immigrant candidate, even though the relationship itself didn't last. In these situations, you may include your understanding of the reasons the couple split. If spousal abuse was involved, you may have observed altercations between the couple., When writing your affidavit, you can use the standard legal format for affidavits, or you can format it as a traditional business letter.The person for whom you're writing the affidavit, or their attorney, may have a format they prefer you to use. If they have a preference, you should use that format. Otherwise, you can choose the format with which you're most comfortable.
Regardless of which format you choose, you should single-space your document with a double-space between paragraphs.
Your word-processing application should have a template for business letter format. Date your letter and use "Dear USCIS Officer" as your salutation.If you decide to use business letter format, you should include your name and address at the top, as well as the title and address for the USCIS service center where the letter will be submitted. You can get this information from the person for whom you're writing the affidavit.If you're using the legal format, each paragraph should relate a single point or fact. Number your paragraphs sequentially.Type your affidavit using a basic, legible font – the default font on your word-processing application typically is fine.
 Your title should be bolded at the top of the page and explain the purpose of the affidavit.If you're using business letter format, your title will be the subject line of your letter.
Generally, you should use the names of the couple and state that what follows is an affidavit letter in support of them., In your first paragraph, you must state your full legal name, address, birth date, and place of birth.


If you're using the legal format, use the second paragraph to explain your relationship to the couple. In the third, state how and when you met the couple. You also should include information about how often you see the couple.
In business letter format, you can include all of this information in a single paragraph.Indicate how long you've known the couple as well as how often you spend time with them.For example, if you attend the same church as the couple, you may write that you see them at church services twice a week.
 Each fact or anecdote about the couple should be a separate paragraph, although if you're using business letter format your paragraphs typically will be longer than if you use legal format.If you're using legal format, each paragraph should be numbered. Your paragraphs may be no more than a sentence or two.
Provide as much detail as possible. The more details and specifics such as dates and locations you can include, the stronger your affidavit supports the couple. Remember the point of your affidavit is to support the fact that their marriage is bona fide and was made in good faith – not solely so the person for whom you're writing the affidavit could obtain U.S. citizenship.
 If you want, you can provide a phone number or email address for the USCIS officer to contact you if he or she has any questions about any of the information contained in your affidavit.Before your signature, type a sentence that reads "I swear, under penalty of perjury, that the foregoing is true and correct to the best of my knowledge." Leave a few lines blank for your signature, then type your full legal name., Although it isn't required, you may want to use a notary to confirm your identification and validate your signature.Generally, use of a notary public to authenticate the signature is the difference between an affidavit and a sworn declaration. Both documents, however, are signed under oath and penalty of perjury.You typically can find a notary public at a bank or courthouse. You may have to pay a small fee for the notary's services.
When using legal affidavit format, signing in the presence of a notary is required. However, legal affidavit form is not required – you can simply write a letter and present it as a sworn declaration. Affidavits are more formal than sworn declarations., Typically when you've completed the affidavit you will give it to your friend, or to your friend's attorney.


If your friend has an attorney, he or she will review your affidavit to make sure it actually will support your friend's petition and will be beneficial to your friend's case.
In some cases, you may be called to testify before a USCIS officer regarding the information contained in your affidavit.