 If the chemicals still pose a danger to the burn victim, then make sure that you remove him or her from the area of exposure. For example, if the chemicals are giving off fumes or if the victim is in danger of getting splashed with more of the chemical, then remove the victim to another room or go outside.


Always take precautions to protect yourself when tending to someone who has received a chemical burn. For example, you may need to wear long sleeves, gloves, a mask, goggles, or other protective gear to prevent yourself from receiving a similar injury.
If there are any dry chemicals left on the victim's skin, then brush these chemicals off before irrigating the area.;
, If the victim has clothing, jewelry or other items on that are contaminated with chemicals and/or obstructing your access to the burn, then make sure that you remove these items before you being treatment.Leaving these items on may cause further damage. You will also need to be able to access the burn site to brush off any leftover dry chemicals and irrigate the area with water.
 If you receive a burn from a chemical, you should first dilute the chemical compound. This is the best thing you can do to treat a chemical burn right away.To do this, flush the burn and the surrounding areas of skin with copious amounts of water. The water should be cool. Let the water run over the burn for 10 minutes or more.Don't use a high pressure stream of water to wash the skin. Too much water pressure can make the chemical burn worse by driving the chemical deeper into the skin. Just use light irrigation by holding the wound under a gentle stream of water and keep it there for a long time.
Some chemical burns should not be treated with immediate irrigation. These include dry lime, elemental metals, and phenol. This is because combining these chemicals with water causes a harmful exothermic (heat-producing) reaction and/or releases hazardous byproducts

, After the wound is clean, you may want to cover it with a clean sterile dressing, such as a piece of gauze. This will help to protect the wound.If the wound is painful, then applying a cold compress can also help. Wet a clean washcloth with cool water and then place it over the wound to help cool and soothe it.
 To alleviate some of the pain, it can help to take an over-the-counter pain reliever, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen.However, if the pain is severe, then you may need a prescription strength pain reliever.


Seek medical attention right away if your burn is causing severe pain.
 A tetanus shot or booster is often recommended for burn victims. If the victim’s tetanus shot is not up to date, then he or she will need to have a booster. Tetanus shots are usually administered once every 10 years.