 Position the computer screen directly in front of the user so the body and neck do not have to twist to view.Ensure the screen rests at eye level so you do not have to tilt your head up or down to see the screen properly.


Keep your head level while using the computer to keep your spine straight.
Avoid tucking your chin into your chest.;
, If you have a desk job that requires you to sit for many hours a day, a chair with proper back support is a must. The lower back has an inward curve that straight-backed chairs do not account for.Sitting for extended amounts of time in a straight-backed chair can lead to back pain and muscle fatigue.


Purchase a chair with a curved back or one that has an adjustable lumbar support.
You can make a DIY lumbar support by using a rolled up towel or pillow and placing at the base of your spine.
Lumbar support add-ons can also be purchased for a marginal price if you don’t want to buy a whole new chair.
 Though it has been in fashion to swap out your office chair to balance on an exercise ball while sitting at your desk, there is no added benefit in doing so.It will not give you a mini ab work out, nor will it help improve your posture., When sitting for a long time, you might be tempted to cross your legs or slouch. The best way to keep good posture at your desk is to keep both feet planted on the ground.Use a footrest, if necessary.


Keep your back straight against the chair.
Keep your shoulders relaxed, but not rounded down or pulled backward.
 Set a timer on your desk and when it goes off stand up and stretch out. Walk to the break room to get some water, or go say hi to a work mate.


You don’t have to go on an extended walk, just take a lap around the office.
 Avoid reclining the seat too far. Use a lumbar support at the curve of your back. Make sure your knees are at the same level or higher than your hips.Move the seat close enough to the steering wheel to allow your knees to bend properly and your feet to reach the pedals.
 Find a mattress that is comfortable for you, but know that firm mattresses are recommended.Avoid sleeping on your stomach or curled up into a ball.If you are sleeping on your side, place a pillow between your legs to support spinal alignment during sleep. If you sleep on your back, place a pillow underneath your knees.Sleep with a pillow under your head as well. Choose a pillow that allows you to keep your head in a neutral position so that your head is neither in a flexed or extended position while sleeping.
Do not sleep with a pillow under your shoulders.

