 To ensure your body stays strong when you are doing yoga while ill, drink lots of water before and after your practice. You may try to drink several glasses of water one to two hours before you do yoga. Have several more glasses of water after you have finished doing yoga as the liquids will help to flush out any toxins in your body. Staying hydrated while doing yoga will ensure your body does not become too weak or unstable due to your illness.You can also have herbal tea before and after yoga. Make sure you do not have tea that is caffeinated or any caffeinated beverages like coffee or soda before yoga, as this can lead to dehydration during your practice.
 If you have a cold or a sinus issue, you may feel stuffed up and congested. A big part of yoga is deep breathing, so you will need to clear your nasal passageways before doing yoga to ensure you are breathing properly. You can use a neti pot to do this or do nostril breathing, where you alternate breathing through each nostril to get your breath going and to clear your passageways.To do alternating nostril breathing, sit in a comfortable seated position and rest your left hand on your left thigh. Place your right ring finger and thumb on either side of your nostrils. Inhale and exhale once.
Then close off your right nostril with your thumb and inhale through your left nostril for four counts. Close off your left nostril with your ring finger and then keep your breath in for four counts.
Release your right nostril and exhale for four counts. Then, inhale for four counts through your right nostril and close it off, holding the breath in for four counts. Release your left nostril as you exhale for four counts. Repeat the cycle several times. You should start to feel your sinuses release and loosen.
 Once you have finished your yoga practice, make sure you allow yourself enough rest. This will ensure your body has time to relax and recover after yoga, especially when you are sick. You may do yoga an hour before bed so you can go to sleep as soon as you get home. Or you may plan to do yoga mid-day so you can take a nap once you are done.You may also try alternating between restorative yoga (known as yin) and more challenging, active yoga (known as yang) on a regular basis to stay healthy. Having both yin and yang poses in your practice will ensure it is well-rounded and your body is maintaining a healthy balance.

