 You may feel you are most productive or energetic at night, but you are unlikely to improve your sleep quality if you don’t establish a regular bedtime. By going to sleep at the same time every night no matter what, you can gradually reset your circadian rhythm and get better rest., Watching movies, playing video games, scrolling through your phone, or working on your laptop before bed can all interfere with your sleep, and the reason is two-fold. Not only are these activities high-arousing, which can make it difficult for your brain to transition into sleep, the devices also emit a stimulating blue light, which suppresses the production of the sleep hormone melatonin. Try to turn off all screens two hours before you go to sleep., Instead of stimulating activities, you should enjoy very mundane activities in the two hours prior to going to sleep. Try packing your lunch for the next day, folding your laundry, washing dishes, or listening to relaxing music., Enjoy a shower or a bath an hour before your bedtime. Bathing will relax your muscles and make it easier to fall asleep.Try a relaxing bath with Epsom salts and/or lavender oil.
 You should certainly get exercise during the day, since it helps with ADHD symptoms such as restlessness. However, you should avoid getting exercise too close to your bedtime because it may make it hard to fall asleep.Try getting exercise first thing in the morning. Exercise can lead to a flood of endorphins and a release of adrenaline, which can give you energy to sustain you throughout the day. Working out too close to bedtime will not give your body adequate time to burn off or use the endorphins and adrenaline before attempting to sleep.
 Engaging in meditation is a common stress-busting strategy, and reducing stress and anxiety before bed might make it easier for you to fall asleep. Find a quiet room in your house. Sit in a comfortable position. Place your hands on your thighs and relax your shoulders. Notice that you are breathing. Place your mind on your breath. If you notice your thoughts drifting, gently return your attention to the feeling of your breath moving into and out of your body. Continue to meditate for as long as you are able.Try meditation apps such as Headspace, Buddhify, Shambhala, or Calm.Take a meditation course or attend a meditation session with experienced practitioners at a meditation center. You can find a list of meditation centers at the Center for Mindfulness., To get a better sense of when you actually go to bed and how long you actually sleep, you may want to use a sleep log. Keep a pen and sleep log journal beside your bed. Every night, write down the time you go to sleep. Record any time you wake up during the night and the total number of hours you sleep. Alternatively, consider an activity tracker like a FitBit or even an app on your smartphone to track your sleep and help you develop goals for better sleep.Use the data you collect to consult with your doctor about appropriate steps to improve your sleep.Popular sleep apps include Sleepbot, MotionX and Sleep Cycle. You can get them for iPhone and Android devices.