 If you are worried about students bringing answers into the test, then supply all items they will need for the test. That way, you can make sure that they are taking an exam with a clean blue book, for example.Letting students know you will be doing this beforehand will prevent some students from trying to cheat in the first place. However, it may drive some students towards other ways of cheating.
 Do not leave the classroom during test administration and keep an eye on what your students are doing. You may have honest students, but even then you should not give them the opportunity to be tempted cheat by leaving the room.


If you are teaching a large seminar class, it is likely that you will have teaching assistants that are helping with your class. Have them watch the students during testing, so that more of the room can be watched at one time., Do not allow students to have cell phones, MP3 players, notebooks, or books on their desks during tests. This will eliminate older ways of cheating, such as writing answers on the desk, and many newer methods of cheating, such as putting answers in their phones, from being used.If you are especially worried about cheating, do not even allow students to have labeled water bottles on their desk, as a common trick is to write answers on the inside of the label and to re glue it to the bottle.
You may also require that backpacks be placed in the front of the room (or some other open space) rather than underneath desks for the duration of the exam.
 If you allow a student to leave the classroom during an exam, ask them to empty their pockets. In general, you should only allow students to leave the room if they absolutely need to. In cases where you do decide that it is okay for a student to leave the room, such as if they need to use the restroom, you need to make sure that they do not take any notes or electronics with them.Allow only one student to leave the room at a time. This will allow you to keep track of who leaves and how long they are gone. If someone is taking frequent bathroom breaks, there is a chance that they have stashed answers in the bathroom.
You may tell a student that they must show you where their phone is, and require that it stay in the room.
 You can create a seating chart, or on an exam booklet cover, you can require students to write down the names of those sitting directly to any direction (left, right, front, back) of them. If an allegation of "I saw the student sitting to my cheating" arises, it can make it easier to figure out who to talk to. It also allows you to compare answers of those sitting close to each other for similarity during grading.

This would be especially useful in very large university courses, where students may not know the names of those sitting next to them during the exam.
You can also create a seating chart documenting who sat where, it you have a small class. If you have a large class, number the seats and have students write their seat number on their test., If you believe a student's eyes are wandering too much, reseat them. First, reassure the student that you doing so is not an accusation of cheating, and that you simply want to ensure that they are showing their own work. If they choose to comply, take no action. If they are unwilling to comply, you can assume that they were cheating or had the intention of cheating.If you need to reseat a student, try to put them somewhere where they are away from other students. Being a seat away from other students may make it easier for that student to focus on their own test.

