 You can start with your bedroom pillows. Ask your parents if you can use extra pillows from the linen closet, sofa cushions, and the like.;
, Soft, fluffy pillows are good for creating a luxurious floor for your fort, but aren’t as good for walls. Couch cushions and other rigid or stiff pillows work best for walls.Memory foam pillows are also a good choice for walls because they are heavy and hold their shape.
 If you’re building the fort in your bedroom, you can obviously use your bed. Chairs, desks, and dressers are also good options. You can ask your parents if you can bring in furniture from other rooms, too.
 Heavy books are good to use as support, but you can also use shoes, large toys, and even canned goods (but ask your parents about that first). You’ll use these items to help prop up your pillow walls.
 There are two basic wall construction techniques, which you can choose from depending on what types of pillows you have. Start building at your bed and use it as your primary support structure.


The “sandbag” technique is best for soft, floppy pillows. Start the fort at your bed and place a row of pillows in a line outward until you have a wall as long as you want your fort. Then place another row of pillows on top of that one, and build the wall as high as you want it. Don’t go too high, though, or the fort may collapse.
The “vertical support” technique is best for firmer, rigid cushions like sofa cushions. Start the fort at your bed and build the wall outward by placing the cushions on their narrow sides in a line. Support the cushions on both sides with heavy items like books to keep them from falling over.
For extra sturdy walls, wrap a blanket around your walls to create a solid panel. Secure the blanket with clothespins or binder clips, then use heavy items to support the wall panels., Use sheets for the roof if you have them, because they are lighter and less likely to make your fort collapse under their weight. Stretch the sheets across the tops of your walls. Use clothespins or binder clips to connect sheets together if you need to.


If you have a bunk-bed, you can create a vaulted ceiling! Tuck a sheet under the mattress on the top bunk, then pull it down toward the fort walls. Use clothespins or binder clips to secure the sheet to the edges of the cushions.
Use flat sheets for the roof if you can find them. Fitted sheets don’t work as well because of their elastic corners.
 Alternatively, you can tuck the edges of the sheets under furniture, such as the legs of your desk or your bed.
 All forts need rations, so get some good snacks and drinks to stash away in your fort. If you’re planning to use the fort at night, you may also want a flash light or even some twinkle lights. And of course, you’ll want some books and games for entertainment.


Never use candles or other open flames inside a bedroom fort! Bedding is highly flammable.

