 It is all in the hair. How can you be the coolest guy if you don't have cool hair? If you naturally have bad hair, learn how to care for it. If you have curly hair, rock it. If you have straight hair, gel it up, but never use too much gel, it's disgusting.Also take care of your face. Take cues from people you look up to, older brothers, cousins, celebrities, male models. Youtube is also a good source.;
, A sense of style says that you're cool, but remember to have a unique edge to things. You do not have to wear brand names all the time, but you do need to fine tune your sense in what goes and what doesn't. Low slung jeans, nice fitting t shirts, Snapback hats, athletic clothes, shoes including but not limited to the style of Air Jordan's, Van's, and Nike's. Not having any money is not an excuse. Slim cut pants and jeans, sweatpants, flat sneakers, hoodies. Surf and skate shops will sell along these lines, but department stores will too.
 You're not going to be very cool if you have nothing to do or talk about. Join a sport, play a band instrument- guitar, bass, drums- but don't do things that you don't like to impress, do it because you want to have a passion- dancing is another one, go to a hip hop class, or teach yourself how to jerk, dougie, shuffle, cat daddy, etc. Learn how to skateboard, snowboard, surf, have a car, or be saving for one. One thing that makes girls want you more than anything else is wheels.
 To be really cool you need to exercise. Get a gym membership, or go running. It is easier with a gym, but you can do most strength building exercises at home. Eat healthier, but don't be prissy about it, or people will dislike you.
 You need a phone to meet people. Text, and learn how to make conversation and plans out of small talk. Don't use too much text-speak, it's not cool, but 'lol,' 'wtf,' and 'tbh' etc are fine.
 You need it to be cool, a certain amount will come from your looks, but not all. Charisma will make people want to do things for you... and that's cool, isn't it? Being a little bit arrogant, or cocky, works too, but have reason to be. Confidence is always key.
 Flirt with them, charm them, talking to them will come easy with time. Don't be rude, and don't swear too much in front of them. Take them places, date someone you like. Playboy or more mysterious, do whatever you like. Girls will fall for both types, but most of all, yourself.
 Joke around, do pranks and silly things, make people laugh, make yourself laugh. Do things on edge if you want to. A bad boy is always a cool boy.
 A cool music taste is the ticket to cool. Indie, rock, metalcore, techno, dubstep, hip hop, rap, and alternative are good places to start, top 40 not so much.
 Don't take pictures shirtless, you tool. Put on group photos, photos of you with your girlfriend/friends/family, photos of you skateboarding/playing guitar/reading books, be active on it.

