 If you are quoting directly from a source, such as a book, article, or journal, always use one pair of quotations around the quote and capitalize the first letter of the direct quote. Do this if you are quoting a complete sentence. For example, you may write:Pollen states in his book, “You can eat whatever you want as long as you make it yourself.”
In Othello by William Shakespeare, Iago says in Act II, scene iii, “Reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit and lost without deserving.”

, Whenever you use quotation marks around a full quote, place a comma or a colon before the first, or open, quotation mark. The comma or colon does not go in the quotation mark, just before it. This will let the reader know a quote is coming. For example:

Shakespeare notes in his diary, “I am the poor man’s playwright.”
Pollen recommends, “Eat food. Mostly plants.”

, If you are quoting a source within a sentence, not at the end of a sentence, lowercase the first letter of the quote. You can do this if you are using a partial quote of a longer quote in a sentence. For example, you may write:Pollen advocates for taking responsibility for one’s food choices, for eating “whatever you want as long as you make it yourself,” a tall order for some.
 Commas, periods, exclamation marks, dashes, and question marks that appear in the quote should all go inside the quotation marks. For example:Othello notes, “For she has eyes and she chose me.”
Pollen asks the question, “Why don’t we get to know our food?”
The last line of the poem “Sestina: Altaforte” by Ezra Pound states, “Hell blot black for always the thought ‘Peace’!”

, Familiar sayings should be demarcated with quotation marks. Cliches can also go in quotation marks. For example:Everyone knows the saying, “What goes in must come out.”
One is reminded of the familiar phrase, “It takes one to know one.”

, These are also known as scare quotes. Scare quotes are not used often. But they can be used to emphasize a word or phrase in a sentence in a mocking or annoyed tone. For example:She did not want to bring up his “issue” in mixed company.
The “in depth discussion” of the problem felt insufficient at best.

