 You only need the shirts, you can pretend you listen to the music. NOTE: Pretending is a big part of this so be prepared.;
, Then, when questioned about liking them, act very defensively, almost aggressive. Make ridiculous comments that show your ignorance and lack of knowledge on the subject, i.e.; when someone describes a certain band as dross, reply with, "I like all kinds of music, even dross", thinking that dross is the name of a band.
 Get tattoos that have no meaning to you but will look so cool when "ordinary folk" see them, they will think you are really hard, but what do they know?

, Make sure that whenever a band is playing you call out only the names of the bands you know your friends listen to because you do not know the names of songs worth listening to. If there is a jukebox, only play Metallica "because every metaller likes them".
 The truth is, they are too kind to say something and you are too stubborn or stupid to notice that they know!

, Always dress "rough, scumbag like, hard as nails, ridiculous", even when going to weddings, christenings or funerals. Never deviate from this because people will think you are not a metaller. Try to draw as much attention to your clothes as possible as often as possible. Say things like "Is no one gonna say anything about my T-shirt lads?" or "Look at this. Don't you think it's cool?".
 To be a fake metaller, you must be awkward while headbanging. You must not be able to let the music reach inside you and rattle your bones. To be a FAKER, it cannot move you. Only you must move your body stiffly and think you look like your metal friends who are thrashing the shit out of the dance floor. In fact, when they are up there doing their thing, just stand around trying to look hard and drinking.
 Skulls. The Grim Reaper. Monsters. Bad language. Death. Destruction. Etc etc. If possible, try all of these.
 Metallers ARE people so they do in fact care about things. Some things more than others and some people care about somethings more than other people care about them. It doesn't matter for you though because you are only PRETENDING to not care.
 Rings, chains, badges and such. The more the better. If you don't wear these things, nobody will think you are a metaller.
 Basically, lots of posters and flags depicting Death and/or monsters and so on should adorn every room in your house. Especially the main room visitors will see. You want them to think that you are "so cool and definitely a metaller".
 It never will be either.
 That you were for a while the same as everyone else. A clone. A sheep. You "fitted in". You had a skinned head and no facial hair. You had a gold chain and tight fitting shirt, smart jeans and smart shoes. You ate healthy food to keep your body looking nice for the ladies.

