 The nutritional information on a label of canned fruit takes the juice into account, so drinking the juice after you polish off the fruit will ensure that you get the full benefit of the canned fruit. This option works best if you use canned fruit labeled as "in juice" rather than "in syrup," however, since many people often find syrups too sweet to drink alone.;
, Instead of buying flavored water by the bottle, save yourself some money by mixing your own. Add 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 milliliters) of leftover juice to an 8-ounce (250-milliliter) glass of cold, clean water. You can add less or more juice depending on how strong you want the flavor to be.
 Anyone who enjoys lemon iced tea or raspberry iced tea should try expanding their fruit tea horizons by mixing their next batch of tea with leftover canned juice. Mix the juice from a 16-ounce (500 milliliter) can of fruit into a 2-quart (2-liter) pitcher of iced tea.


Experiment with different combinations. Mix the juice from canned pineapples, peaches, cherries, or mixed fruit into a pitcher of black tea. You could also try mixing the juice from canned peaches or apricots with iced green tea, or the juice from mandarin oranges with iced oolong tea.
 You can add another dimension of flavor to your favorite pre-packaged juices and juices from concentrate. Choose flavors that work well with one another. For instance, you could add juice from a can of mandarin oranges to a pitcher of citrus punch, juice from a can of pears to a pitcher of apple juice, or juice from a can of pineapples to a pitcher of orange juice.
 You can add your leftover juice to pre-flavored lemon-lime soda to give it a fruity twist, or you can add the juice to unflavored soda water. Lightly stir the fruit juice into the soda with a spoon, but do not over-stir or you will lose some of the carbonation.


Add 1 or 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 milliliters) of leftover juice, like the juice from mixed fruit or pineapples, to a 12-ounce (375-milliliter) can of lemon-lime soda.
Add the juice from a 4-ounce (125-milliliter) can of fruit, any variety, to an 8-ounce (250 milliliter) glass of seltzer or soda water.
 Pour the juice from canned fruit into an ice cube tray and freeze until solid. You can use this ice to add a slight hint of color and fruit flavor to water, or you could use it to keep a glass of juice cold without watering it down by using normal ice.
 Instead of wasting money on fruity, sugary popsicles, you can make your own. Simply pour the leftover juice from your canned fruit into a popsicle mold and freeze until solid.


You can mix and match juices to create frozen treats that are layered with flavor. Pour juice from one can of fruit into the bottom third portion of a mold. Pour juice from a second can into the next third, and juice from a third can into the final portion. Make sure that the flavors complement one another, though.
If you do not have a popsicle mold, you can create your own. Just pour the juice into a freezer-safe cup. Cover the cup with a tight layer of plastic cling wrap and carefully insert a wooden popsicle stick through the wrap and halfway down into the juice. Freeze the juice until solid and remove it from the cup.
 Add approximately 2 tablespoons (28.3 grams) of cornstarch for every 1/2 cup (125 milliliters) of cold juice. Mix to combine and heat the fruit sauce over medium to medium-high heat until it boils and thickens. Cool the sauce and drizzle it over ice cream, pound cake, or pudding.


Alternatively, you can use the leftover juice to create an icing for cinnamon rolls, biscuits, or cookies. Mix 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of juice from your favorite canned fruit with 1 1/4 cups (315 milliliters) of powdered sugar and 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 milliliters) of clear vanilla extract.
 Use leftover juice instead of water when making pre-flavored gelatin. Simply substitute part or all of the water the directions call for with juice from a complementary fruit. Do not use pineapple juice, however, since it will not allow the gelatin to set.
 Substitute half of the liquid called for in a cinnamon roll, quick bread, pancake, or muffin recipe with the canned juice. If you use the liquid from a can of fruit labeled "in syrup," reduce the amount of sugar you use by about 1/4 the original amount, as well.
 Use the leftover canned juice in a fruity vinaigrette. Combine equal parts juice, olive oil, and vinegar. For juice from a can of pears or mixed fruit, consider using apple cider vinegar. For other juices, standard white vinegar or white wine vinegar may work best. Thoroughly mix the ingredients and drizzle it over a green, loose-leaf salad.
 When preparing oatmeal, creamed wheat, rice congee, or another type of breakfast porridge, replace 1/4 to 1/2 of the water called for with leftover juice from your favorite canned fruit. Your plain cereal will become much sweeter and tastier.
 Rice absorbs whatever liquid it cooks in. Water and broth are the most commonly used liquids, but you can also use juice from canned fruit. Replace 2/3 of the water usually used with the juice. Actual juice works much better than syrup.


Try using the juice from pineapples or mandarin oranges to cook white rice or basmati rice with a flair of tropical citrus taste.
 Add approximately 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of leftover pineapple, peach, or mixed fruit juice for every 1 cup (225 grams) of cold, cooked pasta. Toss the pasta until it is completely coated in the juice. Your dull, leftover pasta will be transformed into a simple yet fruity pasta salad that you can enjoy as a snack or light lunch.
 Combine 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) leftover juice with 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) vegetable oil and 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) vinegar. Place your meat into a large plastic baggie and pour the juice over it. Allow it to sit, sealed and refrigerated, for 30 minutes so that the flavor of the juice thoroughly soaks into the meat.


Try using juice from canned pineapples for chicken, salmon, or pork, juice from canned peaches or mandarin oranges for chicken, and juice from canned pears for pork.
If using an acidic juice like pineapple juice, reduce the amount of vinegar you use by half. Too much acid in your marinade can cause your meat to become tough.
 This works especially well with the juice from canned pineapples and mandarin oranges. Whisk together the juice from a 16-ounce (500 milliliter) can of fruit with 1/2 cup (125 milliliters) brown sugar. You can also add more sugar if you want a thicker or sweeter glaze.

