 Positive affirmation is taking the time to recognize that you are happy, healthy, and have a sense of self-worth. Negative thoughts (self-deprecating, unworthiness, etc) can be helped with positive affirmations. Practice saying “I am...” and following it with something you love about yourself, such as “I am smart,” “I am good at my job,” or “I am a loving part of my family.”Make a list of your positive attributes and put it somewhere you can see it daily, like on your desk or bathroom mirror.
Fight bad thoughts head on: If you keep saying “I am too dumb,” recognize the many things you do know with positive affirmations like “I know how to fix cars,” “I can cook,” or “I am intelligent.”

, Most bad thoughts come during periods of free time when you brain is allowed to wander without distraction. Find things to do that will eliminate too much time alone, like starting an exercise routine, beginning a writing or art project, or community service.


Being alone is not bad, but being alone with no idea what to do can create anxiety and apprehension.
 Relationships are some of the most fraught, psychologically difficult landscapes to navigate. You may find yourself trying in vain to figure out what the other person is thinking, if your friend meant to insult you, or if someone is talking behind your back. If you have a friend or significant other who constantly triggers bad thoughts, however, this is not your fault. For whatever reason, this relationship may not be healthy.Give yourself some space from negative people – do the bad thoughts disappear when you haven’t seen them for a while?
Avoid friends who constantly insult your or make jokes at your expense, skip meetings with you, or don’t respect your time or hobbies.
 Make a list of all the things you could do to address your bad thought. For example, if you are worrying incessantly about your relationship, ask yourself what you can do to make things more comfortable. Plan a date, purchase some flowers for your significant other, talk to your partner, and go out with some of your friends to have fun on your own.


You might not be able to accomplish everything on your list, but having a group of actions you could take helps you regain control of your thoughts.
 Writing things down, losing yourself in an instrument, or painting out your feelings are all valuable ways to explore your negative thoughts and begin dealing with them. Remember to refrain from judgement—the point of art is to express your thoughts, not criticize them. Even if you never show your project to anyone, simply making it can be a great way to direct your bad thoughts through another outlet., Smiling has been proven to release chemicals inside your body that makes you happier. So show off your pearly whites and let the world know you are happy, and you’ll be surprised to see people smiling back. Between the social and chemical reinforcement, this can actually make the difference between a sunny, happy outlook and being trapped by bad thoughts.The inverse is also true, so making frowny or sad faces can lead to more negative thoughts as well.
 If you are depressed, suicidal, or chronically hurting, you should call a mental health professional immediately. They are trained to help you on the road to recovering your positive thoughts, and will be there to support you as you learn.


If you do not think life is worth living, call the suicide hotline immediately.

