 Using a stiffer brush on the surface of your unfinished wood may be more useful for wood that has dirt and other debris more deeply ingrained in the grain of the wood. Wipe the unfinished wood and vacuum up any fragments that become loose.Be careful not to rub the stiff bristles on the wood to harshly, as this may damage the wood.
This method is most effective on unfinished wood that is already in good condition.
 This natural rubber product is often used to clean unfinished wood. It is very sticky and pliable, meaning that it can be forced into the smaller crevices on the surface of the wood and the dirt will be attracted to it and stick to the rubber. Apply the rubber to the surface and gently knead it to work it into the grain of the wood. As it becomes darker (this means it is attracting a lot of dirt), you can tear off the top layer to reveal fresh layers to do more work.This method is especially effective for areas that are harder to reach with other cleaning techniques.
 Erasing compounds are elements used to remove dirt from bare wood surfaces. Simply apply a small amount of the erasing compound on the surface of the unfinished wood and use some cotton balls to work the cleaning material into the grain of the wood. Gently swirl the cotton balls in circular motions for best results. Once finished, vacuum up the remnants of the erasing compound from the surface of the wood.Be sure to avoid rubbing the wood too harshly as this could cause damage.
Once the erasing compound turns grey in color, it is no longer effective and you should reapply.
 Mineral spirits are a kind of solvent that painters often use when cleaning their used painting brushes. Dampen a towel with the solution and gently wipe the surface of your unfinished wood. Be sure to wear gloves while you are handling the mineral spirits and avoid directly inhaling the fumes.Because this is a type of liquid treatment, you must be very careful and apply the mineral spirits sparingly to avoid damaging the wood.

