 Talk to various organizations and learn where the bulk of their money goes to. Find out how the economics of poverty to work out and how trade between countries plays into alleviating or making worse the poverty.


You'll need to learn how your own government functions with providing aid and where that money goes to and how it is used. Often, the rich countries that provide "aid" actually limit market access to the poverty-stricken countries and put stipulations on the aid packages that the aid-receiving countries must use over-priced services and goods from the donor countries.Learning how aid works and how the economics of poverty work, will help you to determine the organizations that are worthiest of your support.
Sometimes it is more effective to show your support for a particular bill, such as the Global Food and Security Act in the U.S. Check out the Legislation page of borgenproject.org to see which anti-poverty bills are currently going through the House of Representatives and Senate.;
, There are a huge amount of organizations, non-profits, and Non-Government Organizations seeking to eliminate poverty. The best organizations tend to be the ones that support economic development and self-sufficiency in the developing country rather than simply pouring money and over-priced products in where they will do little good.


Give money directly to those who need it. Groups like Give Directlyor Kivahelp you give money directly to those who need it most in places like Kenya and Uganda. The program has allowed people who otherwise wouldn't have been able to, to buy a motorcycle to use as a taxi or to buy a mill and go into the corn grinding business. The idea is that the money reaches those who need it without jumping through the hoops of charities, who might or might not be providing the right aid and opportunities.An organization like Mercy Corpsfocuses on emergency response in countries in various states of upheaval. These types of countries are ripe for challenging the status quo and building resilience to future upheavals. The importance of emergency response in making emergencies not quite so disastrous can be seen in the U.S. with Hurricane Katrina, in the Philippines, in Japan with the earthquake.
The empowerment of women is extremely important in alleviating poverty. This needs to happen through education and access to reproductive independence. Educated women tend to have fewer children, with fewer mis-timed or unintended births. As women are often children's earliest teachers, they can pass on their education and provide a groundwork for children in their communities.Empowering local communities rather than simply providing clothing or food, helps these communities to grow and become self-reliant, which in turn reduces the poverty in the community. Empowering local people means access to education, to health care, and to opportunities., There are tons of ways to volunteer on the global scale. You can give your money or your time to organizations that are helping fight against global poverty. By volunteering, you will be going beyond just supporting worthy causes to actually fighting for them.


Hold a fundraiser for an organization of your choice. Fundraising will help raise both money and awareness and will give you a way to help.
If you're interested in sponsoring a child to provide education and food, then worldvision.org may be your best bet. Other common charities are Heifer International (give a goat, cow or another animal to a family in need), Doctors Without Borders (provide medical services for free wherever they are needed), and SOS Children's Villages (help find families for orphaned children and support those living with AIDs).
You can actually work abroad or in your own community on alleviating poverty. Contact the organization of your choice and see what opportunities they have for helping hands on with alleviating poverty.
 You can do this by contacting your local social service department or religious/charity organization. Find out what you can do to help locally and what is needed.


Support local homeless shelters.Give time and/or money to your local shelters to make sure they survive. A lot of shelters have been moved out of the city areas where they are most needed because they are "unsightly."Volunteer at local shelters and soup kitchens. This will give you a chance to meet the people who use them, thus giving poverty a face and a voice and discuss with them what they need.
 Pay attention to the laws and bills being enacted in your local area, or country. Weigh in against laws that seek to punish the poor, simply for being poor.


Support a living wage and basic labor protections for workers so that people can afford to live off their earnings, rather than being forced to two-three minimum wage jobs that barely feed them and their families.
Contact your local Senator or Representative by phone or mail and tell them you want increased spending on anti-poverty measures (there is a wikiHow for how to contact your Senators and Representatives. You can find their public address and phone numbers by typing in your area code on www.Congress.org). A phone call will only take 15 seconds and you won't be asked any questions. Elected leaders want to give what people in their constituency want, so if enough people call wanting more spending on anti-poverty measures, then Congressmen will endorse bills that accomplish that.
 Donations, especially monetary donations, to certain local organizations will make a huge difference in fighting poverty in your community. Most organizations that work to alleviate poverty have tight budgets and little funding and they need all the help they can get from community members.


Give your time to your charity organizations. Help in a soup kitchen or food bank particularly during holidays.
Donate toys and clothes to a food bank. Make sure that the clothes and toys are in decent condition and aren't stained or ripped.
Donate food. Food banks need nutritious, non-perishable foods like meals in a can, peanut butter, canned meats, canned fruit and veggies.Also donate unopened spices. Spices are too expensive for most people who are homeless or poverty-stricken, but they can make all the difference in making a meal taste better.

