 If you have other pets or small children, think about how they would interact with an older cat. Senior cats do best in quiet, low-stress environments, and they have trouble adjusting to major changes (like getting used to other animals or playful kids). If your other pets and/or kids are easy-going and gentle with animals, then bringing a senior cat into the home may be just fine., Depending on the age and overall health of the cat you plan to adopt, you may need to be prepared to set aside a certain amount of time and money for vet visits, special diet foods, and home medical care. Elderly cats can develop a host of health issues that need special attention, like diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, and arthritis and joint pain.Most senior cats will need a general veterinary checkup at least twice a year. Cats with known health issues may need even more frequent visits.
 Before you bring any cat into your home, you should have a few basics on hand, such as:Cat food formulated for senior cats (or whatever food is recommended for the particular cat you wish to adopt)
Shallow food dishes
A comfortable cat bed
A few toys
A shallow litter box that a senior cat can easily get into and out of
You should also get a comfortable pet carrier that you can use to take the cat home from the shelter, and to carry your cat to and from medical appointments.
 Cats love to curl up in warm, cozy spots to nap or just hang out. Set up a soft cat bed near a window where lots of sunlight comes in. If you don’t mind your new cat friend hanging out in your bed, set up a bench or ramp at the foot of the bed so that they can climb up and down easily.
 Do an internet search for local shelters, ask around among friends who have recently adopted cats, or try using a service like Petfinder to help match you up with the shelter or adoption group that fits your needs.Some shelters specialize in senior animals. If you can find a shelter like this in your area, they may be especially well suited to helping you find the resources you need to care for your senior cat.Different shelters have different prices and procedures for adopting pets, and some may offer lower fees for hard-to-adopt animals, like elderly cats.
Read about the adoption policies and procedures for each shelter you find and decide which one works best for you.
 Many shelters will have online profiles for their adoptable pets, typically with a little information about each pet’s history, personality, and any special needs they may have. Look over the pet profiles, and pick out one or two cats that you would like to meet.
 Some shelters or rescues will allow you to walk in any time, but some may prefer if you call in advance and set a time to meet the cats.


Spend some time getting to know the cat(s) you are interested in adopting. This will help you get an idea of whether the cat has a personality that is compatible with yours.
Ask the staff at the pet shelter or rescue any questions you may have about the cat’s health and dietary needs.
If you have other pets and/or children at home, ask if the cat you are interested in does well in an environment with other animals or kids.
 Once you have picked a cat, you will need to pay any necessary adoption fees and fill out the appropriate paperwork. Depending on the shelter, you may need to bring in other family members to meet the cat, and there may be a waiting period before you can bring your new companion home., Even if your new cat was under veterinary care and observation at the shelter or rescue, it’s important to establish a relationship with a vet for your senior cat as soon as possible. Take your cat to the vet for a checkup and any necessary vaccines, and find out about any health concerns that the shelter or rescue staff may have been unaware of.


It may be a good idea to talk to a vet before you bring home your new pet. They can provide helpful advice on what to expect before you adopt a senior cat., Start out by keeping your cat in a single room (like your bedroom) for a few days, with access to food, water, litter, and other necessities, before letting them out to explore other rooms in the house., Elderly cats often need a little extra help with grooming, especially if they have arthritis or other health problems.Brush your cat every day to prevent mats and hairballs. Brush gently, since older cats often have sensitive skin.
Check your cat’s nails once a week, and trim them if necessary., Provide plenty of fresh water and, ideally, canned food. Dry food can contribute to dehydration, especially in older cats., There are a variety of retail store and prescription only cat foods formulated for cats with a variety of health issues and special dietary needs. Your vet can help you select the type that is best for your cat., Exercise can help senior cats stay happy and healthy. Get some wand toys and try to engage your cat in light play from time to time.If your cat seems to have trouble getting around, try installing ramps (up to your bed, the cat tree, or any other surface you want to encourage your cat to climb on) to help keep them moving and exploring., It is important for senior cats to get regular checkups, which can help catch health issues early. If you notice any signs of possible health problems, get your cat to the vet right away, even if it isn’t time for a checkup.Look for problem signs like:


Changes in appetite or thirst
Significant changes in weight
Unusual vomiting or diarrhea
Changes in personality
Lethargy or fainting
Difficulty using the litter box, or urinating and defecating outside the litterbox
Sneezing, coughing, or other respiratory symptoms
Signs of pain or stiffness

