 Sugar cookie cutout dough works best for cookies on a stick because it is stiff enough to hold and the favor is mild, so you can decorate it with just about any kind of frosting or candies that you want. You can make a basic sugar cookie cutout dough from scratch, buy a sugar cookie cutout dough mix, or buy some premade sugar cookie cutout dough in the refrigerated section of the grocery store.Prepare the dough according to the recipe or package instructions before you get started.
It is best to use cold dough because it will hold its shape better when you cut it out. Make sure that you refrigerate your dough for at least an hour before you use it.
You will probably need to preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. This is a common temperature for many cookie recipes. However, it is important to check the cookie recipe or cookie dough package before you set the temperature on your oven.;
, Use a rolling pin to roll out the cookie dough on a floured surface. Sprinkle the cookie dough with a bit of flour as well before you begin rolling it out. Add more flour as your roll out the cookie dough to prevent the rolling pin from sticking to the dough.








Roll the dough so that it is between 3/8” to ½” thick., When you finish rolling out the dough, use your cookie cutter to cut out the cookies. You can cut the cookies into circles or use different cookie cutter shapes. To get as many cookies as possible from the dough, cut the cookies close together.








When you can’t cut out any more cookies from the rolled out dough, roll the dough scraps back into a ball and then roll it out flat again. Keep doing this until the dough is gone or you can’t cut any more cookies from the remaining dough scraps.
 Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper or grease it with non-stick cooking spray. This will help to prevent the cookies from sticking to the tray. Arrange the cookies so that they are about an inch or two apart., After you have arranged the cookies, insert the sticks into the cookies from the side. Push the sticks in far enough so that they reach the centers of the cookies. This will help to ensure that the cookies will stay on the sticks after you bake them.








You can use some plain flat sticks, or try using colorful cookie pop sticks to make your cookies on a stick look a little more interesting.
If the cookies are too thin to insert your sticks into, then you can also press the stick halfway into one side of your cookie and then use a bit of extra dough to cover the stick., Follow your recipe’s instructions for baking the cookies. A common baking time for cookies is about 10 minutes. However, your recipe may call for a longer baking time. Check the recipe or cookie dough package to be sure.Set a time so that you will know when to take the cookies out of the oven.
Don’t forget to use oven mitts when you place the cookies in the oven and when you remove the tray from the oven.
 After the cookies have finished baking, wait for them to cool. You can place them on a cooling rack or leave them on the cookie tray. However, it is important to wait until the cookies are completely cool before you start decorating them or the frosting may melt.


While you wait for the cookies to cool. You can mix the frosting or prepare the other toppings.
 You can use store bought frosting or make a simple buttercream frosting to frost the cookies. Open your frosting package or mix up your frosting. You can also add food coloring to your frosting if you want it to be colorful.








Try adding a couple of drops of blue food coloring to a batch of buttercream frosting for a light blue frosting, or add a drop or two of red for a pale pink frosting.
Use a spatula to spread frosting over your cookies. Cover all of the cookies in a ¼” to ½” layer of frosting, depending on how much frosting you want to have on them.
Frosting is easier to work with when it is at room temperature. Do not put your frosting in the refrigerator. If the frosting is cold, then you can let it sit at room temperature for about an hour to warm up.
 After you have frosted your cookies, you can add sprinkles and candies to decorate them. Try using candies and sprinkles to make designs on the cookies and to add color to them.








For example, you could use candies to make faces on your cookies, or arrange the sprinkles in the shape of a flag or another symbol.
 Wrap your cookies if desired. If you plan to give these out as favors at a party or as gifts, then you can wrap each cookie individually with a food-safe cellophane bag or with some plastic wrap. You can also tie a small ribbon around the stick near the base of the cookie for a little extra flair.