 In order to achieve the bright, vibrant color necessary for this look, you need to strip your hair of its natural color. The jewel tone dye will layer over the existing color you have, meaning that it will be muddied or darkened by any color other than white or very blonde. You can purchase a bleaching kit at your local beauty supply store. Bleaching kits come with bleach powder, developer, a mixing bowl, a brush, and plastic gloves.If your hair is very dark, you may need to bleach your hair more than once.
Bleaching your hair is damaging to your hair, no matter how you do it. If your hair is very damaged, it might not be a good idea to bleach it. Make sure your hair is healthy enough to handle this process.;
, Carefully pour the bleach powder into the mixing bowl, taking care not to spill any or inhale the powder. Then, slowly add the developer while mixing the two together with the brush. Make sure to scrape along the sides and bottom of the mixing bowl to get all of the powder blended thoroughly into the developer.Put on an old t-shirt now too! Bleach will damage any clothing it touches, so it’s best to put on something you don’t care about before starting.
 The easiest way to ensure you reach all of your hair and apply the bleach evenly is to clip your hair into four sections. Part your hair straight down the middle and then part it again across, so you’ve formed a big plus sign on your head. Clip away the three sections that you aren’t using, and focus on one at a time as you apply the bleach., Start with the back sections and work your way up the strands, doing the roots last. Bleach will process more quickly when exposed to heat, so the roots will actually bleach more quickly than the rest of your hair because of your body heat.Continue applying the bleach to each section, making sure every piece of hair is fully saturated.


If you drip a bit of bleach on your skin, wipe it off quickly with a wet paper towel.
 Let the bleach begin processing, keeping an eye on the clock and your hair. Your bleach kit should have suggestions about how long to wait before rinsing, but you can also watch your hair process and get an idea about how much your hair color has lifted. Check a strand sporadically to see how it is processing.Bleach can only lift your hair three to four shades lighter, so don’t leave it on too long hoping to achieve lighter hair.
 The best shampoo to use is a purple shampoo that will help to combat the brassiness of newly bleached hair. Rinse your hair in cold or lukewarm water, which will stop any tingling from the bleach, especially if it's on your hairline. Make sure that you’re washing it thoroughly so that every bit of bleach is completely rinsed out. Condition your hair, and let it air dry.Hot tools can cause more damage to fragile bleached hair, so it’s best to let it air dry when you can.
 Whenever you bleach your hair, it’s important to tone it as well. You can purchase a toner at any beauty supply store, and it will typically be sitting right next to the bleaching kits because it's always used in conjunction with them. A toner will remove the strands that look yellow or orange. You can use a toner immediately after bleaching, and it will not damage your hair. Toners are moisturizing, so don't worry about letting it sit on your strands. By using a toner, you will brighten your hair and make it look white, which is exactly what you want. Let the toner sit on your hair for about 30 minutes, and rinse again., If you have naturally dark hair, you will not be able to go to platinum blonde in one try. You will need to bleach your hair again. However, this process is damaging and you need to give your hair time and TLC in between bleachings. Deep condition your hair regularly, and do not apply bleach again for a week or two.Remember that your hair will only lift a few shades with each bleaching, so plan accordingly. If you are starting with black hair, you will pass through a variety of brown and even red stages, and it’s important to manage your expectations before beginning this process.
 After you’ve lifted the natural color from your hair, it’s time to select your new color. You should be able to find beautiful jewel tone semi-permanent dyes at your local beauty supply store, and there are a plethora of places to buy them online. Consider ruby red, emerald green, amethyst purple, sapphire blue, or topaz yellow. Choose a color you really love, because you’ll be seeing it a lot! You can apply the color immediately after you bleach your hair. Unlike the bleach, these colored dyes sit on top of your hair and is not damaging.Semi-permanent dyes will wash out a bit with every rinse. Don’t worry – you won’t need to shave your head if you get sick of the color later on.
 Hair dye, especially hair dye this bold and vibrant, will stain your skin. If you are worried about staining on the areas close to where you will be applying the dye, apply a thin layer of petroleum jelly. This will act as a barrier between the dye and the skin, so you won’t be left with any unsightly staining.If you skip this step and it does get on your skin, don’t worry. It can be rinsed off with some soap, water, and elbow grease.
 Unlike the bleach, there is not an exact science to this. The important thing is that you thoroughly coat each and every strand of your hair with this dye. You can clip your hair into sections and paint each one carefully with the dye, or you can massage it into your hair almost like shampoo.Just make sure to keep checking that every strand and every section is completely saturated with the dye.


Use a handheld mirror to make sure that the back is fully covered.
 This dye will stain anything it contacts, so it’s important to protect your house and your clothing by covering your hair while the dye processes. The hair dye will be on for a long time, so it’s good to be careful. That way, you can still do things around the house while the dye works its magic.
 The longer the dye sits on your hair, the more vibrant and intense your color will end up. If you can, leave it on for a couple of hours. It’s a time commitment, but it will be worth it when you end up with an extremely bold result., Use cold water. Hot water will open the hair cuticle, causing it to release dye. Grab your go-to conditioner and massage it into your hair while your dye is still on so that it loosens up a bit. Continue rinsing your hair in cold water until the water runs completely clear., Every time you wash your hair, your color will fade a bit. Try to only wash it a couple of times a week. If your hair gets greasy, try using a dry shampoo. This will help keep your hair looking clean between washes., When you do wash your hair, use cold water. Hot water will cause your hair to lose dye, which will cause rapid fading. Instead, wash your body with warm water and then wash your hair last, using water as cold as you can tolerate. Your color will stay intense for much longer if you refrain from your normal, warm hair washes., This is a great way to boost your color a bit with every wash. Add a bit of your dye to your favorite conditioner, and give your bottle a good shake. Every time you condition your hair, let it soak for a couple of minutes. The dye in your conditioner will help to intensify your color and help reduce any fading., When you start to notice your color looking dull or patchy, simply apply the jewel tone dye to your hair again. However, do not bleach it every time you re-dye it. Not only will this kill your hair, it is simply not necessary. Once you have noticeable root outgrowth, you will need to bleach only your roots. Do not put bleach over any hair that has already been bleached.Because your hair will inevitably get damaged from bleaching, it's important to give it some extra TLC. Use deep conditioners and hair masks once or twice a week, and skip the blowdryers and hot tools as much as possible!

