 For the cake pops, you’ll need a prepared 15.25 ounce (432 g) box of cake mix. Read the package instructions to determine what other ingredients to add to it and how to mix the batter properly.In most cases, you’ll need to add water, some type of oil, and eggs to the box cake mix.
You can use any flavor of cake mix that you like for the cake pops. Batters that are lighter in color, such as vanilla or lemon, may work better, though, because you’re covering them with light colored candy melts.
If you prefer, you can use your favorite from-scratch cake recipe for the cake pops.;
, After you’ve mixed the cake batter, pour it into a greased 9-inch by 13-inch (23-cm by 33-cm) cake pan. Next, place the cake in the oven and bake it according to the package instructions.You can use a nonstick cooking spray or coat it with shortening or butter and lightly dust it with flour to grease the cake pan.
The packaging instructions will likely require preheating your oven to a certain temperature. Read the instructions carefully so you can start to preheat the oven before you mix the batter.
 When the cake is finished baking, remove the pan from the oven. Let the cake sit in the pan for 10 to 15 minutes afterward, so it has time to cool., When the cake has cooled, use a knife to loosen it and remove it from the pan. Use clean hands to crumble the cake into a large bowl.If there are any hard or burnt bits in the cake, remove them as you break it up.
 Once the cake is crumbled in the bowl, add 1 cup (256 g) of frosting and mix well. If the mixture is crumbly and dry, you can mix in up to another cup (256 g) of the frosting until there is no cake visible and no frosting lumps.You can use any flavor of frosting that you like for the cake pops. Both store-bought and homemade will work..
It’s usually easier to create a smooth cake pop mixture if you use clean hands to blend the crumbled cake and frosting together.
 To make create the cake pops, you’ll need a 1 to 1 ½ tablespoon (37 to 56 g) cookie scoop. Use it to scoop out a small amount of the cake pop filling and place it in the palm of a clean hand.If you don’t have a cookie scoop, you can use a regular tablespoon measuring spoon. Fill it with a generous amount of the cake pop filling.
You can adjust the size of the balls depending on your preference. However, be careful not to make them too large or they may not stay on the lollipop sticks.
 When the cake pop filling in the palm of your hand, roll it into a ball. Make sure that it’s smooth and uniform in size, and place it on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper.You can substitute wax paper or a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 After you’ve rolled all of the filling into balls, cover the cookie sheet with plastic wrap. Place the balls in the refrigerator to chill for 1 to 2 hours, or until they are firm.If you are in a hurry, you can place the cake pop balls in the freezer for just 30 minutes to firm them up.
 For the flower cake pops, you’ll need 24 ounces (680 g) of yellow candy melts. Place them in a microwave-safe bowl and microwave them on high for a minute. Stir the mixture, and microwave it for another 45 seconds on medium-high.Be careful not to overheat the candy melts. If they aren’t melted after a minute and 45 seconds, continue to heat them in 10 seconds intervals, stirring after each.
You can use any color of candy melt that you like for the cake pops, but the coating will cover the outside of the flower’s center so yellow usually works best.
 When the candy melts are ready, remove the cake pop balls from the refrigerator. Dip a lollipop stick into the melted candy melts and then insert it halfway into the cake pop balls.Make sure to cover a ¼ inch (6-mm) of the end of the lollipop stick before pressing it into the cake pop ball.
 With the stick in place, carefully dip the cake pop into the melted candy melts. Move it up and down in a smooth motion to ensure that it’s completely coated. Gently Tap the pop against the side of the bowl to remove the excess and place it in a cake pop stand.Be careful not to move the pop around in the candy melts too much or you may loosen the stick.
If you don’t have a cake pop stand, a piece of craft foam works well to hold the cake pops upright as they set.
 While the candy melt coating is still soft, add a few white sprinkles to the top of the ball. Repeat the process of coating and adding sprinkles to all of the cake pops and allow them to dry for 30 to 60 minutes.You can substitute any color of sprinkles for the white.
 For the flower cake pops, you’ll need 24 ounces (680 g) of premade, precolored fondant in your choice of color. Break off a small piece of the fondant and roll it with a rolling pin until it’s smooth and approximately ¼ inch (6-mm) thick.You can use any color of fondant that you’d like to form the cake pop flowers’ petals.
To keep the fondant from sticking to the surface and rolling pin, grease them lightly with shortening.
 When the fondant is rolled out, use a 2-inch (5-cm) flower-shaped cookie cut to cut out the cake pops’ petals. Repeat the process to make enough flowers for all of the cake pops, rolling out more fondant as necessary., After you’ve cut out all of the flower shapes, carefully lift the fondant flower off your work surface. Use a hole punch to create a small hole in the center of the flower.If you don’t have a hole punch, you can use a sturdy straw to create holes in the fondant.
 Once the fondant flower has a hole it the center, place the lollipop stick from a cake pop through the hole. Press the foundation petals up around the cake pop to form the flower. Repeat the process with all of the cake pops.The fondant will remain soft, so be careful when you handle it.
The fondant will be slightly tacky, which means it should adhere to the cake pop without any help.
 When you’ve finished forming all of the cake pops into flowers, they are ready to serve. For a striking presentation, place the pops in a vase like real flowers and set out on your dessert table.If you like, you can hot glue green ribbon around the lollipop sticks to create decorative “stems” for the cake pop flowers.

