 There are two options to choose from: gas or charcoal.Gas grills are the most commonly used grill today. Many find them more convenient than charcoal as they start instantly and fuel purchases are needed less often. When selecting a gas grill, be aware of heat output (BTUs), and construction.

Charcoal grills are still popular, and preferred by many purists. Charcoal offers better heat control (which means more versatility), and many find that good charcoal gives food a better "grilled" flavor. Look for heat control, construction, and style. There are two main styles of non-portable charcoal grill: Kettle and traditional. Kettle grills are great for straightforward grilling and small smoking applications. More traditional, rectangular charcoal grills are more versatile when it comes to setting up different zones of heat and smoking of larger products, but also typically take up more space.

The grill needn't be yours. Public park grills avoid mess, expense, and fire hazard. But they typically have a simple design without a charcoal grates straight air path and ash discharge. A simple but less efficient larger bed of burning charcoal or a small grate to stack the charcoal on (cleaning the ash from underneath first) can mimic this; an accessory blower can bring a little pile to a quick start and searing glow.

;
, Heat output is what defines a proper grill. You want a grill that can put enough heat out to quickly sear a piece of fillet mignon, or keep a low heat to thoroughly roast a piece of meat.Heat output in gas grills: Since most grills allow for fine adjustment of gas flow, it's best to get the highest output you can afford. This will allow you to put a quick sear on food that you don't want to cook through (think of a really good cut of beef, a tuna steak, or scallops).

Heat output in charcoal grills: Heat control is achieved by charcoal amount, placement, air flow, and level. It's best to find a grill that allows for adjustment of the height of the charcoal tray. Crank mechanisms are the best option, but hook and lever methods also work fine. Look for at least two adjustable vents, as well. Opening them for more oxygen makes for a hotter fire, closing them cools the fire somewhat, and also deprives flames of oxygen, helping to stop flare-ups.
 Will you be cooking "for an army" or just for a family of 2 or 4? It's relatively easy to cook a small meal on a large grill, but the opposite is not true. Look for how much "cooking area" your prospective grill has. The average grill has around 600 square inches of cooking space, and will serve a small party fairly well. If you host big cookouts, shoot for 800 square inches or more, if you really only want to toss on a few burgers once in a while, the smallest you'll find without going "hibachi" style is maybe 400 square inches.
 In particular, look closely at the grill grates. Most grill grates are made from either cast iron, porcelain, or stainless steel.


Cast Iron is the best for conducting heat, but it requires care to keep it from rusting.
Porcelain coated metal (steel or cast-iron) grates do well at conducting heat, but must be cleaned with something other than steel (typically, a brass brush is used) to avoid damaging the porcelain and leaving the metal underneath vulnerable to rust.
Stainless steel grates are easy to clean, without the worries of cast-iron or porcelain, but can wear out faster than well-maintained cast iron or porcelain.
 Do you want a rotisserie? A smoker box? An external burner? Infrared cooking?


Pay close attention to the number of burners a grill has. More burners equals more versatility.
Look for good wheels, preferably larger (not tiny casters), if you're going to be moving your grill around at all.

Features found on gas grills: Most gas grills have a built-in thermometer, while charcoal grills do not. Thermometers are quite useful for smoking and roasting applications. They can, however, be purchased separately and installed if your grill does not come with one.

Features found on charcoal grills: Helpful features in the construction of charcoal grill include easy access to ashes, be it through a drawer or a dumping mechanism.
 There should be a couple of feet of clearance between the hot box and anything flammable. Your grill should not be directly underneath low-hanging trees or a low roof, and it should not be against deck rails, as all of these things could potentially catch fire.


Place a fire extinguisher or hose near your grill in case of emergency. Keep flammable materials far from the fire and never leave your grill unattended.

