,,,, Don't worry about the looks, just concentrate on the flow.



You may want to practice for a while on getting a shape until you like its look. This particular spiral took several attempts. If it still isn't working right, be sure that you set the shape to 'Triangle In'.
 You will see that you have used two effects so far; the spiral spline and the pattern along path.
 While 'Spiral Spline' is selected, click on Node Edit (F2) and try moving things around.


If you 'overstep your bounds' you will notice your image doing some interesting things. Don't worry about that. You can hit Undo or go with it.
 You will see a small triangle. That is the second effect, Pattern Along Path.
 You can edit this using the Path Effect Editor. Click on the Node Edit button and select the triangle. Using your cursor keys, move it where you want it. It is better being closer to your project so that they are all easier to see together.
, Click on the 'Add a Node'.



If you want a smoother path, click on 'Make Selected Nodes Auto-Smooth'.
 Do this by Resetting the drawing mode to Regular Bezier Paths and set Shape: to None.
 After you learn more about the process, you can be more deliberate. Right click or hit Enter to stop.
 This path will not need to be seen, so copy it to the clipboard and then delete; (CTRL C and then CTRL X).


To copy to the clipboard, you can also click on the scissors in the toolbar.
 You should be on the 'Select and Transfer Objects' (the arrow).
 You do this by clicking on it, then click on the notepad icon that you see below it. This will use your path that you saved onto your clipboard.
 You can still edit the path in your clipboard if you want. Simply click on the Node Edit icon in the Path Effect Editor. Maybe round it out by using the auto-smooth that was mentioned before. You could also delete nodes. Experiment and see what happens.
 Using the selector, select your previous work and move it off the canvas. Alternatively, start another one.;
,, Instead of curves, draw straight lines. Hit Enter to stop.
 Apply the effect by clicking on Add.
, This gives you the rounded look of before. Using this method, might allow you to have it exactly the way you want it.
 Make your star however you want it.
 Your pattern needs to be a path, so click on Path >> Object to Path.
 Using the scissors, cut it to the clipboard, since it is a pattern.
,,, Add your pattern to the mix by clicking on the clipboard.
 You do this by clicking on the node edit icon on the Path Effect Editor.
 You should quickly learn what part of the star will change what part of your spiral path. Even delete some nodes if you like.
, Click on Path >> Object to Path.
, When you click on node edit, you will see a lot of nodes. If there are just too many, and you won't need them, click on Path >> Simplify. This will remove the extraneous nodes.
 Flip your duplicate horizontally (Object >> Flip Horizontal).
 You can move the duplicate around to do what you like.
