 Generation VI is the only Generation that you can capture a wild Eevee in, so use a Luxury Ball to maximize your Friendship gain. The Luxury Ball will give your Eevee additional Friendship points whenever Friendship is gained for walking or leveling up., You can gain additional Friendship by performing some of your Friendship-raising activities in the same area that you captured your Eevee. This includes giving it Vitamins, Rare Sodas, and EV-lowering berries., You'll gain 2 Friendship points for every 128 steps that you take, but you won't get the points every time., Massages have a 6% chance of giving Eevee a 30 point boost in Friendship.

In X and Y, find the massage lady in house to the left of the Pokémon Center in Cyllage City.
In Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby, find the masseuse to the north of the Poké Miles shop in Mauville City

, Vitamin items will give Eevee a boost to Friendship alongside the regular benefits of the item. The following items will raise Eevee's Friendship rating a few points:

HP Up
Protein
Iron
Calcium
Carbos
PP Up
Rare Candy
Zinc
PP Max

, You can find Wings randomly on Driftveil Drawbridge and Marvelous Bridge. These items will give your Eevee up to a 3 point boost., You'll gain a 5 point boost each time Eevee levels up in battle. Rare Candies no longer give a Friendship boost when used to level up., Complete a few Regimens in Super Training to unlock the Soothing Bag. Every time you train with this bag, you'll get a 20 point boost., Some of the Juices available in the Juice Shoppe will give Eevee a boost. Give Eevee any of the following:

Rare Soda
Colorful Shake
Ultra Rare Soda
Any colored juice

, If Eevee faints, it will lose 1 Friendship point. Switch out Eevee with another Pokémon if it looks like it's going to get knocked out soon. Don't use any healing items either, as they will drastically lower Friendship., Healing items will have a major negative impact on your Friendship. Avoid all of the following items, and do all of your healing at a Pokémon Center. The second value listed below is how much you lose if your Friendship is over 200.

Energy Powder: -5/-10 points
Heal Powder: -5/-10 points
Energy Root: -10/-15 points
Revival Herb: -15/-20 points

, Put Eevee at the front of your party and talk to the Friendship checker in the Pokémon Fan Club in Laverre City. If you're playing Omega Ruby or Alpha Sapphire, see the Generation II instructions for checking Friendship.

50 - 99: "Hmm…I think you have a lot of time ahead of you to get to know one another better."
100 - 149: "It's a little bit friendly to you… Something like that."
150 - 199: "Well, I think you and Pichu will be an even greater combo someday!"
200 - 254: "You must really like your Pichu and always keep it by your side!"
255: "It's amazingly friendly toward you! It must be so happy spending every day with you!"

, Once you feel that Eevee is above 220 Friendship, level it up during the day to evolve it into Espeon, or at night to evolve it into Umbreon. Make sure you're not in the same area as a Moss or Ice Stone, or you'll get the wrong evolution. If Eevee does not evolve when you level it up, it does not have 220 Friendship yet.Day time is 4:00 AM - 5:59 PM and night time is 6:00 PM - 3:59 AM.

