 Using a primer is one of the most important steps in creating great looking skin. It is also one that is commonly skipped. Primer is a product that goes on first when applying your make-up. Think of it as the best foundation for your foundation! Primers create a palette that is bright and smooth, which will make the rest of your make-up look flawless. Ask your dermatologist to recommend a primer that is right for you. When used correctly, this product can have a great impact on skin issues such as discoloration and increasing the overall health of your face., The young and fresh look is definitely a trend in fashion right now. But looking natural does not mean that you shouldn't take care to make your skin look smooth and even. Foundation is necessary to create a clear, even-looking skin tone. Make sure to choose your color carefully. The idea is to make your skin look pretty, not painted on. Blend carefully to make sure that there are no lines at the edges of your face--check your jawline especially for noticeable problems.There are many different types of foundation, so don't be afraid to try a few before finding your perfect match. Some common types are liquids, sticks, and powders.
Use tools. Proper application can really make all of the difference when using foundation. Try using a make-up sponge or a cosmetics brush to blend.
 The skin around your eyes can be one of the biggest trouble areas. Dark circles can tell the world that you are stressed, while puffiness can indicate that you didn't sleep well. Those are personal problems, and you don't need your skin to telegraph that information. That is why it is important to give your eyes plenty of attention when trying to make your skin look great in a flash.Try using a sheer concealer to cover dark circles. This goes on before your foundation, and is only used for spot treatments. To battle puffiness, try using an eye cream--many have immediate results!, You should get in the habit of following a nightly skin care routine. The 10 minutes you spend on your skin each evening can immediately help you achieve the gorgeous skin you want. Typically, your skin care routine will involve 5 steps: cleansing, toner, serum, repair cream, and moisturizer. Make sure that you use products that are right for your skin.If your skin is sensitive, meaning that you are prone to breakouts or redness, look for skin-care products that have the words "gentle" or "calming" in the name or product description. If you suffer from extreme dryness, try something with the words "extra" or "super" next to "moisturizing" or "hydrating".
When searching for the skin-care regimen that is right for you, do your research. Don't be afraid to search out a consultant at one of the department store cosmetics counters. They will be be happy to explain products like toners and serums. Plus, they'll likely give you some free samples!

, Make sure that you know what goes into your skin care products and make-up. There are definitely some ingredients that you want to avoid, so be certain to read labels. Just like you would not knowingly eat something that could harm you, you also do not want to put something on your face that could have dangerous side effects.


Some ingredients to avoid are: BHA (can increase sensitivity to sun) and triclosan (which can affect hormone regulation). Consider finding products that tout natural ingredients., Your skin takes a beating every day. Moisturizing is the most important thing you can do to repair the damage caused by things such as weather and pollutants. If dry skin is your problem, you probably aren't moisturizing enough. Or you could be using the wrong product. Make sure to apply moisturizer in the morning and at night, and anytime you wash your face. Rub the cream into your skin, gently but firmly. Take care to use less pressure on the sensitive skin around your eyes.For extra hydration, try applying a special mask once a week. Hydrating masks come in many forms (think gels and creams) and are very effective. Try using a hydrating mask before a big night out. You'll definitely see fast results!

