 When your body is in motion, different parts of your body will send different messages to your brain. If you look down at a book, or simply do not look out the window, parts of your body will send the message to your brain that you are moving forward, while your eyes will send the message that you are reading and being still. This can cause feelings of car sickness. Symptoms of fatigue include:


Dizziness.






Upset stomach.






Vomiting.
Loss of appetite.
Nausea.
 When your child looks out the window, all of his different body parts will send the same message to his brain: that he is travelling forward. This will make him less likely to feel carsick.


Looking out the window can also help to keep your child distracted from any oncoming feelings of car sickness.
 If possible, save the longer car trips for nighttime. When you drive at night, your child is more likely to fall asleep, which means that he will not develop car sickness.
 When on a long car trip, try to avoid feeding your child greasy or spicy foods, both of which could upset his stomach. Instead, pack light, healthy dinners for longer car rides, rather than stopping at greasy fast food places.


If you are only going on a short car ride, try to avoid feeding your child right before getting into the car. Being really full can make your child more likely to become carsick.
 If your child frequently gets very carsick, consider giving him dramamine to make the journey easier. This drug can be given to kids that are two years old or older. It is an anti-nausea medication that can help your child’s body to fight off any potential feelings of car sickness. Give your child this medication can hour before getting into the car.


Children who are 2 to 6 years old: Give your child 12.5 mg every six hours. Do not exceed 75 mg in a 24 hour period of time.Children who are 6 to 12 years old: Give your child 12.5 to 25 mg after every 6 hours. Do not exceed 150 mg in a 24 hour period of time.Children 12 years or older: Give your child 50 to 100 mg every six hours. Do not exceed 400 mg in a 24 hour period of time., Benadryl (diphenhydramine ) can be given to children who are six years old and older. It is an antihistamine that can help your child’s body to fight off feelings of nausea. It also has a drowsy effect, which can help your child to fall asleep in the car. Give your child this medication one hour before starting on your journey. This medication is given to your child based on his weight. Give:


¾ teaspoon to a child who weighs 20 to 24 kilograms.1 teaspoon to a child who weighs 25 to 37 kilograms.11/2 teaspoon to a child who weighs 38 to 49 kilograms.2 teaspoons to a child who weighs more than 50 kilograms.