 Earwax build up is very normal and usually doesn’t cause any problems. However, in certain instances, the Earwax does cause a problem and medical attention is needed. These instances include:


When the Earwax build up impedes inspection of the ear drums down the middle and inner ear for signs of ear infection.
When the Earwax buildup blocks the ear canal completely, so much that it causes hearing problems. Sometimes this resolves on its own but there are times when the duration is so long that it interferes with a baby’s normal hearing and speech development.;
, ENT doctors (ear, nose and throat doctors) have special equipment that they can use to clean the inner ear. You must be prepared though, because this might hurt your baby since the middle and inner ears are quite sensitive, so any pressure placed in those parts of the ear will cause a bit of discomfort. The ENT doctor will know what to do and how to handle a baby when scooping out the Earwax becomes necessary.
 Usually, the ENT doctor will examine the baby’s ears with an otoscope, a medical equipment that lets the ENT see into your baby’s ears. Then if deemed ok, the doctor will use a curette or a plastic spoon to scoop put the Earwax from your baby’s ears. If scooping out the wax is not possible, the doctor will irrigate the baby’s ear with warmed water (cool water will cause dizziness), sodium bicarbonate, hydrogen peroxide or other prescription ear drops.


The doctor will hold your baby’s head to the opposite side of the affected ear (if the right ear is to be cleaned, the doctor will tilt your baby’s head to the left) and put about four to five drops of either warmed water or prescription ear drops. The doctor will allow the fluid to settle in the ear and then gently tilt your baby’s head back to normal or completely to the other side to let the fluid drain out together with the Earwax.
 This procedure may be repeated by the doctor as necessary to clean the middle and inner ears. If there is still a substantial amount of Earwax left inside the ear, it will be easier to remove the second time around, as it will already be softened.
 You will be given instructions by the doctor on how to clean your baby’s ears at home, especially if your baby actively produces too much Earwax too frequently which can impede hearing and balance. A normal rinsing technique follows the procedure listed below.
 Your doctor may recommend mixing equal parts hydrogen peroxide and warm water to use to rinse out your baby’s ear.Your doctor may also prescribe over the counter solutions, like Debrox.
 To help keep your baby calm, you can feed her while you clean her ear. You can also talk soothingly to her, or even sing. You could also ask another adult to help you hold your baby in place while applying the medication.


After positioning your child, hold the dropper you will use to apply the solution. Place it in your fist to help warm up the hydrogen peroxide mixture or medication.
 Be prepared for squirming and screaming or crying, as the drops can make your baby feel uncomfortable. Work quickly because otherwise your baby may begin fighting you off. This could make it much harder to actually get the medication into your baby’s ear.
 The longer you can keep your baby still, the better. Once the time has passed, sit your baby upright, and let the Earwax slowly drain out of her ear. Once the softened Earwax is out of the ear, and you can see it on the outer ear, gently wipe it away with a warm, wet washcloth.


Repeat this process at least once a day for the next three to five days.
 Please note that Earwax candling is not recommended by doctors because the procedure entails the use of a hollow cone like structure made of beeswax and paraffin with cloth at the tapered end. This end is inserted in the ear while the other tip of the cone is lighted with fire and allowed to burn for a few seconds.


The idea is to create a vacuum inside the ears to suction out the Earwax but repeated studies have shown that it doesn’t work and it does not have any beneficial effects to the patient.

