 Those cute little plug-in air fresheners or candles may be sending out volatile organic compounds (VOCs) into your home’s air. These VOCs can then cause or make worse any respiratory problems. They can also trigger headaches and migraines., Go into each room and crack at least one window on a weekly basis. Pollen counts peak between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m., so it’s best to open everything up in the early morning or evening. Even keeping your windows open for ten minutes can refresh the air in your home.Installing screens on your windows and keeping your air conditioning running will help to limit the outdoor allergens (and pests) that will enter your home., Household plants, such as English Ivy, can absorb toxins in the air and help to keep your home allergen free. However, they can also release mold into the air if they are overwatered or not trimmed back. Select plants that you are comfortable caring for and you’ll see cleaner air as a result., The fans in your kitchen and bathroom should send the air they suck in directly outside. Otherwise, you may be shooting dangerous moisture and particles into your attic or right back into your home. Follow the track of your exhaust fans and install new ones if necessary., Purchase this device at your local hardware store and go from room-to-room checking the readings. Follow the instructions on the package. If you get more than 60 percent humidity in any space, then you’ll want to put a humidifier in that area. High humidity creates an ideal breeding ground for mold.High temperature can also contribute to mold. Try to keep your home temperature between 68 and 72 degrees Fahrenheit (20-22 Celsius)., Buy a household air care kit at a hardware store or online. Follow the directions carefully and gather the samples as requested. When you send off the materials, you’ll receive a report back that will assess the levels of allergens, such as dust mites, in your home. This will help you to target certain problem areas., They will perform a series of tests to see exactly what you are allergic to. They can also offer suggestions regarding minimizing allergens in the home. Some will even do “home visits” to allergy-proof your space., Look at the manufacturer’s instructions for your AC unit and change filters according to that schedule. Install a filter that has a MERV rating of 8 to 12. A pleated filter is a good idea, too. For extra protection, add portable room air filters. These trap allergens in the air and require regular cleaning/filter changes.Make sure that none of your portable filters produce ozone as part of their cleaning process. This can irritate allergy sufferers.