 Open a new web browser tab or window, and go to YouTube.;
, Click the “Sign in” button at the top right of the page to access the login page. Enter your Gmail email address and password into the fields provided, and click “Sign in” to proceed.


If you don’t have a YouTube account yet, all you have to do is create a Google account. With a Google account, you can access all of Google's services (such as Google+, Hangouts, Drive, Gmail, and YouTube).
 At the top section of the left panel are some links. Click the second link, (“My Channel”) to open the My Channel page.


The My Channel page lists all the channels you’re subscribed to as well as your own channel.
 You will see two of your profile pictures in the My Channel page: one in the top right corner, and one in the channel art (or cover photo) on the page. Above and slightly to the right of your profile picture, you'll see the “Video Manager” link. Click this.
 You’ll find this on the left panel of the Video Manager page. The display on the right window will change to show Channel options.
 Look to the right window and scroll down the page. The third option from the bottom is “Live Events.” There’s an “Enable” button across from it; click this to begin verifying your account so you can enable this feature.


On the Account Verification page, select your country from the drop-down list. Below that, select whether you want an automated voice message to call you with the verification code or to text you.
Enter the number that YouTube will call or text in the box at the bottom, and then click the blue “Submit” button to the bottom right of the page. Wait for the call or text, when you receive it, enter the 6-digit verification code in the box provided and click “Submit.”
If successful, you will receive a “Congratulations! Your account is now verified” message. Click “Continue” and you will be taken to a page showing the Terms and Conditions for broadcasting live events. Click “I Agree” and you will be taken to the Live Events section on the Video Manager page.
 This will start the process of the live event you will broadcast, but don’t worry, you’re not broadcasting yet. You still have to add some information regarding your broadcast and configure some settings in the Create a New Event page.
 If you look at the top tab with a red underline, you’ll see that you’re currently on the Basic Info section of the Create a New Event page. This is where you enter information about the live event you’ll be broadcasting.


Enter the name of the event in the Title field.
If you want to schedule the live event to go on at a later time, just set the schedule in the two boxes below the title. Click the first box to set the date, and click the second box to set the time. Add an end time if you want by clicking the “End time” link next to the second box.
The next field is for Description. Add a little something about your live event.
Add tags to the box below the Description field. These tags help YouTube users to search for your live event. For the example above, you can have secluded beach, blue waters, white sand, diving, islands, and so on.
To the right of the page is the privacy setting for the live event. You can set it to “Public,” “Unlisted,” or “Private.” If you select “Public,” you can add a personal message for your viewers in the text box below. If you select “Private,” enter the email address of the people whom you’d like to share the live event with in the box below the privacy settings options. Separate the email address with a comma.
 Click the “Advanced Settings” tab at the top to access this menu. Here you can configure chat settings, category, language, and so much more.


If you want to enable Chat during the live broadcast, click the “Enable live chat” option at the top left. You can also opt to automatically block spam messages by clicking this option.
If you’ve set the live event to “Public” and would want viewers to embed the video on their website, you can select “Allow embedding” near the middle of the page.
If there’s an age restriction for the show, click “Enable age restrictions.” Enabling this prevents underaged YouTube users from viewing the event.
To the right of the page, at the top, is Category. If you want to add a category to your live event, select one from the drop-down list. You can select Comedy, Entertainment, Sports, Travel, among others.
You can set the video location below the Category option. Just type the location in to open a small screen with Google Maps, and then click “Search” for Google Maps to zoom in to the area.
Set the video language by selecting from the many languages available in the drop-down list below the Location field.
Set recording options by selecting from “Automatically make private after event has ended,” “Allow comments,” and “Users can view ratings for this video.” You can select one or all of the recording options.
Set broadcast delay if you want in the final option on the Advanced Settings page. Broadcast delay is the amount of delay between the stream you see in the preview player in the Live Control Room and the stream of your viewers.
 When all is set and done, you can begin broadcasting your live event. Click “Go Live Now” then click “OK” to confirm, and YouTube will open a Google+ Hangouts on Air window.


Once the Hangouts on Air window has loaded, click the green “Start broadcast” to begin the live event. You will see the word “Live” at the top right corner and the bottom middle of the window as you broadcast. Chats and messages can be seen on the right panel.
You can broadcast up to 8 hours straight. When you’re done with the live event, just click the red “Stop broadcast” button at the bottom.
If you want to access the recording for future viewing, go back to your Video Manager and select “Live Events” from the left panel. A list of all your recordings will be displayed here. Click on one to view it again.

