 You can purchase replacement glass for your Samsung Galaxy S4 from stores online or from your local cell phone repair shop.;
, Prepare the following before sitting down to replace your phone’s screen:


Small, thin plastic tool for wedging between the glass and the digitizer
Heat gun
Pry tool
Clear tape or packaging tape
Lint-free cloth

, The back of the unit should be facing you.
 Do this by inserting a fingernail on the groove a bit higher than the Power button on the right side of the device, then gently pry off the back cover.
 Secure these in a place where you won’t lose them.
 The heat gun will be used to soften the adhesive holding the glass to the digitizer.


The digitizer is the component that detects the touch input and is attached to the display.
 Heat it for 3–5 minutes while holding it at around 6 inches (15.2 cm) away from the phone.


DO NOT heat the glass for long periods, as it might melt the digitizer, causing discoloration. In the event of this happening, turn off the gun immediately.
 Pry the glass until you have a gap where you can wedge something in.


Do this process slowly as pulling the glass hastily out may shatter it.
 This is so the glass won’t slide back in place.


If the glass is shattered, cover the glass with packaging tape to keep it intact.
 Once the edges are released from the adhesive, the glass will be more easier to remove.
 If you notice the glass becomes difficult to lift out, heat the glass again to prevent the adhesive from cooling.


Be careful when removing the glass around the Home button and the capacitive touch buttons.
 Carefully clear any residue with lint-free cloth and isopropyl alcohol.


Do NOT douse the screen with alcohol.
 Be sure not to touch the underside of the glass, as this contains adhesives and will leave hard-to-remove smudges if you touch it.
 Apply gentle pressure along the sides and on the center.


Be careful not to apply too much pressure as you may damage the digitizer.
 You can now reassemble the phone’s back, and clean the new glass off with lint-free cloth.

