 Following a shower, your shower’s walls are covered in water, soap, and dirt particles. When left on the walls, soap scum is formed and mildew and molds grow. To prevent the build up of these items, squeegee your shower walls and door after each use. Run over the walls and corners with a clean, dry towel to soak up any remaining water. Leave the shower door ajar to allow the area to dry.Maintaining this daily routine will make it easier to clean your travertine shower.
To eliminate soap scum, switch from bar soap to liquid soap., While wiping down your shower walls after each use will dramatically decrease the presence of soap scum, mildew, and mold, trace amounts of these items will cover your shower walls. Clean your shower every one to two weeks.


Spray the walls and shower door with a gentle cleaner.
Allow the product to sit for 5 to 10 minutes.
Buff the travertine stone, glass, and metal fixtures with a clean microfiber cloth.
Eradicate mineral build-up with a stone scrub, an abrasive cleaner that should be used with caution on polished surfaces. Spray the treated area with a gentle cleaner and blot with a microfiber cloth. , Constant exposure to water can damage travertine tiles, ruin grout, and encourage the production of soap scum, mildew, and mold. To maintain a clean, structurally sound shower, conduct a deep clean and an assessment every six months.


Treat your walls with a soap film remover to remove soap scum build up. Allow the product to sit for a few minutes before polishing it off with a microfiber rag.
Target mildew and mold in your shower with a mild mildew remover. After allowing product to sit for a few minutes, remove the residue with a clean microfiber rag.
Examine your grout and search for cracks and holes. If you discover any missing grout, repair it immediately—cracks and holes in the grout may lead to extensive water damage. Allow the repaired grout to cure for 7 to 10 days.
Observe the tiles for discoloration. If you spot a dark tile that was once light, this is a sign of water absorption. Apply a sealer to your shower.