 In this noble quest to positively impact the world, it's easy to always look far down the road and overlook the opportunities you have to help others right now. Think about how you can improve someone's life today.


You may be very busy and think you don't have much time to spare, but you can still find little ways to help others.
For example, you can set your alarm just a few minutes earlier than normal and scrape the ice off your neighbor's car before you head off to work.
If you're in school, you can offer to organize a study group before a big exam or offer to share notes with your classmate who has been out with the flu for two weeks.
 Make a resolution to perform good deeds every day. The best way to do this is to look for little ways to spread joy and/or help others. For example:


Hold doors open for the people, making sure to do it with a welcoming smile.
Let someone who looks to be in a hurry move in front of you while waiting at the grocery store.
Buy a pack of diapers for the new parents across the street (even if you don't know them).
Spend a few minutes cutting coupons from the newspaper so that you can pick up some extra groceries, and then donate them to your local food pantry.
Sincerely ask those who serve you (your waiters and waitresses, check-out clerks, gas station attendants, etc.) how they are doing.
Even though these are fairly small gestures, they can still have a big impact on others.
 You'll continue to find ways to make positive changes in others' lives on a daily basis, no matter how small. However, don't forget to think bigger and longer-term as well.


For example, do you want to be a philanthropist or work for a non-profit someday? Would you like to work for Doctors Without Borders? Do you want to make sure that all children have (beyond) adequate learning materials at school?
Depending upon your longer-term goals, you may need to spend some of your time now developing and sharpening your skills and acquiring the requisite knowledge.
This might mean that you'll need to enroll in particular course of study, obtain an internship or even change career paths.
As a result, some of the time you have open to volunteer right now will be reduced, but you'll be making yourself into a better instrument for the world in the long-run.
 Think about what you appreciate in your life, and then think about ways that you can spread those good things to others.


For example, are you in a fulfilling career today because of the educational advantages you had as a child? If so, then perhaps a good way for you to both express your gratitude and help others would be to focus on helping school children get the books they need.
Alternatively, you could volunteer to tutor a couple of times a week in an economically disadvantaged school district.
The basic idea is to identify the ways in which you've been helped or blessed and in turn find ways to pay it forward to others.

