 Before just walking up to your mom and bringing up puberty, you should sit and think about it for a while. Are you looking for general advice, medical explanations, help with preparation, a shopping trip, a shoulder to cry on, or all of the above? Your mom will understand how tough it is to ask for advice and help, and make it as easy as she can to make the topic comfortable and informative for you.


The first and probably most important thing to remember when talking to mom is that she went through the exact same thing. No matter how old a woman is, at your age they were curious, shy, and worried about their body, just like you!;
, You want to make sure you know what you are talking about. You can find out practically anything online, but make sure you use reliable sources like Kids Health, hhs.gov, or WebMD. Learn the basics of what will happen to your body, and learn about what's going on internally. This way, when you talk to your mom, you'll have a better idea of what questions you should ask. Going to the bookstore and spending a little money on a puberty book they sell in the Women's Health section will also give you more trustworthy knowledge, so when you bring the subject up with your mom, you have an idea what to ask.


Learn about puberty in boys, too. Although you yourself won't be going through this, it will help you to understand what the boys in your school are going through.
 If can't even think about puberty without cringing, talking about it with someone else might just make you severely embarrassed and nervous, rather than helping you learn more about the subject. You should be comfortable enough with puberty that talking about it with your mom will help you learn more and become more prepared to face it, without subjecting you to undue discomfort or embarrassment. Reading and thinking more about it, as well as talking to friends, a doctor or school nurse, or anyone else, will help you get more comfortable with the subject.
 When you have researched puberty and become comfortable with the idea of it, you're ready to bring it up with your mom. Find a time when you two are alone so that you can begin the discussion. Invite her out to coffee or lunch for a date in order to make sure you have plenty of time to talk, or find that time even by just helping her while she cooks.
 Have an idea of how you can bring up the subject. This doesn't have to be an elaborate ruse - simply saying "Mom, I want to ask you about puberty" will bring up the subject in a simple, matter-of-fact way. Think about why you're talking to her. What do you want to know? Do you have questions, concerns, or fears? Do you need something specific, or are you just looking for general advice? You don't need to write down a list of questions or make it feel like an interview, but having a good idea of what kind of information you're looking for will help you get the most out of the conversation.
 Say "Hey Mom, when you were my age..." or "Mom, did you ever...?" Chances are, she was just as nervous and embarrassed back then as you are now. Asking her about her own experiences is a great way to draw connections between the two of you, make her remember what it was like to be in your position, and help her understand what you're feeling right now. You will also benefit from hearing about her experiences, so that you don't have to repeat her mistakes.
 You have researched and familiarized yourself with puberty. You have thought about what you want to know, and you've planned a time for the conversation. Now all there is left is to go for the gold. Approach your mom at the planned time and simply bring up your question. She will be happy that you came to her with your questions, and she'll be excited to share her experiences.

