 If you start to notice that you’re having more than one or two of these symptoms, it is probably time to make a doctor appointment. It is especially important to be seen if you start to see signs of late stage hypothyroidism, such as a slower heart rate and decreased senses of smell and taste.


At the onset of hypothyroidism, you may not notice it because it just looks like a bit of weight gain and fatigue, symptoms that also come with aging. You will develop further symptoms, however, as your metabolism slows down., A doctor will ask very specific and thorough questions about your symptoms before moving to the next stage of diagnosing hypothyroidism, which is blood tests. Be prepared for these questions by taking detailed notes of your symptoms before arriving at the doctor’s office.


You may consider typing your symptoms as you notice them into the Notes feature in your phone, or downloading a symptom tracker app.
You should also give the doctor a detailed medical history, such as past issues with your thyroid gland (including any surgeries or other symptoms and treatments), family history with the thyroid gland, and any general medications you have taken recently., Since hypothyroidism cannot be determined by symptoms alone, the doctor must take blood tests to measure your thyroid hormone levels. Hypothyroidism symptoms also tend to be similar to symptoms of other diseases, so blood tests are truly the best way to determine hypothyroidism.One test is the TSH test. The TSH is a very sensitive test that measures thyroid activity. A reading of “above normal” indicates hypothyroidism, and a reading of “below normal” indicates hyperthyroidism.
Another is the T4 test. The T4 test measures the level of thyroid hormone in the blood. A reading lower than normal indicates hypothyroidism.
A common test is the thyroid autoantibody test. Thyroid autoantibodies are only present in the blood if a person’s hypothyroidism is cause by Hashimoto’s disease, so while this test unequivocally proves that someone has hypothyroidism, if autoantibodies are not present, a person may still have hypothyroidism caused by something else.
 Once you have been diagnosed with hypothyroidism, most doctors will put you on medication. Hypothyroidism is a condition that cannot be cured, so hormone replacement is the only way to help the body regulate TSH and T4. Your medication will be pills containing T4, also known as thyroxine.You must be careful to take the exact dosage prescribed. Taking too little of the medication will make your hypothyroidism persist, and taking too much can make you develop the opposite condition, hyperthyroidism.
Symptoms of hyperthyroidism include rapid heartbeat, inability to sleep, nervousness, increased appetite, and feeling shaky.
 At first, you may need to increase your dosage of T4 based on symptoms. Every time your doctor increases your dosage of T4, you need a blood test 6 to 10 weeks afterward in order to ensure that your T4 levels are normal.Eventually you and your doctor will feel comfortable about the dosage you’re taking, and you can get your T4 levels checked only once a year.
Babies and young children must strictly maintain their medication regimes or risk mental retardation and stunted growth.
 Everyone is different, so you must pay attention to your body. You may have to return to the doctor if complications arise, or if you start to take other medications that interfere with your T4 medicine.Pay attention to a return or worsening of symptoms. This may mean that you aren’t taking enough medicine.
Other issues that may arise with taking T4 can include taking medicines that prevent your body from absorbing T4 like calcium-based antacids, iron tablets, or medications that contain estrogen.
If you notice a weight gain or loss of 10 or more pounds when you aren’t trying to, it may indicate an issue with your thyroid medication.

