 Nothing kills loyalty faster than someone divulging secrets. When you can’t trust your partner with confidential information your need to be faithful to your word, engagements, or obligations withers and dies. If they ask you to, keep it on the DL.


If their secret is potential harmful to someone you care about, work through a manner of dealing with the information that doesn’t compromise your integrity.
 As Don and Michael Corleone said in “The Godfather Part I & II”, never go against the family in public. Stay beside your partner. Talk about your disagreement in public. This builds tremendous strength of loyalty as your partner knows you have their back and will never embarrass them in front of others.


Partner and family disputes can be very, very touchy. Remember this incontrovertible fact: you live with your partner, not your family. This could be the relationship you have for the rest of your life. Side with your partner.Siding with your partner doesn’t mean cutting out your family. Have your partner’s back and then, if you disagree, say so when the two of you are alone and explain why. This will go a long, long way to building loyalty.
After smoothing it over with your partner, smooth it over with your family. Let them know the subject of the disagreement is not an either/or situation and a difficult decision to make. You and your partner will continue discussing it and perhaps you can all revisit it later and find a mutually acceptable answer.
 If they’re sick and you have a tee time, cancel your match and take care of them. If they need you at the company picnic and you hate the boss, suck it up and get out there and picnic yourself into a good mood. Your partner needs you. Be there.
 Again, we all have them, so rather than berate your partner or make them feel less-than, accept the occurrence and later revisit it. Give yourself time to see the bigger picture so you can help them become better people.Patterns of behavior are more illuminating than isolated incidents. Once you’ve both had time to step back, seeing the bigger behavior pattern becomes easier and a far more effective learning tool. Just remember that the point is to heal not to blame.

