 Make sure you hold your baby for a while several times every day. Holding them will increase their level of comfort in your arms, and will offer them the joys of movement, changing perspectives, and physical contact. Though simply holding your baby may not seem like "play," you may be surprised by how much you end up laughing at one another and otherwise enjoying each other's company.Experiment holding you baby in different ways, including with the aid of a baby carrier that is safe and appropriate for the baby’s size.
Always make sure you’re supporting your newborn’s head, as neck muscles are still developing for the first six months.
 Contact between your own and your baby’s skin will also strengthen your bond to one another, increase both you and your baby’s level of happiness, and even help regulate your baby’s temperature and heart rate.Further, your skin will likely fascinate your baby. They will likely spend long periods of time simply looking at and touching your skin, as well as their own. This is both a type of exploratory playfulness you'll see whenever they touch something new or pleasurable.
 Don’t forget some of the best baby toys there are: their own hands and feet. As your newborn begins to notice their own hands and feet, they’ll be both amused and overjoyed. Facilitate this fascination by bringing their attention to different parts of their own body.As they become able to better control their hands, provide them with a rattle or something else that will make noise. Making noise with toys is often the manner by which babies first begin to learn that they are capable of affecting the world around them.
Similarly, provide them with toys they can touch together and compare as they begin to gain more control of their bodies.
 Your newborn will likely be fascinated by the different ways things feel to the touch. Provide a variety of toys and fabrics to your newborn to expose them to how vastly different things can feel. Similarly, make a point of laying them down on surfaces with different textures, including different types of blankets and cloth.Know that a baby first learns about their body and their environment with their tactile sensory system. Otherwise stated, they first learn by touching things. This is why many baby toys include little move-able attachments.
 Bringing your newborn on walks will be healthy and enjoyable for both of you. They will be thrilled by the new visual, auditory, and physical sensations. Further, exposure to the outdoor environment will help stimulate their intellectual growth, curiosity, and sense of place in the world as a human individual.


Bring your baby along for your jog to include them in your exercise routine.
Use a baby carrier if you’ll just be walking, as this will facilitate a greater personal bond, and close proximity to your body is a perfect source of warmth.