 If you’re having an irregular period or a difficult time getting pregnant, visit your regular doctor or your OB/GYN. There are many reasons this can occur, so have a physical examination to rule out other causes than thin uterine lining. If a thin endometrium is your problem, your doctor will be the best person to help you decide on treatment.

It’s important to determine the cause of your thin endometrium to best treat the condition.
 The first step to increase uterine lining is usually to manipulate your hormones using estrogen therapy.Your doctor may prescribe you a method of birth control that contains estrogen, or give you estrogen in the form of a pill, patch, gel, cream, or spray.Taking estrogen can increase your risk for blood clots, heart disease, and some cancers.Discuss your health history and family history with your doctor.
 Your uterine lining needs good blood flow to grow, so restricted arteries can cause a thin endometrium.Talk to your doctor about whether you can take a medication that expands your blood vessels, called a vasodilator, to improve blood flow to your uterus.

People with certain medical conditions should not take vasodilators, and these medications can cause side effects like fast heartbeat, fluid retention, headache, chest pain, and nausea.Discuss your health history with your doctor before starting any medication.
 Eat foods rich in vitamin E, and talk to your doctor about taking a vitamin E supplement – sometimes called tocopherol.The recommended daily intake of vitamin E is 15mg for women; ask your doctor about higher doses to increase uterine lining – 600mg were given to women in studies.Foods high in vitamin E include:Almonds, pine nuts, hazelnuts, peanuts, and peanut butter
Raw seeds like pumpkin, sunflower, and sesame
Swiss chard, kale, and spinach
Mustard greens, turnip greens, and parsley
Avocado, broccoli, tomato, and olives
Mango, papaya, and kiwi
Wheat germ oil, safflower oil, and corn oil

, There is good scientific evidence that taking an l-arginine supplement helps people with heart trouble and leg pain due to clogged arteries.Because of its ability to expand arteries and improve blood flow, taking l-arginine may help to increase uterine lining.You can get these supplements at your pharmacy or health food store.

There is no set dosing limit for l-arginine, but it can be taken anywhere in the range of 0.5-15mg for different ailments.Studies have used 6 g/day to treat thin uterine lining. Talk to your doctor about dosing and whether this supplement is right for you.

