 Cloth convertible tops are not as resilient as vinyl, and as a result, should only be washed using products designed specifically to clean them. Try to avoid getting traditional car wash soap on your cloth convertible top during normal washing, then apply a cleaner designed for cloth tops after.You can purchase cloth convertible top cleaners at most auto parts stores.
Regular car wash soap can dry out a cloth top and compromise its water proof seal over time.
 If your cloth top has debris or stuck on dirt that won’t come off easily, use a moderately stiff brush to scrub the cloth top cleaner into the fabric. A short bristled, moderately stiff brush will remove the stuck on material without damaging the cloth.Apply the cleaner to the top, then scrub it in with the brush gently until the dirt comes off.
Rinse the top thoroughly after you’re done using a hose.
 Cloth tops are treated at the factory to water proof them, but over time the cloth’s ability to prevent water from seeping through will begin to fade. Look in your car for puddles or wet fabric after a heavy rain. If the inside of your car has some wet spots, it is likely that the water repellent treatment in your cloth convertible top has worn off.The inside of your car should remain dry during rain storms. If you spot wet areas, you may need to reapply a water repellent to the cloth top.
Water inside your car could also indicate a failed seal around a window or door. Check to make sure the seals in your vehicle aren’t cracked or torn when you find water inside it.
 If you think your cloth top is no longer effectively repelling water, you can apply a water repellant to it that is designed for cloth convertible tops. Spray the repellent on the top evenly while it is completely dry. Depending on the repellant you use, you may need to apply multiple coats.Some cloth top sealers require that you allow one coat to dry before applying another one.
Be careful to apply the water repellent sealer evenly to avoid discoloration of your cloth top due to some areas having better protection than others.
 If you find that your car’s convertible top needs to have water repellant reapplied to it, you will likely need to apply the sealant regularly from that point forward. If you store your vehicle in a garage, you may be able to reapply the sealant every few months, otherwise you should plan to re-apply the sealant monthly.The initial treatment of water repellent sealer provided by the factory can last for years, but new applications you do yourself are usually only good for a month or two.
Failing to re-seal your cloth top could result in significant leaks and even mold.

