 To convince your parents, you need to sidestep their reasons. Think about what they might say so that you can plan a response in advance.


If your parents are worried about money, then they are likely to say that they can’t afford a new phone.
If you play a lot of video games, then your parents may worry that you’ll download too many gaming apps.
If your older sibling got caught talking to someone they weren’t supposed to, then your parents may worry that you’ll do the same.;
, You need to counter your parents’ reasons why you shouldn’t get a phone, so find an argument against each of the reasons you just listed.


Show your parents that the phone won’t cost as much as they think, or explain to them how you will help pay for it.
Ask your friends for free gaming apps, or be prepared to promise your parents that you won’t download any games. If it’s the time you spend gaming that your parents are worried about, then promise to cut back on video games if you get the phone.
Promise to let your parents periodically check who you are texting or messaging.
 You’re more likely to convince your parents if you have a strong case, so plan to show them that your new phone is a necessity by brainstorming all the reasons why you need one.


A phone would allow you to call your parents if you’re in trouble or to contact emergency services if you’re in danger.
Remind them that kids your age often encounter peer pressure, so having an easy way to contact them would allow you to have an “out” in such situations.
If you miss school, you could ask your friend for their notes and the assignments.
 Your parents need to know that you can take care of the phone, so think of how you’ve shown them that you are responsible in the past.Remember to do your homework everyday.
Do all of your chores without your parents asking.
Take care of your clothes, backpack, and video games.
Responsibly spend your lunch money, and save any money you receive as a gift.
 Present the phone as an ongoing reward that you will have to continue to earn. For example, your parents could require you to keep your grades up, do extra chores, or help pay for the plan., Ask your parents when they are relaxed and in a good mood. If they are busy, rushed, or having a hard day, wait to ask. Don’t interrupt your parents if they’re already talking to someone, whether it’s on the phone or face-to-face.If your parents are busy with an activity, it’s okay to let them know that you want to talk to them when they have a free moment. Say, “Hey, mom. I see that you’re making dinner right now, but if you have time tonight I’d like to talk about something.”
Consider writing a letter to request the phone.
 Be polite and sensible throughout the discussion. If you whine, argue, or storm off, then your parents will see that you aren’t mature enough for a phone.
 You can appeal to their emotions in several ways, including their concern for your safety, your need for independence, and your need for social acceptance.If you go out of town for a sport or activity, tell your parents that the phone will allow you to stay in contact with them while you’re gone.
Tell them a story about a kid who was in danger and needed to call someone. For example, say, “Remember last month when a stranger stopped that girl two streets down? She used her cell phone to call 9-1-1 and got help.”
Explain how not having a phone has negatively affected you socially.
 Show your parents that getting you a phone makes the most sense for your family. Incorporate the responses you prepared for their potential reasons against the phone.For example, if your parents pick you up from practice, tell them that you could call when it’s time to pick you up.
Use your planned responses. Say, “I know that you’re worried that I’ll play on my phone during dinner, but I promise to leave it in my bedroom the whole time we’re eating.”

, Print out a news article about why kids your age should have phones. Choose a credible news source that your parents will believe.Try a parenting blog that says you should get a kid a phone at your age or younger than you are.
Avoid posts written by other kids.
 Explain to your parents that you will do more chores in exchange for getting a phone, and explain how you can use the phone to do more work for school., Your parents are more likely to say yes if you agree to their rules for using the phone and allow them to check up on what you’re using it for.Suggest ways that they can check your phone to ensure that you’ve followed their rules. You may even suggest a phone tracking app so that they can track your location.
If your parents say that you're not allowed to do something like texting friends, don't get upset. Over time, they will allow you to if you show you’re mature and responsible.
 Don’t be concerned about the type of phone or its features. Offer to let them select a pre-paid plan or cheaper phone model for your first phone.
 If you have saved some of your allowance or gift money, offer to use it to buy the phone. You could also offer to forgo your allowance to help pay the phone bill or to contribute money that you earn from a job, babysitting, or mowing yards., If they say no, don’t protest or plead with them. Show that you are mature by listening to what they say without reacting.Stay calm, and take a deep breath before you respond.
Avoid arguments. Arguing with your parents won’t change their minds; instead, they’ll likely become more resistant to the idea of you getting a phone.
Understand their response. If your parents say no, remember that they have a good reason. They have your best interest in mind, or may just not be able to add the expense of a phone right now.
 Whether you get a yes or a no, you need to ask your parents a few clarifying questions to know what you need to do next.If they say yes, ask them for their rules and expectations. Say, “I’m so excited about getting my new phone! How can I prove to you guys that you’re making a good decision?”
If they say no, ask them what you can do to show them that you’re ready for a phone. Say, “What can I do to show you that I’m responsible enough for a phone?”

, If your parents say yes, then talk to them about when you can go phone shopping. If they say no, take steps to show your parents that you are responsible and reconsider how you can show them that you need a phone.If they say no, remember that you can ask again, so try not to get upset. Instead, think about what you can do now to help yourself be successful the next time you ask.
Remember, when you are asking your parents for the phone, never disturb them by again and again asking to buy the phone. They wont be satisfied with your behaviour.

