 Open the package of mini marshmallows and pour them into a measuring cup. You should measure out three cups of marshmallows. It does not matter if you use white mini marshmallows or colored marshmallows.Rainbow marshmallows are great for bark made for Easter.;
, You will need the dish for when you put the bark into the freezer. You can use an 8x11 glass dish, or a half-sized cookie sheet for the marshmallow bark. Line the dish or sheet with parchment paper.The parchment paper keeps the ingredients from sticking to the sheet, and it makes it easier to move the bark.
 This recipe calls for white chocolate chips, but you can use any type of chocolate that you’d like. If you don’t have chocolate chips, you can also use cut up pieces of chocolate. Put the entire package of chocolate chips into a medium size glass bowl., The it takes me vary depending on the method you use. Take the bowl and put it into the microwave for two minutes. If you don’t want to to put the bowl into the microwave, you can put the chocolate into a pot and melt it over over medium heat. Add a tablespoon of shortening to the chocolate to aid the melting process.White chocolate is a bit more frustrating to melt than other types of chocolate because it doesn’t look melted when it really is. Stir the chocolate to see if it’s melted rather than melting it more without need.
 No matter what method you use to melt the chocolate, you will need to stir it. Stir it after every thirty seconds it is in the microwave. Remove it from the microwave, stir it with a large, wooden spoon, and then return it to the microwave until another thirty seconds passes. If you’re melting it over the stove, continuously stir it as it is melting.Sometimes stirring the chocolate will help it melt the rest of the way.
 Pour the three cups of marshmallows into the bowl of melted chocolate. Then, use the spoon to coat the marshmallows in the chocolate. Do this quickly or the marshmallows will begin to melt., Transfer the ingredients to the dish or cookie sheet as soon as the marshmallows have melted. Simply pour the bowl of chocolate and marshmallows onto the parchment paper. Use a rubber scraper to extend the mixture to the sides of the sheet. Use the same scraper to pat the mixture down so that it is even.Pour the mixture slowly, or you may unintentionally make a mess.
 Put the sheet into the freezer as soon as the ingredients have been poured and patted down. It can take anywhere from five minutes to twenty minutes in the freezer. The freezer is best to use because it allows the mixture to cool off quickly.If you do put it in the refrigerator, allow the mixture an hour to cool.
 Once you remove the mixture from the freezer, put it out on the counter or kitchen table. Wait until the bark reaches room temperature to cut it up. It shouldn’t take very long for the bark to reach room temperature—maybe five or ten minutes., You can break or cut the bark into pieces. Breaking it will leave a less uniform look. Cutting the pieces allows you to shape the bark as you wish. Use a sharp kitchen knife to cute the bark., Unless you are immediately eating the bark, store it in an airtight container. The container keeps the bark from melting. The bark will be good for at least a few days, but it is better to eat it as soon as possible.