 If you are old enough to cook dinner, google “easy meals for kids to make” and find a few simple recipes. Try making your own pizza on French bread or store-bought pizza dough, or putting together a deluxe chef salad or loaded tacos or burritos. Set the table for them, then pretend you are a waiter at a fancy restaurant and bring them their plates.Resist the temptation to use the fancy dishes – the last thing you want is to break one. Chefs usually agree that food looks best on simple, white plates anyway!
Candles can make an evening meal seem special – set them up on the table, then wait to let your parents light them. Besides the safety issue, burning candles are also a dead giveaway if you're trying to make the dinner a surprise.
 Print out some of your parent's favorite photos, and arrange them in a photo album or scrapbook. This makes a lovely gift that anyone would appreciate – and it also takes care of a big chore your mom or dad has probably been putting off doing for themselves: taking care of that box of old photos.Theme books are a great idea. Try making a book that chronicles your family vacations, or one that has photos from each of your birthdays.
If you have a little money saved up, services like Shutterfly or Mosaic will take your digital photos and turn them into a professionally printed hardbound book that your parents can display on the coffee table. If you keep photos on instagram, they have their own service, Social Print Studio (formerly Printstagram), which is very affordable., Washing the car by hand is better for the paint than taking it through a carwash, and this will keep them from having to do it themselves. Mom or Dad is sure to be grateful if you give their car a little love. You'll need a bucket full of soapy water, spray glass cleaner, sponges, and clean, soft rags for drying. If your parents keep soap and materials in the car specifically for washing the car, use those.


For soap, mix three long squirts of dishwashing soap into a bucket of warm water. Use a large sponge or soft, clean rags to apply the soapy water to all outside surfaces of the car. Wipe the car until it looks clean.
Rinse the soapy water off the car with the garden hose. If you don't have a hose, you can dump clean water over the paint until the soap foam is completely gone.
Always dry the car gently after washing with a chamois cloth or soft terrycloth rags. Letting a car air-dry will leave streaks, and the moisture can pick up road debris that can scratch the paint.
 If you know what music your mom or dad likes, this will be easy. If not, you may need to do a little research. Your parent will be grateful to have this on your next long roadtrip, or just for something to listen to while commuting to and from work.Look up what songs were popular when your parents were teenagers. See if you can find a few that you like, too. If not, look for names your mom or dad may have mentioned, or albums they have in their collection.
You could also try making a playlist of music that you like, that you think they might like as well. You never know – your parents might be cooler than you give them credit for. And having bands that you like in common means you can listen to music together sometimes.

