 Puberty brings about many changes physically and mentally, as well as emotionally. Your body goes through hormonal changes, and you will notice your body slowly changing from a child’s body into an adult’s body. If you’re wondering whether you’re becoming a teenager yet, just look at your body!


Most boys begin puberty between ages nine and 15, while most girls begin earlier: between ages eight and 13.You might feel awkward or embarrassed at first, but this is a natural process, and you will eventually become comfortable with your body.;
, Your brain and hormones are going through puberty along with your physical body, and they will experience changes as well. Expect an occasional mood swing: one minute you’ll feel happy, then you’ll feel angry or sad, and then happy again. This is typical; your body is going through hormonal changes and this is how your brain manages all the mental and physical changes of puberty.


This is a common first step as you approach puberty. If you notice yourself experiencing frequent mood swings, puberty is just around the corner.
If you notice an increase in negative thoughts or are occupied with thoughts of harming yourself or others, talk to your parents or to your school counselor as soon as possible.
 During puberty, hormonal changes going on in your body will stimulate oil glands under the surface of your skin. This will make your skin feel more greasy, as more oil is pushed to the surface.As a result, outbreaks of pimples are likely to increase, especially if you have poor facial hygiene. To help prevent serious acne:


Wash your face with lukewarm water and a gentle facial cleanser twice a day to keep the pimples from showing up and getting bigger.
Drink more water so that your body can flush out toxins.
Acne can also be genetic. If you start noticing an increase in pimples, ask your parents if they suffered from many outbreaks during puberty. You may wish to see a dermatologist for additional skin care., Hair will start to grow in your groin, just like under your armpits. In fact, hair will often start to grow in both places around the same time — early in puberty, often around age nine.Pubic hair and body hair growth are signs that you have definitely entered puberty. While mood swings, acne, and other hormonal developments precede or lead into your pubescence, body hair growth and upcoming growth spurts are sure signs to help you know that you have entered puberty.
 For both young men and young women, puberty brings about frequent growth spurts as your body grows into that of an adult.While growth can occasionally be physically painful, a larger concern — especially for parents — is that you will quickly outgrow your clothes and shoes until your growth spurts have stopped.


Since everyone begins puberty at different times, some young men and women will begin their growth spurts before their peers. This is normal, even if it’s sometimes a little socially awkward.
Young women will notice their hips becoming wider and will begin to develop breasts.Young men will notice their shoulders becoming broader and their chests filling out., When you feel concerned, embarrassed, or insecure about your puberty, talk to someone about it. Try to talk about it with your mother, father, family members, or another adult you trust. Remember, they’ve all been through it.


It’s also a good idea to visit your doctor yearly while you are going through puberty. He will make sure you are healthy and can answer any questions you may have.

