

Although bullying may be something that you do, it is not who you are.Negative labels lower your self-esteem and can increase the stress that is actually causing you to bully others. Face the fact that you did mean things, but acknowledge that you still have a lot of good qualities.

Instead of calling yourself a bully, try saying to yourself, “I have bullied in the past, but that’s not something I do anymore.”
Think about your positive qualities, skills, and talents. Use these things to identify yourself. For example, say to yourself, “I am funny and smart.”

, Bullying not only hurts the people being bullied, but also hurts you. Recognizing the effect your bullying has on your life now, as well as facing what impact it can have on your life later, are important steps in ending your bullying.


Bullying can get you into trouble if reported or get you hurt if someone decides to retaliate.
It can cause you to lose friends and cause people you don’t even know to dislike you.
Your self-image and confidence can be lowered because of your bullying.
Some people who were bullies as children have problems with their adult relationships, friendships, and careers.,

Do you mean to hurt others? Bullying is usually a learned response to stress.In other words, something has taught you that bullying is a way to cope with anxiety, fear, etc. One key to stop bullying is to identify why you do it in the first place. Be honest with yourself and take time to think deeply about why you have been doing this.

Some people bully others because they have been bullied or are being bullied themselves. Some people that bully have been the victim or abuse or trauma. If either of these is your situation, talk to someone you trust about what happened to you.
Other people bully because they want attention, or to feel powerful.
Some people bully because of their beliefs about race, sexuality, religion, etc. They are often uncomfortable with people they consider ‘different.’
Don’t blame the other person as the reason why you bully them. The other person is not responsible for your actions; you are. Even if he did something to you in the past, your actions and your response now are under your control.
 Whether it is a teacher, mentor, counselor, or even an online forum, share what you are going through with someone you trust. She can help you sort through any negative feelings you are having, deal with your underlying reasons for bullying, and introduce you to more constructive ways to express your feelings.,

One of the biggest things you can do to stop bullying is to explore different ways to cope with stress. Using new methods of coping with your negative feelings replaces your bullying with appropriate behavior.Explore various deep breathing techniques. Changing your breathing is one simple way to calm down quickly and appropriately handle a situation.
Look into meditation and mindfulness strategies. These techniques are often successful in reducing anxiety and stress, which can lead to bullying behavior.

