 If you have old earrings that are broken, or ones you don't wear anymore, you can turn them into magnets. Simply buy magnet backs at a local craft store. Small disc magnet backs work best for this project. Superglue the magnet backs on your earrings and then place them on your fridge to spruce up your kitchen.You should use pliers to remove any wires or backs that are still on the jewelry.
This works best on larger jewelry. Small earrings, like gold balls, may look awkward glued to a magnet back.;
, If you have any larger earrings, these can be glued to a decorative box. If you have a decorative box sitting out on a mantel or elsewhere in your home, it may look a little dull. Try to add a little extra decoration by supergluing an earring to the box.If you have a lot of earrings you no longer use, glue a lot of them to a decorative box. You can try to make a design, like a heart shape, or simply scatter jewels all over the front of the box.
 If you have a mobile hanging in your home, enhance it with earrings. Earrings can be glued or tied to the strings of a mobile. They can also be glued to hanging pieces of a mobile to give them extra flare. Earrings can make a run-of-the-mill mobile sparkle in your home.For example, if you have a mobile of the sun, moon, and stars, superglue shiny earrings to the hanging pieces. This will make the cosmos shine a little.
 If you have a fabric table runner and earrings with the wire still in place, you can add some fringe to the edge of your runner. Take a series of old earrings and feed the wire end through either end of the runner. This will give your runner a fun, somewhat bohemian fringe.If you don't have a table runner, but do have a lot of old earrings, consider springing for a inexpensive fabric runner at a department store. A somewhat dull runner will be brightened up if you decorate it with earrings.
 Stop by a local department store or art store. Pick up some picture frames that have backs wrapped with linen. Then, remove hooks and wires from old earrings with pliers. You can then hot glue the earrings onto the linen, creating fun, decorative frames with old earrings.You can also use other old items, like old postcards or birthday cards, on the back of your linen if the earrings dull on their own. You can make a fun collage using picture frames, old jewelry, and other supplies.

