 Now that you have more time, you can do things that you didn't have time for during the school year.;
, Even if it seems too juvenile for you, like going to your local playground, you should consider it if you really want to do it. You are only young once! (And it's YOUR life, don't get down if someone thinks what you do is childish.)

, If you love animals, painting or photography, consider going to a local zoo or nature trail, or enrolling in an art or photography class. If you love music, find out if there are some concerts going on. There are a lot of great events that happen during the summer.
 It will help you see what you really enjoy doing that helps you express yourself.
 Not only does this help others, but it really helps you see the bigger picture outside of high school drama and sports.
 This is a sure fire way of making sure you don't lose touch with your pals over the summer. Yes, texting is OK, but to really make good memories and great bonds with your friends you need to go do things together. Cookouts, swimming, playing volleyball, going to your local river to fish, shopping at the mall, and other things are great ways to hang out with your friends.
 If you are like me, it will take a while to get your room ready for school. It will be worth it though when you are not losing important papers. Plus, your parents will see that you are more mature when they see that you cleaned your room without them threatening to take away your cellphone.
 This is a great thing to do. Your parents and siblings will always be there for you if you have a good relationship with them. Even something simple like eating dinner together can make your relationship closer with your family.
 There are books out there that are really interesting, believe it or not. There is one collection of books that i have fallen in love with called "the princess diaries". I think it is really cool because it is based on a real princess, but has bits of fiction in it to fill up the spaces of what they didn't know about the princess.
 With the right frame of mind, you can make anything fun! I hope this article has helped you think of things you want to do this summer, and helped you be in a frame of mind to where you want to live life to the fullest.

