 Once you feel confident doing non-weight training exercises such as bridges, planks, lunges, and running, you can move onto adding bulk to your toned and strengthened butt.The best weightlifting exercises for bulking up your behind are squats and deadlifts. If you are just beginning, try squatting and deadlifting the bar before adding weights. Gradually add weights in 2.5 lb increments

, For a basic squat, position the bar with or without weights behind your neck and across your upper back. Hold it with an underhand grip. Set your feet shoulder width apart and squat down as low as you can go. Stand up and repeat. Do 3 sets of 3 to 5 repetitions. Try adding weight with each repetition.For a braced squat, hold a weight in front of your chest with both hands. Start with your arms stretched out in front of you and your feet shoulder-width apart. While holding your arms and the weight in place, bend your knees and squat down. Keep your back straight and your eyes focused on a point directly in front of you. Do 3 sets of 10 repetitions.For a goblet squat, hold a dumbbell vertically next to your chest. Use both hands to cup the head of the dumbbell as if it was a heavy goblet. Place your feet shoulder-width apart and engage your abs by tightening them. Push your hips back and bend your knees, lowering your body as far as you can go without touching the floor. Keep your back straight and keep your eyes focused on a point directly in front of you. Hold the squat for several seconds before pushing back up to starting position. Do 3 sets of 10 to 15 repetitions., Deadlifts provide a total body workout – adding bulk and strengthening your back, butt, arms, shoulders, and thighs.Place the bar with or without weights on the floor in front of you. Inhale deeply and squat down. Pull the weight off the floor by straightening your legs, making sure your back stays flat, your arms are straight, and the bar is held close to your body. It is also important that your shoulder, trunk, and hips move and rise up at the same speed. As you stand upright, imagine your feet pushing through the floor. Maintain momentum while making sure your movements are smooth and deliberate. Forcefully exhale as you near the top of the lift. Keep lifting until you stand erect in a fully upright position. Your legs should be straight, your knees locked, with your shoulders back and chest out. Keep your arms straight – do not lift the bar above your hips. Take three deep breaths and hold your breath as you descend back down.


Do 3 sets of 3 to 5 repetitions. Try going directly from one repetition to the next. If you have to take a break, do it for only a few seconds. You can take a longer break (1 to 2 minutes) in between sets.
Do not bounce the barbell when setting it down on the floor. Stop as the plates make contact with the ground.
Before starting deadlifts, warm up with 5 to 10 minutes of cardio plus simple dynamic exercises (such as lunges) to get your blood flowing to the skeletal muscles and joints in your upper and lower body.weightlifting should only be performed under professional supervision. They should never be attempted alone. If you feel yourself losing your form, drop the barbell instead of continuing.

