 You aren’t limited to the mall. Department stores and discount stores all have thongs in their underwear sections. Pick a location that is convenient for you and where you are least likely to run into people you know or people who know your parents.;
, Some thongs have more coverage than others. Do you want lace? Do you want a g-string style or a fuller coverage style? Deciding beforehand will help you when you go shopping because there are numerous thong styles to choose from., Don't use a debit card or a check, which creates a paper trail of your purchases. Paying for your underwear in cash keeps it under your parents' radar. Be sure to throw away your receipt before you get home so you don't risk anyone finding an itemized list of what you bought.
 If it is normal for you to go to the mall or department store by yourself, then go alone. This leaves no witnesses and you do not have to worry about someone telling your parents what you bought. In the interest of safety, do be sure to tell your parents where you are going so they are not suspicious about where you are.
 If you are not old enough to go to the mall by yourself or feel too intimidated, then go shopping with a close friend. Choose a friend who won't slip up and mention your shopping trip and purchases to your parents.


If there is no way for you to get to a mall or department store to make your purchase away from adult supervision, then you are going to have to get creative.
You might mention that you need to go to the restroom and then quickly head to buy the underwear.
 Don’t only shop for underwear. Buy a couple decoy items so it doesn’t seem suspicious that you planned a shopping trip and then came home with nothing. If you don’t have the money for extra items, you can claim that you weren’t able to find anything you wanted.
 Put your new underwear in the bottom of your purse or shopping bag, under enough things to go undetected. If you think your parents might go through your shopping bag, you can stash the thong in your pants pocket or an interior pocket of a purse or backpack.
 Your parents might see it in your underwear drawer accidentally while they are doing your laundry. Other options might be to keep it under your mattress or behind books on a bookshelf. Get creative to keep your parents from finding it.
 Even if they seem trustworthy, in a moment of anger or forgetfulness, they might tell your parents about it. Keep it to yourself.
 The ruse is up if you go through all the hard work to secretly buy a thong and then your parents find it in the laundry. Wash and dry your own underwear according to the instructions on the tag.


If it would be out of character for you to start doing your own laundry, then handwash your thong with soap and water and let it air dry somewhere discreet in your room.
 It’s easy to forget your laundry or leave it out in the open in your room. To keep it hidden make sure each time you wash your thong that you immediately return it to its hiding place.


Set an alarm reminder on your phone, tablet, or computer to remind you if you think there’s a chance you’ll forget.
 Avoid low-rise jeans that show your underwear when you bend over. Choose jeans, shorts, and skirts with a higher waist. One-piece clothing like maxi dresses or rompers are great concealing choices, as well.
 Avoid fabrics that show the stitching detail of your underwear. For maximum protection against visible underwear, choose a thong in a color that most closely matches your own skin color.
 If you want to wear colorful, decorative underwear, then make sure you wear a thick fabric like denim that will conceal everything. Avoid wearing thongs that you want hidden with thin, tight bottoms like yoga pants.
 To avoid an embarrassing clothing mishap, only wear thongs with longer skirts. Miniskirts don’t provide very much coverage and are better paired with full coverage underwear styles like boyshorts or hiphuggers. See this article for tips on how to Wear Thong Underwear.

