 Launch your Farm Heroes Saga game, either from your Android/iOS device or from your Facebook account on a web browser. On the game map, select a level with a purple marker and a raccoon icon on it.;
, Magic Beans are a kind of in-game cash in Farm Heroes Saga, which you can gain by beating levels. When you begin a Rancid level, a screen will pop up displaying three difficulty levels: “Hard” (no bonus), “Medium” (+1 bonus for every match), and “Easy” (+2 bonus for every match). Medium and Easy levels cost Magic Beans to play.


Click/Tap the Magic Beans below the “Easy” level to begin playing that level. Each required cropsie in this level will have a +2 bonus, making it easier to beat Rancid.
 If the level has grass on the board, try to make matches on it as much as possible to bump up the value of your cropsies and do maximum damage to Rancid. Making matches here will also help trigger cascades.
 Making matches lower in the field enhances your chances of making a combo. This will also help you trigger cascades, which can make random matches that will ultimately help you gain more points, thus helping you to lower Rancid’s health bar.
 Another eminent way to increase your cropsie bonuses is by making four- or five-crop matches (straight, T-, or L-shape). This will spread additional bonuses on surrounding required cropsies, thus helping you lower Rancid’s health bar faster.


Matching four cropsies yields a +2 bonus on the crops located in a specific row or column where you’d otherwise get a +1 bonus.
Matching five cropsies removes all similar cropsies from the board, thus yielding you extra points. It will send orbs flying across the level, bestowing +1 bonuses to faraway required crops.
Making a T- or L-shaped match will produce light to shoot out in all the directions from the match, giving you a +1 bonus point to all required cropsies in that row and column.
The more points you score, the more damage you cause to Rancid.
 It is very normal to lose sight of your goal and just make all the matches you can in any Rancid level. However, you need to keep in mind that your moves are very limited, especially in a Rancid level, so concentrate on the required cropsies that will defeat him and help you to beat the level.


Focus especially on the required cropsies that have higher bonuses so that you can preserve your moves and lower Rancid’s health faster.
 Boosters should definitely be used in levels where you have less moves to make. It can make the difference between winning and failing a level. You get free boosters every 5 to 10 hours. Boosters can be found at the top right of the game screen. There are three kinds of boosters in Farm Heroes Saga.


Magic Shovel Booster: This allows you to remove one crop. You can use this booster when you only have a small number of moves left and you badly want to collect one cropsy to complete a level.
Bonus Reward Booster: Every required cropsy will get +1 bonus on the board on applying this booster. So when you need more points to win the game, apply this booster. It will give your score the boost it needs.
Tractor Booster: This booster will remove a full row of cropsies by driving over it.

