 Place all of the kaiser roll dough into a large mixing bowl if you want to mix the dough by hand or with a stand mixer. If you want to mix the dough in a bread machine, put the ingredients into the machine's bucket. You'll need:3 cups (361 g) unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons (4.5 g) instant yeast
1 1/2 teaspoons (6 g) sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons (7 g) salt
1 large egg
2 tablespoons (28 g) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup (180 ml) lukewarm water;
, If you want to mix the dough by hand, you can use your fingers or a firm, wooden spoon to combine the dough. Or beat the mixture with a stand mixer until you get a smooth dough. The kaiser roll dough should be elastic and soft.If you're using a bread machine, follow your machine's instructions for the dough cycle.
 Lightly grease a large bowl and scoop the dough into it. Cover the bowl with greased plastic wrap and put the bowl in a warm place to prove. Let the dough rest for about one hour, so the dough rises and looks puffy.If you're using a bread machine, you'll still need to transfer the dough to a greased bowl.
 Gently punch your fist down into the risen dough. Spread a little oil or cooking spray on a work surface and scoop the dough onto it. Use your fingers or a bench scraper to divide the dough into six pieces.Avoid using flour on the work surface. If the dough has too much flour, the rolls will be dense and tough.
 Take each piece of dough and roll them between your palms to make six round balls. Get out a baking sheet and lay a sheet of parchment paper on it or spray it with cooking spray. Set each ball on the baking sheet., Take a Kaiser roll stamp and place it directly over a ball of dough. Push down on the stamp, so you almost press down to the bottom. Do this for each ball of dough.Ensure that you cut deep enough or the segmented shape won't show up once the dough bakes. But, if you cut all the way to the bottom of the ball, the roll will split off into five separate pieces.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper on a baking sheet. Once you've shaped or stamped the rolls, put them cut-side down on the baking sheet and cover them with plastic wrap. Set them in a warm place to prove for 45 minutes to 1 hour.The rolls should almost double in size once they've finished proving.
 Take each piece of dough and roll them between your palms to make six round balls. Get out a baking sheet and lay a sheet of parchment paper on it or spray it with cooking spray. Set each ball on the baking sheet., Roll a ball of dough between your palms, so you get a long strip of dough (about 12 to 14-inches or 30 to 35-cm long). Repeat this for each of the balls of dough, so you have six strips of dough., Hold both ends of one strip of dough and loop the left end over the right end. You should now have a loose knot. Do this for each strip of dough.This knot is known as a granny knot. Remember to keep it loose, so you don't stretch the dough too much.
 Take one end of the strip and wrap the dough around the center loop twice. Do this for the other end of the strip and try to wrap the loops in the same direction.The roll should now look like a rosette or Kaiser roll.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper on a baking sheet. Once you've shaped or stamped the rolls, put them cut-side down on the baking sheet and cover them with plastic wrap. Set them in a warm place to prove for 45 minutes to 1 hour.The rolls should almost double in size once they've finished proving.
 During the last 30 minutes of proving, turn on the oven to 425 degrees F (220 C). It's important to preheat the oven while the rolls are still proving. If you wait until they've finished proving before you turn on the oven, the rolls might rise too much and deflate as they bake., Turn all the rolls over, so they're cut-side up (if you stamped them) or seam-side down (if you rolled them). If you want a decorative top, pour 1 tablespoon of milk in a bowl. Dip the top of each roll in the milk and sprinkle the tops with poppy or sesame seeds. Place them back on the baking sheet.For six kaiser rolls, you'll need about 2 tablespoons (18 g) of seeds.
 Put the rolls in the preheated oven and bake them for 15 to 17 minutes. The rolls should turn golden brown and feel soft once they've finished baking. Take them out of the oven to cool on a wire rack.To store leftover rolls, wrap them in plastic wrap and let them sit at room temperature. They'll keep for a few days.

