 You must be using the desktop Slack site in order to link other apps and services. You cannot link apps using the Slack mobile app.


You can only use the web version of Slack to link apps, but once apps are linked, anyone can use them through the mobile app.;
, This will open the team menu.
 This will open the Slack App Directory.
 There are hundreds of apps available through the app directory that can help your team's productivity in various ways. You can browse through the category list on the left side of the page, or search for a specific app.


It's recommended to install apps that you know your team will use. Too many apps can distract your team members from their work, but the right mix of apps can have a positive effect on productivity., If you are not an Owner for your team, you'll see the "Request to Install" button instead. You'll be able to attach a message that your team owners can view and then decide if the app is right., Some apps may prompt you to select the channel you want to add it to. If you suspect an app will get used a lot, you may want to create a new channel dedicated to the app directly.


Not all apps will prompt you for a channel, and will work in all channels.
 Many apps will require special permissions in order to connect with your Slack account. Make sure to read each permission carefully and ensure that you trust the service, especially if you're installing apps from locations other than the App Directory.
 Not all apps are available directly from the Slack App Directory. You'll need to visit the app's site in some cases in order to install it. Once you visit the app's site, click the "Add to Slack" button (this will vary depending on the app and site). You'll likely be prompted to connect your accounts, and then the app will be added to Slack.


The process for adding apps from other websites will vary drastically depending on the app. Make sure to read all of the provided directions in order to get the app integrated with Slack.
 Most apps will have basic instructions for use on their page in the App Directory. Since all apps serve different functions, it can be useful to review this information before you get started with it.
 Most apps work by using text commands in your group chat windows. Type "/appname" to see what happens with your new app.


For example, if you've install the Google Hangouts integration, typing "/hangouts" will give you the option to start a new Hangout for the current channel.
 Many apps will display basic command syntax when you use the command. The help information will only be displayed for you. Not all apps have a option.
 If your team is using certain apps a lot, your channel may start to feel cluttered. You can minimize your clutter by giving apps dedicated channels:


Create a new channel by clicking the "+" button above your channel list.
Name the channel after the app. For example, for a Twitter channel, you could call it "#twitter."
Inform your team members that the app should only be used in that channel.
 You can find many different chatbots that serve a variety of purposes in the App Directory. Chatbots are programs that act like a user, and your team members can interact with them through chatting.
 When you install a chatbot, you'll receive a direct message from it. This message will contain some introductory information about the bot. In order for your team members to use the bot, it will need to be added to a channel.


Click the Gear button above the channel chat window.
Select "Invite team members to join."
Select your new bot from the list of available members. You can search for it if you have a lot of members to choose from.
 If you don't know any specific commands yet, simply typing "@botname" will usually list off a few to get started with. Different bots will serve different purposes, and offer varying levels of interactivity.
 Since chatbots are designed to be used in individual channels, it's easy to create a dedicated channel for it. This will keep all of your team's interaction with the bot in one place. This can be useful for bots that aren't directly related to the point of the channel.


Click the "+" button above your channel list.
Name the new channel after the bot so that your team members can easily find it.
Invite the chatbot to the new channel and add your team members to it.
 This will open the App Directory.
 This will display a list of all of your installed apps, chatbots, and service integrations.
 When you select an item from the list, you'll see the configuration options for the app or chatbot. These options will vary depending on the app. Generally, apps that you can install directly from the App Directory will have more options listed here, while apps that were installed from another website may need to be configured on that website.
 Some apps will allow you to make detailed edits to their settings by clicking the "Edit configuration" button. This button looks like a pencil. Only some apps allow you to edit the configurations.
 You'll usually find this button at the bottom of the app's Details page. You'll be prompted to confirm that you want to remove the app or chatbot.


Not all apps are deleted the same way, and the "Remove" button may be located in a different place on the page.
 By integrating Drive with Slack, your team members will be able to quickly share files from their individual Drive accounts with the rest of the team.


Have each team member visit the Slack App Directory and click the Manage tab.
Click the Google Drive app in the list, then click "Authenticate your Google Drive account."
Allow Google Drive to connect with Slack.
Open your Google Drive webpage and find the file you want to share in Slack. Right-click the file and select "Get shareable link." This will copy a link to the file to your clipboard.
Paste the link in your Slack chat. Click "Yes" when prompted by slackbot to import the file.
 You can add a Twitter feed to Slack so that your team members are always aware of the latest tweets. This can be really useful for a customer service Twitter account.


Install the Twitter app from the App Directory by following the steps above.
Authorize the linked account on Twitter. Make sure you're signed in with the Twitter account you want to link.
Select what tweets you want to appear in Slack. You can choose to view all of the tweets sent to the account and all of the tweets sent by the account.
Select a channel for Twitter to appear in. You'll want to avoid putting Twitter in your #general channel or other unrelated channels. You can click "create a new channel" to make a channel dedicated to the Twitter feed.
 This bot will allow you to assign tasks to team members, and will help remind them when their tasks are due.


Install the busybot chatbot from the App Directory. You can find it in the "Top Apps" section.
Select the channels you want to add busybot to. During installation, you'll be prompted to select the channels that busybot will appear in. You can always invite it to other channels later.
Type "@busybot task @user" to assign a task to a specific user. For example, "@busybot File your weekly report @John"

