 You should take out all of your valuables and stuff that could get in the way, such as work and gym bags, children’s toys, books and magazines. This could be a good opportunity to organize belongings that have been forgotten in the vehicle., Water bottles, paper and cardboard items should be placed in the recycling container.If you are cleaning the car in your driveway, you could pull the recycling container over to the car so that it is easier to dispose of the recyclables. Take them out of your car and put them directly in the recycling container.
 Put all of the trash in a garbage bag. You may want to put on gloves for this step, especially if you have any unpleasant garbage in the car. Keep the garbage bag on-hand after emptying the car, since you may need it later in the cleaning process.
 Moisten a rag with some household cleaner or glass cleaner. Work from the cleanest areas to the dirtiest, leaving the grunge for last. Clean the dashboard area, steering wheel and center console. You will also want to wipe down the gearshift and inside door pockets.








Instead of a rag, you could also use car cleaning wipes.
Remember to use a clean cloth or you will just be redistributing the dirt and grime.
If you have time, you can use a cotton bud to wipe out any grime in hard to reach areas, such as detailing on the steering wheel.You can use a rag or car cleaning wipe to get the dust out of your cup holders.
 Use a damp rag to clean the buttons on your dashboard. Then, dry the buttons with a clean rag.








You can also use a flathead screwdriver. Wrap a rag around the top of the screwdriver. Then, run the rag along the buttons to remove any dust and grime that may have accumulated.
 Use an old, soft bristle toothbrush to clean tough spots such as leather grain on the interior doors and console. Surfaces with texture on your doors or steering wheel can be tackled with an old toothbrush. Brush in a circular motion to get rid of the dirt.
 Spray some window cleaner on a microfibre towel. Microfibre towels are excellent for cleaning windows because they help remove tough stains and avoid streaking.It is best to avoid ammonia. If there is ammonia in your glass cleaner, it could dry out the plastic in your car and damage the windows.
Make sure the cleaner meets the recommendations for your tinted windows.
 Using your microfibre towel, clean the windshield, side windows, rear window and sunroof. Use a circular motion to clean the inside of each window.
 Flip the microfibre towel to the clean side and polish the windows to remove any streaks. Pay particular attention to the corners and edges of the windows. If necessary, apply the cleaner and buff a second time.
 Prior to vacuuming, you should remove the floor mats so you can get to the grime underneath. If your vehicle has plastic floor mats, you can take them out of the car and shake the dirt out. Then, hose them down with a garden hose and let them dry. If your car has carpet mats, you can vacuum them in the car or take them out to vacuum. Return the mats to the car after you finish vacuuming the interior.
 Start by vacuuming the ceiling of the car and then gradually work your way down to the floor. You should use the appropriate nozzles for the various surfaces of your car:








You will need the upholstery nozzle to vacuum the seats, headliner and other upholstered areas of your car.
To clean the crevices in the seats and the seat pockets, you can use the crevice tool on your vacuum cleaner.
When you get to the hard plastic and vinyl, you should use the dusting brush.
The floor brush can be used to clean the carpet on the floor of your car.
 To clean under the front seats, you will need to push the seats all the way forward or all the way backward. Then, use the crevice tool to pick up any debris or grime from under the front seats.
 Leather seats must be conditioned as well as cleaned or they will crack and dry out. To clean leather seats, use a soft brush and an appropriate cleaner, such as saddle soap. Then, condition the seats.








If you are using a new cleaning product, try it out on a small, inconspicuous area. If the new product works well, proceed with cleaning your seats.
If the leather is badly cracked and the color is worn out, you may need to replace the seats.
 Check your car's manual to check for approved cleaners to use on your upholstery.First, vacuum your seats. Then, use a foam or other cleaning product on the seats. Finally, vacuum the seats a second time.








You could also use a carpet cleaner on your upholstered seats. In this case, you could clean your car seats at the same time as cleaning your home carpets.
Don’t use window cleaner on upholstered fabric seats.
 Candy, chocolate, crayons and other products can all lead to unfortunate car seat stains. You can use a stain remover product and a clean rag to remove the stains.








If you find candy or crayons melting in your rear seat, you can stop the melting with an ice cube and then remove the item., If you have used a lot of cleaning products on your seats, it is a good idea to air out the car. So, if it is a sunny day, you can open all of your car doors and windows to air out the interior of your car., If you like to use fragrances in your car, you can spray or install a new air freshener product.If you are a smoker, you can find specialized air fresheners that remove smoke odour.
If you want to get rid of the smell of an old car, you can use an extra strength air freshener with water-based fragrances.
Look for longer-lasting air fresheners, especially if you don't clean your car very often.
 Put the mats back on the floor. Return the seats to their normal position. If you have any items that you removed in order to vacuum, you could put them back in an orderly manner.







