 When they come home be sure to take note of their smell. You don’t need to have a breathalyzer to detect the use of drugs or alcohol. You can often smell alcohol, marijuana, or cigarettes long after they have been used.Just because their clothing smells like cigarettes or marijuana doesn’t mean that they were smoking them. They could have been hanging out with friends that were smoking.
If you smell drugs on your teen, you should consider asking them about it. Say something like, “Have you been drinking?”
Methamphetamines are commonly used among teens, and this drug may leave a cat urine smell.
Excessive cologne or perfume could be an attempt to mask the smell of smoke or alcohol., Nosebleeds, scabs around the mouth and nose, and bloodshot eyes can be a sign of drug use. This is especially true if you see more than one or all of these facial changes. It can be a sign that they are currently high or that they are snorting drugs up their nose.If you notice continuous facial changes, ask your teen if they need help by saying, “I’ve noticed that you have had a lot of nosebleeds lately. Is everything okay? Do you need to see a doctor?”

, They may not care as much about their physical appearance. Showering less, not brushing their hair, wearing dirty clothes, or just generally looking unkempt may be a sign of drug use or of a mental health problem. This is especially alarming if your teenager hasn’t done this in the past., Some drugs cause you to have a loss of appetite. Over time this could lead to considerable weight loss. On the other hand, other drugs cause you to have an increase in appetite. Over time this could lead to considerable weight gain. Monitor your teen’s eating while they are home and ask them about their meals while they are not home.Eat family meals together, and ask your teenager what they had for lunch at school.
Keep in mind that changes in your teen’s eating habits may also indicate a mental health problem, such as an eating disorder. Do not immediately assume that drugs are to blame for the change.
 Extreme drug use can cause neurological disorders, which can lead to shaking, tremors, and even seizures. This is often a sign of using cocaine, amphetamines, or other stimulants. Any impairment is your teenager’s coordination could also be a sign of current drug use or long term side effects.Seizures can occur in drug users even without a prior history of seizures. If this happens in your presence, seek medical help immediately.
Be aware that there are many different types of drugs and the side effects of each type of drug can be very different. For example, if your teen is using cocaine, then they will exhibit different side effects than someone who smokes marijuana or uses methamphetamines.
Watch for signs of psychosis as well. Psychosis can be a serious side effect of drug use. If your tee is suffering from psychosis, they may experience delusions, hallucinations, confusion or disturbing thoughts, or a lack of self-awareness., If your teen is showing any signs of physical or emotional distress as a result of drug use, especially neurological signs like seizures, shaking, tremors, or memory impairment, then you need to call 911 or get your child to an emergency room immediately. Medical professionals can evaluate and treat you child, and if your child is on drugs, then they can help you to get help for your child.

