 Move all of your furniture away from the wall and towards the center of the room. You should have plenty of room to move around while you paint. Next, cover the furniture with large, plastic drop cloths.


If you can’t move comfortably around the furniture pile, you may need to move some pieces to a different room.;
, If you drip paint onto your floor, it may be hard to remove. Protect your floors by covering them with a thick drop cloth or some newspaper. The covering should start at the base of the wall and extend out two or three feet (0.6 – 1 meter.) Secure the drop cloth or newspaper by taping it against the bottom of the wall with painter’s tape.


Make sure the painter’s tape doesn’t cover a part of the wall that you want to paint.
 Remove wall features such as switch and outlet plates, light fixtures, wall hangings, and curtains. If you can’t remove the feature, cover it with painter’s tape or a plastic bag to protect it from paint splatters.Store switch and outlet plates with in a re-sealable plastic bag to avoid misplacing them.
 Before you paint, you must remove old wallpaper, scrape off loose paint chips, and repair any holes. Small holes in drywall can be repaired with putty. Larger holes should be patched with pieces of drywall.If your home was built before 1978, test your paint for lead before scraping it off with a testing kit. If it tests positive, call a professional lead paint remover.Find professional lead paint removers online or by calling your local home improvement store.
 Fill a large bucket with warm water and about a tablespoon of mild dish detergent. Next, dampen a large sponge in the soapy water and wipe it along the walls to clean them. Once the entire room has been cleaned, “rinse” the walls with a clean sponge and fresh water.


Let the walls dry for an hour or two before continuing.
 While taping, use many small sections of tape instead of one large piece of tape.Use the tape to outline the area you want to paint and protect the areas that you don’t want to paint. For example, cover the bare light switches and outlets with a small strip to protect the wiring.Consider lining:


Baseboards
Wall trim
Windowsills

, Paint fumes can be harmful when inhaled. Therefore, you should properly ventilate your room before beginning. First, open a door or window to encourage air flow. Next, set up a small fan to circulate the air in the room.
 Use a paintbrush to “cut in” the wall, or paint the edges. First, choose a large, angled paintbrush. Dip it into the paint bucket and wipe it along the edge to get rid of any excess paint. Next, paint about four to five inches (10 – 13 centimeters) along the edges of the wall using back and forth motions, framing the wall with a layer of paint.Cut in around any taped wall features as well.
Let the paint become dry to the touch before continuing.
 First, fill a clean painting tray with paint. Next, partially submerge the paint roller into the paint. Roll the roller along the ridged section of the painting tray to even the paint out around the roller and remove any excess paint.
 Gently run the roller along the wall on the section that was cut in, starting on the edges and moving towards the center. Move the roller in a zigzag pattern, overlapping each line of paint with another. Work in sections to avoid painting over semi-dry paint.If you have to press the roller against the wall to paint it, you need to apply more paint.
 Once the first layer of paint is dry to the touch, you can paint another layer. However, if the new color is very similar to the old color, you may not need to add another layer.Unless you are painting a very light color over a very dark color, you don’t need to cut in the walls again.
 As soon as you’ve finished painting, remove the painters tape. Slowly pull the strips of tape off of the wall at a 135-degree angle towards yourself to create clean, crisp lines in the paint.Once the tape is off of the wall, throw it away.
 Allow the paint to dry completely before you replace the light fixtures or wall hangings. Even if the paint is dry to the touch, it may not be completely dry yet. In fact, the paint can take anywhere from one day to one week to finish drying. Look on the back of the painting can to see the recommended drying times.
 Horizontal or vertical stripes can add a lot of color to a room. First, use painting tape to measure out your stripes. Next, use your roller or a large paintbrush to paint every other taped section. Once the paint is dry to the touch, remove the tape.If the original paint is dark, you may need several coats of paint on the stripes to cover it up.
 A large, textured painting sponge can be used to create a soft color gradient on your walls. First, dip a small part of the sponge in the paint. Next, dab the sponge against the wall. Continue dabbing with the sponge to create a soft pattern. Dab two or three colors on top of one another to create layers of bright color. For example:


Layers of forest green, teal, and bright yellow paint can be used to create a garden atmosphere.
Dab on light pink, dark salmon, and a dusky rose paint to add a romantic blush to the wall.
Create a neutral gradient by layering beige, light grey, and soft pink paint., Wall decals can be used to add interesting designs to your walls. First, peel off the backing of the wall decal. Next, press the sticky side of the decal against the wall. Smooth out any wrinkles with your hand or a soft towel. Last, peel away the clear transfer paper.Don’t peel the transfer paper too quickly or you may damage the decal.
 If you aren’t interested in painting your whole room, add an accent wall instead. First, choose a bold, bright color that matches the decorations in your room. Next, choose a wall to paint. Section off the wall with painters tape and paint it using a roller or large paintbrush.Remove any wall hangings or light features from the wall before painting it.
 Leftover paint can be used to touch up any areas of the wall that become damaged in the future. First, wipe away any drips of paint along the rim or on the outside. Next, replace the lid and tap it into place with a hammer. Store the covered paint in a cool dry place, such as a basement or utility closet.Label the paint by writing on the lid with a permanent marker. Include the date and which room the paint was used in.
 Blot off excess paint onto an old newspaper and throw it away. Next, clean the brush with warm, soapy water, taking care to remove the paint between the bristles. Rinse the brush to remove any soap residue.Place the brush on its side to dry. This will help maintain the shape of the brush.
 Remove the soft cover of the paint roller and throw it away. Next, use a damp dishtowel to wipe paint away from the metal frame. Let the metal frame dry completely before storing it to avoid rusting.
 If you lined the floor with newspapers, gather them up and throw them away. If you used a drop cloth, allow it to dry completely. Next, fold the drop cloths and store them in a clean, dry place., Replace any switch and outlet plates, light fixtures, wall hangings, and curtains. Next, move the furniture back to its original position. If necessary, vacuum or sweep away any dried paint chips that may have fallen onto the floor.

