 Only the top 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) should be peek through. Keep adding medium until you reach the rim of the pot. Ideally, the soil will be about 18 to 24 inches (46 to 61 centimeters) deep.
 The soil should be moist, but never soggy and never completely dry. You can usually test it by sticking your fingertip into the soil.


During the summer, you may need to water your potatoes twice a day, especially if you live in a hot, dry climate.
During cooler weather, most potato plants only need about 1 inch of rainfall per week to thrive, but if your area goes for an extended length of time without much rain, you may need to water your potatoes manually. Place a rain gauge near your potted potatoes to determine whether they receive enough precipitation from week to week.
 Potatoes need sunlight but do poorly when exposed to direct sunlight for an extended period of time.
 This should be done around mid-season, especially if the leaves look yellow or weak. Potatoes thrive in a soil with a pH of about 6.0.


Add more compost or manure if you need to decrease the pH.
Add agricultural lime if you need to increase the pH.
 Providing your potato plants with food will lead to a larger, richer crop.
 Many pests, like the potato leaf hopper, can be plucked off by hand. Others may require the use of an organic pesticide to ward off or kill.
 Many diseases, like blight, are contagious, so if your potatoes show signs of disease, you should immediately move them away from other plants.
 The first few potatoes will be ready at this time, and you can pluck or twist them off the root. Generally, potatoes that are at least the size of an egg will be ready, but you should pull each spud above the soil and check its color before removing it. Green potatoes are unripe and poisonous.
 You will be able to tell when the remainder of your potatoes is almost ready by observing how much the foliage has died back. Once the leaves and stems are completely yellow, your potatoes are ready.
 Wear gloves to protect your hands. Remove any potatoes hanging onto the dead foliage and dig around the soil for any that may have gotten lost in the pot.

