 Believe it or not, the same sorts of sprouts that are often seen as flavorless or bland (like alfalfa sprouts and mung bean sprouts) can make a quick, easy, and delicious dish all on their own with the right seasonings! To begin, combine cayenne pepper, black pepper, and salt in a small bowl. Use the "Seasoned Fried Sprouts" ingredients list above for guidance.


If you enjoy strong, spicy flavors, you may want to add any of your favorite seasonings to the dry mixture. A little cumin and curry powder can give this dish a savory twist, but there's no "right" way to prepare sprouts, so feel free to add other flavors as you please — for instance, ginger, garlic, and coriander are all good additions.;
, We're going to sauté our sprouts, so we'll need a hot pan to start with. Add your sesame oil to a medium-sized frying pan on the stove, then set the burner to a medium-high heat. Allow the oil to heat until lightly shimmering or just barely smoking before continuing (this should only take a minute or two.)


Note that, compared to other oils, sesame oil has a low smoke point, which means it will begin to produce smoke at fairly low temperatures (specifically, about 350-410°F/175-210°C.)This means you'll want to keep an eye on the stove while the oil heats — if cooked too hot, sesame oil will make lots of smoke, causing burnt-tasting food, a smokey kitchen, and a blaring smoke alarm, so reduce the heat once you notice smoke.
 When your oil's nice and hot, pour in the sprouts. They should immediately begin to sizzle — if they don't, increase the heat a little. Cook, stirring frequently, for about five minutes.


Ideally, your sprouts should be fairly dry before you add them to the pan. Adding too much water can cause the oil to sputter and fizz, which can potentially lead to stains or burns. Try patting your sprouts down with a paper towel if you notice lots of water droplets on them.
 Your sprouts should cook fairly quickly. As they do so, you should start noticing them gradually lose their whitish color and turn translucent or clear. When they're almost clear, pour in your mix of dry seasonings and stir to coat the sprouts evenly. Cook for about one more minute, then remove from heat.


You can add your seasonings to the dish earlier, but this isn't always advisable, since some seasonings (like black pepper) can burn if cooked too long. Adding the seasonings just before the dish is finished allows them to release their flavor and aroma while keeping your food safe from their acrid flavor when burnt.
 Congratulations — you've just made a delicious, nutritious, low-calorie dish from nothing more than a handful of sprouts and some basic spices! Enjoy your sprouts on their own or eat them with your favorite light carb (like rice, tortilla or flatbread) for a vegetarian snack.

