 Keeping Norwegian forest cat in peak physical condition requires some high-quality cat food. Take care to choose a high-quality cat foot that will meet all of your Norwegian forest cat’s nutritional needs.


One good way to select a food for your cat is to read the ingredients. The first two ingredients listed on the package should be meat (not meat by-products). If they are not, then keep looking.
Choose a food that contains taurine. Taurine is an essential amino acid that your cat needs for good vision and heart health. All high-quality cat foods should include this ingredient, so avoid any cat foods that do not contain taurine.;
, Free-feeding is when you allow your cat to have access to unlimited food. This way of feeding causes some cats to become overweight, so it is not the best method. Instead, feed your Norwegian forest cat a measured amount on a regular schedule.To determine how much to feed your Norwegian forest cat, take the daily recommended feeding amount on your cat’s food package and then divide this amount in half. For a cat that weighs between five and nine pounds, you may need to provide a daily amount of 2/3 of a cup. To divide this amount into two meals, give your Norwegian forest cat 1/3 of a cup in the morning and 1/3 of a cup at night.
Providing small portions will make it more likely that your cat will eat her food.Check with your Norwegian forest cat’s veterinarian for a specific recommendation on how much to feed your cat.
 Your Norwegian forest cat will need to have a bowl of fresh, clean water available at all times. Wash your cat’s water bowl daily and change the water once per day or as needed.Your cat’s food and water bowls should be placed somewhere that is easy for your cat to access. Never place food and water bowls near your cat’s litter box. Cats do not like to eat and drink near their litter boxes.
 Norwegian forest cats like treats like all cats do, so try to give your Norwegian forest cat a special treat once per day. You can buy special kitty treats in the grocery store or pet store. You might also try giving your cat some acceptable human foods as a treat. Remember that treats should not exceed 5% of your Norwegian forest cat’s total daily calories. Some good treat options include:lean deli meat
cooked chicken or turkey
canned tuna
cantaloupe chunks
steamed broccoli
cheese
cooked eggs
mashed potatoeshomemade tuna cat treats

