 One important difference between drinking and tasting is expectorating. Roll the wine around in your mouth, exposing it to all of your taste buds. Pay attention to the texture and other tactile sensations such as the sense of weight or body (the wine feels physical). What are the initial flavors that stand out? Most importantly, do you like it?Spit the wine into a spittoon, provided on all wine-tours, if you are planning to taste lots of wine. Getting drunk will make it harder to taste complex wines later on. If you're driving, use the spittoon.
 With your lips pursed as if you were to whistle, draw some air into your mouth and exhale through your nose. This liberates the aromas for the wine and allows them to reach your nose via the passageway at the back of your throat, known as the retro-nasal cavity. The nose is the only place where you can detect a wine's aromas. However, the enzymes and other compounds in your mouth and saliva alter some of a wine's aromatic compounds. You are looking for any new aromas liberated by the wine's interaction with the environment of your mouth.
 In other words, slurp the wine (without making a loud slurping noise, of course). Note the subtle differences in flavor and texture. Flavors and scents come in successive waves in fine wines, they are revealed as your sensors adjust to the wine.


This is especially important with red wines.
Don't worry if this makes you feel out of place. It is an accepted step in wine tasting.
 Is there any one taste that overpowers the rest? Can you detect the same flavors you smelled now that you are tasting the wine? Great wines are balanced so that they don't attack your taste buds. You can taste 2-3 different fruits, a mixture of sweet and sour, and some earthy characteristics.


A little bitterness is natural, but it shouldn't ruin your palate.
All wines are different -- whites and dessert wines, for example, are usually on the sweeter side. You are looking for balanced flavors, whatever they are, not one "perfect" balance., How long does the finish last? A good, 60 second or longer flavor in the aftertaste is a good sign of quality. At times, you will pick up things in the finish that was not detectable in the initial taste. Do you like the taste? Has it changed?

, You can use whatever terminology you feel comfortable with. The most important thing to write down is your impression of the wine and how much you liked it. The more specific or detailed you are the better your reference will be against a similar wine from another winery. Many wineries provide booklets and pens so that you can notes. This can be a great aide in helping you to pay attention to the subtleties of the wine and remember what you like.


Keep a booklet of your favorite bottles and what meal you ate them with for future reference.

