 If you prefer to have something that you keep in your pants and looks more like a penis, you can use a packer. Packers are silicon penis shaped objects that you can put in your pants. Using a packer can be a more subtle way to STP, than using a more basic device, such as the medicine spoon.


You can buy packers from numerous stores online. Search for "packers" and choose the size and colour you want.
You can get a packer for around $10-$15.Ensure you buy a soft packer.
 You can make a packer into an STP device cheaply and quite easily at home. To do this you will also need to get a medicine spoon, and some relatively narrow plastic tubing. The tubing must be narrow enough to get through the penis, but wide enough so that you can attach it to the medicine spoon without any leaks.


3/8s of an inch is good size tubing to use. You can get this from your local hardware store.
Trim down the medicine spoon, and firmly attach the tubing to the end of it.The medicine tube and tubing will be the channel your pee travels down, through the packer to the urinal.
 You need to get this tube through the packer, and to do this you need to make a hole in the packer. You can use any long sharp object, such as a screwdriver, or a tent peg. Make sure the object you are using to make the hole is longer than the packer.Carefully but firmly push the screwdriver through the packer, taking care to ensure that it comes out around where the urethra is.
Once you have skewered the packer, leave the screwdriver in there.
If you are struggling to pierce the packer, you can try heating the piercing device first.
 Now place the tubing and spoon over the end of the screwdriver and work it back through the hole you have just made in the packer. This will take some careful manoeuvring and some brute force, but it will go through eventually. Soft packers are very malleable so they will stand being squeezed and pushed around while you get the tubing through.


Once you have gotten the tubing through, the medicine spoon end, which you will pee into, should be protruding sufficiently to use.
The end of tube should be the right at the front end of the penis, where the urethra is.
You may need to roll the end of the packer back a little when you use it to ensure that the tubing is sticking out of the packer enough to avoid any accidents.