 While you don't need to wrap them (they wouldn't stay in place anyway), make sure they're long enough to go around the entire shirt. Place them nonchalantly; you probably don't want to be the most well-manicured at the party. Work from the bottom up, stopping when you get to the chest area.


Thermal underwear is probably preferable to your shirt and pants combo, looks-wise, at least. But if you don't have it around, don't want to spend the extra money, and want a two-piece outfit, this is the way to go.
 This is the most time-consuming part of making the costume. The good news is, the sloppier and less conformed that the strips are sewn on, the better. Leave some strips open, some longer. It's a mummy costume--you seriously cannot muck it up!

, This should open it up, allowing you to lay the shirt down and see the entirety of the sleeve. That way, you'll be able to sew the strips on without worrying about rotating and curving.


So do just that! Lay the t-shirt down flat. Cut some pieces of the bandage material to make them the appropriate length for the sleeves and sew them on, layer by layer by layer. Continue sewing the rest of the strips once you have completed both sleeves.
 It's important to sew from the inside to avoid any visible seams. You want people wondering if you raided a pyramid for this thing. (Who's to say you didn't?)

, Lay them flat and cut your strips out to cover them. Employ the same I'm-in-a-rush mentality you had for the shirt.
 You can stop when you get to the crotch because your shirt should cover the rest. However, a little extra mummy wrap is a good idea if you have it. A stiff breeze or a limbo contest could present itself, after all.
 If the seam isn't perfect, great! Leave it. Who's gonna see it anyway?

, Ahh! Oh, that's just you in the mirror. Phew. Now what to do with your hands and feet? A few more strips here, a few more strips there (around a pair of gloves and socks or two) and you're set! Scroll to the bottom for tips on what to do with your noggin.

