 If you are unable to get your record on ChexSystems cleared, there are other options available. One of these options is to get a second chance checking account, which allows individuals to rebuild their financial history. Second chance accounts sometimes have additional requirements (like taking a money management class) but they will allow you to have a bank account and after a year or two possibly move to a regular account.Many major banks do not have second chance checking accounts (although some do), but there are plenty of credit unions and community banks that do.
If you are looking for institutions in your region that offer second chance checking accounts, NerdWallet.com offers an exhaustive list of providers by state. You can locate the list at: http://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/checking/second-chance-checking/


, A possible resource is Bank On, a nationwide program designed to help un-banked and under-banked Americans find low-cost, no-cost, and second-chance bank accounts. It is a collaborative effort between state governments, financial institutions, and community organizations. Visit the Bank-On website to see if there is a Bank On program in your region.If there is, contact them and inquire about what banking products and resources are available in your region to help you get a checking account. A local BankOn program will likely have innovative and local solutions to help you regain access to an account.
 This is a personal finance course developed by the American Center for Credit Education that can help you get a break from your bank. Once you complete it, you will be permanently registered in a national database, demonstrating to banks and credit unions that you are serious about managing your finances.Not all states offer this program. Search on Google for “CheckWi$e” plus the name of your state to see what’s available. If you don’t have any luck, contact your local municipality, BankOn program, or even financial institution to learn if there are similar programs available.
 You'll do better if you stick with the smaller, local banks and avoid the big banks. You may also have better luck if you check local credit unions as well. Credit unions act essentially as banks, except they don't have to pay stockholders and are generally much more lenient. Many credit unions will open an account for you if you can reasonably explain why you haven't paid a ChexSystems debt, and some credit unions will not pull a report on you even if you do have poor history.
 Sometimes there's nothing like a face-to-face conversation to get things working in your favor. Most businesses want your business, but if you don't look good on paper, they'll be wary.


If you present yourself, in person, as someone who is decent, with an honest reason for your past performance and evidence that you're not liable to be a problem in the future, they'll be much more receptive to working with you.
Make sure to clearly explain why you have had financial issues with previous checking accounts, what steps you have taken to rectify those issues, and why those issues are unlikely to happen in the future. If you went through a bout of unemployment for example, indicate this. Also indicate if you have taken any actions to pay back previously owed bank debt.

