 It would help to know how 'versatile' evil can be. Evil can be defined in several ways:1. morally wrong, wicked, as evil deeds,. 2. harmful, injurious, as an evil disregard of safety rules. 3. characterized or accompanied by misfortune or suffering, as to be fallen on evil days. 4. that which is due to actual or representation of the bad character, as an evil reputation. 5. marked by anger, irritability, or quick temper. 6. mischief, misfortune, to wish one evil. 7. anything causing injury or harm and its effect like Tobacco is considered to be an evil, which creates consequences. Also alcohol or drug abuse. You will want to recognize evil and also prevent it manifesting itself through you.;
, Realize that you need to resist and overcome two forms of evil because both external evils and your own internal ones affect both your life as well as those around you. Evil can affect you from outside or from the inside, as it may be around you or already within you. Sometimes you may wonder whether you had created the damage or something else prompted you. You may well be right at times that it's an evil force that pushes you towards something wrong.
 Life poses dangers and challenges without a warning or a signal. Then why not be watchful all the time? Keeping an eye for any untoward behavioral change in you or in your surroundings will help you guard against hurting yourself and others. Keep an eye on all semblances of evil and that which looks too good to be true.


Keep an eye not just on what is clearly bad but also what looks too tempting or too good to be true. The devil tries all its powers to catch the eye of the good. If it fails through simple means and traps, it goes beyond and comes in an attractive package which means in the face of a new person, a 'gift', a desire, an idea, and so on.
Evil tries to extend its reach and manifests not just through what appears bad but also through some things that look temptingly attractive. That's deception which suits evil and evildoers.
Stay within your lane. Don't meddle needlessly with things that do not pertain to you. Take heed of warnings or admonitions and avoid doing things solely for curiosity's sake.

