 Most people lie throughout the day, every day, often during casual conversation.If you try to catch yourself lying, you may be surprised with how often you do it. It can also be enlightening to think about how often the people around you lie. Notice the things you say, and be honest about whether they're accurate.People often start with small lies, which grow over time. When people ask you how you're doing, do you respond honestly? Do you bite your tongue? Are you lying by omission? These small lies can often morph into bigger lies to keep up appearances.
People also may lie to make themselves look better. For example, you may find yourself lying to your doctor about your habits or to your boss about your work ethic. These lies can have big consequences if you keep up with them.;
, Should you really shelter someone from reality? Think about the consequences of the lies you tell. Each time you tell a white lie, pause and think about how it could harm you or someone else.Think about the potential consequences each time you lie. Is anyone getting hurt? Are you potentially hurting yourself? Is this a situation where lying has any benefits?
For example, maybe your spouse asks for your input about confronting their boss at work. They expect your support, but you think it's a bad idea. Lying to spare your spouse's feelings could have major consequences for their career.
Lying can also harm your self-esteem because you are not being genuine or true to yourself.
 Radical honesty is not just about pointing out truths about others. You need to be able to confront uncomfortable truths about yourself. People have a tendency to shy away from truths that are scary. Learn to evaluate yourself more objectively and ask yourself honest questions.Make a habit of examining every aspect of your life. Are you being as healthy as you could be? Are your relationships fulfilling? Are you working as hard on your career as you should be?
If something feels wrong or off, learn to confront it rather than ignore it. If you, for example, feel uncomfortable in a relationship, evaluate why rather than letting things go on longer than necessary.
Keep in mind that being honest with yourself takes courage and self-awareness. It is important to be honest to keep a balance mentally, physically, and emotionally.
 Try to step back from any given situation and look at it from an outsiders perspective. Part of radical honesty is being able to view things rationally. When you find yourself in a stressful situation, avoid justifying bad situations or behavior. Instead, try to accept situations for what they are. For example, if you've been developing bad eating habits, do not think to yourself, "It's just because I'm stressed. This will change soon." Instead, look at the situation from a more objective perspective. The truth is, you need to take care of yourself regardless of stress in your life.Being objective with yourself is part of radical honesty, and it also includes taking responsibility for your actions. For example, if you know that you are eating unhealthy foods, being honest about your eating habits will require that you change them.

