 There are many different brands of home pregnancy tests on the market, but it doesn't really matter which you choose. All home pregnancy tests work the same way - by detecting levels of the hormone hCG in your urine. When purchasing a pregnancy test, check the expiration date on the box and ensure the box is fully intact, with no wear and tear, as this could affect your result. Think about getting a brand that provides two test sticks in the box, especially if you're planning on testing early. This way you can wait a week before trying again, if you get a negative result first time round.Some experts advocate buying a pregnancy test from a large store that has a high turnover so that you are more likely to get a newer pregnancy test, rather than one that has been sitting on a shelf for months. Similarly, if you've had a pregnancy test lying around at home for several months, consider throwing it out and getting a new one, especially if you've been storing it somewhere warm or prone to dampness, as this can affect the results of the test.Some brands claim that they can accurately detect pregnancy on the day of your missed period or even earlier. While it's true that the the tests may be sensitive enough to pick up on higher hCG levels in your urine, it may be too early in your pregnancy for your body to actually produce higher levels of hCG. In this case, you run the risk of getting a negative result, even though you might indeed be pregnant.Many of the generic brand drugstore pregnancy tests are actually produced in the same factories as the big name brands, and use the same technology. So don't worry about the quality of the generic brands if you're trying to save some dollars.;
, Most experts advise that you should wait at least one day after your missed period before taking a home pregnancy test, though waiting a week is considered best. This can be tough when you are anxious to find out if you're pregnant, but waiting allows for a higher degree of accuracy when taking the test, as hCG levels rise rapidly in pregnant women.hCG develops in a woman's body only after a fertilized egg implants in her uterus. Implantation of the fertilized egg typically occurs on or around the 6th day after the sperm and egg have merged. This is why home pregnancy tests won't pick up on any hCG if you take the test too early, even if you are pregnant.It's best to do the home pregnancy test first thing in the morning, when your urine is most concentrated and hCG levels are highest., Although most home urine tests are pretty much the same, it is important to follow manufacturers' instructions. Specifics may vary for each pregnancy test, such as the method of collecting the urine, the length of time you need to urinate on the stick for and the symbols used to indicate whether you're pregnant or not.It's better to familiarize yourself with the symbols used in advance, as you don't want to be anxiously scrambling for the instructions when the test throws up its results.
There should be a toll-free number on the box or instructions which you can call if you have any questions or concerns about the method of taking the test or the product itself., Taking a home pregnancy can be a nerve-wracking experience, particularly when you're anxiously hoping for one result or the other. Take the test privately and give yourself as much time as you need, or have your partner or a close friend stand outside the bathroom door to talk you through it. Wash your hands with warm water and soap, then carefully remove the testing stick from its wrapper.

