 Considered the most effective way to remove cactus needles, using white school glue on your skin will help peel out the majority of glochids. Spread a layer of the white glue onto your skin over the top of the small cactus needles. Wait 5-10 minutes for the glue to dry, and then peel off the glue. The glochids should come out of the skin and stick to the glue. Repeat this process as necessary to remove all of the needles.;
, Duct tape has proven successful in removing glochids from the skin. Simply stretch a piece of duct tape over the area where the cactus needles are stuck. Press the duct tape onto the skin, and rub it onto the needles gently to make sure they are stuck. Then, grab one end of the duct tape and quickly rip it off, pulling the glochids up with it. If necessary, repeat this with fresh pieces of tape until all of the needles are removed.
 Tweezers may be time-consuming, but they allow you to remove all of visible needle-hairs that might be stuck. Move into an area with bright light – natural light is preferable – and use a magnifying glass if necessary. Carefully pluck each of the needles from your skin near the base of the needle, where it meets your skin. Using this technique in addition to one of the aforementioned techniques may be the least annoying and most effective means.
 Although it may not remove 100% of the needles, using pantyhose is a good way to quickly pull out glochids. Grab an old pair of pantyhose (that you don't mind throwing away afterwards), and ball them up. Rub this quickly back and forth across your skin; the cactus needles should stick to the pantyhose and be pulled out as you rub. Continue this using new sections of the hose until all of the needles have been removed.
 If you have needles on a part of your body that isn’t particularly sensitive – such as your feet – you can buff off the needles. Buffing won’t pull them out, but it will break off the tips of the needles. Use a pumice stone to rub back and forth over your skin at the location of the needles. You can rinse off your skin with water afterwards to remove any needles that might be left.







