 The Health Line deals with the material well-being as much as the physical. This is especially so that when the Life Line may be faint or hard to see. If a person has very faint Fate, Fame, and Success Lines, then the Health Line also lays a strong part in the development of material wealth. The Health Line can be found extending from below the little finger, down across the palm, to the base of the thumb. Sometimes, it may even join with the Life Line.



Missing - it is likely that you'll have little to no health problems.

Strong and undisturbed - strong business sense as well as the strength to work hard and make money.

Wavy - potential health problems as a result of anxiety and nervousness.

Broken - poor health will cause problems in business situations.

Smaller lines crossing Health Line - prone to accidents.

Extra lines branches onto the Life Line - sign of life-threatening situation in old age.

Square encircling the line - a sign of protection, whether it be in the form of good medical treatment, or aid in solving a business problem.

Break in the line to form a donut shape - a need for hospitalization.

A triangle formed by the Life, Head, and Health Lines - known as the Lucky Triangle, where the broader the angle of the triangle, the greater your luck.
 The Line of Fame reinforces the Fate Line. The Fame Line influences the social rewards of success. This line, if visible, starts at the base of the hand, and moves its way up to below the ring finger, running parallel to the Fate Line.



Missing - one's future fame must be looked for in other areas of the palm; may still be successful but prefer to do without public acclaim.

Strong and clear - distinction and satisfaction with your life's work.

Broken repeatedly - indication of the ups and downs of social recognition.

Travels straight to the ring finger - likely to have fame in the arts.

Starts at the Head Line and runs through the Heart Line - hard work and success late in life.

A separation at the end of the Fame Line (becoming two smaller lines) - success may be dubious in value.

Ends beneath the ring finger in a star or triangle - spectacular success awaits in the fine arts field (acting, singing, dancing).

Ends beneath the ring finger in a square - a kindly patron.
 Relationships are indicated by the little line (or lines) that are located just below the base of the little finger. The closer the lines are to the base of the little finger, the later in life these relationships will be.



Several light lines - romances.

Strong and clear lines - marriage.

Numerous overlapping lines - affair(s).

Lines that meet but don't cross - children that will be born in affairs.

Fork at the start towards the back of the hand - long engagement.

Fork at the end towards the palm - separation (with or without divorce).

Line at the end that cuts the line off sharply - end to a relationship due to death or divorce.

Breaks that resumes with an overlap - separation with a later reunion.
 These lines don't indicate material wealth, so much as they represent skill in acquiring riches and how it can be done.



No Line - You will be making so much money you'll wipe your nose with a $100 bill

Line from the base of the thumb to below the index finger, ending in a star - a natural talent for moneymaking.

Line from the base of the thumb to the little finger - wealth acquired through inheritance or family allowances.

Line from the base of the thumb to below the middle finger - money made in business.

Line running to the ring finger, cutting through the Fame Line - money obtained through luck and surprise.
 The Travel Lines are a major indication of the trips taken throughout your life that have had or will have a penetrating impact on your life. These lines generally start from the edge of the palm at the 'heel," opposite the thumb, and extend horizontally.



Intersecting the Life Line - a trip will be made under circumstances of health, or your health will be affected by a trip.

Crossing the Travel Line - danger, or problems within travel.

A square encircles the lines - a sign of protection in your travels.

Breaks - possible delay in your travels.

Intersecting the Fate Line - travel will present a life-changing experience.
 The Minor Lines can be found in most hands. They include the lines of Opposition, Intuition, Escape, and Influence.



Lines of Opposition: These lines can be found on the outside of the palm, between the Heart and Head Lines. These lines illustrate the opposing forces that we all must deal with in life.

Line of Intuition: This line appears on the outer palm (at the base of the hand under the little finger). It illustrates strong insight. If you have this line you are an extremely sensitive, intuitive person and may have ESP (extra-sensory perception). The line can appear to curve into the palm or out to the edge of the palm. Either way, the meaning stays the same.

Line of Escape: This line is more towards the bottom of the palm, near the base. It often crosses the Life Line, and this crossing symbolizes the time in your life the following experience may happen. The Line of Escape illustrates an individual who escapes the problems of their life by indulging in their imagination. If it connects with the Line of Fame, they retreat into creative arts ease themselves. If the Line of Escape crosses with the Health Line, the person will resort to drugs and drinking. This may also foreshadow suicide.

Lines of Influence: These lines originate from the base of the thumb, and radiate out into the Palm. Where they connect with other lines, they illustrate an important event. The much sought after influence lines are the ones that show how and where you will come into money, if it crosses the Money Lines.

