 Modern diamond cutting is based on the optical calculations and is aimed at creating maximum brilliance as a result of dispersion. Diamond cut consists of the following parts: crown, pavilion and possibly culet. Pavilion depth and angle, crown depth and angle should be perfectly combined to achieve the right refraction of light. To deep or too shallow cutting lets light out of the gem, while its design should reflect the light back and make the diamond sparkle. There are round and fancy shapes of diamonds: pear, marquise\ navette, emerald\octagonal, oval, princess, radiant, heart, trilliant, asscher, cushion, round. Round cut is classical and the most popular. To choose the best shape you should consider fingers length and form. Small and symmetric diamonds look better on small hands with slim fingers, while Marquise and Pear would best fit short fingers.;
, A diamond works like a prism dividing incoming light into the spectrum of colors. There is a scale grading diamonds colors from D to Z, with D meaning a perfectly colorless diamond, and Z - noticeable color. Colorless diamonds marked D – F allow more light to pass through them, thus, they are considered the best and are the most rare and expensive. So, the less color the diamond has the more sparkling flashes (called “fire”) it will produce. Yellow color in a diamond reduces the color spectrum like a filter. Diamonds marked Z are yellowish or even brownish.
 Carat is a measure of diamonds weight, which is of course directly proportional to their size. To help you understand the proportions of carats and sizes there are multiple guide charts with relation tables available. They are adjusted for each diamond shape listed above.
 Diamond clarity is the quality describing the existence of internal and surface defects of stones. These peculiarities of texture are called inclusions and blemishes. Inclusions are structural imperfections, different in size, color, location, number and visibility. They can be whitish cracks or crystals of foreign materials. There is a clarity grade as well which allows assessing the presence of inclusions identified under ten times magnification.

