 Because making acidophilus milk is similar to making yogurt, you can use the same starter, either a cup of plain yogurt with live cultures or a yogurt starter. Both are available at either grocery or health food stores.

If using plain yogurt, read the label to verify that the yogurt contains live acidophilus cultures as well as to check the yogurt's expiration date. Although the starter yogurt will keep up to a month under refrigeration, you want it to be as fresh as possible when making acidophilus milk.;
, Place the containers in a large pot, 5 gallons (18.93 liters) or larger, with 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in the bottom. Cover the pot and boil for 10 minutes. Keep the lid on after turning off the heat., Heat the milk slowly in a covered container until the temperature reaches 185 to 195 degrees Fahrenheit (85 to 90 degrees Celsius). This will kill any harmful bacteria in the milk.

You can heat the milk on a stove using either a thick-bottomed pot or a double boiler. You can also heat the milk in a slow cooker, food dehydrator, or yogurt maker.
You can use whole milk, low-fat (1 or 2 percent) milk, skim milk, soy milk, or almond milk. More milk fat imparts a richer taste.
If scalding the milk in a slow cooker, cook the milk for 2 to 2.5 hours on low.
Do not boil the milk; doing so gives the milk a "cooked" taste and may cause the milk to burn or boil over.
 Without removing the lid from the scalding pot, let the milk cool to a temperature of 122 to 130 degrees Fahrenheit (50 to 55 degrees Celsius). If you heated the milk on a stove, you can do this by placing the scalding pot in a bath of clean, cold water. If you scalded the milk in a slow cooker, let the milk cool for 2 to 3 hours with the lid on.

The exact temperature you need to cool the milk to depends on the strain of Lactobacillus acidophilus you're using. Some strains are adapted to temperatures closer to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius), while others thrive best at temperatures closer to 130 degrees Fahrenheit (55 degrees Celsius). If using a starter instead of yogurt, cool the scalded milk to whatever temperature is given on the starter package for the culture's peak activity level, whether it matches the temperatures given here or differs. Temperatures cooler than 95 degrees render the bacterium inert, while temperatures hotter than 130 degrees will kill it.
 You can put the milk in a measuring cup or any other container with a 2-cup (320-milliliter) capacity., Stir the acidophilus into the cup to make a thorough mixture., This will distribute the acidophilus culture throughout the rest of the milk., Fill each container up to its neck, then cover immediately and tighten the lid., You'll need to heat 1 gallon (3.79 liters) of water to the upper range of the inoculation temperature (130 degrees Fahrenheit/55 degrees Celsius), pour it into a large pot or cooler, and let it cool to the lower end of the range (122 degrees Fahrenheit/50 degrees Celsius)., As with buttermilk, acidophilus milk normally requires 24 hours to sit before it's ready to use. After 24 hours, you can put the acidophilus milk in the refrigerator to stop the actions of the acidophilus culture and prevent any harmful bacteria from forming.