 Salt worsens bloating and menstrual pain, so minimize how much salt you ingest several days before and during your period.Season your food with herbs and spices rather than table salt, and avoid canned, processed, and frozen foods.
 Fatty foods can worsen bloating and pain when you menstruate because animal fats – fat from meat and dairy – increase inflammation in the body.Avoid fatty cuts of meat, high-fat dairy, large amounts of butter, and all fast food.


Consider a vegetarian diet a few days to a week before, and during, your period. This may significantly ease menstrual pain.
Use skim or 1% milk and cheese, instead of whole, to decrease your fat intake.
 Sugar causes large amounts of inflammation in your body, and inflammation is a leading cause of increased pain.Despite the temptation to grab sweet treats during your period, avoid sugary foods and sodas. If you crave something sweet, munch on fresh fruit like plums and strawberries – natural sugars are much better for your body, and your cramps, than refined sugars from sweets.
 Stay hydrated to decrease your bloating and improve circulation to cramped muscles. Hot or warm water is best to increase bloodflow, so consider drinking hot water with lemon throughout the day.A woman requires 9 glasses (2.2 liters) of fluids a day to stay hydrated, on average.You may need more than 9 glasses a day depending on various factors. You need more water if you sweat a lot, have vomiting or diarrhea, or have a fever., Not only is tea a nice hot and hydrating drink, some herbal teas have excellent abilities to relax the uterus and reduce cramping pain. Chamomile is an especially good choice, as it decreases muscle tension and helps your uterus to relax.Other great tea options are black cohosh and cramp bark.Opt for decaffeinated tea, as caffeine worsens cramps.
 Caffeine, found in coffee, tea, soda, and energy drinks, causes blood vessels to constrict, which will definitely worsen cramps. It’s advisable to avoid caffeine as much as possible starting a week before your period and lasting throughout.If you’re a heavy caffeine-drinker, stopping caffeine all at once can cause headaches and other unpleasant withdrawal symptoms. Try to taper yourself down from, say, two cups of coffee daily to one cup, to a “half-caff” (half the caffeine) or decaf the week before your period is due.
 Using tobacco and drinking alcohol worsen cramps, due to the effects they have on your body systems. Do your best to stay alcohol- and tobacco-free if you suffer from bad cramps, and certainly during your period., Ginger may reduce prostaglandins and inflammation in your body, which are the chemicals responsible for causing the painful cramping of menstruation.Ginger tea, hot water infused with ginger, or fresh ginger added to food may help improve cramps.
 Infuse water with basil to drink or include basil in your meals. Basil may improve the inflammation and spasms of painful cramping. Pesto is a basil, pine nut, and garlic sauce which can be a healthy and delicious way to add this pain-relieving herb to your diet., Broccoli, kale, cabbage, brussel sprouts, and cauliflower are in a group of vegetables called brassicas which contain a chemical that may even out estrogen in your body. This might help to minimize cramping and bloating. Try to add at least one of these vegetables to a daily meal., Cinnamon may improves digestion and might help your cramps feel less painful.Add cinnamon to foods like oatmeal or your (decaf) coffee to when you’re cramping. You can also try cinnamon tea.
 Eating papaya may improve the flow of your period and possibly ease the pain of cramping during menstruation. Additionally, regularly eating green, unripe papaya throughout the month may help to regulate irregular periods.
 1-2 teaspoons of blackstrap molasses added to water or warm milk might help cramps. Try drinking it at the onset of your period and until your cramps go away, and see if you notice an improvement., Maca, a root vegetable that mainly comes from Peru, has been used for centuries for menstrual pain.

You can find maca in its whole form, in powdered form, or even as a supplement.

Ask your doctor before starting any new supplement.
 Eating wild yam might decrease muscle spasms of the uterus, which would ease menstrual pain.Wild yam is often found as an herbal remedy, tea, or supplement form.


Wild yam is not the same thing as American sweet potatoes or yams.

