 When deciding on the right type of parting for your hair, you should take the shape of your face into consideration.


Some partings will flatter certain face shapes more than others, so take a long look in the mirror and try to decide whether your face is round, square, oval or heart-shaped.
Try a middle parting if you have a heart-shaped face. A middle-parting can help to elongate your face (as people with heart-shaped faces tend to be wider around the cheeks), but only if your hair is long. If you have short-hair, you should go for a slight side parting as the hair will cover some of your forehead and thin out your face.
Try a deep side parting if you have a round or square-shaped face. For people with round-shaped faces, a deep side parting will help to balance and elongate the features. For people with square shaped faces, this parting will help to soften sharp angles around the forehead and jawline.
Experiment if you have an oval-shaped face. People with oval-shaped faces can pretty much get away with any style, so experiment with middle partings, side partings, diagonal partings and even zigzag partings!;
, Not only the shape of your face can have an influence on the type of parting that works best for you, your facial features themselves also have a role to play.


One side of a person's face is usually more pronounced or stronger than the other, so this is the side of your face you want to put your parting on.
To figure out which side of your face is stronger than the other, stand in front of a mirror and hold a sheet of paper in front of your face, first on one side, then the other. The side of your face which has more upturned features (there should always be one) is the stronger side.
Another way to decide where your parting should go is to look at your nose. If it points off slightly in one direction (most of our noses do) then the parting should go on the opposite side in order to restore symmetry to the face.However, you should also think about which side of your face you prefer. If you believe that one side of your face is your "best side" then that is the side you should expose when choosing a side for your parting.
 The final thing you need to consider when deciding on a hair parting is whether there's a certain look or style that you're trying to achieve. Certain partings work best with specific styles.


Middle partings look great paired with long hair styled into beachy waves, for a cool boho-chic look. They can also look fantastic with sleek bobs for a simple, yet sophisticated 'do.
Side partings look great for effortless, just-out-of bed styles. However, a deep side parting adds retro glamour to your hair and looks equally good paired with big curls or a classy up-do.
A zigzag parting is your best friend if your hair is lying a little flat, as it immediately adds volume to hair. It's also a great way of covering up your roots if your hair color is in need of a touch up, and adds a bit of life and fun to any hairstyle.
 Start by shampooing and conditioning your hair, then comb it until you have no tangles.









Dry your hair until its completely dry (unless you have very thin/straight hair, in which case it can be slightly damp).
Brush through again to ensure there are no knots or tangles, as this will make parting the hair a lot easier.
 A pin-tail comb is the best instrument to part your hair with, as its pointed end helps you to be very precise. If you don't have a pin-tail comb, any fine-toothed comb will do (or even your fingers if you're opting for a messy-style parting).









Hold the comb perpendicular to your scalp, then use the pointed end to draw a line through your hair, running backwards from your forehead.
If you want a symmetrical middle parting, draw a line from the center of the bridge of your nose. If you want a side parting, draw a line from the arch of your eyebrow on whatever side you choose.
If you want a zig-zag parting, first do a normal middle parting, then use the point of the comb to make a "zig" on one side of the line. Use your fingers to guide the hair into place, then draw a "zag" going in the opposite direction. Continue in this fashion, smoothing the hair into place after each "zig" or "zag".
 Before you lift the comb from your scalp, use the fingers on your free hand to guide the hair onto the correct side of the parting.
 As this is a new parting, you may find it difficult to get your hair to lie flat.









If this is the case, you can use some bobby pins to hold your parting in place until your hair lies flat.
If you have some time before you need to go anywhere, put a beanie hat on and wear it around the house for a while. This will train your new parting to stay right where you want it!

, As an extra precaution, spritz your hair with a light misting of hairspray (holding the can at least 12 inches away from your head). Then use your hands to smooth your hair into place.
 If you're happy with your new parting, keep parting your hair in the exact same place every day. Remember to use all of the tricks outlined above to encourage your hair to lie flat. Eventually it will just fall naturally into place.








