 Sometimes, you just need to vent, and venting can help you to feel better and decrease feelings of annoyance. Rather than taking your frustrations out on the person who is annoying you, which will only further damage your relationship, vent to a trusted friend or family member. Though it can be tempting to gossip to your coworkers or to others who this person might annoy, shy away from doing this so you don’t create drama.


Call your mom or spouse and say “Do you have a few minutes to talk? I need to vent about this person I work with.”
You can either have them just listen to you or you can ask for advice.
 Remember that they might not be purposely annoying you, it might just be one of their characteristics. People could find some things that you do annoying, so don't be too harsh to the person or you could offend and upset them. If you feel the situation is starting to get out of control, or if they are getting angry, walk away or an argument could erupt.


Reflect on the times that others have called you annoying. Recognize that them lashing out in anger towards you did nothing to dissipate the situation, but often times only made both of you feel worse.
Try to remind yourself that what you find annoying might not be annoying to other people. The feelings of annoyance are coming from within yourself, not from the other person.
 Often times you might find that what annoys you in the moment is something that will hardly or never cross your mind again in a week or even in an hour. When you are getting worked up because someone is annoying you, badgering you, or being loud, think to yourself “Will this matter later?”, Laughter is the best medicine and this instance is no different. When you feel yourself on the brink of annoyance, take a moment to laugh. Watch a funny video on YouTube, revisit some funny memes that you have in your phone, or call a friend who is hilarious. Doing so will improve your mood and allow you to let things go more easily.Distracting yourself can be helpful when the emotions you are felling are getting to you. Take some time to focus on something you enjoy for a while and then come back to the situation.
 The person annoying you may be doing so purposely or their behavior may border on bullying. For example, if they are regularly playing pranks on you that are disrupting your work or your peace, this is unacceptable. If they are calling you names or contacting you frequently outside of work, this is not okay either. Report their behavior to the necessary people, whether that be your boss, teacher, or someone else.

