 Negative thinking is one of the biggest obstacles towards achieving your goals. If you are constantly thinking that you don't have what it takes, that your dreams are too far away, then you aren't going to achieve them.When negative thoughts enter your mind, acknowledge them and send them on their way. For example if you think "I'm never going to achieve my goal to get published by thirty" acknowledge the thought and change it to "I'm working hard to get published by thirty, but if that doesn't happen, it doesn't mean I am a failure."
Don’t compare yourself to others and whether they're achieving their dreams. There are always going to be people who are closer to fulfilling their dreams than you are. Respect them for the work they've put it and focus on putting work in on your own dreams.
Eliminate people from your life who try to puncture your dreams. From early childhood children are told that they can't do this or that or the other. Ignore these voices of negativity. For example: if you wanted to go into space as a child, you can. It's hard work, but it is definitely possible if you put in hard work.
 The sharper you keep your mind the easier you will find it to overcome obstacles and achieve your dreams. Learning doesn't just have to be book-learning or school-learning. It can be cooking, fixing cars, or learning a new language.


You can find free online classes for all kinds of subjects, including languages. Programs like Open Universityprovide free online classes for subjects ranging from Medieval studies to mathematics and sciences.
Libraries, museums, and universities often have free, or minimal fee, lectures on all kinds of topics. Even if you don't know much about the subject, or haven't heard about it, try out a lecture. You may discover a new passion or a new dream.
The sharper and healthier you keep your brain, the more likely you are to have the drive and the mental capacity to fulfill your dreams. People who keep learn tend to find it easier to find creative solutions to obstacles that may arise in their path.
 Instead of feeling like you've hit a dead-end when you make a mistake, examine what went wrong. Whenever some sort of "failure" happens, it's a chance to figure out what you might do the next time around. Mistakes are a good teacher and you will not be able to avoid them along the road.


Take some space from the mistake before you start closely examining it. The knee jerk response to a mistake is to feel ashamed and want to cover it up or forget it happened. When you've given yourself time away from it, it makes it easier to go back over the mistake and see clearly what went wrong.
For example: say you've been working really hard to become a published author. You've written a book, edited it over and over, had a few people look it over and give you suggestions. Then, after all that hard work, the publishing company rejected it. Look at your work. Was it right for that company? Was the cover letter or synopsis less than stellar? Is there area for improvement in your manuscript? Answering these questions with clear eyes is going to make your manuscript, and accompanying material better the next time around.
 Dreams don't just fulfill themselves, unfortunately. You're going to have to put in work to accomplish the things that are important to you. This means practicing, it means putting yourself out there, it means taking mistakes and learning from them.


Remember that people who appear to have gotten sudden good fortune usually have been putting in a lot of work behind the scenes. They've been networking with the people who can help them, they've been practicing their craft over and over, they've been making mistakes and trying things out. You don't see a lot of that, because the success ends up being what people notice.
Don't begrudge the hours you spend working on your goal. However, if you're finding that you no longer enjoy what it is you're doing (there are always difficult aspects to any dream) then it may be time to check in with yourself. You may need to find a different dream.
 Nobody who achieved anything did it on their own. There were always people to help facilitate their ideas, or drive them to their soccer practice, or cheer on their efforts from the sidelines. When you're trying to achieve something important to you, ask for help.


For example: when that manuscript got rejected you might go to someone whose opinion you trust and who you know will be honest with you. Don't be afraid to ask them to go over your manuscript and pick out the weak points. This will help you improve in your writing.
Ask someone you admire (whether you know them or not) for tips on how they got to the place they're at. Most people who are closer to achieving their dreams have good advice for those still in the process.

