 Place each chicken breast between two pieces of plastic wrap. If you have a meat mallet, you can use this to pound out chicken breast. If you do not, you can use a wine bottle, canned food, or a pan or pot.Start pounding the chicken on the thickest part. This is usually found near the center of the chicken. Use gentle strikes as pounding too hard can damage the meat.
Move outward, working from the center to the sides.
Pound out each chicken breast until they are all 1/4 of an inch thick.;
, Add the flour to a small mixing bowl. Then, add a small amount of salt and pepper. Use a wire whisk to mix everything together., Egg wash helps coat the chicken for cooking. To make it, add your eggs to a bowl and beat them into an even mixture. Then, mix in your water. Set the egg wash, as well as the flour, aside for now., Add the olive oil to a large skillet. Heat it over medium-high heat.Olive oil is ready when it has a watery, glistening appearance. You can also toss in a small bit of food, like a piece of garlic or onion. If the food sizzles immediately, your olive oil is ready to use., As the olive oil heats, work on coating the chicken breasts. First, coat them in the flour mixture. Then, dip them in the egg wash, coating them completely in that as well. Allow any excess egg wash to drip off each chicken breast before proceeding with the cooking process., Place each chicken breast in the skillet. Keep the heat at the medium-high setting. Cook the chicken beasts for two minutes on each side, or until each side is golden brown.Do not worry if the chicken breasts are not cooked all the way through. You will be cooking them more later.
 Add the lemon rinds to the skillet first. Cook them for one to two minutes. Once the lemon rinds are giving off a strong scent, mix in the wine, broth, and lemon juice.Allow the ingredients to simmer for five minutes. This should reduce the amount of sauce slightly.
 Coat your stick of butter in flour. Then, add it to the sauce. Stir everything together until the butter melts and the flour is mixed into the sauce., Turn down the heat to medium-low. Add the chicken breasts to the pan. Place one lemon slice on top of each chicken breast. Simmer until the chicken cooks through, which should take about two minutes. Then, garnish the chicken with parsley before serving.To make sure the chicken is done, insert a meat thermometer in the thickest part of the chicken. It should be at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit (about 71 degrees Celsius).If you don't have a thermometer, poke the meat. Any juices that escape should be clear.

