 The best way to combat the allergy symptoms is to prevent (or minimize) your exposure to the allergen in the first place. Strategies to reduce the dust and dust mites in your home include:


Purchase a HEPA air filter. This can help to clear dust out of the air, and hence reduce your allergy symptoms.
Wash your bedding at least once a week in hot water. This can help to prevent the accumulation of dust and dust mites.
Also use allergy-proof covers on your mattress and pillow covers to reduce the accumulation of dust and dust mites.
Vacuum any carpets in the home at least twice a week, and clean any surfaces that gather dust regularly. Use a wet paper towel or sponge to clean these surfaces — a duster will just cause the dust to recirculate and settle again.;
, Mold grows in damp places, such as around leaks in roofs or pipes, in the shower or bathroom, or anywhere with moisture. Strategies to reduce your exposure to mold include:


Throw out any shower curtains, carpets, or other things in your home that have mold on them. If you spot mold on something, your best bet is just to get rid of it. The longer it lingers in your home, the more of a chance there is for mold spores to get into the air and to worsen your allergy symptoms.
Use a dehumidifier to reduce the humidity in your home to less than 50%. Because mold thrives with greater moisture and humidity, this can help to prevent mold problems from developing in your home.
 If you have severe pet allergies, consider getting a non-hairy pet instead such as a fish or lizard. If you only have mild pet allergies and are seeking to manage them as best as possible, you can try:


Washing your pet at least once a week. This is because, contrary to popular belief, pet hair is not the most common allergen; rather, it is pet dander (dead skin cells that naturally shed from your pet). For this reason, bathing your pet can help to diminish the dander and reduce your allergy symptoms.
Keeping your pet out of the bedroom. Because you spend quite a bit of time in the bedroom every night, as well as the fact that bedrooms are often carpeted, keeping your pet out can prevent pet dander from accumulating in your bedroom. This, in turn, can help to alleviate your allergy symptoms.
 These include:


Getting an artificial Christmas tree because real trees have the potential to grow mold. Some people are also allergic to the fragrance of a real tree.
If you do get a real tree, consider washing it thoroughly with water outdoors before you bring it in and decorate it.
If you are visiting relatives for the holidays who have a pet (and you are allergic), plan appropriately by asking for a room as far away as possible from the pet, and by bringing allergy medications as needed.
Be aware of the rebound effect if you are not spending the holidays with your own pet. Some people, after being away from their pet for several days, return home only to find that their allergy to their own pet has worsened. This is due to a decreased tolerance in your immune system following your absence.
Understand that stress can trigger allergy symptoms such as hives or asthma. Try to stay as relaxed as possible over the holidays, and take steps to lighten your workload during the holidays (such as preparing some of the dishes for big dinners in advance).
 Some people confuse the runny nose they get from being outside in the cold with a winter allergy when, in fact, the two are not related. A runny nose in the cold is a vasomotor (physiological) response; it may be correlated to changes in temperature (particularly the cold), windy weather, changes in humidity, and strong odors or smoke.

