 The rootstock must be hardy in your area. You can plant an apple tree from seedling to use as rootstock, but you will have to wait several years to create a sturdy plant.


Rootstock must be suited to your climate and local insects.;
, Ask your local nursery about purchasing rootstock. This is the best way to ensure your type of rootstock is well suited to grafting.


Discuss the varieties of scion that work well with the type of rootstock you buy when you purchase the stock from the nursery.
 Keep it moist, in cool conditions through the winter. Although rootstock is sold when it is a few years old, it can be purchased just before you graft.
 The diameters of the branches have to match; however a graft with a thinner scion might be successful, as well.
 Grafting success increases with practice, so you may need to cut several scion and rootstock branches before you are successful.
 You can store them until the next spring, when they will be ready to bud and plant. You want to have scion branches that are harvested above freezing but when the apple tree has already fallen dormant.
 Use sharp shears. Wash the shears with alcohol before harvesting different types of scions.
, Nurseries or mail order services can send you scion branches to store until you are ready to graft.
 Place it in a large freezer bag. Add the scions to the plastic bag to store in the refrigerator until you are ready to graft.,, This is often between April and May, but will depend greatly on your climate., It should be the same size as your scion.
 Then, you will cut the end of the scion at a downward angle so that the remaining buds are above the grafted section.
 Use clean, sharp shears. You need to expose fresh, green cells or cambium on both scion and rootstock to graft successfully.
 A sharp knife increases the chances of a graft.
 The cut should be approximately one inch (2.5cm) in length. Ensure you have three good buds above the cut.
 Cut upward at an acute angle. When you place the two branches together, they fit together as though they were one branch.
 This allows the cambium cells to contact each other on at least two points. They slide together to form a sturdy union.


Cut the rootstock tongue groove approximately one-third the way down the previous cut. You will need to cut downward, in the opposite direction of your previous cut, to make an interlocking groove.
Cut the scion stock one-third the way down in an upward angle.
Rock the knife down the grove slowly so that it doesn’t slip and you don’t cut yourself., You will need to slowly slide the cambium, or green portion of one branch, into the cambium of the other branch. The grafted portion should be fairly stable.
 Leave the end sticking out so that you don’t need to cut through the grafted area to free it when the graft starts to grow.
, Seal the top with wax as well.
, Keep them in a cool, moist area. They can also be packed into sphagnum moss in a plastic bag and moistened until they are planted.
 They will need to remain in this climate for two to four weeks.
 It should be in full sunlight.
 You want the scion to flourish, but you don’t want the rootstock to take over.


At first, you can leave some leaves on the rootstock so that nutrients keep flowing up the tree until the graft is successful. However, if you see an actual branch start to form on the trunk of the rootstock, remove it; this will help encourage the scion to grow.
Once the scion really starts to grow and new leaves appear above the graft, remove any further growths from the rootstock, below the graft. This removal will help the plant thrive with growth on the scion, rather than the rootstock. The rootstock will keep trying to grow its own branches, and you need to remove them for as long as the tree lives.

