 There are many reasons a dog owner may take their dog to a trainer. You may want basic obedience training for your puppy, or you may need behavior modification for your aggressive dog. You may want to train your dog in a specific skill, like agility, or your may need help with a mental condition that requires medication.Knowing what you want from the trainer and what your dog’s needs are can help you search for and pick the right trainer.;
, Not all trainers are alike and may not offer what your dog needs. After figuring out what your dog’s needs are, you can figure out what kind of trainer you need. As you search, look at what the trainers specialize in. They should all list their specializations or what behaviors or areas they train on their website.Many people just call themselves dog trainers because they train dogs. Some call themselves behaviorists because they help you modify both minor and major canine behavior.
An applied animal behaviorist is a certified professional who specializes in the study of animal behavior. They have graduate-level education in the area and at least three to five years of professional experience. They deal with things like extreme aggression or fear, and work alongside dog trainers.
Veterinary behaviorists are certified professionals and have been residents for at least two years alongside veterinarians. They are experts in animal medication, and may work with other trainers and behaviorists if the dog needs medication to help modify their behavior.
 There are different kinds of classes available to you and your dog. What you choose depends on your dog’s individual needs.Group classes are for basic obedience training and socialization.
Private sessions are focused on treating behavioral problems, like extreme aggression, separation anxiety, or handling issues.
Day training is an option if you work and don’t have time to train with your dog. The dog trainer will come to your home and train them while you’re at work, or your dog will go to their home or a kennel and be trained there.
Skill specific classes are geared towards something you want your dog to learn. This may include agility training, competition training, or herding.

