 First, you will need a plain piece of 12X18 inch construction paper. You can also use printer paper, or card stock, depending on the materials you have available. The color of the piece of paper is up to you, however, remember that the darker the tone or color, the harder it will be to see the design. You will also need:A pair of scissors
A ruler
A stapler
Tissue paper (color of your choice)
Watercolor or acrylic paint
Small paintbrush
Glue
Hole-punch
String

, Lay your piece of construction paper on a flat surface that is safe to paint on. You may want to lay some old newspapers down first so that you do not damage your painting surface. If you are using acrylic paint, apply a small amount of paint to a clean paper plate. Dip your paintbrush into the paint, and apply it to the construction paper in small brushstrokes.








If you are using watercolor paints, add a tiny bit of paint to a paper plate. Then, fill a jar of cool water and keep it next to the paper plate as you paint. Add a small amount of water to the paint on the paper plate. Dip your brush into the paint and dab it onto the construction paper in small brushstrokes. Continuously add water when the paint starts to dry up.
For more information on how to use acrylic paint, visit How to Acrylic Paint. For more information on watercolor painting, visit How to Paint With Watercolors.
While you can paint any design you wish, traditional Japanese designs usually include flowers, nature, and animals native to the country of Japan. If you wish to go the more traditional Japanese route, you can visit https://learnodo-newtonic.com/famous-japanese-artists-and-paintings as a general guide.
After you have painted your design, give your piece of paper at least a day to fully dry.
 First, you will need to fold your paper in half length wise (join the short ends of the paper together). Make a solid crease, either with your hand, or a semi-heavy object like a paperweight. Take your ruler, and mark a 1








Next, take your ruler to the folded edge. Make a small pencil mark every 1/2 inch (should be 23 marks in total for a piece of paper 12 inches wide). Then take your ruler, and line up each of these marks, with the 1/2 inch line you previously drew. Connect each of these marks to that 1/2 inch line.
Take your pair of scissors and cut along each of these lines. However, do not cut the 1/2 inch line you drew near where the short edges meet.
 After you have finished cutting, open your folded paper up. Take the two long ends of the paper and bring them together with your hands (overlapped by about 1








After the paper is compressed slightly, and you have joined together the two long ends, hold the lantern in position.
Staple the long edges together. It might be best for you to hold the lantern in the proper position as another friend or relative staples the ends together.
After you have the ends stapled together, you can then go back over the joined edges with clear tape. This will keep your lantern from falling apart.
 Each of the strips should be a different color than the rest of your lantern (the strips themselves can be the same color as each other). Use a ruler to measure out two rectangles that are 1








Apply some glue (super glue or regular glue) to the backside of one of the strips. Wrap the strip around the top of the lantern, where you did not previously cut into. Hold the strip there for five minutes, or until the glue is dry.
Repeat the previous step, except this time, wrap the second strip on the bottom of the lantern.
 Use a hole-punch to punch two holes through the top part of your lantern, one directly across from the other. Next, cut a piece of string at least 12 inches long (length will vary depending on how and where you will hang the lantern). Feed each end of the string through the top, inside of the lantern, each end going through one of the holes. Pull the string through each hole and tie a knot on each end. Your lantern is now ready to hang.