 A good therapist will always assume that the loved one is capable of listening (even if they seem unresponsive), and will assume that they are doing their best.A nonverbal or partially verbal loved one may be able to think more deeply than they can communicate.Their body may not always obey them, so they may not be able to accurately point to the things they want to point to.The therapist should care about why your loved one does what they do, and never assume that a behavior is meaningless, nor should they choose to ignore what the autistic person might be trying to communicate.Schoolwork designed for a four-year-old is not appropriate for a sixteen-year-old.
 Consent matters. A good therapist will try to work with your loved one and respectfully engage with them on their level. Therapy should not be a battle, and autistic people should not have to suffer through it.Think if it would be better described as cooperation or as compliance.Your loved one should be able to voice concerns, opinions, and goals. They should have input in their own treatment.
A therapist needs to honor a "no." If your loved one is ignored when they say "no," they learn that the word "no" is not important and they do not need to listen to it.Find a fun therapy for your loved one if you can. Many good therapies feel like structured playtime.
 Your loved one should be able to say no, and have the therapist listen to them. The therapist should not push, pressure, coerce, or threaten loss of tokens or privileges if the autistic person is not comfortable with something.Your loved one should be taken seriously when they say no or express discomfort (verbally or not).
Bullying and sexual abuse rates are high in autistic children (and adults). Consider asking that assertiveness training be part of your loved one's therapy program., Reinforcers can be effective, but can also be overusedor abused.A bad therapist may tell you to deny your loved one access to their favorite things at home, in order to make them work for them in therapy.Take note if the therapist uses or restricts...


Food
Access to things they love, such as their special interest or their teddy bearNegative reinforcers, aka "aversives" or corporal punishment (e.g. slapping, squirting vinegar in the mouth, forced inhalation of ammonia, electric shocks)Ability to take breaks
Too many reinforcers; the autistic person's life is a series of tokens and exchanges, or they are losing internal motivation

, A bad therapy may push an autistic person long after they need a break, and even use this as a technique to break their will so that they comply. A good therapy allows plenty of breaks as needed.40 hours per week of therapy is as demanding as a full-time job. This can be exhausting, especially for young children.
A good therapist will encourage your loved one to communicate the need for a break, and allow a break whenever the autistic person or the therapist thinks one is needed.
 Good therapy will help autistic people feel relaxed and safe.If it involves regular screaming, sobbing, or battles of wills, then it isn't going well.Bad days do happen, and your loved one may cry in therapy. If this happens, consider what role the therapist played in the cause of distress, and how they responded.
 Therapies such as ABA focus on the ABC model—antecedent, behavior, consequence. While this clearly has its uses, it can become dangerous if internal experiences (such as emotions and stress) are ignored.A good therapist will empathize with your loved one and try to see the world through their perspective.A good therapist will be careful not to push your loved one too hard, and will give them a break if they need it.
A bad therapist will not stop if they are causing distress, or may push even harder., A good therapist will immediately de-escalate and show concern (or remorse) over the situation. A bad one may press harder, pin them down, or try to "break" the autistic person, turning it into a battle of the wills.


A good therapist will be honest about what happened, and take steps to prevent it from happening again. They care about your loved one's emotional pain.
Some bad therapists explain these as "tantrums" and insist that these must be dealt with harshly.
Too many weeks, months, or years of tears and frustration may lead previously nonviolent children to become aggressive., Some therapists will physically force compliance if an autistic person does not do what they want. Look for...


AversivesGrabbing and moving the person against their will (including hand-over-hand on an unwilling person)Forced restraint (slapping hands onto table, pinning them against the floor instead of de-escalating)Trapping them ("calm down" rooms with locked doors, chairs with straps to hold them down)

, A harmful therapy may place severe stress on your loved one, causing autistic burnout or abuse symptoms. Your loved one may act "like a different person" during therapy or with people involved with therapy, or even all the time.Watch for...Increased meltdowns
Heightened anxiety; decreased trust of adults
Loss of skills
Extreme behavior: demanding, aggressive, extremely compliant, withdrawn, listlessSuicidal thoughtsIncreased distress before, during, or after therapyViolence, if it was never a serious problem beforeOther changes in mood, skill, or behaviorThe source of this may not be the therapy. However, if the therapist brushes off concerns, and/or your loved one appears especially anxious about the therapy or therapist, this is a red flag., No one is "too low-functioning" to be treated well, and it can help to visualize a non-autistic child being treated like your loved one is being treated. Take a minute to imagine it. Does this make you uncomfortable?Would you flinch or intervene if you saw a non-autistic sibling or peer being treated this way?
Imagine yourself being the autistic person's age. Would it feel demeaning if you went through this?
If a parent treated a non-autistic child this way, would you be calling Child Protective Services?

