 Take the network cable coming from your Internet modem and plug it into the Internet port at the back of your PlayStation 4. Switch on your Internet modem and your PlayStation 4, and the gaming console should automatically detect the network settings of your Internet provider.


If you don’t have a network cable, you can connect your PS4 to a Wi-Fi router by enabling its Wi-Fi under the Network option inside the Settings menu of your PlayStation 4, which you can access easily from the console’s main menu screen.;
, Tap the Google Play Store icon from the home screen of your Android phone to open the online software market where you can download apps made specifically for Android devices.
 Tap the search box at the top of the Google Play app screen and type in “PlayStation Remote Play.” Press the Enter key on your phone’s keypad and a list of related applications should be displayed. Select the app of the same name developed by PlayStation Mobile Inc., displayed at the top of the list.


Tap the “Install” button found at the top of the application’s Google Play Store page to automatically download and install the app on your Android phone.
 Tap its blue icon from the home screen of your Android phone to launch it and you should be taken to the setup screen of the application.
 Tap the “Next” button displayed on the setup screen along with a short brief note on how to connect your PS4 to it. The app will load for a few seconds, and it will immediately display whatever game is currently playing on your PlayStation 4 Console.


To exit the app, simply press the Home button of your Android phone and you’ll go back to your phone’s home screen.
 If you already have the Remote Play app on your phone, tap its blue icon from the home screen of your Android phone to launch it. You should be taken to the setup screen of the application.
 Tap the “Register” button you’ll see on the setup screen together with a short instruction on how you could connect your controller to the app. On the next screen, enter your PlayStation Network account to log in and connect it to the Remote Play app. After logging in your PSN account, you’ll be taken back to the app’s setup screen.


Your PS4 console and its controllers are all registered to your PSN account; that’s why you have to log it in with the Remote Play app so your controller and your PS4 console could see each other when bridged together via the Remote Play app.
 Press the PlayStation logo at the center of the controller to turn it on.
 Swipe the screen of your phone to show the Quick Settings on the Android phone’s task bar. Tap and hold the Bluetooth button you see here to go to your phone’s Bluetooth menu. Tap the toggle switch you see at the top of the menu to switch on your phone’s Bluetooth.
 Scroll down the list of Bluetooth devices displayed on the lower portion of the Bluetooth menu of your phone and select the name of your PlayStation controller to connect to it.
 Press the “Next” button again on the setup screen to connect your Android phone to your PlayStation 4 and resume gaming. You can now use your PS4 wireless controller to play your favorite games remotely on your Android.