 You can rinse your child’s hair with apple cider vinegar before placing an oil, like olive or coconut, on it. The apple cider vinegar can help loosen the eggs from the hair shaft. This helps them come off with the comb.You will need to put an oil or other substance on the hair, but let the hair dry first. The oil will then attach to the eggs and bugs, smothering them and helping them come out of the hair easier.
 One thing that you can use to help remove nits and bugs is a heavy or thick conditioner. The thick conditioner will help keep the bugs from moving and smother them and the eggs.Try brands like Pantene or Tresemme. Test the consistency of the conditioner before you use it because a thin conditioner won’t be thick enough to help pick up the bugs or eggs.
 Some cooking oils, such as olive or coconut oil, can be used to help get rid of lice. Olive or coconut oil can kill the bugs and eggs. The oil can also stick to the eggs or bugs and help them end up between the teeth of the comb.Make sure to saturate the hair completely with oil.
 Mayonnaise is another at-home remedy you can use to kill and remove lice. Mayonnaise contains oils that can help smother the lice and nits, while providing a thick consistency that can stick to the bugs and nits.Mayonnaise may have a bad or unpleasant smell. Consider if you or your child would be negatively affected by this before using it.
 Putting essential oils on your child’s hair may help kill bugs and eggs. Tea tree, lavender, and neem oil have been shown to kill lice.Mix the shampoo with the essential oils, and let the shampoo sit for about 15 to 20 minutes. Then comb with the fine-toothed comb.Try mixing 20 drops of tea tree oil and a few drops of lavender oil into your child’s shampoo.
 For the oil to suffocate the bugs, you need to leave the olive or coconut oil on the hair for at least eight hours. Cover your child’s hair in oil and then cover it with a shower cap.You should do this during the day. Putting a plastic shower cap or bag over your child’s hair while they sleep can lead to suffocation.
 Some of the topical drugs used for lice treatments have become powerless because of the emergence of resistant lice. However, for several drugs resistance has not been reported, or at least not widely reported yet. These include:Ivermectin 0.5% lotion
Benzyl alcohol 5% lotion
Spinosad 0.9% topical suspension
Malathion lotion 0.5% (resistance reported in the UK only)
Oral Ivermectin tablets are sometimes recommended for severe lice infestations, but this is not an FDA approved treatment.

