 Roughly 4-7% of Swiss citizens speak Italian, particularly in the southern cantons (provinces) that border Italy. Swiss Italians are proportionately much more likely to speak Swiss-German than Swiss-Germans are to speak Italian. If you are traveling in the southern part of Switzerland, listen to the people around you and read the signs. If everyone seems to be speaking Italian, then it's probably a good choice., Pronounce "ciao" as "chow." This is one of the two most common ways to say “hello” or “hi” in Italian. While it is a common greeting, ciao is considered fairly informal and is usually used in casual situations or among friends and family.Note that “ciao” can also mean “good-bye,” depending on the context. Make it clear that you are greeting the person and not saying farewell.
 Pronounce salve as "sahl-veh." Although it is not quite as common as “ciao,” the term “salve” is more appropriate to use among people with whom you are not on familiar terms. The most formal way to greet someone is with a time-specific greeting, but salve is still appropriate to use with most people. To put it in the perspective of a native English speaker, “ciao” is like “hi” while “salve” is closer to “hello.”Like ciao, salve can also be used to say "good-bye" depending on the context.
 Buongiorno and other time-based greetings are considered the most formal way of greeting someone. That said, you can still use these phrases among friends and family. As with many other Italian greetings, time-specific hellos can also mean "good-bye" depending on the context.


Say "buongiorno" in the morning. This phrase translates into “good morning” or “good day.” Pronounce buongiorno as "bwohn jor-noh."
Say "buon pomeriggio" in the afternoon. That's "bwohn poh-meh-ree-joh." This phrase can be used to say “good afternoon” as a greeting or farewell after noon. Note that you may still hear buongiorno in the afternoon, but buon pomeriggio is slightly more common and more accurate. "Buon pomeriggio" is a lot more formal than "buongiorno"
Use "buonasera" in the evening. After roughly 4 PM, the polite way to greet or bid farewell to someone is with buonasera. Pronounce buonasera as "bwoh-nah seh-rah."

