 If you can control the amount of hours that you play, then you are probably not addicted. Some typical symptoms include the following:


Continuously thinking about a MMORPG
Missing work, school, or a social activity to devote time to a MMORPG
Playing a MMORPG for an excessive duration in one sitting (more than 5 hours)
Spending real money on in-game items (This in and of itself is not a sign. It's OK to spend money if you have money. If you should be buying food and you are buying in game items instead, you might have an issue)
Psychological distress attributed to lack of game play (feeling upset/angry if you can't play)
Loss of sleep due to excessive gaming
Putting more time into the game than important things like schoolwork, friends, family etc.
Other major lifestyle change that results in playing the MMORPG more often;
, Even if it is just a game, it is still an addiction that is affecting your lifestyle. In recognizing the problem, you become aware that it needs to be fixed.
 They may give you the emotional support that you need to recover. If you can't bear parting from your e-friends, keep contact with them via e-mail or chat.
 Depending on how addicted you are, and how much time you have to beat your addiction, you have several methods of approach.




Decrease your overall time playing. What seems to be the most common is to slowly lower your playing time until it is down to a reasonable amount. However, this may not work for people who are unable to control their addiction.
Force yourself to quit playing. Quit playing the game for a few months, and then your addiction will soon dissipate, provided that you don't slip back to the game.

Uninstall the MMORPG. If you cannot trust yourself to keep away from loading the game another time, then your best bet is to remove the program from your computer completely. In conjunction with this, delete your highest level characters or the characters most important to you before deleting the software and, in certain games, canceling your subscription.
Keep the installation CD out of reach. You might lock them away in a drawer, or give them to your parents, sibling, or trusted friend. If you are very determined, you might even destroy, or sell the CD even donating to charity/charity shops works.

Find new hobbies. Look for another hobby like reading or riding a bicycle. It is best if you find something that will keep you away from the computer, in effort to keep your mind off of the MMORPG.
 After your addiction is beaten, keep it at bay. If you're sure that the addiction won't come back, whatever you do don't try the MMORPG again,it is too risky. Also, don't look for starting another MMORPG. You'll only end up funneling your addiction from the first MMORPG to the next.

