 Search for a therapist who is qualified to provide dance and movement therapy. The person should be a registered dance therapist. This means they’ve completed extensive training in clinical work using dance therapy and can provide high quality care.You may find a dance therapist through a program at a local hospital or at a therapy clinic. You can also find one by searching for a therapist online.The dance therapist should have the title “Dance Therapist Registered (DTR)” or “Academy of Dance/Therapists Registered (ADTR).”;
, Mirroring means matching or following another person’s movements. This practice helps build empathy and connection. Mirroring can help validate a person’s experience. It can help build cooperation and understanding.For example, one person may leap and the other person will follow. If the person chooses to slow down the dance, the other person responds to the change.
 A person can use a metaphor to dance the way they feel. They can also use props as a way to extend the metaphor. Your metaphor can help you celebrate accomplishments, work through confusing emotions, or play out meaningful interactions between you and another person.For example, you might feel upset and dance with something that resembles fire or throw things in rage as you dance.
 Jumping is a way to bring emphasis to your movements. If you struggle with depression, jumping can help, as people with depression tend to have decreased vertical movements. Practice moving in all directions and getting your whole body involved.Find as many ways to jump as you can. For example, you can jump, skip, leap, and twirl.
 Dance and movement therapy can help people express their feelings through movement. Because it is set up to be a safe and non-judgmental environment, participants can feel free to express themselves through their bodies. The therapist may ask participants to re-enact their emotions and work through them through dance.Dance therapy can be a healthy alternative form of expression for people who are not attracted to traditional talk therapy.
 Using movements can help participants deal with stress in a fun way. Dance therapy is often offered in hospitals and to people who may experience physical, emotional, psychological, or cognitive problems. Dance therapy can be a type of exercise, and moving the body can be a great way to beat stress while developing a stronger body.Use dance therapy as a way to relax and unwind after a difficult experience.
 Dance therapy has shown positive effects for people suffering from depression.Movement itself can help with depressive symptoms, which is why exercise is so important to depression treatment. Dance therapy is beneficial because it also includes making meaningful movement and expression.

Dance therapy can also be used to treat anxiety disorders and eating disorders, although less research backs this treatment.
 Dance therapy can contribute to mindfulness practices. Focusing on nonverbal communication and adjustment means that dance therapy can help participants stay focused in the moment. Participants are encouraged not to judge their movements but to let them occur naturally.Dance movement therapy can become a type of mindfulness meditation by engaging in the here-and-now through movements.
 Dance is an art form that can help with self-expression. A dance therapist can help participants express their emotions through dance. For example, a therapist can play sad, angry, fast or slow music and allow participants to adjust their movements to express different emotions.Dance therapy can also improve self-confidence.

Therapists can help participants to express emotions for certain diagnoses or experiences. For example, a therapist can work with a person with depression in order to express feelings of sadness. They can also learn to dance feelings of hope and happiness.
 Dance is a form of nonverbal communication and can help people to learn to communicate in a new way. Participants can learn to take cues and respond to subtle changes through their body movements. For example, participants can give and receive invitations to touch, interact, and respond to another person’s movements. This teaches cooperation, which can then be used in other social situations.Participants can learn to strengthen their nonverbal skills and apply them to other social situations.
 Participants can learn to interact in new and beneficial ways with others and the therapist. For example, people with impulsive behavior often have problems interacting with other people, yet dance can help them learn to interact in a safe and appropriate way with others. They can contribute to a group in a productive way that enhances social connection.Therapists can help people who suffer socially engage with others in a proactive and productive ways. Participants can learn social cooperation through dance.
 Dance movement therapy can help enhance the mind-body connection and help children learn to use this connection more effectively. For example, children learn that they can express themselves and work through their feelings by using their bodies. Thoughts and feelings can directly impact and change the movements performed in dance therapy.Children can reflect on how their emotional or mental states affect their movements. This can help in understanding how thoughts, feelings, and actions impact one another.
 Dance and movement therapy can help children with autism to learn various forms of relationships. Dance therapy can start as understanding and expressing nonverbal communication in a meaningful way. People with autism can learn to create meaningful relationships without using words by instead using their bodies. For example, children who struggle to communicate with others can meet in a different way through dance in turning toward one another, accepting or rejecting invitations to touch, and so on.Moving in time with rhythm can create a sense of unity, even if it’s entirely nonverbal.
 Parents can learn to relate to their children in a new and exciting way through dance. Dance movement therapists can foster coordinated and synchronized movements between parents and children to help them connect. This can help parents and children learn to communicate in different ways.For parents who have a strained relationship with their children, dance therapy can help to open communication through a non-threatening means.

