 These heart ornaments are beautiful and only take a few minutes to create, making them ideal for garlands. They consist of strips of paper bent into a heart shape., Use sturdy paper, like construction paper or patterned scrapbook paper. You will need nine strips in four different lengths, and each strip should be 2 inches (5 cm) wide.


Three strips should be 10 inches (25 cm) long.
Two strips should be 12.5 inches (32 cm) long.
Two strips should be 15.75 inches (40 cm) long.
Two strips should be 19.75 inches (50 cm) long.
 The strips need to be piled together in a specific order so that the proper pattern forms in your heart.


Pile four of the strips on top of each other from smallest to largest until you have used one of each size. The largest should be on the bottom with the smallest on top.






Flip the pile over so that the largest is on top. Place another of the smallest strips on top of the first 19.75 inch (50 cm) strip. This newest strip will stay at the center and will help you to hang your heart.






Pile the remaining strips on top of the others from largest to smallest, until all the strips have been used. This means the largest will go on top of the smallest that you have just placed down with the rest on top. You will end up with the smallest on top once more.
 Make sure the bottoms of all the strips are evenly lined up with one another. Put a single staple through the bottom to hold the strips together.
 Hold the stack together at the bottom, near your lowest staple, and bend the pieces of paper toward your fingers. Starting with the smallest strip on each side, bend each of the strips down to the staple at the base of the stack of papers.


Bend each of the four strips on the right side starting with the smallest and ending with the longest. Bring them down to the right side of the staple at the base of the stack.
Bend the corresponding four strips on the opposite side down and to the left.
Leave the center strip straight and hold the stack together with thumb and forefinger at the base of the heart.






Be careful not to crease the paper as you bend it.
 This will keep all the strips in their bent position. Use as many staples as necessary to hold the bent strips of paper in place.


You may also need to add staples further along the stem to help form and maintain the heart shape. These staples might be visible so it is your choice whether to add them to your heart or not.
 Use a paper hole puncher to punch a small hole at the top of the straight center strip.


Center the hole and place it roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the top edge.
 Place a long string, ribbon, piece of yarn, or piece of twine through the hole and tie it into a loop. You can use this loop to hang your heart ornament.
 Now that your heart is complete you can hang it in a location of your choice. You can also make additional ornaments and connect them into a garland if you wish.

