 Committing to a daily and nightly skin care regimen will help your skin get used to certain products and ensure your combination skin looks healthy and blemish free.Clean your skin twice a day (morning and night) with a cleanser to remove debris on the surface of your skin.
Apply an oil based moisturizer on dry areas to keep your skin from drying out.
If you are trying to lessen the appearance of wrinkles, apply a firming mask or firming cream at night before bed.
 Rather than apply one treatment on your entire face, focus on targeting the different skin types on your face. You will need to address dry areas on your face separately from any oily or acne prone areas on your face.
 Look for a gel-based or foaming cleanser to prevent dryness and inflammation. Avoid cleansers that contain irritants or fragrance, and always massage the cleanser gently on your skin in small circles. Clean your face every morning and every night for at least 30 seconds to a minute.Exfoliation is not recommended for people with sensitive skin. Use exfoliation sparingly. To test, try on a small patch of skin. If it does not hurt or irritate your skin, you can use it on the rest of your face.
A lightweight lotion cleanser is good for people with dry skin and rosacea. Stay away from bar soaps or bar cleansers, as the ingredients in bar soaps can clog your pores and dry out or irritate your skin. Good labels to look for include “gentle” and “for sensitive skin.”

, Look for a toner without any irritants, such as alcohol, witch hazel, menthol, synthetic or natural fragrance, or citrus based oils. A good toner is water-based and has anti-inflammatory agents and antioxidants that will help your skin repair itself.A list of good antioxidants in toners can be found here.
Using a cleanser or toner that contains beta hydroxy acid (BHA) like salicylic acid, or alpha hydroxy acid (AHA) like glycolic acid can help to reveal healthy skin hiding underneath acne prone skin. Look for a product that contains these elements in a gel or liquid for oily skin or combination skin., Go for botanical oil based moisturizers to keep your skin from drying out. Your skin is made up of oils, so to balance oil production, you should apply high quality oils to your skin. Use oil-free or non comedogenic products if you have sensitive or oily skin.
 Be diligent about treating each skin type on your face separately. It can seem like a lot to remember, and a lot of products to keep on hand. But in the end, your combination skin will thank you for paying attention to the needs of the different skin types on your face.


Use lotion or cream based moisturizers on dry patches. Use oil-free or non comedogenic lotion and cream moisturizers on oily patches.
Hydrate any dry areas on your face before you apply foundation or makeup to your entire face. This will prevent dry patches from forming.
Apply acne spot treatments to any blemishes or acne scars and avoid applying the treatment to every area of your face.
 Once you clean, exfoliate, tone, and moisturize your face, the last thing you want to do is clog your pores with your make up. Using an all-natural mineral foundation will keep your skin hydrated and prevent oil from forming in your T-zone. Look for foundations that state they are for combination skin.


Do not go to sleep wearing your makeup.
If possible, go for a foundation that also contains SPF to protect your skin from sun damage.
 If you aren’t already using a foundation that contains SPF, you should apply sunscreen every day, year-round to protect your skin from the signs of aging. Wrinkles, sunspots, and discoloration can be prevented with the simple application of a light, SPF 30 sunscreen.Use a sunscreen that contains active ingredients like titanium dioxide or zinc oxide for sensitive skin and rosacea.

