 How much weight is the forklift required to lift and carry? An average forklift has a weight capacity of 5,000 lbs. Weight capacity is an important detail when planning your forklift rental because you do not want to pay for a rental only to find that it cannot do the job. Also, how is the product packaged? Is it on pallets or sitting on the floor? Is it uniform in size or irregular? Is the product secured i.e. shrink wrapped or strapped? Make note of this information because you may require special fork attachments.;
, The next factor to consider is reach height. Similar to weight, measurement must be as accurate as possible. Not only do the forks need to reach a certain height (as determined by your facility), but it must have the ability to lift the weight of your load to that height. A forklift that cannot tolerate the amount of weight or lift that weight to the proper height is not only a waste of time and money, but it is very dangerous.
 Will the forklift operate in a warehouse, factory, construction site, lumberyard, ship’s dock? The environment makes a difference in determining the type of tires the forklift will need. Additionally, what is the required turning radius and what is the minimum aisle width, if any? You need to be able to maneuver the forklift through the space in which you are working.
 It is not inexpensive to rent a forklift, especially on a daily or weekly basis. Be prepared to spend at least $100 per day for a standard 5,000 lb forklift. In addition to rental rate, there are also operating costs such as fuel (LP or Diesel). Refer to the "Tips Section" for Estimated Rental Costs.
 Do you need the forklift rental for a day, week, month or more? Do not make the mistake of walking into or contacting a dealership to rent a forklift the very day you need one. Make your plans in advance once all your notes and measurements are complete. The per-day rate is less when you rent for longer periods of time. Ask about overtime charges, too. The costs for most forklift rentals are based on a regular 8-hour day/40-hour week/160-hour month. If you require more hours then overtime charges will usually apply.
 Most forklift dealerships rent their forklifts on daily, weekly and monthly contracts. Arrange for the rental at least one week in advance to ensure the type of forklift you need is available.
 Renting from a dealership ensures reliable equipment and a qualified professional to help recommend the appropriate equipment for your situation. However, just like when you rent a car, it is your responsibility to examine the forklift for signs of damage before you rent it. Make notes on the contract or attach a separate sheet of paper before you leave. When you use the forklift, treat it as if it were your own. Dealerships will charge extra for forklifts that are damaged upon return.
 The forklift rental agreement will provide all the particulars on the terms and conditions of the contract. Ensure you agree with all aspects of the rental agreement and keep a copy for your own documentation purposes.
 The dealer insures the equipment, but you or your company must cover the operator, other workers and the facility itself in case of an injury or property damage when using the rented forklift.
 How will the forklift be transported to the job site? It is best to let the dealership do it if they have delivery service available. (Another cost to add to your budget.) This machinery must be loaded and unloaded carefully, so it really is worth the extra cost to let the professionals do it.

