
For the strap: Cut one piece fabric measuring 14.5" x 3".
For the bow: Cut two pieces of fabric measuring 11" x 5".
An additional bow piece: Cut one piece of fabric measuring 2" x 5".
Lining: Cut two pieces of fabric measuring 10" x 6".;
, Lay it out fully on a flat surface. Fold it in to the center from each side, so that the folds meet at the middle. Then iron the crease lines into place. (Refer to the previous image above.), Sew close to the edge. Then, sew down the other side in the same manner.
 Fold it in to the center from each side, so that the folds meet at the middle on one side., Then, make a loop of the strip, facing the wrong side of the fabric outward. Sew to keep the loop in place permanently, about two inches/5cm from the left side. There will be leftover fabric which you will snip off shortly.
 Be careful not to cut the stitching. Then flip the fabric piece inside out so that it forms a little tube with the fabric facing the right way out now. This forms the bow's center knot piece; now all you need to do is make the bow.


Press the tube. make sure that the seams are facing to the outside.
 Lay the two pieces of bow fabric down on a flat surface. Align them together, then fix them together with pins. Sew down each edge, both the long and short sides; if using a sewing machine, use the presser foot as your guide to keep straight lines. This makes the bow piece., Scrunch up one end so that it will fit through the tube easily. Thread the bow piece through the small tube piece made earlier. The knot piece will create a kink in the center of the bow piece, forming the bow shape. It may need to be glued using fabric glue, to keep it in place––decide this by checking how firmly the bow piece sits in place. This will complete the bow.
 Press the interfacing to the both exterior fabric pieces, onto what will be the inner side of the exterior fabric., Then press down one edge 0.5 centimeter (0.2 in) on each of the interfacing pieces.
 Lay the bow on one of the exterior fabric pieces, with the folded edge on the top. Pin both sides. The bow should be longer than the exterior fabric piece. Sew down both sides; trim the excess pieces of fabric off the bow. Lay a zipper with the pull upside down and on the left; lay the fold of one of the interfacing pieces on top and stitch.
 Lay the exterior bow piece with the folded edge right along the zipper, with the zipper pull facing up to the left; sew along the edge. Sew the other side in the same way and don't forget to pull the zipper down before you do. With the zipper pulled down a few inches, fold the strap in half and lay on top of the bow, leaving about an inch of strap coming off the side. With the strap held inside, pin the exterior pieces and interfacing together, leaving the interior pieces free; sew the three sides together. Flip the entire bag through the resulting hole.
 Press the hole closed. Fix the bag with pins and sew it. Put the lining back into the bag; press it well.
 The clutch bag is now ready for use.

