 Labels are a way to sort emails in Gmail, since there is nor folder feature. Labels allow you to categorize your emails and keep your inbox from overflowing.


You can create a filter by clicking the Gear icon, selecting Settings, clicking the Filters tab, and then clicking the "Create new filter" link at the bottom of the page.
 There are a variety of ways that you can filter your incoming messages. The choices you make will depend on what you want filtered.


For example, if you want all emails from your favorite online store to be filtered into one label, you might enter the email address for the mailing list into the "From" field, or put the store's name in the "Has the words" field.
If you want to create a label for all of your emails that have attachments, you can check the "Has attachment" box.
If you want to create a label for an event or for certain conversations that have the same subject line, you can enter it into the "Subject" field.
 Once you've determined what messages will be filtered, you can create a label for them. In the next window, check the "Apply the label" box, and then click the drop-down menu next to it. Select "New label" and then create the label you want to apply. You can choose to make the label appear nested under an existing label for more organization.
 By default, a label will be applied to the messages, but they will still appear in your inbox. If you'd rather sort them a bit so that you only see the messages when you select the label, check the "Skip the Inbox" box.
 Gmail bolds all of the messages that you haven't read yet. If you don't want the label to be bolded all of the time, you can set all of the emails that get put in the label to be marked as read. Check the "Mark as read" box to enable this.


Marking your emails as read may make it difficult to tell when you've received new messages, since there won't be any visual indication that a new message has appeared in the label.
 Your new labeling filter will be created, and your new label will be selectable on the left side of the Gmail page. Any messages that fit the filter you created will appear when you click the label.

