 Rub moisturiser in with your fingers. At first it will look oily, but don't worry - that will go soon! If you are having a long night (such as a Halloween party or trick or treating) and you would like your makeup to stay on for a long time, use primer. This will help to add on an extra few hours of that doll-like look. Add this after applying the moisturiser.;
, This gives you the flawless look that a doll has. It would probably be better if you could apply it with a brush rather than your fingers, because your fingers contain a lot of grease. To completely make yourself look artificial and doll-like, go over all the nooks and crannies on your face with some concealer. This is only if the foundation didn't cover everything. Or, maybe you don't have any spots, which means you don't have to do this.
 Use powder. This adds matte to your look. The foundation can leave you looking shiny and sticky, and it will be more likely to run. Whereas, when you use powder to top it off, you will not experience any of these problems.
 Just trace your own eyebrows. For this, you could use an eyebrow pencil, or kit. Or you could even use eyeshadow. Do whatever you usually do. Dolls don't have specific shapes for their eyebrows, but the brows are usually quite high up on their face.
 This is the most interesting part.


Use a purple eyeshadow on your eyelid. Then use a slightly lighter purple (or lilac) colour, getting closer to your eyebrow. Make sure it is all blended together. Make it lighter as it gets closer to your eyebrow but make sure there is always eyeshadow there. You wouldn't usually wear this to a day out but because you are being a doll, it's okay.
Add a bit of white eyeshadow in the corner of your eye and closest to your eyebrow. Then blend it again, altogether. You want there to be a gradient.
Add liquid eyeliner. You don't want there to be a massive wing, just a thin line going along the top of the eye and a small wing. Too much eyeliner covers the eyeshadow which is the main focus. But it is just enough to give the eyelashes a more full look.
Get a white kohl eyeliner pencil and draw it along the waterline. Also draw a semi circle under the eye, making it seem as if the eye is bigger. Fill that in with the white eyeliner.
Outline the semi-circle eye with some liquid eyeliner. Draw on a few long bottom lashes with it.
Apply some black mascara onto the top lashes. Don't apply any to your real bottom lashes because that is not where your eye is supposed to end.
It would also be a great idea if you wore fake eyelashes, because dolls have perfect eyelashes.
 The cheeks are pretty simple. You don't want to use highlighter or bronzer. You put some blusher on a round blush brush and you dab in the same spot, just below your eye. Don't put it anywhere else. This gives the effect that there is just a circle of rosiness that a doll has. It is probably best to use a pink blush rather than a red blush, and make it look very bright. Do this to both cheeks.


If you have a brown eyeliner, it would be great to use it at this point. If not, just use black. It could be liquid or pencil. Make lots of freckles all around your cheeks and maybe on top of the nose.
 Apply concealer or foundation onto the lips and blend it into the rest of your face. This way, you can create your own lip shape. Using a lip liner, outline a lip shape. It should be half the size of your actual lips. A lot thinner. But the same size in height. So only do this to the middle of your lips. Then fill it in with a lipstick. You can use whatever colour you like, but preferably pink, red or maybe even purple. Then finally, get a black kohl eyeliner pencil and draw two long lines going from the corner of your lip to the middle of your cheek. Add crosses to the lines. This makes it look like you have been stitched up. You can also add this to other parts of your face, like your forehead or even on your body.

