 If you have undergone a full body painting where the artist used airbrushing, you may find that body paint has caught on to areas of your face like your eyebrows or your eyelashes. Use baby shampoo or makeup remover to remove some of this paint and to brush up your look.To avoid taking off more of the design than you mean to, use a small Q-tip or cotton ball to target the area, rather than a large towel which could end up removing more of the design than you intend!

, If possible, try not to wear clothing that will rub against your body painting. If you have a full body painting and have to go out in public, wear loose-fitting clothing that will be less likely to rub off your paint. If you have a small design, don’t wear clothing that will cover and smudge it., If you have done a full body design, consider putting on face makeup. Because you will probably be taking a lot of pictures, you want to be sure that you facial features also stand out. Apply eye makeup like eyeliner and eye shadow to make your eyes stand out, and wear lipstick that matches or complements your body paint., As much as you may love your design, you shouldn't wear it to sleep. Leaving paint on your body for an extended amount of time can irritate your skin, and the design will start to rub off in your sleep anyway. Remove the body paint in the way your body painter recommends, as it can be slightly different depending on what type of paint was used.


Many professional full-body painters provide a removal kit with instructions that is included in the cost of the painting.
A combination of rubbing alcohol and baby oil are often used to remove body paint used in full-body painting.If you are removing a small body painting, scrub the area gently with soap and water. If not all of the design is removed, use a gentle makeup remover or baby oil to get rid of the residue.
Always moisturize after you remove your body paint. Your skin has been through a lot and you want to make sure that it is moisturized and replenished!

