 Buying feminine products is a universal experience shared by women, and it’s hardly a secret from men. If you can change your perspective, you can see that buying tampons is a necessary and totally normal thing to do. Fake being comfortable buying tampons until you’re actually comfortable buying tampons – it may happen faster than you think!Make eye contact with your cashier so they can see you’re confident with your purchases. This will actually make them more comfortable as well.
Stand tall. People are more likely to notice you if you’re slouching and looking embarrassed. If you act like what you’re doing is completely normal, no one will give you a second glance.
 Everyone knows there is safety in numbers and the same holds true for buying feminine supplies. Take all your girlfriends on a trip to stock up: you can all provide moral support for one another, plus everyone leaves with the supplies they need. It’s a win-win.Make your trip into a game. See who can buy the most potentially-embarrassing purchase without cracking a smile or laughing.
Talk about it. The more you and your friends talk about your periods and buying tampons, the more normal and comfortable it will feel.
 Men are often embarrassed to buy feminine products for the women in their life, but they really shouldn't be. Remember first and foremost that no one is watching or judging you (and if they are, they're probably impressed that you cared enough to help your mom/girlfriend/daughter/sister out of a tight spot).Don't feel the need to buy something extra-masculine to balance out your tampon purchase. It really doesn't matter.
If you're unsure of what you're picking out, ask for help. No one will think less of you for not understanding products you don't even use.
 Menstrual cups are a great alternative to pads and tampons; they’re reusable, so they’re good for the environment as well as your wallet, and you only have to buy them once.The Diva Cup is a great menstrual cup option. You can wear it anywhere and while doing anything and you can purchase it online for around $40.00.
Menstrual cups do not work for everyone and getting used to them requires some trial and error.

