 Online jobs are an easy and often quick way to make extra cash. You'll need a reliable computer and access to the internet, but once you get set up on a specialized website you can earn small, medium, or large amounts of cash in exchange for your work.The payout is typically not very substantial, but it's easy work that can get you some cash.
Many jobs measure payment in cents, but some pay a few dollars per task. With regular task completion, you could potentially earn enough money for groceries or a nice night out.
Sites like Amazon offers you opportunities to complete Human Intelligence Tasks (HITs), which are advertised by Mechanical Turk Workers who pay you if you complete the task in a designated time frame.There are also ways of getting paid for online surveys, with some paying up to $5 per survey. Try Toluna, Vivatic, MySurvey, OnePoll, SurveyBods, The Opinion Panel, Valued Opinions, YouGov, and iPoll.You can also get paid just for doing your usual online searches in Google, Bing, or Yahoo. Install a browser add-on through a web group like Qmee.com and earn cash for every sponsored item you click on.
 Babysitting, petsitting, or housesitting can earn you some cash in hand for a few hours' worth of work. You'll need to be responsible and trustworthy, and it helps if you have previous experience. If you're new to house/pet/babysitting, try asking friends and relatives if they need anyone to watch after things for them - just make it clear (in a tactful way) that you're trying to raise some extra cash so that your friends/relatives don't think you're offering to do it for free.Depending on where you live and how financially secure the family you're helping is, you may be able to earn anywhere from $10 to $14 for every hour you babysit or petsit.
Housesitting payments may be easier to negotiate by the day or week. Search around online to see what the going rate in your city is., There are plenty of websites that can help you quickly find short-term work that will get you cash payments at the end of the day. It's important to know your own abilities going into it so that you're not overwhelmed or at risk of injury, but if you're able to do the work it can be a lucrative prospect.Try searching online, or visit a website that specializes in placing you into immediate jobs. Common websites in this market include LaborReady, LaborWorks, and LaborFinders.
You can also search on Craigslist under "jobs" or "gigs" to find short-term jobs in a number of fields.
Make sure you negotiate and agree upon a payment before you begin the work. You may want to ask for some type of written agreement that the amount you agreed to will be paid at the end of your shift that day.
 This obviously won't be for everyone, but if you're in good health you may be able to make some substantial money by participating in a study or experiment. Always read the full terms of the study in advance, find out how much you'll be able to make, and learn about the risks involved.Some research facilities seek out volunteers to test vaccines or pharmaceutical treatments, while others may simply seek out members for a comprehensive study.
Know in advance that the study may require participants to meet certain health qualifications. Researchers may be looking for someone in perfect health, or they may want someone who suffers from chronic health ailments.
Be aware of the risks. Most experiments are relatively harmless, though some may have a high risk.
Always read the fine print in any study you're considering, and talk to your doctor about the potential risks before agreeing to be part of any experiment/study.

