 Tuck your fingertips into the corner seam at the two far ends of the sheet. This means that you should have a hand in the one of the "foot" corners and one of the "head" corners, on the same side. Make sure the sheet is inside out the whole way around (even in the corners you're not holding), with the tag-side facing away from your body.






;
, Bring the tips of your fingers together and flip one of the corners over the other, switching it to be facing right-side-out. You should now have both corners on one hand.
 You should now have a short loop of the edge on one side of your arm and a long side on the other. Put your fingers on the hem that is touching your arm (the lower of the two that you should have), and follow it down the long seam, until you reach the next corner of the sheet which you. Tuck your fingertips into the corner so that you hold it right-side-out.
 Pick up this section of the sheet and tuck it underneath the first two corners, so that the right side of the fabric is touching the inside of the group you're holding.
 All of the corners at this point should be folded together except one.
 This corner will also be placed underneath the three corners in your hand, so that the wrong side of the fabric is touching the inside of the group you're holding.
 You should now have a long edge of the fitted fabric on one side of your arm and a short side on the other. Grabbing the short side fold or corner with your free hand, give the whole sheet a firm shake to help straighten it out. You're trying to form a square or rectangle with the sheet, of which the L of the fitted fabric will form two sides.
 Lay the sheet down on a flat surface and smooth it out into a square. You may need to "pleat" the fitted corner in order to get it to lie flat. Smooth as many wrinkles as you can.
 This will likely be in thirds, but it may be in quarters, depending on the size of the sheet.
 How you fold it depends on your own preferences, the thickness of the fabric, and the size of the sheet.
 Straighten and tuck as needed to flatten the fabric. This will prevent wrinkles.
 You're done! We recommend keeping all pieces of the sheet set together by also folding up the flat sheet and the pillow cases and then bundling the group together with a ribbon or twine. This will keep your linen closet tidy and space efficient. It also looks nice when guests come over!








