 By reusing old linens, you’ll be able to create new and colorful curtains for your home. Repurposed linens may help you create that warm or even a retro feel for a space that previously lacked personality.


Measure the window you want to cover with a new curtain.
Cut your linen to the appropriate size. Make sure to reserve several inches (depending on taste and how much fabric you have available) on each side of the curtain.
Use an extra-large hole puncher, scissors, or something similar to cut a proper number of holes in the top of the curtain. Space your holes 4 to 5 inches apart (10 to 13 cm).
Use grommets or hanging hooks to secure the new curtain to a curtain rod.
Add lace or other embellishments for more character.
Hang your curtain.
For another look, think about stitching old hankies together to create a new, colorful valance.;
, Reupholstering chairs with old linen can make a time-consuming chore fun. In addition, using old linen may help you preserve a vintage look that the fabric of the old chair had. To reupholster chairs, consider:


Matching your old linen to the chair in question. You may want to change the style completely, or you may want to match it based on period. If you’re redoing chairs from the 1960s, consider using fabric from the 1960s.
Carefully unscrew screws, untack tacks, and remove the old fabric.
Cut the new fabric to match the old fabric.
Replace screws, tacks, and anything else that secured the old fabric.
Consider repainting the chairs to improve their appearance.
Consult a professional and ask them to reupholster for you, with your desired fabric, if you want., Linen buttons are cool items for both functional and decorative uses. The great thing about them is that you don’t need very much material or time to put them together. When making your linen buttons:


Take a button or button shell.
Use an old white linen or fabric to add extra padding.
Place the linen you've chosen for the button on top of the extra padding.
Place your button on top of the fabric (with padding underneath).
Trace a circle. Your circle should have the radius of the button available on each side of the button (the radius of the fabric should be 4 times that of the button.
Cut the fabric. Then take the ends of the fabric and fold them inward toward the back of the button.
Sew the fabric together into a button., Perhaps the most popular thing to do with old linens is to make patchwork quilts. Patchwork quilts are made up of many pieces of different fabrics. Patchwork quilts can be created in one sitting or can be added to over time.


Select a wide variety of old linens. Focus on diversity of pattern and color.
Cut squares (or rectangles). The size of your squares (or rectangles) is up to you, but people commonly cut 4 to 8 inch squares (10 cm to 20 cm).
Arrange your squares in a pattern that is pleasing to you.
Sew the squares together.
Don't worry too much about size in the beginning. One of the best things about patchwork quilts is that you can keep adding squares indefinitely., You can make napkins out of just about any piece of old linen. Ultimately, napkins are simple and versatile accessories that will add character to any dining occasion.


Pick pieces of linen that are free from stains, holes, or frayed material.
Cut squares that are 1 1/2 inches (3.8 cm) larger than your desired napkin. For instance, if you want 18 inch (46 cm) square napkins, cut 19 1/2 inch (49.5) squares of fabric. For reference, common dinner napkins are 16 inch (40.6 cm) or 18 inch (46 cm) squares.
Fold the edges of the napkins 3/4 an inch (1.9 cm) and press/iron them. Unfold the crease when you are finished.
Pin the folds and creases.
Stitch the folds about an 1/8th of an inch (.3175 cm) from its edge.
Cut any extra thread and iron the napkins to reinforce the creases and stitching., A popular way to reuse old linens is to make simple dresses out of them. With little effort you can turn curtains or bedsheets into new sundresses with a colorful and vintage look.


Select a large vintage table cloth, old curtains, or other linens.
Measure the child and sew the linen so it fits them. To do this, model your design off an old sundress you have in the closet or off of one you’ve found at a thrift store. You can also find a dress pattern through an online search.
Cut excess fabric. Don't be afraid to cut more than you need, as you can always decrease the size of the dress later.
Sew the sundress together in the back.
Add vintage embroidered linen to add more character., It is relatively easy to repurpose old linens into new scarves, as seemingly outdated patterns on linens will can make fun and exciting scarves.


Pick patterns that are fun and may suit your personality.
Decide on width and length. Consider modeling the size of your new scarf off an old one you like.
Cut any oversized fabric. Make sure to cut off worn edges, if possible.
If you’ve used smaller pieces of linen, stitch them together. Use thread that matches the general thickness and appearance of the fabric you are stitching together., As simple, square pieces of clothing, bandanas and head bands are relatively easy to make out of old linens. To make bandanas or headbands:


Determine the size you want.
Cut a square (or rectangular) piece of linen from an old sheets or curtains.
Add lace or other embellishments to them to add more character., The condition of the linen will give you an idea of whether it is good material to reuse. It will also give you an idea of what you can reuse it for. When considering a piece of linen, look at:


The material itself. Some material might just be unsuitable for certain projects. For instance, linen drapes that are coated with fire retardant from the 1940s or 1950s may present health hazards.
Whether it is discolored. Depending on the project, discolored fabric may add to the overall look and appeal of a material.
If it has holes in it. If so, you may need to trim substantial amounts of fabric to get something you can work with., After its general condition, you’ll need to evaluate the size of the old linen so you can determine what you can make from it. When considering size, think about:


Curtains and bed sheets lend themselves to new lives as new dresses, new curtains, or a variety of smaller pieces of clothing or household accessories.
Smaller articles like hankies, pillow cases, or small curtains can be repurposed as small articles of clothing or can be sewed together into curtains, quilts, or even pieces of clothing.
 Before repurposing any linen, you need to properly launder and clean it. Not only will this prepare the linen for its new life, but you’ll reveal any stains or any other imperfections that might make you reconsider reusing a specific piece of linen.


Wash older, fragile fabrics in warm water in the sink.
For newer linens, wash the on the gentle cycle in the washing machine.
Use a light, color-safe detergent.