 Every so-called step back is an opportunity to leap forward. Believe that you can get over this person, because you will.


Make a list of all the reasons why you deserve to be happy. This will keep you from feeling sorry for yourself. List friends, family, opportunities, general health. When you take stock of how much you have, you'll feel better instantly.;
,


You don't have to destroy things unless the person in question was a negative force in your life. Tuck those things away in a safe place. The truth is that later on, you'll be happy you saved the memories, even if the person wasn't the greatest.
 Was this person even treating me right? Did he/she make me cry or laugh more? Take some time and think things over.


Make a list of all the things that your ex did that may have bothered you. Write these down partly for closure, and partly as a list of the things that you won't look for in your new partner. While it's hard to find perfection, it's good to not make the same mistakes twice.
 Go out with friends, go bowling, to a movie, ice skating, or even go on a date. Do whatever helps make you happy. Anything to take your mind off of your ex.


Some examples of things for fun you could try doing:

Spend the weekend having an '80s movie marathon. Rent or download as many movies from the '80s (or any other decade) and pop them on with some friends. It doesn't get better than John Cusack and Jamie Lee Curtis.
Build your own waterslide (or go to a water park). Put a slippery tarp down in your backyard and keep the hose running. Slip and slide down the tarp like a bullet.
Design and make some original t-shirts. Send some designs off to a t-shirt vendor, or buy a silk screen and make the t-shirts yourself. Give your group of friends a name let them contribute to the design.
 It doesn't need to be far away; it can be as close as the next city away. But a little time to yourself (or with friends) will really give you a new perspective. Take in the natural beauty of the place you're going to. Find happiness in that beauty.
 Cooking can be very calming and relaxing. Get a recipe of a dish that you want to learn to make and cook it for friends or family: you don't have to eat alone.
 It's best to keep your distance from your ex's friends, even if they're good people. The reason is that you want to try to rebuild your life from the ground up, and you don't want to be pulled back into the vortex of your former life.


If you see your friends, don't avoid them. But don't go out of your way to make plans with them. You want to be civil and respectful, but it's hard to get over your ex when his or her friends are constantly reminding you of them.
If your ex's friends ask you why you're "avoiding" them, just say something like: "I'm really trying to make some time for myself. While I was with , I didn't always get to. Now that we're no longer together, I'm making that a priority."

, They are always there for you and they can definitely keep your mind off of things! Know that your family loves you unconditionally, and that you can talk to them about more than you think.


If you're embarrassed, think about when your parents were younger. They experienced the same things — heartbreak, crushes, indecision, all of it — which means that they've been through the same things before. You might be able to gain some wisdom from talking to them.
 When you're in a relationship, you make time for another person. Sometimes that means sacrificing things you want to do or have planned. Now that you're no longer in a relationship, you can do the things you were meaning to do.


Maybe you were meaning to go volunteer at your local blood bank; maybe you wanted to visit your grandparents; maybe you wanted to finally get that "A" on a math test; whatever it is, put your whole being into achieving that.
 Make sure that when you talk to him/her again you don't have any leftover feelings. Find closure. You don't necessarily need a new partner, but make sure you are 100% over your ex before seeking friendship.
 That will show him/her that you are determined to forget about him/her.
 Pamper yourself for a bit. It shouldn't be big because it's the thought that counts. Maybe give yourself a spa day, or bake something that satisfies your sweet tooth. Do something that quantifies your love for yourself.
 In the movies, a breakup is usually followed by the movie star reaching for a swig of whiskey. Alcohol and other stimulants won't make your breakup any easier — don't rely on them to get over your ex!

, Rededicate yourself to work or to school. You know what they say about idle hands. If you lose yourself in a pursuit that you find meaningful, getting over your ex won't seem half as bad.
 You think you're the only one who has ever felt hurt like that? That's not true. You will get over him/her. Time is a great healer. Do not get back with this person, if you feel that all this person does is hurt you! Keep thinking of the reason you split up. You don't want to go down that road again, do you?

