 Put a fresh egg into a pot filled with water. Put the pot on the stove and turn on the heat. Wait for the water to start boiling, then turn off the heat. Let the egg sit in the water for 10 to 20 minutes. Then remove the egg and set it on a paper towel. Do not remove the shell from the egg.









Make sure there's at least an inch of water above the egg when it's in the pot.;
, Find a jar or Tupperware container large enough to fit the egg. Grab a bottle of regular white vinegar and fill the jar or Tupperware container with vinegar. Don't fill it all the way to the brim though, because then putting the egg in will make it overflow.








It doesn't have to be filled to the top but it should be filled high enough so that the egg can be completely submerged in vinegar.
 You can easily make your finished bouncy egg any color you want to by adding food coloring dye to the vinegar. Just add around 10 drops of the dye to the vinegar, or enough to color the whole container of vinegar., Place the hard boiled egg in the vinegar-filled container. Just drop it in from right above the vinegar so the vinegar doesn't splash everywhere. Make sure it is completely submerged.








Make sure the egg is cool before submerging it in vinegar.
 Place a lid on your container and leave it somewhere safe but out of the sun. The less sunlight it gets the better, so either put it somewhere dark like a closet, or cover it with something like a kitchen cloth.
 This process can take anywhere from 24 to 72 hours. To be on the safe side, wait three days before continuing.








The reason shell dissolves is because vinegar is a weak acid. The egg shell is made of calcium carbonate. When the shell meets vinegar, it makes a chemical reaction that turns the calcium carbonate into carbon dioxide, which is what those bubbles in the container are.
 Now that the shell has been dissolved by the vinegar, you can remove the egg from the container. Just reach in and pull the egg out. Don't forget to wash you hands after.
 Handle the egg with care and gently remove any excess skin.
 Fill a large container with cold water and use your hands to thoroughly rinse the egg off. You just want to make sure you get all the leftover bits of skin and tiny remains of the shell off the egg.








Alternatively, you can rinse the egg by holding it under running water in the sink.
 Wait for the egg to dry, or dry it off with a paper towel, and then bounce it on the counter!








