 Place the two pieces of bread in a toaster or toaster oven. Turn on the toaster to a medium toast setting. While the bread is toasting, prepare and fry the eggs.Keep checking on the bread while you are preparing the eggs to make sure it doesn’t burn! If the toast is done before the eggs, remove it from the toaster.
If you are toasting the bread in a toaster oven or inside your regular oven, top one piece of bread with the slice of cheese when it is partially toasted. The heat of the oven will melt the cheese.;
, Place a medium sized skillet on the stove over medium heat. Once the skillet has heated, pour the tablespoon of canola oil into the skillet and swirl to coat the bottom., Once the oil has heated, crack the first egg onto one side of the skillet. Immediately crack the second egg onto the other side of the skillet. Cracking the eggs on opposite sides of the skillet lets each egg fry separately and prevents them from running into each other., While the eggs are frying, sprinkle on a pinch of salt and pepper. You can add additional spices such as thyme or paprika if you wish, but be sure to also use salt and pepper since they help to bring out the flavor of the egg., After the whites of the egg become opaque, flip each egg with a spatula. Flip quickly so that the egg yolks don’t run, and make sure that the eggs aren’t overlapping as they cook., Some people prefer their egg yolks soft and slightly runny, while others prefer firmer yolks. Let the eggs fry until the yolks have reached a consistency that you're satisfied with.Remember that runny yolks are delicious, but they can be messier to eat than firm yolks!

, Lay out your toasted bread on a plate, and place the slice of cheese on one piece if you haven’t already melted it on the bread. Transfer both of the fried eggs onto the piece of bread without the cheese. Then put the piece of bread with the cheese on top to finish the sandwich.Some people like to add ketchup or hot sauce to their egg sandwich. Add your condiment of choice to give your sandwich extra flavor.
 Cut your egg sandwich in half, then serve immediately. Fried egg sandwiches are best when eaten hot, since they can become soggy if left out.