 Before heading out on a solo trip, investigate what sorts of bugs, illnesses, and viruses are common in the area you’re headed. Use the CDC’s Travelers’ Health database to search for information about wherever you plan on traveling. Write the names of the common illnesses on a list.The CDC Travelers’ Health database is available at https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel.
 Armed with the list of illnesses you might encounter in your travels, ask your doctor to administer all recommended vaccines. Additionally, request a round of antiviral drugs that you can use if they become necessary. Ask your doctor if they have any additional recommendations regarding your specific health circumstances.If your doctor prescribes antibiotics or other medications, use them only as directed.
 Additionally, take a pack of multivitamins with you. Take at least one each day you’re traveling solo to ensure you’re getting all recommended minerals and vitamins.Additionally, you might pack some charcoal tablets. These tablets can help you detox. But don’t use them if you’re taking an antibiotic, as they will negate the antibiotics’ effect., Beyond getting vaccines and medicines from your doctor at home, there are often things you can do (or avoid doing) once you’ve touched arrived at wherever it is you’re traveling. For instance, you might need to boil the water before drinking it or avoid hiking in swampy areas with lots of mosquitoes. Follow travel tips and warnings for areas you’re traveling through solo.To find out what you can do to protect yourself in-country, visit your local public library and check out a few recent travel guides for wherever it is you’re headed. Read the guide carefully, scanning for information pertaining to health and wellness.
Travel guides often also list local medical facilities you can go in the event of a truly dire illness. Make special note of medical facilities in the area you’ll be traveling so you can locate them quickly if necessary.If you’re traveling solo through an area with questionable water, don’t eat the ice in beverages, shower with your mouth closed, and use bottled water to brush your teeth., Be wary of drinking tap water in certain countries. Avoid eating meat and fish that have not been thoroughly cooked.Avoid eating fruit picked right off of trees without washing it off in clean water.Meat should be brown all the way through, without any pinkness to its color. Never consume raw meat or fish.
If possible, check to ensure proper sanitation guidelines are being followed during your food’s preparation. For instance, if you’re browsing street food stalls and see that the chicken-on-a-stick maker is handling raw chicken and cooked chicken with their bare hands, look elsewhere., Having real peace and quiet can do wonders for the health. If you’re feeling a bit under the weather and have been staying in hostels packed with other travelers, consider springing for a private room to get some serious rest., But with travel insurance, any medical costs you incur (up through your policy limit) will be covered. Read your policy thoroughly before signing so you know what you’re getting and how to use it if need be.Before heading out on your solo trip, get a list of hospitals and doctors that your travel insurance covers. Bring the list with you. Only use one of the supported hospitals.
 Getting sick while traveling solo encompasses a range of experiences. It could mean that you have stomach cramps and nausea for 24 hours, but it could also mean that you’re vomiting blood. In the former case, your best bet is to wait it out, but the latter case requires immediate medical attention (as do other, equally serious cases). Whatever your situation, you should know what to do next and be ready to take immediate action.Before setting off on your solo travels, know phrases like, “Please take me to a doctor” or “Where is the local hospital?” Or, at the very least, take a guidebook containing such phrases with you so you can point to them to communicate with cab drivers and the like should it be necessary.

