 Different beers, ciders, and other hard drinks have different alcohol content. If you want to get drunk faster, go for drinks with a higher alcohol content. You can usually see the alcohol content on the side of a bottle. A higher percentage means the drink is likely to get you drunk faster.Beers with higher alcohol contents often have around 15-18% alcohol. They may come from smaller, more independent breweries as opposed to larger companies.
Even beers with around 11% alcohol content are quite potent. If you can't find something in the 15-18% range, see if you can find anything at around 11% alcohol.
Remember your limits. A few strong beers can really set you over the edge. Slow down the pace of you're drinking when you feel buzzed. If you start to feel very dizzy or sick, this is a sign you need to stop drinking. You do not want to end up ill from alcohol.;
, Mixing spirits with diet mixers, like diet soda, gets you drunk faster. This may be because regular sodas are recognized as food, slowing down the body's absorption of alcohol. The body may not treat diet soda as food, allowing the alcohol to be absorbed quicker.People do not necessarily notice they're getting drunk faster when mixing spirits with diet mixers. If you're mixing liquor with diet soda, make sure to be aware you may be drunker than you realize.
 Bubbly drinks may get you drunk faster. If you're looking to get drunk fast, and like champagne and spritzers, order a bubbly drink.Bubbly drinks include champagne, sparkling wine, spritzers, and drinks mixed with tonic water.
 Hard liquors can get you drunk faster than beer or wine, as they have a higher alcohol content. Doing shots can be particularly useful, as you'll be absorbing high alcohol products fast. Vodka in particular has been shown to increase the speed of intoxication. Try drinking hard liquors if you're looking to get drunk fast.Keep in mind, depending on the bar, drinks will be stronger or weaker. Some bartenders may, for example, give you considerably more than a single serving of liquor in a mixed drink.
You can also ask for a double of something. This will allow you to get two servings in a single drink. If you're drinking more, and faster, this will allow you to get drunk quicker.
Liquor has a very high alcohol content. Overdoing it on liquor can land you sick. Try to stick to only one or two hard drinks.
 High stress levels can slow intoxication. If you're doing something stressful while drinking, or feel stressed going into the situation, this could affect your buzz.Try to calm down just before a night drinking. Before going out, do something that normally relaxes you. Watch your favorite television show. Read a book. Do some deep breathing techniques.
Go out drinking with friends that decrease your stress level, rather than increase it. If you're with friends that tend to stress you out, you may not get as drunk as quickly.
 You should never drink on an empty stomach. This is very dangerous. However, do not eat a huge meal before a night of drinking. Food slows down your body's ability to absorb alcohol. If you start drinking just after a large meal, it may take you longer to get drunk.Have a light meal a few hours before drinking. Go for something like a salad with chicken, a light sandwich, a serving of fish, or a small serving of pasta.
Never drink on an empty stomach. While this will definitely get you drunk fast, it increases the likelihood of you getting sick from drinking. Drinking on an empty stomach can be very damaging to your health.
 If you're drinking with friends, you're more likely to drink fast. People finish their drinks quicker when in a large group. Drinking faster gets you drunk quicker, and also increases the amount you'll drink throughout the night. All of this can result in achieving a greater buzz faster.Do not neglect to track your drinks, however. It's easy to accidentally overdo it when drinking in a group, especially if you're around people with a higher alcohol tolerance. Be aware of how you're feeling when you drink. If you start feeling uncomfortable, it's time to stop even if your friends want to drink more.
 Drinking out of a regular beer glass may inhibit your ability to get drunk. Curved or fluted glasses may get you drunk faster. This is because it's difficult to measure the halfway point in a curved glass versus a straight glass. You will drink faster, as you'll be unsure of how much you're drinking.If you're drinking at a bar, you may be served curved glasses if you order beer or champagne.
If you're drinking at home, try picking up a few cheap curved glasses at local supermarket or department store.
 If you want to get drunk fast, you need to know your limits. You do not want to end up getting sick. Be aware of how much you can drink and still keep yourself in check.You may know your limits from previous experiences drinking. For example, you know you start to feel sick and lose memory around the four drink mark.
If you're new to drinking, you may be unsure of your limits. Try to be aware of what you're feeling. If you start to feel physically ill, or very dizzy, this is a sign you should stop. You can also ask a friend to look out for you, and let you know when you seem to be losing control.
You want to remain in control of the situation, even if you're drunk. This can be harder to do if you're attempting to get drunk fast.
If you feel yourself becoming very inebriated, take a break for a bit. You do not need to keep chugging alcohol throughout the night to keep your buzz going. You should stop once you feel drunk.
 Many people avoid food before drinking in order to get drunk faster. This is never a good idea. Always eat something, even something small, prior to drinking. You should also snack throughout the night. Go for high protein foods, like nuts or cheeses., Getting drunk once in awhile can be fun, especially in a social event. However, in the long run, alcohol abuse can cause damage to your overall health. During most events, stick to one or two drinks. This will keep you safe and healthy., Alcohol can interfere with certain mediations. If you're going to be getting drunk, check the labels of all your medications. Make sure they do not interact poorly with alcohol.Avoid taking painkillers after a night of drinking. These can interact poorly with alcohol and cause damage to your liver and other organs. Painkillers with acetaminophen can be particularly dangerous.