 The starter and solenoid are located on the engine of your vehicle. In order to gain access to it, pull on the hood release located near the door on the driver’s side of the vehicle.You will need to release the safety latch on the front of the vehicle in order to open the hood as well.
If you are unable to locate the safety release, refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual for directions.;
, The starter is usually located near where the engine and transmission meet. The starter itself is usually cylindrical in shape with a smaller cylinder attached to it. There should be a wire coming directly from the positive terminal of the battery to the starter.While starters come in many sizes, they are usually shaped the same.
Refer to your vehicle’s service manual if you are unable to locate the starter.
 The smaller cylinder attached to the top or side of the starter is the starter solenoid. It is a fairly simple electrical mechanism that can fail, preventing the starter from engaging and starting the motor.The starter solenoid will have two terminals coming out of its end.
The wire from the battery will connect to one of those two terminals.
 Have a friend turn the key in the ignition to attempt to start the vehicle. Listen carefully, as you should hear a click when the starter solenoid engages. If you do not hear a click, the starter solenoid is likely not functioning properly. If you do hear clicking, the solenoid may be engaging, but not sufficiently.Hearing clicking without the starter motor moving means the solenoid is transferring the electricity, but it may not be enough.
No clicking means the solenoid is not properly engaging, but this may also be due to a dead battery.
 If your starter is failing to engage, it may be because the battery does not have sufficient energy to power it. Rule this out by testing the battery with a volt meter. Low power could result in the starter clicking but failing to engage. Place the positive (red) lead on the voltmeter on the positive terminal of the battery and negative (black) lead on the negative terminal. Your battery should measure at around 12 volts at a rest before you attempt to start the vehicle.
If the voltage is low, the battery may just need to be charged.

