 You cannot expect her to stay calm if you are not. Even if you have never been present at a pregnancy, try to relax and enjoy the experience. Maintain a positive attitude. Do not yell or express yourself in an emotionally charged manner. Remember, she’s giving birth, not you. If you are the father, try to remember what you learned during the pregnancy and birthing courses you attended with your partner. Call for help if you think she needs it. Stay with her and do not leave to get help unless absolutely necessary., Assume a position from which you can make eye contact with her. Knowing you’re nearby in the event that something goes awry will reassure her that she can make it through the process.


If she will not make eye contact and is continuing to panic, bring your face close to hers to ensure she sees you.
 Walking can be a good way to relax in the earlier stages of labor. Whether it’s just to go to the bathroom or to take a stroll around the house or hospital, help the panicky woman as she needs it. If dilation is between 4–7 centimeters (1.6–2.8 in), you will need to support her.Stand next to her and face the same direction as the panicky woman. Have her drape her right arm around your neck. Place your left arm around her body gently, cupping your hand beneath her left armpit. Locked together, begin walking slowly to the destination of her choice. The change of scenery will do her good.


Walking can ease the labor process. Moving the pelvis helps the baby find the easiest exit position out of the womb.Be especially attentive and stay nearby if she insists on walking during later, more intense stages of labor. If a painful contraction suddenly strikes, she may collapse from the pain and you will need to support her.
 Games can keep her mind off the labor process. Whether it’s a card game like hearts, go fish, or war; or a board game like Monopoly, Scrabble, or chess, games can be a great source of fun and a good way to relax. Since she’s in labor, she’ll probably be in bed most of the day anyways, and there are few better ways to spend time in bed than by playing games.


Videogames are a possibility too.In this case, she won’t even necessarily need a partner to play against — just a console, a TV, and a controller, or a portable gaming device.
 Keep your tone soft and soothing. Your calm demeanor will mollify her panic. Don't be offended if she doesn't appreciate it at the moment. Keep your tone even and do not yell or express undue excitement. Offer words of advice and encouragement such as “You’re doing great,” and “You can do this.”


If contractions have begun it will be more difficult to keep her in the moment, but you can still help. As the contractions arrive, tell her three to five times in succession to push until the contraction has stopped. Following the end of each contraction, remind her again she is doing a great job.Focus on her feelings and ask her how you can help. Encourage her to express herself in whatever way best helps her overcome her feelings of panic, whether it’s reaching out to you for reassurance, remaining quiet, or screaming in short bursts. (In the case of screaming, though, it’s best to suggest that she lower her scream to a groan or moan; lower tones are calming, while higher ones incite fear and panic.)Be positive! Tell her she's doing a great job, tell her how proud you are of her. Encourage her throughout the process. Let her know she will be a great mom.
Ask her what she wants. If she wants to deviate from the birthing plan she had in place before she went into labor, she should be allowed to do so. Just because she’s in labor doesn’t mean she’s incapable of making decisions.
 The shoulders will arch up and the head and neck will be hunched forward. This consumes a lot of energy and oxygen the mother-to-be will need to make it through the labor process. It also reduces the available oxygen to the baby. To prevent this, help the woman breathe slowly and deeply, in and out. Make sure each breath and exhalation is balanced in length and depth. A natural rate is about one breath in every two seconds, and a corresponding exhalation lasting another two seconds. Demonstrate the technique and ask her to mirror it with you.


Counting breaths is a good technique too.Ask her to breathe in deeply with you and count out loud, “One, two, three, four.” As you reach four, instruct her to “Breathe out.” Exhale together, counting out loud again to four. Repeat until her breathing has slowed and she has relaxed.
Have her breathe in through her nose and out through her mouth. Show her how, and suggest that she release labor pains with a sound (“ahhh” or “oooh”) as she exhales. Provide a glass of water for her to sip from between breaths.

