 Many teens who have lost a parent as a child seem to be searching for someone to fill that void in their teenage years. Be open to the idea of guiding and mentoring the teen during these difficult years. Strive to be a positive role model for the teen and avoid exposing them to destructive behaviors. This may also include supporting the teen emotionally or financially.


This is a very delicate situation and it's important to remind the teen that you are not trying to replace their parent, but to help honor them by supporting the teen.
 The teen you are mentoring will appreciate your genuine concern for their lost parent. It will give them a chance share memories (if they have them) and family stories. Also, make an effort to understand the circumstances around the parent’s death. This will help you be more sensitive around tough topics.For example, if you know the teen’s parent died in a car accident, you might be more patient if the teen seems timid in the driver’s seat.
 Although grief takes many forms, some methods of grieving can cause long-term damage. Be sure to watch for signs of drinking, drug use, or other harmful methods of grieving and try to guide the teen to healthier methods of grieving.Warning signs of dangerous behavior can be subtle. People are unlikely to witness drinking or drug use directly, but may observe lying, significant weight loss, changes in sleeping patterns, etc.
Suggest a physical activity to help channel their grief into something positive and healthy. Running, hiking, or yoga are all great physical activities that could help alleviate stress and center your emotions.
If the teen discusses thoughts of suicide or hurting themselves, seek professional help immediately.
 Grief can last for a long time, especially in children and teens. Find out if there are any specific days that are more difficult for the teen. Many teens will struggle with holidays such as Christmas, or the deceased parent’s birthday.Try to avoid downtime during these days. Keeping the teen busy will help distract them from their sadness.
Be sure to remember their parent on this day. Say things like “I know you miss your parent(s), and you should keep them in mind and try to enjoy the day.”

