 Nailing down exactly what time period you're going for will help as you design your model. Read up on how humans lived during the era in question. What materials were their homes made of? How many people lived together in one house? What kind of furniture and features did they have? This step is less essential if your focus isn't historical accuracy, but can be interesting and educational none-the-less.
 This will be your workspace. Check for any bumpy parts on the top of your workspace, and consider moving if there are any - you'll want to make this project neat, so you want a flat workspace., Remove any tapes or attachments. It's okay if it tears off a layer of cardboard as you take it off - the walls of your house will need some texture, anyway (you'll also paint over the tear so no one will see it)., If possible, use acrylic paint - it will cover any words, printing, or tears in the cardboard well, and is thicker than other paints. Select the right colors as well. For a project about historical houses and cities, you might want to use earthy colors (texture will be explained later in this process), such as tan, very dark brown (you can use lighter brown paints to paint streaks for texture if you're using dark brown), a very light tan/beige, as well as several other shades of these colors.

Use dark brown mostly for texture. The same goes for black - consider using this color for streaks of detail or to make 'cracks' on the cardboard in order to make it seem more realistic.
Get the correct paintbrushes. For details, paintbrushes with very small bristles are useful. Medium-sized ones are good for painting bigger details, e.g. cracks in the walls, worn down material in the house, etc. Large paintbrushes can be used for painting the cardboard the main paint color. After the first layer of paint dries off, the second coat of paint can be painted on. Details and texture can be added afterwards.
 Gather materials that would represent what was in the houses during the time period you're depicting. Use household materials if you'd like, or even store bought items, such as other pieces of cardboard that can be folded and put inside of the box, cardstock, paper towels with texture in them, unwanted legos to be painted and built together, etc. You might want to add furniture, such as worn down tables, chairs, and an oven. You might also build a bed, with cotton balls or a similar soft material.

If it suits the time period you're aiming for, use ripped paper, small pieces of wood, and clay in order to create a fireplace for the house as well. Clay could be useful for the actual fire - the other materials are suitable for the wood and fireplace.
 Use light colors - darker colors are better suited for texture later on. Cover all the printing, tapes, etc., on the cardboard box to make sure it looks realistic. Continue on inside of the cardboard box as well as on the bottom and the top. Cut off two of the sides that are across from each other after the first coating dries, but keep the other two - be sure to paint them as well. Repaint any chipped areas and repaint the areas with printing on them for better coverage.

Paint the sides you will cut off before you cut them off; that way, it's already done. This will allow you to easily use the cardboard for the indoors section of the project without having to paint it separately.
 Depending on how much paint you used, it could take from five minutes to more than half an hour to dry. Cover any dark brown areas where the cardboard is showing as well as chipped in areas (sometimes the paint will dry, but it will layer over on top of another layer of paint, causing a clean brown spot to appear)., Use the darker colors paints now and choose a smaller tipped paintbrush. Create thin lines along the edges of the cardboard and add 'branches' of thin lines that come out of them as well - they will look like cracks. Consider using black acrylic paint for this as well. Add lighter or darker brown (but still not too dark) to create spots and bumps along the walls. This would make your project seem more realistic.

Paint tiny pieces of cardstock or bumps of Styrofoam, tape them randomly across the walls, and then paint the tape as well to make real bumps. Be sure to cover up the tape as well so it looks more accurate. You can also use legos and tape them to the bottom edges of the box, then paint the legos and tape to make it seem as if the house was not too stable.
 Make sure its sides are a little bigger than the cardboard box - this will ensure that it will be easier to hold. Add fast drying glue (once the bottom coat of paint dries) or another thick layer of paint in order to stick it to the base.

Buy some fake grass, plants, or real sticks from outdoors and stick them around the base. You can also get a layer of base to stick on the whole entire base to make it seem as if there was real grass around the house. Place some store bought plastic or fake plants and trees, and add fruits to the trees for detail if you'd like. For sticks, paint them a darker color to make them match the scene a bit more. Consider buying straw as well to represent farmland, or straw-colored grass.
 Plan out where you would want to put each appliance or item of furniture on the inside of your project. Aim to fill up as much space inside of the house as possible.

Think about other appliances/furniture you could add other than the main ones. A storage for supplies and food is a good example, or even a working/crafting area to make tools.
 Use cotton balls, other cotton material, or even paper towels that have texture in them to perform this task. Paint it a suitable color, such as dark brown or dark tan, and stick it on one of the sides of the inside area. Do the same with the cotton balls if you're making a pillow.

If your cotton ball or material you are using is hollow, stuff it with some thin sticks found outside, or even fake straw. Paint the outside a suitable color as well.
 Use a bumpy material or something with a line pattern on it for the base of the hearth. Paint it a dark brown or black and stick the wood on there. Put the base of the hearth in a corner of something, but not too close to the bed - be sure there is a wide enough margin for other furniture and appliances as well in the project. Create flames using yellow, orange, and red clay, and use a toothpick to add detail to the clay as if it was a real fire. Place the flames on the wood and allow it all to dry.

Create a shelter for the hearth if you'd like (optional). Tape on of the painted cut off pieces from earlier to the very top of one of the sides of the box. Bend it so that it covers the fireplace and tape the part that touches the floor of the indoors section of the house. Leave the side of it open as that will be where the hearth appears. Be sure it is stable and add some details or texture if you'd like.
 Use legos, plastic toy chairs/tables, or other pieces of cardboard/cardstock that are painted a suitable color. Bend two sides of a large piece of cardboard, but keep a wide area for the top of a table. Do the same with chairs except with smaller pieces. You can also build a table or chair out of legos and paint it, or simply use mini plastic toy chairs and tables., Choose another corner of the inside of the box and paint a square of it a darker brown. Add straw or fake plants at the bottom as well if you'd like. Use the second piece of painted cardboard you set aside from cutting off earlier to make a stove. Add details, such as dents in the top to represent the parts of where food gets cooked.

At the side of the kitchen area, use a jewelry case or any other object that can open and close easily. Paint it a black or dark brown color and fill it with lego foods, colored pieces of paper, cardstock, etc., to represent stored supplies and food.
If you'd like, tape a square piece of cardstock that is painted dark brown to differentiate the color at the front side of the oven. Be sure it can bend back and back up to act as the bottom part of an oven. Behind the bending cardstock, draw out the inside of the oven to make it more detailed.
 Use bumps, legos, and other painted things to stick to the bottom of the project, or even on the appliances included in the project. Add trees, fake plants, etc., on the outside if you'd like. You can maybe even some straw scattered around the floor of the indoors area or some fake plants with tan painted pots. Swipe black and dark brown paint to make it seem old and represent the mud-brick and other materials early humans used to make houses thousands of years ago. Be creative and do the best you can to make it look realistic.