 A Bomb Bag is an item in the game that lets Link, the main character of the game, hold bombs. Some versions of the game allows you to obtain the Bomb Bag at the very start of the game, such as Oracle of Seasons and Ages (Game Boy Color), while for newer versions, you need to progress a little through the game.


One example is in Ocarina of Time, where you’ll automatically acquire the Bomb Bag as you play through Dodongo's Cavern.
A Bomb Bag is free and can hold a maximum of 30 bombs. As you progress through the game, you'll be able to get upgrades that allow you to hold more bombs.;
, Bombs can be bought from any store inside the game. You can buy it for 30 Rupees for every 10 pieces, and can be bought over and over again once your supplies run out. Simply approach the merchant of any store and talk to him or her using the Action (A) button of your controller.


Bombs can be bought at the very start of the game, but if you try to purchase one without a Bomb Bag, the merchant will refuse to sell you one and tell you that you don’t have anything to put the bombs in.
 If you don’t have the money to buy bombs, you can still get some for free. Try slashing your way through grassy areas or opening every chest you come across both on the outside world (Overworld) and in dungeons. You’ll usually find bombs hiding in these places.
 Press the “Start” button on the controller of whatever Nintendo console you’re using to open its menu.


Using the Arrow keys, select the bomb from the list of items you have and press the Action button you want to assign it to, like the X or Y (Wii), or A or B (Game Boy).
Press the Start button again to go back to the gameplay.
 To use a bomb, simply press the Action button you assigned it to and Link will take out the bomb, holding it on top of his head.
 To drop the bomb, simply press the same Action button you used to take it out and Link will put the bomb down right to where he’s standing.


Once you drop the bomb, you only have a few seconds before it blows, so you better get far away from it right away.
 If you want to throw the bomb farther away, just run towards the direction you want to throw it using the Arrow/Directional buttons. While Link is running, press the Action button, and he will throw the bomb away towards the direction he’s going.
 If you’ve accidentally placed the bomb on the wrong place, you can pick it up again by approaching the bomb, pressing the A button of your controller to pick it up, and then repeating Steps 2 and 3 (or 4) above to drop or throw it again.


You can only pick up a bomb if it hasn’t exploded yet. But if you do pick it up again, remember that the bomb can explode while you’re holding it.

