 Place 4 tablespoons (55 g) of unsalted butter in a medium saucepan, and heat it on medium-high heat. Allow the butter to melt completely, which should take approximately 3 to 5 minutes.Cutting the butter into pieces can help it melt more quickly.
Keep an eye on the butter as it melts. It can burn very easily.
 When the butter is melted, mix 4 tablespoons (30 g) of all-purpose flour into the pan. Use a whisk to ensure that the butter and flour are fully combined. Lower the heat to medium and let the mixture cook for 1 to 2 minutes to help get rid of any floury taste.When you’re whisking the flour and butter together, make sure to blend until the mixture is as smooth as possible.
Continue to whisk the flour and butter mixture while it’s cooking to ensure that it doesn’t scorch.
 After you’ve cooked away the flour taste from the butter and flour mixture, add 2 teaspoons (10 g) of mustard powder and a few grinds of black pepper to taste to the pan. Stir well to combine all of the ingredients.You can swap cayenne pepper for the black pepper if you prefer. Just add 1 to 2 pinches of the cayenne depending on how much heat you want to add to the dish.
 Once you’ve seasoned the butter and flour mixture, it’s time to add the milk. In a slow, steady stream, drizzle 2 cups (475 ml) of milk into the pan. Make sure to whisk the contents of the pan as you pour to ensure that the mixture doesn’t become lumpy.Whole milk will help create the creamiest sauce for the dish, but you can use a low-fat milk if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed the milk into the mixture, season the sauce with salt to your taste. Bring the pot to a simmer, but stir the contents the entire time with a spoon. Allow the sauce to simmer for approximately 2 minutes or until it thickens up., When the sauce has thickened, add 1 ¼ cups (125 g) of grated cheddar cheese to the pan. However, be sure to stir the cheese in a handful at a time, and allow each batch to melt fully into the sauce before adding another. That will keep the cheese sauce as smooth as possible.Once you’ve added all of the cheese, it’s a good idea to taste the sauce and see if you need to add any more pepper or salt before assembling the casserole.

