 Visual Basic is often included in the curriculum for computer science and programming degrees, and is taught in both the online and physical classroom environments.


Meet with a counselor or staff member of a college or university in your area to determine upcoming courses you can take that teach Visual Basic.
Search for Visual Basic courses provided by colleges that exist on the Internet. This can be done by typing keyword combinations into any Internet search engine, such as "online Visual Basic course" or "online Visual Basic training.";
, As its developer and creator, Microsoft provides you with the option to attend online or classroom training to learn Visual Basic. The fees for each course will vary depending on your instructor and the region in which you reside.


Go to the "Microsoft Learning" website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then scroll down to the "Training and Certification" section of the web page.
Place a check mark next to either "Online Training" or "Classroom Training" below the "Training Format" section, then press the "Search" button.
Click on the links for courses provided in the search results to review the description and details for each course. The length of each course will vary depending on the topics covered. For example, a basic introduction course to Visual Basic may last several hours; whereas an advanced course that teaches you how to develop an application using Visual Basic may take several days.
 A variety of programmers skilled in Visual Basic publish articles, tutorials, blogs, and videos that provide you with Visual Basic training; the majority of which are free.


Search for Visual Basic training videos online. A full list of video websites that may provide Visual Basic training, such as YouTube, is provided on the "Reel SEO" website, which can be accessed from the Sources section of this article.
Perform an Internet search for free Visual Basic learning resources. This can be done by entering keywords similar to "free Visual Basic lessons" or "free online Visual Basic training" into any search engine.
 A variety of books exist on the market that are written by programmers who teach you how to use Visual Basic from the beginning to advanced levels.


Visit your local library or bookstore to locate Visual Basic training books; the majority of which will be found in the computer programming section. Visual Basic books can also be purchased online from various retailers.
 Regardless if you are a beginner, intermediate, or advanced user of Visual Basic, you can receive various help tips and instructions from the program itself.


Press the F1 button on your keyboard at any time during your Visual Basic session to receive help with your current project.

