 Growing pine trees from seeds can be a long, challenging process. You will have to acquire seeds when the pine cones are ripe, most likely in autumn. Depending on species and climate, you may need to prepare the seeds for 30–60 days as describe below before planting in pots. They will grow slowly, and may take over a year before they can be transplanted into outdoor soil without significant risk of death.While most pine cones ripen between August and October, some species such as the Scotch pine remain usable until March.Your local climate will also be a factor. Read the description of ripe pine cones so you know what to look for.
See Growing Pine Trees from Seedlings for an easier, faster method.
 Pine cones come in two varieties: small male cones and large female cones. Only the female cones produce seeds. Choose large pine cones with scales that are not fully open, or spread apart. If the scales are spread apart, they may have already released their seeds.You may take fallen cones or pick them from the tree by twisting them off the branch.Female pine cones are usually higher on the tree, so you may need a stepladder or a hooked pole.
Choose brown or purplish pine cones, as fully green cones are not mature and have not produced useful seeds.
Pine trees that have produced many cones are more likely to produce useful seeds., Place them in direct sunlight if possible, and let them dry out so the scales open and give you access to the seeds. You may warm the room to speed this along, but do not heat the cones above 113ºF (45ºC)., Each scale of the pine cone should have one or two seeds underneath it, sometimes attached to a thin "wing" for catching the wind. Shake the cones on a tray with 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) mesh or hardware cloth; the seeds should fall out of the cones and through the mesh.


Shake over a tarpaulin to easily collect the seeds afterward.
Use tweezers to pull out stubborn seeds, or if you only collected a few cones.
 Use room temperature water. Besides providing the seeds with water they need to begin growing, this provides a test of which seeds are usable. The full, viable seeds should slowly sink to the bottom of the container. The empty, unusable seeds will float to the top.Cut open one or two of the largest floating seeds to check whether they are actually empty. If they are full, wait longer for the remaining seeds to sink.
Discard the floating seeds at the end of this process. They are not usable.
Large operations sometimes place a bag of seeds in running water, which is better at removing fungal spores that could cause infection. This is difficult to achieve at home, but you could consider changing the water every 12 or 24 hours.
 Fresh pine seeds acquired in fall can usually be planted immediately. However, even fresh seeds may benefit from a special environment which increases the speed of germination (sprouting) and reduces the chance of your seeds staying dormant after planting. Storing seeds in this way to mimic ideal seasonal conditions is called stratification.


Different species of pine tree do best in different conditions. Identify your species in a regional tree identification book or website if possible, and look up how long "stratification" takes. If you can't, the below methods should work as long as you check the seeds' progress regularly.
In general, pines that grow in relatively warm climates further south (but not at high elevations) require little to no stratification before planting and can simply be stored dry at room temperature, while pines from damper, colder climates cannot grow without a cold, moist period.
 If you have a handful or two of seeds or fewer, this method may be easiest. Stack paper towels until the stack is 1/8 to 1/4 inch thick (3 to 6 mm). Add just enough water to moisten every part of the towels, then hold vertical by one corner until the excess water drains off. Place the seeds on one half of the paper towels in one layer, then fold the other half over the seeds. Seal in a ziploc or similar plastic bag and store in the refrigerator at about 41ºF (5ºC).


You may wish to include a thick straw or other thin tube to allow a small amount of air exchange with the outside, to ensure the environment has sufficient oxygen.Note: certain species benefit from several weeks of storage in a warm, dark area before transfer to the refrigerator. The duration of this warm period varies widely by species, so search for specific information online if you can identify your seeds.
 Immediately after completing the soaking step, put half a pound (0.23 kg) of seeds or less onto a square of cheesecloth or other soft mesh material and tie it into a bag. Hang or hold up the bag and let the excess water drain for about a minute. Tie the neck of a larger, plastic bag to the neck of the cheesecloth so the water can continue to drain without soaking the seeds. Hang this in your refrigerator at about 41ºF (5ºC).



Note: If you can identify your species, search for information on "stratification" for that species online. You may wish to store the bag in a warm location before transferring to the fridge.
 A seed beginning to germinate will crack open and start to extend a growing root. Depending on the species and the individual seed, this could take anywhere from 3 weeks to multiple years, although you never need to store a seed for that long before planting.For seeds that refuse to sprout after several weeks, you can encourage them by letting them dry out, then repeating the treatment.
If the growing season is over or you wish to save seeds for next year, dry the surface but leave them slightly damp, then store in the refrigerator. Keep checking regularly to be sure they don't sprout.
 Pine seeds are vulnerable to infection and rodents when planted in outdoor soil. Try to find plastic tubes intended for growing pine trees, as these are best for encouraging long root structures that will support the tree.Otherwise, an ordinary small plant pot will work.


Instead of using soil, use a potting mix intended for pine trees, or create your own mix of 80% pine bark and 20% peat moss.Push the seeds just under the soil with the pointed root facing downward.
If keeping the plants indoors, keep the pots on a raised table to make it more difficult for mice to reach them.
 Follow the instructions for Caring for a Pine Tree Seedling to provide proper care. With the correct levels of sunlight and water, your tree should be ready to transplant into a taller tube or pot after one or two years, depending on the species.


Pine trees grow best with plenty of sun, but young seedlings are susceptible to damage during the hottest part of the day. Place the seedling somewhere it will be shaded during the early afternoon, such as near an east-facing window.
Keep the seedling moist but not soaked.
Carefully transplant the seedling to a larger pot after it reaches 2 inches (5cm) in the smallest "multi pot" tubing, or once it reaches 4 to 6 inches (about 10 to 15 cm) in a medium sized tube or pot.

