 Sometimes, especially for travel writing or personal storytelling, catching the reader off guard can be a good way to start a piece—especially if you’re writing about an embarrassing situation.


Example: The curry had not been kind to me the night before.
Example: It was a muggy Madrid day, and I’d just been pooped on by a sparrow.
Example: Just before a date with the most beautiful woman I’d ever seen, I forgot to brush my teeth—and there was no gum in sight.
 If surprising your reader at the onset of your piece isn’t your aim, then a simple declarative statement may be a better way to go. This isn’t to say that it holds less literary merit or power than a surprising statement, though; declarative statements, when used correctly, can be very effective in establishing a relationship with your reader and the qualities of your main character as well.


Example: I never intended to like Paris.
Example: As it turns out, on a bus ride around the desert, air conditioning is optional.
Example: From the moment I saw rusted bumper sticking out under the tarp, I knew it had to be mine—and I didn’t even know what kind of car it was.
 Paradoxes are powerful rhetorical tools and should be used sparingly to maximize effectiveness. They’re also pretty tricky to articulate. That being said, if you’ve got a good one, use it.


Example: There I was, a Christian learning about God from an Atheist.
Example: In the sweltering, death-ray heat of the Atacama Desert—the most lifeless place on earth—I learned how to live, and live well.
Example: I never learned to listen until I lost my hearing.
 Placing your location (or yourself) in history is an effective way to draw in the reader and generate heaping amounts of relatability and context at the same time. These are particularly effective in a biographical-type piece.


Example: It was the Summer of Love, and I was a nineteen-year-old kid with a crew cut who’d stumbled his way onto Haight-Ashbury.
Example: Fredrick Douglass was his own man—a man who fled the tyranny of slavery in 1838 at the age of 20.
Example: The aqueduct dated back some 2,000 years, and as soon as I pressed my 20th-century hand against its stone, I was flooded with the weight of history.
 Dialogue is a great way to start a piece because it establishes a relationship between characters in the story, and therefore creates a creates a relationship with the reader. You can also tell a great deal about a person by how they speak.


Example: “Marty, don’t forget your lunch,” Mom yelled out the window of her blue station wagon. “Oh, and have a great first day at school.”
Example: “No,” she said. “I don’t think you understand.”
Example: “Wait,” I said. “We needed to bring our passport?”

, Another excellent way to set the tone of your story—and give setting as well—is to describe the story’s location. The key, though, is to be specific. The one problem with opening with an image (especially in travel writing) is the use of a cliché. Don’t be afraid to give some thought to what you’re saying and put your own spin on it.


Example: The woman’s dress—white as flame, and garnished with mountains of rhinestones—ripped through the hot afternoon air.
Example: In the autumn of 1994, I somehow managed to eek out beyond the reach of the herds of New Yorkers, and found myself drowning in a sea of leaves, which burned hot against the cool clouds of Maine.
Example: Both sides gathered on the massive battleship USS Missouri, which hovered prominently over the depths of Tokyo Bay.

