 To start a conversation, it is important to listen first, especially when you are in a group. Don’t indulge yourself in instant chat when you have just arrived. First, examine the situation and the conversation, then say whatever you deem fit. It is better to say something substantial, rather than meaningless banter. So it is better to listen to what the conversation is about before speaking.;
, It is not your job to change anyone else. It is not in your power to change anyone else. Let other people live how they want to live. You can only change how you interact with people. You cannot change them. If you do not like how someone acts, you can arrange things so that you interact with them as little as possible. You can always maintain a good attitude around them so that your relationship with them might change.
 A little laughter goes a long way, and a smile eases tensions, whereas a frown can create tension. If someone teases you, try to laugh it off. If someone is frowning, smile at them. Be mindful of your countenance (facial expression). If you are persistently cheerful and optimistic, people will cheer up when they see you coming.
 Some people do not take hints. Some people do not read body language. For these people, it really works to just say with a cheerful face and voice, "I really want us to work well together. I'll help you and back you up, and you help me and back me up."

, Always remember that how you project your feelings affects the people within your proximity. It almost has a ripple effect on the people around you. Therefore, it would be advisable to remain thoughtful of how you conduct yourself and deal with others around you. In other words, do not allow yourself to take out your negative emotions on others around you.
 People love compliments, especially when they are genuine. Don't be so proud as to never congratulate someone on their work or ideas. A good compliment is sincere and succinct. No one like a brown-noser or a suck-up, but no one likes people who seem better than everyone else either.


One good compliment per conversation is a good benchmark to shoot for.
 Being kind is its own reward. It could be as simple as bringing in doughnuts for people or offering to help someone who is struggling to carry something. This will show you care about other people and this will make people want to be around you.

