 This can be tricky depending on where you live, but spending less time in the car and more time on foot will help you lose weight, decrease stress, and elevate mood. If you have the option, walk to work or the grocery store instead of driving. Otherwise, carve out thirty minutes a day to go for a walk.


Call up a friend to go walking with you. This will give you a dose of healthy exercise and social activity.;
, Figure out how much time you have each day to work out. Be realistic in your expectations and make a plan you can stick to.


The recommended amount of exercise for healthy adults is 2 1/2 hours (150 minutes) each week of moderate aerobic activity and strength training two or more times weekly. This can be broken up to fit your lifestyle.If you can, try committing to doing cardio 30 minutes five days a week, which meets the recommend 150 minutes. Or maybe a one-hour cardio class (like Zumba dancing) three times a week works better for your schedule. Or maybe you need to break it up even more, with 20 minutes in the morning before work and another 20 minute walk on your lunch break.
Writing yourself a realistic workout schedule will help you plan workouts that can be accomplished within your timeframe and make you more likely to accomplish your goals., Building strength creates lean muscle mass and makes you look and feel healthy and toned. The best way to strength train efficiently is through compound movements (movements that work more than one muscle group) such as squats, deadlifts, and bench press.


Talk to a trainer or knowledgable friend to learn how to safely execute compound movements with weight.
You can also use hand held weights to focus in on specific areas of the arms. When using hand held weights or doing bodyweight exercises, aim for 10 – 15 reps, three times each.
 When it comes to losing weight and getting in shape, doing cardio activities for short bursts of time at very high intensity is the best bet. While running a few miles a day or going for a long walk are great activities to support a healthy lifestyle, it’s been proven that the body responds best to being worked at its max for shorter intervals.Keep in mind HIIT is not appropriate for everyone. Talk to your doctor before trying this workout.
Pick a cardio activity that you enjoy. Walking, running, swimming, and elliptical are all good options.
Start with a warmup of about five minutes. Then choose a shorter interval length, such as 30 seconds. Then do 30 seconds of high intensity effort of your chosen activity, followed by a longer period of recovery, such as one to three minutes. Repeat the exercise ten times. For example, if you’re a runner, try all-out sprinting for 30 seconds straight, resting for a minute, and repeating 10 times. Increase time interval as you get in better shape.
Only do this two to three times a week to avoid injury or burnout. Supplement with a few longer, slower paced cardio workouts for distance throughout the week., Working out at home is cheap, time efficient, and effective. Pick up a few pieces of equipment such as push up bars, hand-held weights, fit balls, exercise bands, or kettle bells. Make sure to work each major muscle group through cardio, strength training, and body weight exercises. When planning an at-home workout, give yourself enough time to complete a warm up, cardio or strength routine, and a cool down.
Aim for doing 30 minutes of cardio three times a week and 20 to 30 minutes of strength three times a week, followed by stretching.
 Working out with someone else not only keeps you on track, but makes fitness more fun! Find someone with a similar schedule to yours who will keep you motivated. 