;
, Begin by adding yeast in ½ cup of warm (not hot) water in a medium-sized mixing bowl. Slowly add the flour in small increments and mix well.
 Continue stirring until the dough is thoroughly mixed and retains its shape.
 Set aside in a warm location for approximately 30 minutes or until the dough has risen fully.


While the dough is rising, prepare the pizza sauce.
 Dice the red vine tomatoes and onions. Finely chop the garlic and fresh basil.
 When the oil is warm (not burning hot), add the garlic and onions and sauté for about five to six minutes or until the onions have become tender and transparent.


After the onions are cooked, add the diced tomatoes along with the tomato sauce. Add small amount of water, so the sauce does not become too thick.






Next, add the black pepper and the salsa. The salsa gives a spicy kick to the pizza and is used by many New York Pizzerias.
 Then, add the red pepper flakes depending on taste. Cover the saucepan and let the sauce simmer on LOW heat for about 5 minutes.


As the sauce simmers, form the pizza crust.
 For the crust, begin by covering a small area of counter with whole wheat flour. This is so that the crust does not stick to the counter.
 Remove the dough ball from the mixing bowl and spread it out onto the counter.
 Apply some flour to your hands and begin to knead the dough into a flat disk shape. This can also be facilitated by using a rolling pin to roll the dough. Make sure to roll it thin to make it New York Style crust. The final crust base should be around 18 inches in diameter.
 Around the circumference of the crust, fold some dough over itself to form a barrier on the dough for the sauce and toppings which will follow. It will also offer a grip to hold the pizza slice.
 To flavor the crust, customary in NYC pizzerias, use a cooking brush to brush some of the garlic butter to the crust base. Then, sprinkle some oregano flakes to give an herb flavor to the crust.
 Take the sauce off the heat and allow it to cool to room temperature. Using a ladle, place one to two ladles of sauce in the center of the pizza base. Using the bottom (rounded) edge of the ladle, spread the sauce over the whole crust making sure to keep the layer evenly spread. Typical New York Style pizzas have a very limited amount of pizza sauce.
 Make sure that there is not too much sauce towards the edge of the crust. Sauce should be concentrated about one inch (2.5cm) from the periphery.
 After sauce has been spread on the crust base, add the shredded fresh, mozzarella cheese to the sauce on the crust. This healthy variation uses nonfat milk cheese. Make sure to add a smaller layer of cheese so that toppings can be covered by more cheese later on.


The amount of cheese added depends on personal preference. A medium amount of cheese offers a good balance of authenticity while remaining healthier.
 The toppings can be chosen based on preference, however, an authentic NYC style pizza contains olives, green peppers, and Parmesan cheese.


After the toppings are evenly spread out over the whole pizza base, generously add mozzarella cheese over the toppings to cover them.
 Place the pizza on a large baking pan. Put it into the oven to bake. The pizza should be baked for about 20-25 minutes or until the cheese on the top has golden-brown color.
 After baking, remove the pizza and let cool for 15 minutes. Slice into large slices and enjoy the homemade goodness.


The pizza slice may need to be folded in one hand to be able to consume effectively.







