 Find a straight twig that fits comfortably in a pencil grip. It should be at least three to four times thicker than the 2-mm pencil lead you'll be using for the project, but no more than ½ inch (13mm).You can get creative by looking for a twig with an interesting color pattern or texture. Avoid selecting any piece of wood that could give you a splinter.
 Use small to medium pruning clippers to trim the twig down to about 5 inches (13 cm).Also cut away any parts that could get in the way as you write.


Take this time to examine the interior of your twig. If you see bugs or holes from pest damage, discard it and find a new one.
 Use a clamp to secure the twig to the edge of a workbench or to a piece of plywood. Apply enough pressure to hold the twig in place, but no more. Too much pressure can snap the twig.


Situate the twig so that the cut end hangs slightly over the edge of your work station. This will be the writing end of your pencil.
 Locate the center of the cut end (the intended writing end) of your twig. Firmly yet carefully press into this center point with a scratch awl. You should use just enough force to leave an indentation in the wood at this point.


You can use a sharp nail tip instead of a scratch awl.
This indentation will become the starting point for your drill bit.
 Fit your drill with a 3/32-inch (2.4-mm) drill bit. Drill straight into the twig using the indentation you just made as a starting point. Keep going until you hit a depth between 1 and 1.25 inches (2.5 and 3.2 cm).


Pull the drill bit out occasionally as you work, to clear away wood chips from the flutes or grooves. If these wood chips appear stuck in the drill bit, stop the drill and quickly scrub the sides of the bit with an old toothbrush or similar utensil.
 Test that the lead fits in the hole, then drill the hole wider if necessary. Once you're sure it fits, squirt a shallow puddle of white craft glue onto a piece of scrap cardboard. Roll the bottom 1 to 1.25 inch (2.5 to 3.2 cm) of your lead in this glue.


Make sure that the lead is coated all the way around its perimeter.
The glue will help hold your pencil lead in place when you insert it into the twig. You only need to coat a length of lead equal to the depth of your hole.
 Carefully wedge the glue-covered end of lead into the hole of your twig. You may need to wiggle it back and forth a bit to spread the glue inside the hole.


Work carefully to avoid snapping the lead.
Keep going until you have pushed the lead completely inside the hole. Do not leave part of the hole vacant.
 A significant portion of lead will still extend past the hole of your twig. Trim it down to size by pressing it against the side of the twig, snapping it off in the process.


Allow the glue to dry for several hours or overnight before continuing.
 Use a sharp utility knife to whittle away the wood at the tip of your twig, revealing a small tip of lead and sharpening the pencil in the process.


For safety purposes, move the knife in short strokes and work away from your body.
Gradually remove thin shavings of wood until your pencil is sharp enough to write with.
 At this point, your pencil is complete and should be ready to write with.

