 The most common test for testosterone involves your physician drawing a tube of blood from your vein. In addition to the blood sample, your physician will also perform a physical exam., Because low testosterone may be an indicator for an underlying problem, like a problem with the pituitary gland, liver disease, an inherited disease, or Addison's disease, your doctor may want to test you for an underlying problem if you have low testosterone. Depending on your physical exam, your symptoms, and your history, other tests may be required after the testosterone test. Your doctor may test for thyroid function, diabetes, high blood pressure, and heart disease., Testosterone can also be measured in your saliva, though not many mainstream physicians offer this option. The test is reasonably reliable, but it is too new of a method to be totally accepted.Two reputable labs that test for salivary testosterone are ZRTLabs and Labrix.
 If your total testosterone from your screening lab test comes back abnormal, ask to have the test for “free” or bioavailable testosterone. The most important testosterone value is the “free” and/or bioavailable testosterone. This is not always measured because it is not so easy to measure.


The tests for “free” or bioavailable testosterone are considered better biomarkers., There are things that might affect the results of your test. Taking medicines with estrogen or testosterone (including birth control), digoxin, spironolactone, and barbiturates may interfere with the test. Medicines for prostate cancer and that raise prolactin levels may also have a negative effect. Hypothyroidism can also interfere with the test., If your testosterone levels are low, talk to your physician about testosterone replacement therapy. Testosterone is available as a gel or patch, muscular injections, or tablets that can be dissolved under the tongue.There are also some natural options including dietary approaches, increased exercise, and herbs such as Tribulus terrestris, Ashwagandha, Ginkgo Biloba, Maca, and Yohimbe.

