 At large parties with a lot going on, it can get overwhelming and your natural reaction might be to space out. Trying to pay attention to everything means paying attention to nothing. Actively fight this tendency. Be in the moment you are in, and find a way to shut out all the other people besides the ones you are specifically with.If you go through the whole party trying to focus on everything that is going on, you won’t actually experience any of it directly. Allow yourself to forget about all the extra stuff that’s around you and enjoy the thing you are currently doing.
Once you find someone and are hanging out with them, don’t look around the rest of the room to see what everyone else is doing. Pay attention to only what you are doing, at least for a while.
 It’s a good idea to have your phone, and you can even check it periodically, but don’t spend the whole night looking at the screen. You can watch your phone sitting at home alone, but you don’t always get to be out with people doing stuff. Rather than thinking of all the other stuff you could be doing, enjoy the party you are at.


Plus, if the party is rowdy at all, there’s always the chance you could lose or break your phone and you don’t want to do that.
 With people all over the place and the host or hostess often busy keeping things going, offer to help them out by getting people food, refilling the punch bowl, or keeping tabs on the music situation.


If there is an iPod or something playing, see if you can play DJ for a while and pick the jams for everyone to dance to.
 Bigger parties tend to span across multiple rooms and could even include the porch, patio, or the back yard. Making sure that you move throughout the various spaces of the party will increase the number of people that see you there. This gives you the opportunity to interact with as many people as possible rather than just those in one spot.If you have been in one place for a while, mention that you are going to check out another room or go outside. You can specifically mention someone that you want to go talk to, or you can say you are going for food or a drink. The people who you are talking with will be less likely to think you are just ditching them. They may even think that you are more important because you have other people you plan to see.
It may feel more comfortable to stick with the location and group of people that you already secured, but being the life of the party means being seen by more people. Later on, the guests will most likely not remember the person who sat on the couch the whole time, but they will remember someone who they saw moving throughout the entire party the whole night.
 High school parties can range from everyone kind of standing around trying to figure out what to do, to everyone being really drunk and acting crazy. You have to take stock of which one you are at, but starting something fun can be adapted to either one. You could lead in getting people dancing, get people to jump in the pool, start a game of truth or dare, or form an arm wrestling competition.People want to have fun at parties, and while that may involve just drinking and hanging out, a lot of people also want something active to do. If you start up a fun trend that everyone ends up getting really into, you’ll be looked at as someone who is fun to have around.
This may seem a little risky and it may take a little extra courage, but the payoff of getting people to have more fun can really be worth it.
 The most important thing to remember is that parties are meant to be a fun place to let off some steam and let yourself de-stress. So you don’t want to get so focused on being the life of the party that you end up not having any fun. Be yourself, but push yourself just a little farther than usual.If people are dancing, dance. If there is karaoke going down, hop up on stage. People will probably not remember the party guests who sat on the sofa the whole time, but they will remember those who were involved in the happenings.
Don’t try to be someone that you aren’t, but take the opportunity to step out of your comfort zone. Say yes to things you normally wouldn’t (but still be responsible).

