 When you are trying to decide what to where it is helpful to know when and where you will be going. You dress differently for church than you do for school than you do for the club. In the same way, it is good to know what is considered acceptable for the the place you will meet. Your outfit will be influenced by your surroundings.


Look the place up online and find pictures to see how fancy or casual it is. Look for pictures with other people in them to give you an idea of how people tend to dress there.
Swing by the place before you meet him so you can get the vibe in person.;
, The time of day you will be meeting is also going to effect what you wear. Beyond dressing appropriately for the temperature, there are differences between daytime and nighttime clothing.Daytime calls for light or bright colors and a more casual style with less jewelry. You can still wear a dress, but tone it down to a simple shift, shirt dress, or wrap dress.
Meeting at night means a more formal style like that little black dress with some heels and that one piece of eye-catching jewelry.
 If you decide to dress casually, you want to be sure you still look put together and not sloppy. Combine very casual clothing with something a little fancier to keep the casual in check.Make distressed jeans work for you by pairing them with a nice pair of black heels and a sweater or silk blouse.
Combine an oversized shirt with something fitted like tights or leggings so your outfit doesn’t look baggy or ill-fitting.
 Once you have put together the perfect attire for the evening, the last thing you want to do is ruin it by covering your nice dress with an old coat, or slinging your big, beat up handbag over your shoulder. Think ahead when it comes to the necessities and make sure they enhance your outfit instead of detracting from it.Black leather jackets have style and class, and go with almost anything. They are a great addition to your wardrobe.
Accessorize with a hands-free purse like a clutch or wristlet. These look more sleek and sophisticated than fussing with a large bag. If you need more space to carry things, use your jacket pockets.
 Medium to low heels and flats are fine for a casual look. When you are going for formal, heels can look great, but also can be terribly painful. When you are choosing heels the fit is just as important as the fashion. Choose a heel which is comfortable on your feet and easy to walk in.Avoid heels which are incredibly high. Not only may they be difficult to walk in, but you might tower over him if they are too tall.

