 Most crucibles are made of graphite, which enables them to withstand the melting of the material inside.;
,, Aim the flame at the gold until the gold is completely melted.
, This is called “making shot.” If you are refining small pieces of jewelry like rings, then you can simply melt the piece without making shot particles.



For every ounce of gold that you want to refine, you will need 300 milliliters in container capacity.
Use containers large heavy-gauge plastic buckets or Pyrex Vision Ware pots.



Put on a pair of rubber gloves to protect your hands from the acid. Wear the gloves as you handle any of the chemicals mentioned in this article.
Wear a rubber apron to protect your clothing.
Wear goggles to protect your eyes.
Consider wearing a face mask to prevent the inhalation of noxious fumes.
 The acid reactions in the aqua regia process produce strong and noxious fumes that are extremely dangerous.
 Allow the acid to react with the gold for 30 minutes.
 Allow the solution to sit overnight until all of the acid fumes have been dispelled.



Make sure that none of the particles are poured out with the acid as they will contaminate the gold.
The acid should have a clear emerald green color. If the color is murky, then you should probably pour it through a Buchner filter funnel.
 Continue heating the mixture until it boils.



The acid mixture will bubble as you add the water and urea. Add the mixture slowly so that it doesn’t cause the acid to bubble out of its container.
The water/urea mixture neutralizes the nitric acid but not hydrochloric acid in your solution.



In general, you will add 1 ounce of precipitant per ounce of gold that you are refining.
Avoid putting your face near the container’s opening. The smell is very strong and pungent.



The acid will turn a muddy brown color, which is actually caused by the separation of the gold particles.
Wait 30 minutes to allow the precipitant solution to work on the gold particles.
,, If the spot turns purplish, then you need to give the precipitant more time to work before discarding the acid.



The acid should be amber with what looks like mud collected at the bottom of the container.
Do not pour the mud off with the acid. The mud is pure gold.
 Stir the water and allow the mud to settle.
,, You will see white vapors come off of the gold mud. Make sure to protect your eyes and to avoid inhaling the fumes.
, Pour off all of the distilled water so that only mud remains.
 Turn the hot plate on and let the beaker heat up gradually so that the thermal shock doesn’t cause it to shatter.
, Wrap the mud in the towels and soak the mud in alcohol.
 The mud will take on the appearance of metal and will be 99 percent pure if you performed the process correctly.
 You can then take it to a jeweler or to a precious metals dealer to exchange it for cash if you desire.

