 Picture a line with “1” on one end and “14” on the other. The acidity or alkalinity of food will fall somewhere on this line. A strong alkali will have a high value, such as 14, while a strong acid will have a low value, such as one. Neutrals, such as water, will have a pH value of seven.The pH measures the concentration of dissolved hydrogen ions, which then indicates acidity or alkalinity.
You can measure the pH for more than just foods. Bleach, for example, has a pH of 13. Battery acid has a pH of zero., Human blood maintains a pH of about 7.4. All major systems of the body work together in order to keep this number as consistent as possible. When you consider a food combination diet, the idea is that you are lessening some of the work that your body has to do to maintain balance.Be aware of a food’s PRAL or “potential renal acid load” score. Simply put, a food can be acidic in composition, but can change to alkaline when you ingest it. Lemons and tomatoes are good examples of this transition. So, it may be helpful to print out a alkaline/acid reference sheet when shopping., Gauge the success of your food combining by how you feel and whether or not your medical numbers (blood pressure, blood sugar levels, etc.) improve over time. Some people suggest testing the pH of your urine using test strips. However, this method may be quite inaccurate as your general medical history, the time of day the sample is collected, and medications can influence the results., Like any diet plan, you need to be committed to making a change in order for it to work. Sit and write down all of the health improvements that you hope to see as a result of following a combination food plan. For example, you might want to lose weight. If that is the case, ask yourself, “Is this the best possible way to safely lose weight?”


Attach time periods to your goals. Give yourself one month to see a change in blood sugar levels or two months to drop a jean size.
Consult a physician before changing your diet, some restrictive diets can interfere with your health. Your doctor will work with you to determine whether “food combining” is a good option for you.

