 You can choose cutting boards made from wood, bamboo, or plastic. Plastic is lightweight and easy to store, but it can be difficult to clean. You'll need to discard any plastic cutting boards that develop knife scars or ridges. Wood cutting boards have natural antiseptic properties that can help keep them clean. You can also use bamboo, but since it's harder than wood, it may dull your knives faster.Avoid chopping on metal, glass, or stone cutting boards. These can dull your knives.
Consider getting two cutting boards. Use one to chop vegetables or fruit and use the other to chop meat.;
, If you choose to use a plastic cutting board or your work surface is a little slick, you'll need to prevent the cutting board from slipping around. This could cause the knife to slip and cut you. To keep the cutting board in place, lay a damp cloth on the work surface. Set the cutting board directly on the cloth. The board should not slide around.








You could also use non-slip mats, wet paper towels, or poster putty underneath the cutting board.
 Most knife sets include a variety of knives that you'll use for different kitchen jobs. To chop, you'll usually want to use an 8 to 10-inch (20 to 25 cm) chef's knife. It has a slight curve, so you can rock the knife back and forth as you quickly chop. The knife should feel a little heavy and balanced when you hold it.








Don't chop food with small knives (like paring knives) since the knife could become stuck in the food or you may cut yourself.
Avoid using it for small jobs, like peeling food or cutting bread.
 Professional chefs sharpen their blades every day because they use them so often. Be in the habit of sharpening your knife blade using a sharpening stone since dull knives are more likely to slip while you're using them. This can increase your risk of cutting yourself. If you don't feel comfortable sharpening your own knives, you can send your knives away to a professional sharpening service.









If the knife blade has been bent off center because of frequent use, you can also use a honing steel to push the blade back into balance.