 Planks are a basic exercise that are not unique to yoga. This pose will help strengthen your core, which is a key factor in improving your posture. Better posture can help prevent tight shoulders.Get on your hands and knees, making sure your hands are directly under your shoulders with your fingers spread wide. Get on your toes and walk or hop your legs backward until they are straight.
Focus on being one long line of energy from your heels to the crown of your head. Engage your core and breathe as deeply as you can, pressing through your heels and lifting your torso upward.
Lengthen your neck and drop your shoulders down your back. Make sure they're not hunched around your ears, and that your neck isn't crunched.
Stay for five breaths, then release. You can do several planks, or you can try to hold each of your planks for a longer period of time.
 Dolphin pose will open and strengthen your shoulders and the rest of your upper body, as well as lengthening your hamstrings. You can create a flow by moving between dolphin pose and a forearm plank, with a breath for each movement.From plank position, lower your upper body to rest on your forearms rather than your hands. On an exhale, walk your feet toward your elbows, lifting your hips high. You should end up in an upside down "V."
Make sure your forearms are parallel and grounded, and press them firmly into the mat. You may have to engage your outer arms to keep your elbows from splaying as you walk forward.
Don't let your shoulders hunch up toward your ears – keep them down your back, pressing towards your hips. This will also keep you from rounding your back.
You can hold this pose for about 5 breaths, or you can move immediately back to a forearm plank and keep the flow moving back and forth between forearm plank and dolphin for 5 to 10 repetitions.
 This pose helps strengthen your abdominal muscles as well as stimulating your whole spine to create proper alignment and improve your posture over time.Sit on your heels on your mat, and take a moment to connect with your breath. On an exhale, reach back and grab your heels, then round your back down and forward to curl your torso over. Make sure the movement is coming from your core.
Ultimately, you want to place the crown of your head on the floor so that your forehead touches your knees. Don't worry if you can't go this deeply at first, especially if you are new to yoga. Just round as far as you comfortably can.
Lift your hips and roll your body weight forward until you feel your elbows lock. Hold the pose for at least five breaths, then roll back up slowly on an inhale, going one vertebrae at a time until you're back in a seated position.
With every inhale, pull on your heels. With every exhale, try to go a little deeper into the bend.
 Fish pose will help open the front of your torso with a full-body stretch that strengthens your back and improves your posture.Lie on your back with your legs extended, arms flat on either side of your body with your palms on the floor. Press your forearms and elbows into the floor as you lift your chest, creating an arch in your back.
Lift your shoulder blades and chest, tilting your head back so that the crown of your head is touching the floor. Continue pressing through your hands and forearms.
Press outward through your heels, keeping your thighs active. Hold the pose for five breaths, then press through your forearms to lift your head. Exhale and lower your head and torso to the floor.
If you're a beginner, you may want to place a yoga block along your upper spine to support your back, or one under your head, or both. You also can use a rolled towel or blanket to support your neck., If your shoulders are tight, it's probable that the muscles around your spine are tight as well. Twisting poses such as revolved side angle pose help loosen those muscles to improve your posture.From a standing position, drop your left leg backward and bend your right knee so your right thigh is parallel to the floor. As you lunge, make sure you're not lunging too far forward – your knee should be directly over your ankle, so your shin is parallel to the floor. Take a moment to connect with your breath and find your balance if you're a bit wobbly.
On an exhale, twist your torso over your right leg, bringing your left elbow to rest on the outside of your right thigh. Breathe.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, focusing on drawing your abdomen away from your leg and deepening the twist with each exhale.

