 Usually small children are stubborn and difficult to deal with. One has to deal with this nature so as to become a more understanding person. A person who is capable of taking care of himself/herself and others around him/her.;
, Care for your sibling. When a parent sees you showcasing love towards your sibling they immediately get a feeling that you HAVE grown up and don't fight or quarrel with your sibling the way you used to when you were little. When we are kids and immature we tend to fight with our sibling over petty things. Even if your brother or sister is the one to initiate a fight, relax let your sibling have his or her way. This is one of the characteristic of a grown-up.
 Be a regular to school and do your homework regularly. Be serious about your studies and homework. This way your parents will get a feeling that you no more consider studies as a burden and are serious about your future.
 Chat with your parents often. Express your opinions on various things, especially on serious matters. Matters like current issues etc. They will be surprised by your understanding and in the fact that you take interest in serious matters.
 Help your parents in daily chores. It will definitely impress them. And help in strengthening their feelings that you can pretty well take care of yourself.
 Respect all your relatives and family friends etc. even if you find them annoying.
 If you want to say something to your parents you can do it in a polite way as well. There is absolutely no need to shout and scream while making your point clear.
 Do not be a spendthrift and just waste your money on unnecessary things. Use it to buy important and useful things like some school stuff, good novels etc. Your parents will immediately feel that you definitely know how to handle that cash.
 We all love parties,but that does not mean that you will immediately organize a party as soon as your parents step outside the house. This is a very irresponsible behavior. Seek your parent's permission before doing anything of this sort.
 Find solutions to your problems on your own. Try it, its not that tough as it sounds. Mature and responsible people come with a solution on their own.
 Aggressive people are usually irresponsible or at least they appear to be. Put your aggressiveness to good use. For eg: join boxing classes etc.
 Don't cry and whine when you have do do the dishes, don't contradict them when they are saying you're irresponsible. Your parents love you, but it's their job to help you, don't get angry at them because they're doing their job. If you're trying, they'll see that, and if they don't

