 Find a good time to bring up the issue. Ask the bridesmaid to get a cup of coffee with you, or to meet you at the park. When discussing the issue, use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. Also, try to be as positive as you can.For example, “One of the reasons why I wanted to meet with you is to discuss a small issue that has come up with the other bridesmaids. Although your input is invaluable, I think that including the opinions of the other bridesmaids a little bit more would help to reduce any tension between you and the other bridesmaids.”

, Don't be afraid to let the bridesmaid know that the issue is affecting you and the rest of the bridal party. Let her know that as a bridesmaid and as a friend, you expect her to put her personal issues aside.You can tell her, "You are a great party planner. It's one of the reasons why I picked you to be a part of my bridal party. However some of the bridesmaids have complained that they don't feel like their opinions are being heard. If you could include their opinions more, I would really appreciate it! This way, I can focus more on wedding planning and less on trying to resolve bridesmaid issues."

, After stating the issue, ask her about her perspective. She could be oblivious to the problem, or there may be another issue that is causing her behavior. Whatever the problem is, listen to what she has to say and try to fully understand her perspective as well. If she has any issues of her own, let her know that you will talk with the other bridesmaids about it.For example, “I totally understand where you are coming from. I will talk with the other bridesmaids about the issue. In the mean time, I just want you to relax and I want you to know that I am grateful that you are a part of my bridal party.”

, If you see that the responsibilities that come with being a bridesmaid are weighing on your friend, let her know that it is ok if she needs to step down. Let her know that stepping down won’t change anything about your friendship and how you feel about her as a friend.You can say, for example, “I know that being a bridesmaid comes with a lot of responsibility, and I understand if you do not have the time to deal with it. It is completely ok with me if you decide to step down. It won’t change anything about our friendship.”

