 Though your summer course won't be an exact replica of the class you just took, you'll be priming yourself for what's to come. It may adjust your way of thinking, studying, and note-taking to the kind of material you'll need to learn.Keep in mind that there will be plenty of overlap and similarities in your classes, but don't think your old test will give you all the answers for your summer school exams. Use your old tests instead as study guides and a tool to see where you struggled last time.;
, Your friends who aren't in summer school are probably going to miss you, and may ask you to abandon your studies for a night of fun or to skip a day here or there so you can all go to the beach. It's going to be hard enough to get through summer school already, and the last thing you need is someone trying to tempt you.


Tell your friends that it's very important you do well in this class and that you will spend time with them after you've finished your homework, or on weekends, and definitely when school is over.
Make sure you have your family's support as well. Let them know you may need their help to stay motivated. They may be able to help you make a study schedule.
 It's going to be hard to see other people going on vacation and relaxing while you're trying to cram a year or semester's worth of school into a few weeks. Knowing something special is waiting for you at the end of summer school--a vacation, a camping getaway with your friends, or a day at your favorite theme park--can help keep you motivated.Set up smaller rewards throughout the course. Do something special (like a Saturday at the beach) for the weekend after your mid-term exam. These little happiness "checkpoints" will help break up the course and make it seem manageable.Knowing you have something fun coming up will help lift your spirits when you feel like your summer is slipping away. You can remind yourself: "I just have to work hard the next two weeks and then I get to spend the day at the waterpark with my friends."