 Up-talk refers to the high-rising intonation that occurs at the end of speech. It's commonly thought to have become popular back in the 1980s by valley girls living in Southern California. The movie Clueless's characters, including Cher, exaggerate and exemplify the stereotypes of this speech pattern. Chances are you already do this in your speech (try listening to how your voice naturally rises in pitch whenever you ask a question, particularly one that seeks agreement), but you can also study and learn how to actively mimic the speech pattern by watching the movie.Up-talk typically makes statements sound like questions. An example of a conversation with a speaker who uses up talk might sound like the following: "Hi, Mary? This is Shannon? From your Algebra 2 class? I wanted to let you know, I found your cell phone? I brought it home with me, you can get it from me at school tomorrow? Okay, bye?";
, You'll probably notice that Cher and her friends have a very particular way of speaking. It's peppered with "Valspeak," which is an American slang that originated from Southern California's valley girls. If you really want to sound like Cher, you'll need to use and understand her lingo, which includes terms and phrases like "as if," "whatever," and "duh" among others.When answering a question that you feel the answer is obvious, like "Did you do well on your science test?" respond with, "Well, duh!"
When someone makes a rude joke and you can't think of a good comeback, instead of dignifying it, respond with a sarcastic "Whatever" to dismiss it.
If you and your friend see a handsome guy around, you can say "Like, oh my God, he's a total Baldwin!" to express how incredibly hot he is.
 One thing you will probably notice is that no matter what Cher says, she sounds very expressive. When she says "whatever," it comes with a sigh and a tone of disgust; her "totally"s are enthusiastic and chipper. If you want to sound like Cher, you will need to let your tone of voice help you to express the extent to which you mean what you say.
 In many of the scenes from the movie and promotional materials you can see Cher and her friends on their cell phones. For valley girls, cell phones are basically another accessory that they keep on their person at all times. Cher even uses it to talk to her best friend when she's right next to her, so be sure to use your phone to talk with people important to you as much as possible.