 If you’re shipping perishable items, try if possible to opt for items that don’t need to be kept cold. It is a lot less hassle and will require less packaging and handling considerations.


For example, seasoning packets, hardy candy, dried fruits, and canned nuts don't require refrigeration. Homemade sweets like praline, toffee and sugar cookies don't need refrigerated packaging because their sugar content wards off bacteria., Don’t pack food while it’s still hot, or it will form condensation which encourages mold growth and may cause the food to become soggy. Cool the food first until it is refrigerator cold or frozen solid.Then pack it in sealed plastic bags.If the food needs to stay cool or cold, include a source of cold, such as dry ice or frozen gel packs. You may want to consult with a packaging expert for your delivery service and ask which method is best for your shipment as well as where to purchase those items.Clearly mark the package “Perishable – Keep Refrigerated” on the outside. The marking should be on the address side of the mailpiece., Choose gel ice packs for products that should be cooled at 32° F (0° C) and 60° F (16° C). Freeze them according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Put perishable food in sealed plastic bags. Separate the gel packs from the perishable items using cardboard. Alternatively, you can look for a carrier with a cold shipping program.For example, FedEx offers cold shipping for healthcare products like medications and breast milk.
You can use other kinds of ice packs, but disposable ice packs are the most economic choice. Test the number and size of ice packs your product needs inside the specific container you select., Use dry ice for frozen items.Be sure it's legal to send the frozen packaging materials in your area. Dry ice maintains its coldness longer than gel packs, but requires extra safety measures. Wear gloves and goggles when handling it so that you don’t burn yourself. Don’t let dry ice come in contact with food. Put food in a sealed plastic bag to protect it from dry ice. Separate dry ice from your perishable items using cardboard.


Don’t wrap dry ice. Warn the recipient if the packaging contains dry ice. Check with your shipping carrier first and find out the allowable amount of dry ice.
If you use dry ice, you need to label the address side of the box that it contains dry ice. You will also need to comply with the rules of your carrier (UPS, FedEx, or USPS).
 Pack the perishable item, cardboard, and coolant in a two-millimeter liner bag. Secure the bag closed with a rubber band. Now the items are ready to be placed in an insulated container.You can purchasing shipping liner bags online or at local office supply stores.

