 Clothes are the most immediate way to change the way you are perceived by others. However, being fashionable isn’t all about being seen. Paying attention the culture of fashion and developing your own style of dress also directly affects your behavior and how you perceive yourself.You don’t have to become a slave to fashion, but paying attention to trends and incorporating what you like into your own style is noticed by everyone.
Research current trends and designers online and via fashion magazines. Designers come out with collections every season, so make it a habit to check those out. You don’t necessarily need to copy them – but having a sense of what’s currently fashionable is definitely hip.
Designer clothing is expensive, but you don’t have to break the bank to look trendy. Pay attention to the style of what you see, and then reproduce the elements you are drawn to with more affordable versions.;
, As with clothing, your hairstyle is one of the things immediately noticed by other people. Do a little research on what’s trendy in hairstyles – the internet is a great resource for this. Keep in mind that every current trend might not look great on you. Experiment and find out what works.


Asking your hairstylist about current trends is a great way to learn about what’s cool. They can also assist you with figuring out what will look best on you, and give you a hairstyle that is both trendy and customized for you.
Getting the cut isn’t enough – you should also keep your hair well-groomed and neat. If you aren’t sure how to style a new haircut, ask your hairstylist for pointers.
 It also directly affects how you feel about yourself.Adopting positive body language, whether you feel confident or not, makes you feel confident because it’s sending positive, confident signals to your brain.


Pay attention to your posture so that you stand and sit up straight. You don’t want to look uncomfortable or on edge by overdoing it, so make sure you adopt good posture while still maintaining a relaxed demeanor.
Remember to smile and look people in the eye when speaking to them.Make it a point to stop fidgeting. Practice being physically self-aware so that you can keep your body language relaxed.
 Make them work for you. If you aren’t sure what your personal style is, take a moment to think about what looks you are drawn to. Experiment with clothing and different looks and you’ll find your own sense of style starting to emerge.


Choose clothing and hairstyles that make you feel good about yourself. Don’t blindly follow every trend you see. It’s more important that you stay current when it comes to knowing about trends – you don’t necessarily need to adopt all of them. Being hip is about knowing what’s current.
If you find yourself being attracted to clothing or a style that you aren’t necessarily seeing on the runways, incorporate that! Developing your own sense of style is about embracing trends and then spicing it up with your own flair. Don’t be afraid to be yourself.

