 Before it can be released, your baby bird has to be able to fly. When your baby bird is fully feathered (a fledgling), it should be moved to a cage with perches where it can practice by hopping from perch to perch. The fledgling should also be let out of the cage where it can take short flights. Don't worry about the baby bird flying away; it will return when it's hungry and wants you to feed it.;
, Once the fledgling is able to fly, it should also begin to feed itself. You can still feed it, but begin putting small dishes of food and water in the bird's cage. Make sure the food you put in are things that the fledgling would be eating in the wild. Feed the bird from the dish, and after a couple of times, it should be pecking at the food out of curiosity. Begin feeding it less and less once it does this and the soon the bird should begin to eat on its own.
 Different species of bird eat different foods, so depending on your type of bird, it will have to be taught how to hunt and forage for different foods.

For insectivores, or insect-eating birds, introduce your birds to a place where the type of insect it eats are abundant. Pick up a few and feed it to the bird, and after a while it will begin pecking at them and looking for more on its own.






For fruit eating birds, put the bird in a tree or bush that has edible berries that it can eat. Show the bird a branch that has fruit and give it some. After a few tries it should eat the fruits on its own.






For seed eaters, scatter some of the seeds it likes near where you've observed other birds foraging. The bird will learn to forage on its own and it can also learn from watching others.
 If you are raising two birds of the same species this should be fine, but if you're only raising one, it will need to be taught the songs and behaviors of its kind. This is very important to learn, because birds use many different signals to indicate things such as danger. To teach a baby bird the songs and other sounds its species uses, you can look for recordings, although your bird will still need to learn from other real birds of its species.

