 If your cat exhibits any of the symptoms associated with essential oil poisoning, or if you know definitively that your cat ingested essential oils, get it to the vet immediately. Veterinary care is important for both solving and diagnosing essential oil poisoning, since there are a number of other conditions that could produce similar or identical symptoms., In the event that your vet’s office is closed or your vet is unavailable, contact your local pet poison hotline. This service is available 24 hours each day and is used by pet owners and vets alike. The hotline will be able to give you advice and directions that could help you save your cat.To contact the pet poison helpline in your area, run a search like “pet poison helpline” for the number in your preferred search engine.
The pet poison helpline may have a different name in your area. For instance, in the U.S., the helpline is called the Animal Poison Control Center Phone Number. In the U.K., the helpline is called the Animal PoisonLine.
The personnel of the poison helpline may wish to know the type of essential oil your cat ingested (if known).
 Unless otherwise directed, do not use activated charcoal or attempt to induce vomiting in any other way. Doing so might actually harm your cat., Your vet will probably need to analyze your cat’s blood before making a decision about what to do next. This involves drawing your cat’s blood, then checking it for enzymes produced by the liver and kidneys. The degree to which enzymes from these organs are present or absent will allow your vet to identify how compromised your cat’s health is, and select the best course of action., Depending on which oil your cat ingested and the quantity that was consumed, your vet might recommend anti-vomiting medication, medications to protect the stomach, pain medication, and/or medication to protect the liver. If your cat has ingested essential oils or had them applied to their skin, medicine to relieve inflammation and irritation may be necessary.Your doctor will advise you regarding which medicine to give your cat, and in what quantity.
 If your cat came into direct contact with essential oils, you or your vet might wash the cat to remove any residual essential oil from its skin. Using a medicated anti-inflammatory shampoo or skin treatment might also be in order.Medicated shampoos generally work the same as regular ones do. Simple wet your cat in a tub, apply a small dab of shampoo to its fur, and gently scrub it into a lather. Rinse the cat off, then pat dry with a soft towel.

