 If you would like to use the license for McAfee Internet Security on another computer after you uninstall it, you will need to release the license from the old computer. This can save you money, since you will not need to purchase a license for your other computer.To log into your account, visit the McAfee homepage at http://home.mcafee.com. You will see a button in the upper-right corner of the page that says “My Account.” Click on this button.Log in using the email address associated with your McAfee user account (the email address you provided when you first signed up) and your password. Click “Log in” to access your account., The My Account page contains all the information about your McAfee Internet Security license including the version and license term and expiration dates.


Navigate to the My Account page. Here you will find a list of the computers registered to your account. Select the tab for the computer you wish to deactivate.Look for the “Details” section of the computer. There you should find the “Deactivate” button.A pop-up window will appear asking you to confirm that you want to deactivate your liscense for this computer. If you are sure you want to do this, click “Deactivate.”Once deactivated, you can reuse the license on a different computer, whether you are buying a new one or just wish to protect a different computer you already own.
 All of the applications on your Mac can be found in the Applications folder.


Open Finder.
Select Applications.

If you cannot find Applications in the Finder window sidebar, search for applications within spotlight in the upper right corner of the Finder window.
 The McAfee product uninstaller will guide you through the successful removal of McAfee Internet Security from your Mac.


Find and open the McAfee Internet Security Folder.
Double-click the McAfee Internet Security Uninstaller.
Select the checkbox beside Uninstall SiteAdvisor and click Continue.
 Your Mac will verify that you are both authorized to remove this program and not removing it accidentally by asking you to enter your admin password.


Enter your admin password and click OK.

This is the admin password for your Mac, not the McAfee password.


Click Finish.
Reboot your Mac.

