 "Love language" is the term that Gary Chapman uses to describe the way that people feel love. That is, different people require different types of actions to feel love from another person. You can use his website, 5lovelanguages.com, to take quizzes and determine the love language for each of your family members.Knowing each others' love languages will help you express love towards one another.
For instance, one love language is words of affirmation, where a person needs verbal encouragement to feel loved. Another is acts of service, where a person feels loved if another person does something for her.The third love language is receiving gifts; small presents make this type of person feel loved. The fourth is quality time, where spending time together makes a person feel loved. The final one is physical touch; love is expressed through hugs, kisses, and affectionate touches., Kids are still learning how to be polite and ask things in a respectful manner. Therefore, when your child does ask politely, make sure to offer encouragement of that behavior.Try to be specific about your praise. For instance, when your child asks politely if she can be excused instead of jumping up from the table, you can say, "Thank you for asking so nicely and using your manners."
Also, remember to offer encouragement for the hard work they put in, not just the finished product. For instance, no matter whether your kid wins or loses a tennis match, you can say that you are proud of her for putting in the hard work., Your child will start to set her own boundaries as far as privacy goes. Because it's her way of asserting independence, you should try to respect that as often as possible with a few caveats. For instance, if your child is still fairly young, you may need to be in the bathroom while she bathes; however, you can work on something else so she doesn't feel like you're focusing on her.Remind your child that occasionally, you or her doctor may need to examine her body to make sure she's still healthy.Many children will start wanting privacy in elementary school. However, if your child seems to be very embarrassed about her body, you might want to make sure everything is fine with her, as that can be a sign of sexual abuse., Boundaries are good for kids because they help them know their limits. Your kids may not see it as a sign of respect initially, but boundaries will help them grow into positive, contributing adults.Plan ahead, and tell your child the boundary in no uncertain terms. That is, you need to already know what rule you are going to enforce before you enforce it, and your kid needs to know she doesn't have any wiggle room. For instance, use a statement instead of a question: say "Please clean up your room before you go outside," not "Can you please clean up your room before you go outside?" That doesn't mean that you have to be use a harsh tone; in fact, a neutral is better because it won't scare your kids.Don't be afraid to use humor to encourage cooperativeness. Kids love silly voices and jokes, so try making the fork dance when you want her to eat or making her toothbrush talk to her., When you don't get your way, you need to learn to deal with that without yelling. For instance, you can use techniques to calm down, such as listening to a meditation CD. Alternatively, you can use a creative way to express yourself, such as drawing, coloring, or painting.For your kids, you can also help them talk about their feelings. One way to do that is to use visuals, such as a printout of different emotion faces. Have the child point to what they're feeling and then have them talk about how that relates to the situation. You could ask a question such as, "What are you feeling right now? Can you point to the face that shows what you're feeling? What made you feel that way?"