 Kids should have the same sleep routine every day. This would include what time they go to bed, what time they get up, and when they start to wind down at night. In order to get your kids’ full participation in the routine, allow them to help make the plan.Sometime in August, before school begins and before you want your kids to change their routine, sit down at the table with your kids and explain that you want to create a sleep routine for them and that you need their help.
If you have kids of different ages, and need different routines, you may want to create each routine separately with only the relevant kids present. These routines might include quite different activities (e.g. some kids may be too old for bedtime stories, etc.) so it might be helpful to plan them separately.
With the help of your kids, come up with a list of activities your kids need to do each night before they go to bed. Ask your kids to help you put these activities in the order they need to be completed.
Again with the help of your kids, go through each activity and plan how long it normally takes to complete. Add that time up so you know how far in advance of bedtime your kids need to start preparing for bed.
Also work with your kids to reorganize their bedroom to be more conducive to sleeping. For example, have them decide where the alarm clock should be placed, what lights will stay on and which ones will be turned off, check if the blinds/curtains are dark enough, etc.
 Whether it is a school night or not, bedtime should always be at the same time. Keeping your kids’ body clocks on the same schedule every day will help them be more successful with their routine., A bedtime routine might include activities like having a bedtime snack, taking a bath or having a shower, putting on PJs, brushing teeth, reading a story, and saying goodnight to everyone.Bedtime routines should include only non-stimulating and relaxing activities.
The bedtime routine should also include turning off lights so the room is darker during the wind-down period.
 Have you ever experienced that problem where you get up in the morning, and for the life of you, you can’t pick out what you want to wear!? Kids have the same problem. Unfortunately, if they can’t decide what to wear, it’ll slow down their morning routine and could cause them to be late.Instead, ask your kids to pick out the clothes they want to wear before they go to bed.
You may even want them to put their shoes, boots, and/or jackets by the front door before bed, so they don’t have to search for them in the morning.
 Both technology and caffeinated beverages can make it difficult for kids to fall asleep and stay asleep. Kids should avoid caffeinated beverages after a certain time of the day — probably late afternoon — in order to ensure it doesn’t affect their ability to fall asleep. Technology should be avoided about an hour before bedtime in order to allow your kids to relax and unwind before bed.Remember that your kids having a cell phone, tablet, computer, etc., isn’t a right, it’s a privilege.
Because you want to encourage your kids not to have their cell phones in bed, make sure they have an actual alarm clock to use for waking up in the morning.
 If your kids need 9 hours of sleep, and they need to get up at 8am, bedtime needs to be around 11pm. If you allow your kids to stay up later, there is almost no doubt they’ll have a problem getting up in the morning.Work with your kids to develop the right bedtime. If possible, don’t simply dictate the time.
Allow your older kids to learn on their own how easy it is to get up if they get the proper amount of sleep. The fact that they aren’t groggy and can jump out of bed may encourage them to go to bed at the right time all on their own.
 All bedrooms in the house should be dark, cool, and quiet at night. If you have kids and adults going to bed at different times, you may need to adjust for this. For example, you may need to turn the furnace down before the first person goes to bed.Install light blocking curtains on the windows if needed, especially if your kids have to go to bed before it’s dark outside.
Use a white noise machine, aquarium, nature sounds, or even relaxing music as a way to block other noises while your kids are trying to fall asleep.
 Kids need to learn and be encouraged to fall asleep on their own, in their own beds. Sitting or sleeping with them, or allowing them to sleep in your room/bed, will not help your kids develop a good sleep routine.Falling asleep also needs to be a positive experience for your kids. If they associate falling asleep with bad experiences, it may cause them to want you to stay with them, or for them to crawl into your bed.
This step includes NOT running into your child’s bedroom every time they wake up during the night.
 Every night give your kids a bedtime pass in the form of an actually notecard or index card. Allow this pass to be good for one, and only one, chance to get out of bed after bedtime. The reason could be that they need to pee, that they want a drink of water, or that they want to hug you one more time. Once they’ve used the pass, your kids aren’t allowed out of the bedroom again that night.The pass allows your kids to decide when they want to use it. It should eventually teach them to only use it for real problems and not simply to get up and out of bed.
 Just like bedtime, each morning should have the same routine that is always followed. The morning routine could include: physically getting out of bed, going to the bathroom, brushing teeth, making the bed, dressing for the day, styling hair, making or having breakfast, etc. Unlike bedtime activities, morning activities should include more active and upbeat activities to help wake your kids up.The morning routine should also be one that can be followed no matter how tired your kids are. Brain power shouldn’t really be required!

, Once your kids are old enough, most likely when they’re teenagers, you may need to simply allow them to fend for themselves and learn the consequences on their own. Don’t waste your precious time in the morning screaming for them to get out of bed. Just let them get up on their own.This may mean they’re late for school and may get detention, but don’t give them a note that they had your permission. Enough afternoons spent in detention might teach your teen that getting up on time is well worth it.
This may seem a little on the cruel side, but remember they’re not going to have you around forever. Chances are they’re going to be on their own for college. It’s better for them to learn the consequences now rather than later.

