 More than ever before, users on social networks are more prone to spill the beans on every detail regarding their lives; whether it be of a personal or private nature. A gentlemen or lady would not post anything that glimpses into their private life more than it should. The purpose of social networking is to update your affiliates and personal interconnections about you, but there is a border between public information and private. If you would not say it to them face to face, it’s best not to advertise it on such a far-reaching platform. Topics like your sex life, financial position, spouse or other family or friendship difficulties and information or pictures that have not been approved by those whom are associated, ought to be out of the question.;
, From followers to friends, your profile is on show for the world to see (if you let it). If you do have a profile on one or more social networking platforms, you would more than likely be old enough to know the basics of internet safety. To appear like a lady or gentlemen, it’s important to have people in your friends list that you know or at least have met once. Popular people have thousands of friends lurking their wall and digesting information about them, but sophisticated and composed individuals have a handful of friends. The advantage of this, is that you won’t have accumulations of unreliable posts from strangers relentlessly floating on your feed.
 There is nothing worse than attempting to find that friend from years ago when all their minor information is incorrect. As a gentlemen or lady, you would only add friends that know you, so it isn't too risky to have accurate facts about yourself. Simple identifiers like; full name, age and gender are usually all a person needs to know if they have not been acquainted with you on the site. Once they have, they are then able to access more about where you are in life. Avoid changing your date of birth, last name and other basic pointers repeatedly. Strive to keep a perpetual, yet sensible presence on your chosen social mediums.
 Like the old saying goes, ‘A photo speaks a thousand words’. Maintain your photos at the highest potential they can be whilst avoiding the temptation to post photos of weekend parties, egoistic images of you in a bathroom, pouting, or other obscene gestures with the hands or face that make one look childlike. As an alternative, upload pictures of you smiling with family and friends, vacations or adventures. This is a great medium to share your life, with those in your life.
 There is nothing worse than seeing yolo, swag, lol, lmao and other imprudent idioms that really just verify a person’s intellectual capacity and maturity as undeveloped. Just as it is important to speak properly in person, the same goes for your online presence. Remember to edit out any spelling or grammatical errors in your updates. When using a messaging function on the social networking site, try to respond to the person in clear detail and avoid using too much slam.

