 Take a look at other well-designed websites, and note how a menu or content area is laid out and then use that knowledge in your designs.;
, Start by getting a good vector graphics editor such as Adobe Illustrator. Making images using vector graphics is the easiest way to grasp graphics design, so spending some money on something like Illustrator or Fireworks will be a great help. Inkscape is a nice free and open-source alternative for beginners.
 These skills include:


HTML
CSS
JavaScript
jQuery
PHP
SQL
Bootstrap


Of course there are many tutorials on the Web where you can learn these languages. But we want to know about the best place for learning. The most famous place (if you search on Google) is W3Schools. The six languages listed above are enough for a start. However there is no end of learning, especially in a Web Developer's life. The main purposes of these languages are:








HTML: For the main content of the webpage,
CSS: For the page style,
JavaScript: For dynamic content,
jQuery: For easy JavaScript scripting,
PHP: For server side scripting,
SQL: For database management.
BootStrap: Rapid development for websites that is mobile ready first.


Please find and study these tutorials on W3Schools. Also you should study other stuff in W3schools as well, because they are extremely helpful.
 These technologies will enable you to create a website that does not require you to make individual HTML pages but allow you to use templates to display multiple pages within the same design.
 Create a web site that uses AJAX so you can utilise the server-side power of PHP without having to refresh the page thus saving bandwidth and enabling you to create 'interactive' web applications.
 Install a web server on your Computer so that you can work on scripts locally without an Internet connection. If you choose the PHP route try http://www.wampserver.com/en/. If you use ASP.NET use IIS available on most versions of windows.
 Get yourself some script examples to "tinker" with: Finding a script to dissect is the best way to learn. Try CMS's like Drupal and Joomla, The best time to start making websites is as soon as possible, for two reasons; they can take a lot of time to complete, and you learn a lot just by making them. Don't worry too much about making it perfect the first time; one of the best things about websites is that they can always be improved at any time!