 One way you can be a good group leader is to break the ice with activities when the group first gets together. Do ice breaker activities with the group so everyone can introduce themselves. Make sure all the group members get a chance to speak to one another on the first day so they feel less like strangers.For example, as an ice breaker, you may do a simple go around in the group where everyone says their name and a personal detail about themselves.
If the group is made up of students, you may have them state their majors and the most interesting thing they did during the school break. If the group is made up of professionals, you may have them state their profession and their favorite hobby outside of work.;
, Team building exercises are great for helping people get used to working together and to create trust in the group. Try to schedule team building exercises during the first few group meetings. Use them throughout the group’s time together, especially if you notice issues cropping up in the group.For example, you may use a team building exercise like having everyone sit and make eye contact with one another to build comfort and trust.
You can find a list of team building exercises on huddle.com.
 The key to trust and goodwill in a group is good communication. As a leader, you should encourage everyone in the group to be honest and open with one another. Let everyone know that the group is a place of trust and communication. Make it clear that you value honesty as a leader and expect everyone to communicate well with each other.For example, you may say to the group, “I value good communication as a leader and I hope everyone in the group will communicate effectively with one another.”

, To keep the vibe in the group relaxed and open, make sure you allow time for group members to socialize. Set aside time before the official group meetings for group members to chat, have some refreshments, and hang out. Allow for time after the group meetings for members to spend time with one another. This can foster a more welcoming and trusting environment in the group.As the leader of the group, you may plan social outings for the group where everyone can relax and spend time together in a less formal environment. This can help members to socialize and build trust by seeing each other as people as well as peers.

