 Renting video games will allow you to test and preview video games to determine if you like them enough to buy them. This will prevent you from being disappointed if you spend money on a video game, then discover that you do not enjoy playing the game.


Rent video games from a local video game rental store in your area, or enroll for online rental programs that send video game rentals directly to your mailbox.;
, In most cases, retailers and manufacturers will sell video games at prices that are significantly high after their release dates to generate the highest amount of revenue on new games.


Check the prices of video games you want in local retail stores or online every few weeks or months. This will allow you to monitor any sales or price drops that may occur for the video game you want to purchase.
 Used video games are often priced significantly lower than new video games, and can be purchased from multiple venues; including video game rental stores, stores that specialize strictly in video games, and from online retailers such as Amazon or eBay.


Verify a store's return and refund policies before buying their used video games. These policies will be helpful to you in the event that you receive a defective video game, or a video game disc that contains scratches.
 Swapping video games can save money for all participants; especially when you can swap and trade games that you no longer wish to play.
 Some used video game stores may allow you to choose another game from their stock in return for your video game, or offer you cash or a credit for your game.
 Since the Internet expands your buying and selling options to include the entire country and not just your local area, you can often purchase video games from retailers for a much lower price, or find a buyer for your used video game.


Use websites such as eBay or Amazon to buy or sell your used video games, or enter keyword phrases into any Internet search engine that include the words "buy" or "for sale." For example, if you want to buy the latest Final Fantasy video game, type "buy Final Fantasy" or "Final Fantasy for sale" to review a large number of pricing options.
 Sometimes, manufacturers or retailers of video games will send you discount notices or coupons for video games when you subscribe to their emails.


Go to the website for your favorite video game retailer (such as Best Buy), and look for a link that allows you to sign up for coupons, store updates, and newsletters.

