 Life is too short to waste it on sorrow, and a disability doesn't make you less deserving of enjoying it.;
,


Stop yourself from thinking negatively about yourself, as well.
Distance yourself from anyone who treats your existence like a tragedy or drags you down. This isn't the kind of influence you need in your life.
 Many Deaf people don't consider their hearing loss a tragedy. Being with other deaf people who are happy with being deaf can help you improve your own outlook on life.


Cultural Deafness (as opposed to only being physically deaf) relates to how you choose to communicate and what kind of attitudes you hold toward deafness. Being culturally Deaf can be defined as using Sign Language as a primary language and having a Deaf perspective on life., The Deaf community has a rich and wonderful culture, and becoming a part of it will help you find fulfillment. Look for local meet-ups, and meet other Deaf people on the internet. Making Deaf friends and getting involved will help you form a strong support network.
 Check out library books and read essays online. How have they adapted in life? What makes them happy? Knowing their answers can help you, too.
 Knowing sign language can help you connect to others, and connection to others is an essential part of life.


Learning sign language from a manual can be difficult. Get in-person instruction if possible.
 It's okay to be disabled, and you deserve equal access. Ask teachers, professors, or employers about ways to accommodate your disability so you can work comfortably and do your best.
 You do not have to do everything that hearing people do if it is not comfortable to you. You do not have to hold a stressful job, rely upon lip-reading alone, or attempt to assimilate into hearing society. Just because many people find happiness a certain way does not mean that it is a good fit for you. Give yourself freedom to be Deaf.
 A support group can simply consist of your family members or your closest friends. Remember that you have many loved ones that care for you and love you just the way you are.

