 If you have had an injury or have a medical condition that causes vertigo or chronic dizziness, you may benefit from balance retraining exercises. However, you should not start an off-balance exercise program without consulting your doctor.Your doctor will be able to recommend specific exercises that you should do, or may send you to a physical therapist.
 To recalibrate your internal balance and equilibrium after it has been damaged due to an injury or medical condition, you'll start by simply shaking and nodding your head while standing still. Move your head slowly if you have recently experienced neck or spinal issues, or if you have a chronic condition in those areas.If you can accomplish this while standing without getting dizzy or losing balance, you can transition to walking. As you walk, shake your head from side to side and then nod up and down.
You should practice this exercise both with your eyes open and with your eyes closed. However, if you're walking with your eyes closed it's generally best to have a spotter with you in case you do lose your balance, so you won't fall.
 You may recognize the heel-toe walking technique as part of a roadside sobriety test. Walking heel to toe in a straight line can improve your balance and coordination.Simply walk forward in a straight line, heel to toe, for 20 steps. Then walk backward the same 20 steps. Repeat two to three times.
You can hold your arms out at your side to steady yourself, but ultimately you should get to the point where you can do this without the assistance of your arms for balance.
 If you've progressed to the point that you're able to stand on one leg without losing your balance, add a head shake to bring the balance system of your brain into action.Stand on one leg with the other foot in front of you a few inches off the floor, then shake your head gently side to side and up and down.
As when you shook your head while walking, you should do these exercises both with your eyes open and with your eyes closed.
Keep a stable object nearby in case you lose your balance. You also might want to have a spotter or skilled therapist working with you. Do this exercise for one minute, then switch legs.
 If you have access to a wobble board at a gym, you can use it to increase your stability and improve your overall balance. To start, make sure you have a sturdy chair or table nearby that you can use to stabilize your upper body.Stand on the wobble board with your feet about shoulder-width apart. Engage your core and rock on the board, back and forward as well as side to side. Gradually build up the amount of time you can do this.

