 Reupholstering a footstool requires some special tools and materials, but what you need will depend on how much work the footstool needs. Items you may need include:a flathead screwdriver (to remove staples from fabric)
new fabric for your footstool (if the existing fabric is damaged)
new padding (if the padding is bad)
a staple gun (to reattach the fabric and padding)
new wood pieces (if the structure of your footstool is damaged)
tacks (to hold the fabric in place)
a hammer;
, Use the flat head screwdriver to pry out all of the staples that are holding the footstool fabric in place. These staples should be visible if you turn the footstool on its side or upside down.To remove a staple, insert your screwdriver so that it is under the staple. Then, tilt the screwdriver handle downwards lift the staple out of the fabric and wood.
When the staple is almost out, you should be able to pull it the rest of the way out with your fingers. Repeat this process until you have removed all of the staples.
If the fabric was attached with nails, then use the back of a hammer to remove the nails.
 After you have removed all of the staples, slip the fabric and padding off of the footstool. If the fabric or padding is damaged, then you can discard it and replace it with new fabric and/or padding. If the fabric and padding are still good, then just set them aside for now., While you have the fabric off of the footstool, check the furniture for structural damage. If you notice any breaks or cracks in the wood, then you may want to replace these parts of the furniture. If the structure looks good, then you can just move on to reupholstering the footstool.If you have a wobbly leg due to a loose screw fitting, then you can just take a small piece of maple (a splint) and insert it into the screw hole. This should be enough to tighten the screw and stop the leg from wobbling.
 Remove any broken pieces that you find by loosening the staples or nails. You can use the broken pieces to trace and create new pieces. If you are not comfortable doing so, or if you don’t have power tools at your disposal, then may also consider taking the broken pieces to a hardware store to have new pieces made for you.To loosen a staple, insert your flat head screwdriver under the staple and push the handle downwards. This should lift the staple out and loosen it so that you can pull it out the rest of the way with your fingers.
 After you have created or purchased new pieces for your footstool, secure them back in place using a staple gun.You can also use a hammer and nails for this part if you prefer.


Make sure that you reattach the pieces in the correct order and locations.
 Sometimes you need to replace the fabric and padding when reupholstering a piece of furniture, but this is not always the case. To determine whether or not the fabric and/or padding needs to be replaced, take a moment to check.


If there are any tears, holes, stains, or other imperfections, then you may want to discard the fabric and choose some new fabric for your footstool. Make sure that you choose a nice, thick fabric to replace the old fabric. A thick fabric will be less likely to tear than a thin fabric, so it will last much longer.If the fabric has only minor damage that you can repair, such as by trimming the edges or sewing up a small tear, then go ahead and make any necessary repairs.
If the fabric was just ill-fitting, then you may not need to do anything at all to the fabric.
If the padding was insufficient, add some more padding or use all new padding to create a cushier footstool.
 Take your new (or old) padding and fabric and slip these materials back over the footstool. Adjust the padding and fabric as needed so that they are lined up as they should be. You can also tuck under the edges if they will be visible, such as on the edge of the footstool.If you notice any lumps or bumps, then remove the padding and fabric and smooth them out.
Keep in mind that the amount of fabric and padding you will need will depend on the size of your footstool. You may need anywhere from two to six yards.Measure the old fabric to be sure or purchase more than you think you will need.
 After you have the fabric and padding in place, turn the footstool upside down. Hold onto the fabric and then hammer in some tacks to secure the fabric in place. This will help to ensure that the fabric looks right before you fix it more tightly with your staple gun or hammer and nails.Place the tacks a few inches apart along the bottom of the footstool.
Make sure that each tack is going through the fabric and the padding.
 To complete your project, go over any other areas of the fabric that need to be secured with your staple gun. Make sure that you space the staples evenly.Securing the fabric in place again can be difficult, so you may want to ask a friend to help by holding the fabric in place while you secure it with your staple gun.