 Try to keep an eye out for signs of squatters moving into an abandoned or empty building in your neighbourhood. There are many possible indications that a building is being squatted. You might notice that doors and windows have been broken to gain access, or that boarded up windows or other entryways have been ripped down.Watch out for small fires burning inside or around the property, as well as candlelight or flashlight movements at nights.
Perhaps the "For Sale" sign hasn't been taken down and no moving truck has turned up but people seem to be coming and going regularly.
You might notice clothing on the clothes line or shoes at the door. Personal effects might start appearing on the porch or in the yard.
You may see tents outside, or graffiti on the walls.;
, It should be relatively straightforward to tell if somebody or a group of people are squatting in a house on your street. It is harder, however, to properly evaluate the situation and understand the actions of the squatters. Try to determine how many people are squatting and get an idea of their intentions. Use your judgement of the situation and consider approaching the squatters and talking to them, but do so in calm way and don’t be accusatory.


Squatters are those who “move into” a property and live there. People who enter a property without permission, but do not stay, are generally considered trespassers.It may seem unlikely, but there is a chance that the people who have moved into the house are the lawful owners.
If you suspect the squatters of illegal activity, don’t hesitate to report it to the police.
 Talk to the people who live on your street and find out if they know anything about the situation. Perhaps they know the home owner, or whether the house has been foreclosed by a bank or mortgage provider. Try to meet up with as many of your neighbours as possible and decide on a plan of action together.

Your plan will be dependent on what kind of squatting situation you are experiencing, but showing a united front with your neighbours will help you to have a louder and clearer voice.
If you feel threatened by the squatters, it can be reassuring to know that your neighbours are aware of the situation and support you.
 The laws around squatting and property can be complicated, and local residents can have a hard time getting squatters removed in some instances. It’s important to read-up on the laws in your area to inform your next move. If the squatters are involved in criminal activity, you can ask the police to deal with it immediately.

If you want to evict the squatters you will need to find and contact the owners of the property to get them to act on the situation.Don’t try to take matters into your own hands in either case. If you do not own the property, you cannot evict the squatters directly.
If you do own the property you will still need to issue an eviction notice. If the squatters don’t leave, you will need to secure a court order.