 Take a moment at the end of the day to ask your wife how she’s doing and how her day went. This could be during dinner or as you are both getting ready for bed. Ask her directly, “How did your day go?” or “Tell me about your day.” Then, listen patiently as she speaks to show her you are listening.You should also display open body language so your wife feels encouraged to talk to you about her day. Keep your arms relaxed and at your sides, with your body positioned towards her. Make eye contact with her as she speak so she knows you are paying attention to what she is saying.
 This means paying attention to what your wife is saying and responding with an interested, engaged answer. Rather than brush off conversation with your wife or changing the subject when your wife comments on something, respond with an answer that keeps the conversation going. This will create a healthy dialogue between you and your wife and show her that you are interested in her concerns, even if they are not things you would usually discuss or talk about on your own.For example, maybe your wife enjoys gossiping about the latest drama with her work friends. She may say, “You will not believe what Donald did to Mark at the meeting today.” Rather than respond with, “Who cares? Can you pass the chips?”, you should make an effort to be engaged in what your wife is talking about and show her you care about her interests. You may say, “What did Donald do? He is always doing something inappropriate in meetings.” This will keep the conversation going and allow you to connect with your wife.
 Sometimes, all it takes are three simple words to brighten your wife’s day: “I appreciate you.” Say this to her after she has had a long day, but comes home and prepares dinner anyway, or when she goes out of her way to help you out. Remind her that you appreciate her hard work and dedication to your family, even when she has had a hard or challenging day. Though you can always show her how much you appreciate her by doing kind gestures, saying the words directly to her can also make a big impact., Take the time to compliment your wife on a daily basis, even if it’s just a small comment, to let her know that you value her and appreciate her. You can use “I appreciate you” as a compliment or say, “You look great” as she heads out the door.Try to be genuine with your compliments, as you do not want to come off as fake or insincere. Make eye contact with her and smile as you give her a compliment, focusing on a specific thing she is doing or how she appears. Giving your wife one genuine compliment a day can show her that you continue to be amazed and in awe of her.

