 The most important first step in shedding pounds through dieting is to select a dieting plan. Tailor that plan to your lifestyle, and establish clear weight loss goals. It is essential to construct a plan that is appropriate for your goals and medical/health history. This is sometimes best done by a dietitian. There are many different ways to achieve weight loss through dieting. Below, a few different diet plans are listed.


Keep in mind that, whichever dieting method you choose, dietary and medical specialists suggest that losing more than an average of one to two lbs. a week is not safe for your body. Also, some studies suggest that rapid loss increases the risk of gaining weight back. In order to lose one to two pounds per week, average adults need to cut 500 to 1,000 calories per day from their diet.Low- or No Carb Diets: These diets utilize a method of eliminating carbohydrates from your diet and replacing the nutritional value of those carbohydrates with protein-rich foods. These diets, while helpful with losing weight, can lead to nutritional deficiencies, as carbohydrates are a natural part of human health requirements.Low-Fat Diets: These diets are designed to cut the overall intake of fats from your diet, thus eliminating excess calories that can lead to weight gain. Also, decreasing fat intake lowers the risk of high blood pressure and heart disease.Low-Calorie Diets: These diets control the overall intake of calories, found in all types of food, to help produce a reduction in the overall body mass of an individual. These types of diets can often lead to fatigue, as an individual’s overall caloric intake and, thus, energy are reduced.;
, It is always important to speak with your doctor before beginning a weight loss program.
 Drinking water is not only healthy, but can also reduce hunger and the urge to eat by making you feel full. Also, taking a daily regimen of multivitamins can help replace the extra nutrients that you may be missing from your diet.Doctors recommend that adult males drink at least 3 liters (0.79 US gal) of water a day and adult females drink 2.2 liters (0.6 US gal) of water of day.Vitamins are essential as many people who start diet plans tend to cut out foods their bodies are used to eating, thus creating deficiencies.
 Dieting does not equate to skipping meals. Eating breakfast, contrary to popular belief, actually helps to kick-start your metabolism, which assists in burning excess calories throughout the day.Start off the day with a 500 to 600 calorie meal. A very healthy and filling meal at that falls in line with this calorie intake would include a banana, a bowl of oatmeal, whole grain toast with one to two tablespoons of peanut butter. This will provide you with a mix of carbohydrates and protein. Carbohydrates give you quick energy and protein will provide energy throughout the day., If you have eaten breakfast and plan to eat dinner, there is no reason to eat a large lunch. However, you can still eat a healthy and filling meal at lunch time.


For lunch, eat 300 to 400 calories. Salad, yogurt, salmon, chicken (not fried, but grilled), fruit, cottage cheese, steamed vegetables, or soup are all good choices. Avoid foods that are heavy in saturated fat or high in calories. This would include fried foods, heavy sauces and creams,

, For most Americans, dinner is the largest meal of the day. As a result, it is very important that you limit the portions of food you eat at dinnertime. Don’t overindulge and avoid following-up dinner with a desert.


You should eat a dinner that falls somewhere around 400 to 600 calories. Roasted chicken with whole wheat pasta, mahi mahi tacos, beef stir fry with broccoli and shiitake mushrooms, or pork medallions with pomegranate sauce are all tasty choices that provide the necessary nutrition while still falling in this calorie range., Snacking on chips, candy, other unhealthy foods in between meals is devastating to one’s diet. All of the "unhealthy" snacks, or those that contain high levels of “empty” calories or high levels of fat, are deemed excess calories by your metabolism and stored for later use. Also, soda and alcohol, especially beer, are high in calories and generally unnecessary for your body’s nutritional requirements.As an alternative, try snacking on a handful of almonds, carrot sticks and hummus, calorie-limited snack packs, or yogurt.It is critical to point out here that diet sodas have never been proven effective as weight loss tools. Actually, the sweetness of the diet soda tricks your body into thinking it is getting high-calorie input, without providing any actual calories. Because of this, drinking diet soda is likely to increase hunger as well as the desire for sweet, high-calorie foods.