 There are many services available to help both you and your children work through the abuse, allowing you to fully heal.


If the issues surrounding your abuse are not discussed and resolved, you could wind up in another abusive relationship.
Although your abuser may be gone, the violence in your life could stay with you if your mental condition is not addressed properly.
There are various options in terms of counseling options, some of which are listed below.
 Narrative therapy is a type of psychotherapy that focuses on you being the expert within your own life, rather than being told what to do by a therapist.


This approach thinks of problems as separate from the person themselves.
Narrative therapists focus on the skills, values, beliefs, and abilities that you have, in order to make change in your life.
This can help you re-discover your abilities, and provide you with hope for the future.
 Mindfulness focuses on experiencing the present moment in time.



Meditation is often incorporated into mindfulness therapy, in which you focus purely on the present.
This can help you move away from fearful or anxious thoughts and emotions.
 Group therapy is a great option to provide additional support during your recovery.


In group therapy, survivors share their stories with others, transforming their feelings of fear, shame, and guilt.
Although this is an effective experience for many, some prefer one-on-one therapy sessions.
 Moving on after an abusive relationship can be challenging and may take some time, but you can and will return to a normal, healthy life.


Many people find that being on their own can be challenging at first, but it will get easier with time.
You may need to look after children, go back to work, and re-adjust to normal life.
At first, you might not feel confident, and may have a hard time coping with daily tasks.
You may feel isolated, or may feel guilty for leaving your abuser.
Each case is different, but no matter what you feel, you are always better off outside of an abusive relationship.
 Keep track of everything you manage to do.


If you had a good day at work, write about the tasks you completed.
Perhaps you took your children to school or paid all your bills.
No matter what happened, write it down.
This is your way of giving yourself credit for all that you accomplish.
This is your reminder that you can do this on your own.
You do not need a partner to help you, especially one that harms you.
 Continually seek local support through community centers and mental health facilities.


Making sure that you remain consistent with your mental health care is a great way to avoid continued emotional pain.
Group therapy can be a great option.
Keep educating yourself to identify potential trouble in the future. You don't need to educate yourself right away, but once you feel ready to learn, it can help to learn more about abuse.
When you're ready, start reading up on abuse.
This will help you understand the dynamics of abuse, and validate your feelings and decisions up until this point.
 You deserve to enjoy the life you're living, so don't be afraid to treat yourself every once in a while.


You do not need to buy anything expensive, just something that you appreciate and enjoy.
 Make realistic goals and tackle each one at a time.


Work at your own pace and achieve your goals.
Reaching your targets is highly rewarding.
Perhaps your final goal is dating again.
You can reach that goal, you just need to take the proper steps when you're ready.

