 Do you want several single white balloons all with decorated floral stems, or do you want to tie several balloons together to make a single stem? Decide on how many balloon strings you want to decorate. , After you decide on how many balloons you want together, blow them up by hand or with the help of an air pump. Then, tie a single piece of twine around the balloon ends. Tie the end of the twine into a double knot by tying the end a second time or try a slip knot., Use a variety of silk flowers and green leaves that falls in line with your color scheme. Since you’ll be attaching the arrangement to the twine on the balloons with floral tape, you need to trim long stems. Trim long stems on flowers so that only 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) is left. For example:


You could use several different types of pale pink flowers and green leaves with a white balloon.
You could use similar flowers in different shades of the same color with balloons in a complementary color.
You could use silk violets, hibiscus and gardenia flowers for a tropical themed party., You’ll probably want some greenery on your floral balloon. Silk greenery is sold like flowers, except with leaves attached to one half of the stem. Determine how long you want leaves to hang from your balloon and trim accordingly. Trim the greenery so that between 3 inches (7.6 cm) and 6 inches (15 cm) of leaves are left.
 Start your arrangement by attaching two pieces of greenery to the base of your balloon to hide the tied piece of twine. Attach the ends of your greenery onto the twine just under the balloon with clear, shipping tape., Reinforce the tape you used to attach the greenery by wrapping floral tape around their ends.The floral tape will also make your floral balloon stem look complete after all is said and done. If you have heavier flowers or greenery, consider using a dollop of hot glue underneath the floral tape for a stronger hold., After you attach greenery to the base of your balloon, you should have a feel for how your floral balloon should look. Attach 2 to 3 flower heads right under the greenery using the same attachment methods described above.
 Alternate between greenery and flowers through the length of the twine, until the end is as long as you’d like. The length should be anywhere between 6 inches (15 cm) and 12 inches (30 cm).
 Arrange and decorate your freshly made floral balloons in a reception or party space. Place three to five balloons in the corners of a room or tie stings to a weight and place them in the middle of tables.

