 Also, take the time to explain why you are setting them. Once you have compiled a list of boundary violations, you can draw up some practical limits to share with your loved one. You might alert this person ahead of time that you would like to have a candid discussion about the state of your relationship.For instance, you might say, “Hey, Katie, when you have a spare moment, I’d really like for us to talk about our friendship. I want to get some things off my chest and work with you to improve the state of our relationship.”
Part of recovery for your loved one is to regain self-empowerment, self-control, and become independent. Setting boundaries allows them to do that. If you fail to set boundaries with them, this may enable them to become too dependent on you and neglect the work they need to do.
 Once you are face-to-face with the other person, the process of communicating your boundaries will likely feel intimidating. You can take some pressure off yourself and cushion the other person’s feelings by carefully framing the discussion. Use “I” statements that focus on your own thoughts and feelings and minimize the possibility of the other person acting defensively.Say something along the lines of, “"I value our time together, but I feel like I need extra time to focus on myself. I may not be able to spend as much with you during the week so I can focus on my own needs and goals.”
Be careful to avoid blaming “you” statements in your explanation. Additionally, you might say, “I know you like having company and need support, but I could really use some space. I think it would be a great idea if we started setting aside specific times to spend together. This will even give you a chance to spend time with other family and friends.”

, A person recovering from abuse likely has little experience with healthy boundaries, so they may take your boundary-setting as a personal affront despite your use of “I” statements. Be sure to add in remarks about how much you value the person and the relationship to assure your loved one that you are not “breaking up” with them, per se.


Assure the person that wanting to set boundaries doesn't mean you are rejecting them. They may resist setting boundaries because they trust you and consider you a safe person, and they don't want to lose that. You can say something like, "Setting boundaries is going to make our relationship healthier and stronger."
For example, you might say, “You are one of my closest friends and I really care about you. I just want to make sure our relationship is a healthy one.”, Now that you have informed the person of your personal boundaries, you will need to round out the discussion by explaining the consequences of violating them. As you are coming up with consequences, be reasonable. Avoid listing anything that you won’t feel comfortable enforcing.Consequences might be communicated by saying, “Our relationship means the world to me, but I don’t want to stand by and watch you miss out on other fulfilling relationships because you are clinging to me. If you try to drop by or call me on our “off” days, I will remind you of our predetermined schedule and refer you to another friend.”
The person will likely act outraged and say something to the effect of “But what if I have a crisis? What kind of friend would do that?” In response, say, “A caring friend will make sure that you have someone else to talk to. That’s exactly what I will do.”, As challenging as it is to set personal boundaries, the real battle begins when the lines are crossed. In order to preserve your boundaries, you must consistently follow through on the agreed upon consequences no matter how hard it feels to do so.Remind yourself that enforcing your own boundaries helps this person understand boundary violations. Following through on your consequences also models the healthy behavior that you hope your loved one will someday adopt.
For instance, you might say, "I know it seems like I am being unfair, but I am setting these boundaries for the benefit of our relationship. I have to follow through."

