 Seek out locally owned businesses and buy products or services from the people who live there. Do not fall victim to patronizing establishments that can be found in your home country or state because it feels comfortable.


Supporting the local economy will encourage people to appreciate tourism.
Take an interest in how products are being produced and the methods that they use. Many manufacturing methods in different countries are different than in the U.S.
Remember to keep in mind customs regulations when purchasing products overseas. You may not be able to take some products back to your country., Even if you’re not the type of person who enjoys trying new things, it’s important that you try the cuisine found in local restaurants. You don’t need to eat something you don’t like, but putting in the effort will show the local people that you respect their culture and are willing to try.


When traveling domestically, there can still be massive food variation from region to region.
Be careful of unsanitary conditions in under developed countries. Some of these countries may have different hygienic standards and their food may be unsanitary and could make you sick.Spread out your experiences over different restaurants in the area to get a full taste of the local food., While major credit cards are accepted overseas, it will make your experience richer if you purchase products in local currency. You'll be able to purchase things from street vendors and local businesses who take cash only, and get a more organic experience as a result.


Most major banks carry foreign currency which you can purchaseSome major banks offer international ATMs so you can withdraw cash in a foreign country.
Inform your bank, even when traveling domestically, so they don’t think there’s suspicious activity on your account.
 Even if you don’t understand the native language when traveling abroad, it’s important that you engage with the local culture to better your traveling experience. Even though this may not mean engaging in complex conversation, it could be doing business with a local shop owner, or celebrating local traditions.When traveling domestically, make it a point to go out of your way to talk to local people.
Sharing meals with people is a bonding experience that’s universal.
If you’re traveling in a group, don’t rely on people in your group. Do your own thing and experience different cultures.

