 You should soak 1 cup of dried chickpeas in cold water overnight, or even for 24 hours to get the best results. Alternately, if you're short on time, you can just use a can of chickpeas instead of completing the soaking process, but your dish won't be quite as tasty.;
, After you've soaked the chickpeas, also known as channa, you can drain and rinse them before placing them in a pressure cooker. Pour just enough water to cover the chickpeas into the pressure cooker. Place 1 tablespoon of salt and 2 bay leaves in the cooker and cook the chana for about 20 minutes, until it is just a bit tender; the chickpeas will soften up more after you fry them. You can also use a heavy saucepan if you don't have a pressure cooker.
 Heat three tablespoons of ghee (clarified butter) in a saucepan and place 2 diced potatoes in it. Fry the potatoes until they are soft, for around 10 minutes. Once the potatoes are done cooking, remove them from the pan but leave the ghee in it.
 Use the remaining ghee you used to cook the potatoes to fry 2 tablespoons of coriander leaves (dhania), 1 tablespoon of cumin (jeera powder), and 2 tablespoons of chili powder.
 Add the boiled chickpeas to the frying pan and stir them with the under ingredients. Set the pan to low-to-medium heat.
 After you've fried the chickpeas with some of the other spices and ghee, add 1 tablespoon of mango powder, 1 tablespoon of chole masala, and 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper powder. Stir the ingredients together.
 Add the 2 cooked diced potatoes and the 1 sliced tomato to the pan. When you're done, remove the dish from the pan and place it on a plate.
 Add garnish to the dish by placing tomato slices around the plate, placing a chili pepper over it, and sprinkling it with chopped coriander.
 You can serve this tasty dish with bhatoora, puris, barley, or rice. You can also top it with sour cream and a squeeze of lemon juice.
 You can make a variation of this dish by using different spices or veggies while following a similar process. Try making some of these variations of chole:

Methi chole. This dish includes an onion or tomato paste, fenugreek leaves, cardamom, and cinnamon.Palak chole. This chole dish includes spinach, or palak.Chole with coconut. This tasty dish gets some of its unique flavor from grated coconut.