 'The First thing is to avoid negative thinking because if you think negative you will always be negative and sad. So be positive and avoid negative thinking because negative thinking is badly destroying you and always creating problems for you. Actually if you think negative it is not negative it's only your thinking maybe it is positive or possible in real but you think it is negative. So don't assume any think earlier and feels free,every thing gonna be alright.;
, It is difficult, but it is a must for improvement. Make a schedule or timetable of your studies or what you want. Try hard and be serious about your studies. Don't make fun with your studying but enjoy studying to learn new things. Search for your study or topic to clear your concept properly. Make aims of life, and prepare yourself with positive and brave thinking.
 Try something different in your life, and don't compare yourself to others. Think about yourself, about your studies, and about your life. What is the purpose of your life? What do you want to discover about yourself? Your abilities? Your talent? Try to change your life with your mind, your knowledge, your thinking, your behavior, and what you want to do.
 For example make your hobby in books reading it is the best way to increase your knowledge and change your thinking. Play outdoor games it is good for your fitness and for your mind.
 It is the best way to build confidence. Increase your knowledge through reading general knowledge books. Search about different topics or subjects such as scientific history, geography, religion or any other subject. Read different articles through internet or any other way to increase knowledge, and read articles about current affairs, new technologies, general knowledge, etc.
 Make friends as it is the way to be talkative. Don't have any tension and fear. Increase knowledge and share it with friends. This would make you confident and talkative. Start talking with others on any topic such as current affairs, technology, science etc. Make an effort to speak and share your knowledge and express yourself and your opinions. Just don't gossip.
 Always motivate yourself by listening to motivational speeches and read quotes. Don't compare yourself to the others because no one is perfect. Don't think about others.
 Enjoy everything because it a part of our life and life never comes again. So be happy. Have fun with friends. If you are broken or have any problems, tolerate it with a smile. Tell your heart "Don't worry, everything is okay. Everything is going to be alright, and next time things will be better." Listen to music and watch funny shows. It's good for your mood.
 Meditation is one of the best ways to build confidence.

