 Your bandage should still be on your tattoo for at least two hours after you received it. Of course, that time varies and you should do as you were instructed by your tattoo artist. When you finally do remove your bandage, make sure to take it off with care.


If your bandage is so tight that it sticks to your tattoo, then you should use running water to loosen the covering. Let the water drip gently upon the bandage until you feel the adhesive lose its grip. Once it is loose, gently take the bandage off.;
, Scabs develop over a tattoo in order to protect it from germs. Though they may irritate you, you should not pick at the scabs that cover your tattoo. If you pick at them, then you risk the chance of getting an infection. This is dangerous and can also ruin the tattoo's design.You might accidentally knock off one of your scabs. If it was just a small scab, you shouldn't worry too much because you probably haven't lost a lot of ink. If it's a bigger scab, then you might have to get it retouched in time.
 Put a dab of cleaning solution or soap on your tattoo. Rub the area with your hand. After you do this, use water to rinse your tattoo. If you feel a slippery substance, then you probably are encountering plasma. Dried plasma will cause you discomfort, therefore you should rinse your tattoo until you remove all of it. After you have rinsed your tattoo, dab at it with a clean towel.


Do not use soap with dyes or scents. A mild soap is best.
 You may be tempted to dip your feet into a tub of warm water after your tattoo. Don’t do this. Soaking your feet will not only create the perfect situation for a bacterial infection, but it will also cause the ink to run.For the first three weeks, you should avoid swimming. If you swim regularly, you should try to avoid swimming for the time it takes your tattoo to heal.
 Rub anti-bacterial ointment or lotion over the tattooed area. Use a paper towel to remove the excess ointment or lotion. You should use an unscented lotion such as Lubiderm or Aveeno.You do not need to use a foot-specific lotion. In fact, you should try to avoid specialty lotions and creams, they may not work as well as advertised when it comes to tattoo care.Do not use too much moisturizer. If you do this, then you run the risk of removing some of your tattoo’s ink.
Do not use petroleum jelly. This will cause your tattoo to lose ink.

