 A boy who is interested in you will likely show it with his eyes. Some of the behavior cues may seem contradictory, but they are dependent on his personality.


A boy who is interested in you will likely try to make frequent eye contact.He will look into your eyes while you are speaking, and you may catch him looking at you from across the room.
A shy boy may avoid eye contact because he is nervous talking to you. If he seems to be awkwardly looking around like he’s not sure where to look, this may be a signal that he likes you. If he is simply looking at his phone or at someone else, he may not be interested.
Men’s pupils tend to dilate when they are aroused.If his pupils have dilated (the black part is larger than usual), then he may be interested in you.;
, Male humans, like many mammals, change their physical stature when they are trying to impress a female of the same species. He won’t have his arms or legs crossed. Crossed arms and legs are body language for “no, stay away!”
He may lean in towards you while talking to you.
He will likely stand straight and tall with square shoulders to seem taller and more impressive.He might even seem to be thrusting his pelvis out slightly. Alternately, some men subconsciously (or consciously) adjust their genitals when speaking with someone they are interested in., One of the surest signs of interest is if he finds reasons to touch you. If you are talking and he touches your arm or your hand, he is likely testing the waters to see how you will react to his touching you.


Encourage the touching by doing it back. Touch or squeeze his arm lightly and look straight into his eyes while you are talking to him. You should be able to tell from his response if he is interested.
Note that you should compare his touching with you to his normal behavior. If he seems to hug everyone who walks up to him, it may not mean anything if he hugs you.
 A boy who is interested in you will likely spend a lot of time smiling at you and laughing at your stories, even if they are not very funny.If a boy is shy, he will likely blush when you talk to him. Look for any redness on his cheeks or signs of sweaty palms (he may rub his palms on his clothing or fidget with his hands).He may be more likely to say something awkward or embarrassing and then blush if he is nervous. Try to make him feel comfortable.
Nervousness can be a sure sign of interest. Do your best to make him feel comfortable by being kind and encouraging him to talk to you.
 Men and women will both unintentionally mirror a person whom they are interested in.This means that they copy the person’s mannerisms in order to send the message that the two people are similar and thus compatible.


You can test this by doing something you don’t normally do, like putting your hand up to your mouth or stretching. See if he does the same thing.

