 You will need a recycled chandelier frame, lucite discs, nail polish, and stainless steel jump rings.


The chandelier should have a cylindrical shape and hooks that go around the entire fixture. Cut costs by buying one at a thrift store or by getting a beat up one by someone who's ready to throw theirs away.






The lucite discs, also known as plexiglass, plastic, or acrylic glass discs, should be 4 in (10 cm) in diameter and about 1/8-in (3 mm) thick. You need two discs for every hook on your chandelier frame.






Use cheap, slightly sparkly nail polish. There's no need for anything too expensive; cheap nail polish should work fine. Get creative with your color choices.






The stainless steel jump rings should be 20g rings that are about 1/2-in (1.25-cm) in diameter. If you do not want to buy the rings, you can make them yourself by wrapping heavy-duty wire around a 1/2-in (1.25-cm) tube of lip gloss.
 You will need two colors of nail polish. The light color goes on first, and the darker color goes on second.


Pour your first color onto the disc in a spiral swirl. Quickly spread the polish using the nail polish brush so that it coats the entire disc. Once the polish is spread, smooth it out by brushing it in another spiral from the outside moving in. Only use your wrist as you swirl the polish and make the swirl one continuous line.






Pour a small puddle or four to five drops of your second color into the middle of the disc. Smush it around using the polish brush, working from the inside out. Lightly swirl the nail polish around so that it gradually fades into the first color. The second color should only cover about 1/3 of the surface.






Let dry.






If you are unsatisfied with the look of your disc, apply a small amount of nail polish remover to a cotton ball, remove the polish, and try again.
 Trace the outline of one disc onto thick paper. Cut it out and mark where the holes should be.


This template allows you to determine where you need to drill each hole in your lucite disc.






Fold the paper template in half so that you can locate the exact middle.






Use a marker to draw a big hole roughly 1 in (2.5 cm) away from the edge and along the center line. Draw a smaller hole about 1/4 in (0.635 cm) away from the opposite end along the center line.
 Place the template beneath each disc and use a marker to mark the template hole dots onto the disc.


The dots should be placed in the same position. Even with nail polish painted on each disc, you should be able to see the dots through the lucite.
 Any standard drill should work.


To drill the large hole, first drill into the large marking with a small drill bit. Widen the hole with a medium drill bit, and widen it again with a large drill bit. Do not drill the hole with a large bit from the start, since doing so will likely crack the lucite.






For the smaller hole, drill the hole using a small drill bit.






Half the discs should have both holes drill into them while the other half only need the small hole drilled in.
 Attach two discs together using one of your stainless steel jump rings.


Link the discs together by joining them at the small holes.






You will likely be able to open and close the rings with your fingers, but if not, use a pair of pliers.
 Attach each double-layer of discs on the chandelier frame by hanging them on the frame's hooks.


Each hook should have a set of discs hanging from it.






Hang the discs by their large holes.
It may help to already have the chandelier hanging in place before you attach the discs.
This completes the chandelier.







