 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C). Put the dry ingredients into a mixing bowl and whisk them together. Set the dry mixture aside once you've mixed them. You'll need to combine:2 1/3 cups (291 g) of all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon of baking soda
1 teaspoon of salt;
, Place 1 cup (230 g) of softened butter, 2/3 cup (133 g) of granulated sugar, and 3/4 cup (150 g) of packed brown sugar into a large mixing bowl. Beat them together on medium speed using a stand or hand mixer. You'll need to beat the butter and sugars for several minutes so they become light and fluffy.Scrape down the sides and bottom of the mixing bowl at least once while you're creaming the mixture.
 Turn the mixer to low and add 2 eggs one at a time. Beat the mixture well after adding each egg. Stir in 1 1/2 teaspoons of vanilla extract and continue beating the mixture until it's completely incorporated.

Avoid adding the eggs and turning the mixture on to medium or high speed since the eggs could fly out of the mixing bowl., Keep the mixer on low speed and gradually add the dry mixture. Once the dry ingredients have been incorporated into the creamed mixture, stir in 1 1/2 cups (262 g) of mini-chocolate chips. Stir the cookie dough well so that the chips are evenly distributed throughout the dough.Mini-chocolate chips work best for making the cones since regular size chips could make it difficult to roll the baked cones.
 Use a measuring cup to scoop out 1/2 cup (140 g) of chocolate chip cookie dough. Spoon the dough onto a baking sheet lined with a silicone mat or parchment paper. This will keep the cookie from sticking to the pan.If you want to make smaller cones, you can use either 1/3 cup (47 g) or 1/4 cup (70 g) of dough.
 Take an offset spatula or spatula and use it to spread the dough into a 6 inch (15 cm) circle in the center of your sheet. Since you'll be using the parchment or silicone to wrap the cookie cone, you'll only be able to place one cookie circle on the baking sheet at one time. You'll have to bake the cookie cones in batches.If you're using less dough, your circles may only be 4 or 5-inches (10 to 12.5 cm) in size.
 Put the baking sheet in the preheated oven and bake the cookie circles for 9 minutes. The edges of the cookie circles will turn golden brown and appear dry once they've finished cooking. Carefully take the sheet out of the oven and let the cookies cool for 2 minutes on the sheet.If you're making smaller cones, check to see if the cookies are done after 7 or 8 minutes. Avoid over baking the cookies, or they'll be difficult to roll into cones.
 Lay a sheet of parchment paper over the baked cookie circle. The parchment paper should extend beyond the cookie so you can hold the parchment at the edges of the baking pan. Carefully hold both layers of the parchment (or the parchment and silicone mat). Quickly lift the layers up and over so that the cookie is flipped onto the top layer of parchment paper.You may find it easier to hold onto the cookie with one hand while holding the underside of the baking sheet with the other. Flip both of your hands so that the cookie ends up on the parchment layer in your hand.
 Remove the layer of parchment paper or silicone mat so the bottom of the cookie circle is facing you. Cut a circle of parchment paper to fit the cookie circle and place it on the cookie. Set an ice cream cold mold or purchased sugar cone on one end of the parchment circle and roll the cookie onto the mold or cone. Roll the entire cookie circle into the cone shape.You can use the bottom sheet of parchment paper to help you hold the cookie onto the cone.
Avoid letting the cookie circles cool completely before rolling them. This will make it difficult to roll them without the cookie circles cracking.
 Once you've wrapped all of the cookie cones around their molds, let the cones sit for 15 minutes. It may help to lay the cookie cones on their seams so they seal well. They'll cool during this time and take on the shape of the cone mold so it's important to let them set up for the entire time.If you remove the paper too soon, the cookie cones may collapse or fold in.
 Take your finished chocolate chip cookie cones and fill them with scoops of ice cream. Serve the cones immediately. If you'd like to make the cookie cones in advance, just store them in an airtight container for up to several days.Ensure that the cookie cones are completely cooled before you fill them with ice cream to prevent the ice cream from melting.

