 To ensure long-term cleanliness and keep your nebulizer in good working order, it's important to give it regular deep cleanings to kill any bacteria or microorganisms your normal cleaning regimen failed to kill. After you finish using your nebulizer, start by washing it as you normally would. See the section above for more details.


Most manufacturers recommend performing a deep cleaning once or twice per week. If you are unsure how often to deep clean your nebulizer, consult the instructions that came with it.
 Different nebulizer manufacturers will recommend using different products for deep cleaning sessions. Some nebulizers will have a cleaning solution included with them, others will recommend that you buy a commercial cleaning solution from the pharmacy, and others will recommend that you make your own — consult your nebulizer's instructions to be sure which is best for you.


To make your own cleaning solution, mix one part white vinegar to three parts water.For example, you might combine 1/2 cup of white vinegar with 1 1/2 cups of water.
 Put the mask and any T-shaped connector piece in a clean bowl and cover them with the cleaning solution until they are completely submerged. Leave them to sit so that the solution can clean them thoroughly. The amount of time your nebulizer's manufacturer will recommend for soaking can vary from model to model. Typically, however, this is around 20 minutes to an hour.


Once again, don't soak the tubing or the compressed air machine.
 Once the nebulizer has finished soaking, finish the cleaning process the same way as you would for a quick-clean in the method above. See below:


Remove the pieces from the solution and rinse them thoroughly with warm running water for at least 30 seconds.
Shake the excess water off and set the pieces on a clean towel.
Allow the pieces to air dry.
When dry, you may re-connect the pieces and run the compressed air machine briefly to remove any water caught inside them.
Store the tubing and mask in a clean ziplock bag. Cover the compressed air machine with a towel before storing it.
Dispose of your leftover cleaning solution — don't reuse it.