 This means bones have been broken in the ankle as a result of the extreme force applied to it.This level of injury is serious and will require surgical repair of the bones in the ankle to return it in its normal position.;
, These are symptoms that the injured area is not getting enough blood and oxygen. This can also indicate nerve damage, such as a torn ligament.Applying ice to the injured area will only aggravate the condition as the cold temperature will constrict blood vessels and limit blood flow to the area.
 Waiting 24 hours to put ice on the injury will allow the body to supply more blood, oxygen and nutrients to the injured area to facilitate healing.If ice application is done within the first 24 hours, healing of the area will be compromised.
 This will help to establish trust and cooperation on their part.


Let them know the ice application will help to lessen the pain in their ankle, and that they will have to keep the ice pack on for at least 15-20 minutes.
 This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms.
 Make sure it can be treated at home and does not have any symptoms of a serious injury that needs immediate medical attention.


Ask the person about the date and time of the ankle injury so you can confirm you are icing it 24 hours after the injury occurred.
 You will need a cold ice pack and a clean cloth. If you don’t have an ice pack, you can take a handful of ice and wrap it in a plastic bag or a clean cloth. You can also use a bag of frozen peas, in a pinch.


Do not apply the ice pack directly to the skin as it can cause cold burns, or skin damage from extremely cold temperature that can leave blisters or damage to the underlying skin tissue., Put a clean towel below their injured foot so the ice application will not make a mess.
 You want to ensure the person won’t put any force on their injury. So, have them put their injured ankle on an object that is higher than the level of their hips, while sitting.


Make sure they do not bend their leg so there is no added pressure on the ankle.
 Tell the person that the application may cause a little discomfort but will subside after the ice is removed.
 During the ice application, talk to the person and ask them if their skin starts to feel numb. This way, you can assess if it is time to remove the ice.A numb sensation can be described as inability to feel anything. Usually, upon application of ice, the person can still feel the cold temperature. But as time passes, the person starts to feel nothing at all.
 Reapply the ice pack every 2 to 4 hours daily on their ankle until the swelling subsides.


Never leave the ice pack on the person’s ankle unattended as this can cause further injury, such as cold burns.
Repeat the ice application for the next 48 hours. During the first 48 hours the person’s injured ankle will be very swollen, so the ice will help to lessen this swelling.
 This will prevent the transmission of harmful microorganisms.
 Have the person lay down on their back and place their injured ankle on a chair or an object that is 2-3 feet high. The leg with the injured ankle should always be higher than the level of the heart., The person should try to walk slowly, though they may need assistance at first.There should be gradual progressive improvement of the injury.
Pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil) and acetaminophen (Tylenol) can be very helpful in relieving their pain during the healing process.
 The doctor will ask questions about how the injury occurred and examine the injured ankle. The doctor may also take X-rays of the ankle to make sure it is not a bone fracture.Keep in mind if the injury is mild, there may not be much pain or swelling. The severity of the injury depends on how badly the ligaments are stretched or torn in the ankle.
It’s important to go see a doctor if the injured ankle has already been injured before., Whether you are playing contact sports or doing a work-related task, injuries to the ankles means the tendons (soft tissue connecting muscle to the bone) and the ligaments (tissue connecting two bones) of the ankle have been affected.


As a result, the blood vessels that supply blood and oxygen to these tissues also get torn and leak blood into the surrounding tissues, resulting in bruising on the injured area.
Substances called prostaglandins also accumulate in the damaged area. These substances stimulate the pain receptors to send pain signals to your brain and to cause swelling in the area by dilating the blood vessels to increase blood flow.The more blood flowing to the injured area, the more swelling occurs.
 Your body will send send blood to the injured area, resulting in swelling, as a way to protect itself by supplying sufficient oxygen and nutrients to facilitate healing.Cold applications such as an ice pack cause the blood vessels to constrict and to limit blood flow to the injured area, which minimizes swelling.


An ice application to the injured ankle has an added benefit of providing pain relief by numbing the nerve endings in the area., Blood circulation issues and disorders such as diabetes, peripheral arterial disease (narrowing of arteries that supply blood to the legs) and Buerger's disease (narrowing of blood vessels in the arms and legs), can get worse due to a cold application.

