 Awareness is not a one-time task, but a life-long exploration. It can start in different ways, from different reasons. Being aware starts with understanding that the present is the only tense which really counts, and here is the only place where we are. The past made us what we are today, and the future may give us the time to put our skills at the service of our beloved ones, but it is only here and now that we can do and make what we want to. Being aware also means considering the needs and wants of ourselves, the people who are dear to us, the people who we are not close with, and the ones who we would rather not see.;
, Praying is a form of meditation, and it may also be a way to relax the mind. Contemplate loving kindness in your meditation. It can be done standing, sitting, or walking; it has also been said that sleeping may be the most effective form of meditation.
 That shows us if we are motivated enough, and provides a loop of thinking-acting-rethinking, which is the key to progress. Holistic living is a state of mind, but also a state of action. A simple example of how important it is to be active is that we can find thousands of tasty recipes online, but even if we learn them by heart, knowing them does not feed us. We can also find lots of advice about empowering people and solving the world's challenges, but words and speeches are only as important as the actions they inspire.
 By being objective and loving about who we are, we build the start for improving relationships with the ones we care for, and the world. Being respectful with ourselves can be as simple as listening to our body when it sends signals that it is uncomfortable or in need of a rest, etc. We must listen to our feelings, needs, and wants, and communicate them in a respectful way to our beloved ones.
 Even if we heard it many times, we need to remind it to ourselves when we sit at the table. Eating properly is a form of respect towards our body; and also towards the generations which preceded us, and to whom we owe our nativity. Keep meals regular, and avoid snacking. The content of our meal is of course important: eat organic when possible, eat fresh, and keep processed food at a minimum.

