 This is the distance between the two matching ends of the prism. Since the ends of the prism are parallel, this distance will be uniform throughout – even if the matching ends are both angled. This means that if you know the length of one side, you know the length of all the sides.
 Each side will either be a square/rectangle or a parallelogram. Parallelograms are slanted squares (like open-ended boxes that have been pushed to one side); they have two pairs of parallel sides but none of the corners are right angles.


To find the area of a square/rectangle, multiply base by height. The base and height are simply the measurements of two perpendicular sides of the square or rectangle; for a square, this two measurements are the same. Simply multiply both numbers together to find the area of the end.







To find the area of a parallelogram, multiply base by height. Note that the base of a parallelogram is simply the length of one of the two long, misaligned sides; the height, however, is the distance between these two sides, not the length of one of the angled sides. If you only know the length of the angled side but not the parallelogram’s true height, draw a line through either side of the parallelogram, turning it into a perfect square/rectangle with a triangle on either end. To find the height using this triangle:






Use the Pythagorean Theorem, which is A^2 + B^2 = C^2. The hypotenuse of the triangle, or C, is simply the side of the triangle opposite the right angle. We’ll call the other side that’s been given B. To solve for the height, which we’ll call A, rearrange the formula to A^2 = C^2 – B^2. Multiply C by itself, then multiply B by itself. Subtract the second result from the first to get A^2; to then solve for A, find the square root of this sum. This is the height of the parallelogram, which you can now multiply by the base to find the total area.



If the prism is cylindrical, find the area of the sides by multiplying circumference, which you solved for in the previous section, by the total height. (Image the cylinder has a piece of paper wrapped around, which, when unwrapped, forms a perfect square or rectangle. The circumference can then be thought of as the length of that piece of piece of paper, which can be solved like any square by multiplying length times height.)







