 If you are handwriting your receipts, invest in a pad of carbon copy receipts so you can write one receipt and have two copies ready, one for you and one for the buyer.


Carbon copy receipts are often also labeled with the necessary information for a sales receipt, or they will have a lined template so you can write out the receipt properly and clearly.
 To ensure the receipt is legible, use a pen with dark ink. You want the receipt to be a permanent record, so don’t use pencil or light colored ink that could fade over time.


When handwriting the receipts, write in large, clear writing that is easy to read. If you are using carbon copy receipts, press down as you write so the ink bleeds through to the second or third copy of the receipt.
 To make the receipts more official, use a company stamp on the top of all receipts. You can also get preprinted receipts made with your company name and logo. This will make it clear to the buyer that the product(s) are coming from your business or company and will be a useful reference in the event the receipt needs to be referred to in the future.
 Whether you are handwriting the receipt, or creating a receipt template in a text document on a computer, your receipt should include several basic sections:


Vendor details.
Vendee details.
Date of the transaction.
The product details.
The amount of the transaction.
The method of payment.
Signature from the vendor and buyer.
 A rent receipt is useful for a tenant if the tenant is paying cash or cashier's check and wants to keep track of the payments. A rent receipt is also useful for a landlord as proof of rent paid, and some jurisdictions require landlords to provide rent receipts to tenants. If you are creating a rent receipt for your landlord, or for your tenant, your receipt of rent payment should include the following basic information:The total amount of rent paid.
Date the payment was made.
Tenant's full name.
Landlord's full name.
Address of the rental unit.
The pay period of the rent.
The payment method for the rent (cash, check, etc.)
The landlord's signature and the tenant's signature.
 If you would like to create printed receipts for your business or company, there are several free receipt templates you can access online.Simply print them out and stamp them with your company name to personalize them for your daily transactions.
 Receipts are important because they will help you keep track of your income for tax purposes. Save all your receipts, especially if you are running a business, as you may need to show proof of your expenses in your taxes. You should always provide a receipt for your customers if you are running a business, and most businesses will offer you a receipt for your purchases.When you purchase expensive items or services, it is considered mandatory for you to receive a receipt from the buyer or seller. This is a precaution in case there are legal issues around the transaction, as both parties can use the receipt as proof in court.
 In theory, you could write a receipt for almost any transaction, from rent payments to haircuts to landscaping services. There are four common types of receipts that you will likely come across at least once while making purchases and processing sales:A receipt of payment: In order to process a transaction, the seller of an item will draw up a receipt of payment. The receipt should include a receipt number, the date and the amount received. If the payment was cash, there should be a note that says “cash”. If the payment was check or money order, there should be a record of the check no. or money order no. If the payment was credit card, the type of credit card used should be noted (Mastercard, Visa, American Express) and the last four digits of the credit card.
A medical receipt: This is a bill of acknowledgement for a medical purchase, such as medicine, a prescription or a surgical instrument. This receipt should include the diagnosis code, the date of the visit, the consultation time, and the total payment amount.
A sales receipt: You likely receive this type of receipt all the time when you go shopping, and if you run a business, you will give a sales receipt to a customer after you ring in the sale items. The receipt will act as proof of purchase and should include the payment amount, the date of the sale, the name and price of the item(s), and the name of the person who processed the transaction.
A rent receipt: This type of receipt will be issued by a landlord to a tenant. It will act as proof of rent payment and should include the landlord’s name, the renter’s name, the address of the rental property, the billing period, the rent amount, and the start date and end date of the rental agreement.
If you purchase items online or sell items online, you will receive or create an e-receipt. E-receipts are digital receipts that contain the same information as a receipt of payment and act as proof of purchase for items bought online.
 For the purposes of this article, we are going to focus on receipts of payment made between a buyer and a seller. As the seller of an item or service, you will need to draw up a receipt that contains the following key information:Vendor details: This includes the name of the seller (or company name of the seller), the seller’s address and phone number or email address on the top of the receipt. You should also include the name of the store manager or owner of the business or company.
Vendee details: Include the first and last name of the vendee, or the buyer.
Date of the transaction: Include the day, month, and year, as this information will be useful for tax purposes.
The product details: Write a brief description of the items or services sold, such as the name of the product, the quantity, the product number, and any other identifying information. This element will be useful if you need to remember the sale in the future.
The amount of the transaction: Break down the total amount into the original price, the tax, any labor charges, and any discounts or promotions. The price breakdown will make the sale more valid and specific.
The method of payment: Note how the buyer is paying, whether it is via cash, check, credit card, or debit card.
Signature from the vendor and buyer: Once the receipt has been drawn up or printed out and the buyer has paid you, mark the bottom of the receipt as “Paid” and get the signature of the seller. You can also sign your copy of the receipt for your records.

