 If menstrual cramps are keeping you up at night, you can increase your intake of omega-3 fats during the day to help reduce your cramps at night. Omega-3 fats help with inflammation and, since cramping is helped with decreased inflammation, it can help lessen this period symptom. Incorporate more foods with omega-3s, such as:


Nuts and seeds, such as flaxseeds, butternuts, walnuts, and chia seeds
Nut oils, such as walnut or flaxseed oil
Fish, such as salmon, whitefish, sardines, shad, and mackerel
Herbs and spices, such as oregano, cloves, basil, and marjoram
Vegetables, such as sprouted radish seeds, Chinese broccoli, and spinach, The best way to get vitamin D is through skin exposure. Take 10 to 15 minutes of your day and expose your bare skin to sunlight, which will trigger natural vitamin D production in your body.


If you can't get enough through sun, try to eat more foods with vitamin D, such as cod liver oil, tuna, salmon, mackerel, cheese, yogurt, and milk. These can be extremely helpful during winter months when you get less natural sun exposure., There are a number of supplements that can help you with your cramps as well as anxiety and restlessness associated with periods. Always check the dosing information and possible interactions with your doctor or gynecologist before starting a supplement regiment. Common supplements that are helpful for period symptoms that can cause insomnia include:


Omega-3 fats (fish oil). Take at least 1000 to 1500 mgs of omega-3 supplements a day to help cramps.
Magnesium. Deficiencies of this mineral may cause worse cramps, so start taking 360 mg of magnesium per day for the three days before your period starts to help lower the chance of painful cramps.Calcium. Like magnesium, deficiencies may cause more intense cramps. Take 500 to 1000 mg daily before your period starts to reduce cramping and overall period pain, which will help you sleep.Vitamin D. In addition to food and sunlight, you can take a supplement. This helps reduce anxiety and inflammation. Take at least 400 to 1000 IU per day.Vitamin C. Cramps can be improved by taking 100 mg doses of vitamin C at a time., If pain is keeping you up at night, try using nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIS), which are over the counter pain relievers. These may have cause stomach irritation if taken too much or without food, so take them with a light snack, such as a banana, close to bed time. This will help ensure the pain relief will last through the night so you can sleep.


NSAIDs include medicines such as aspirin (Bayer), naproxen (Aleve), and ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin).
Follow the dosage instructions on the bottle. The amount varies depending on the type of medication you use., There are some herbs that can be used to help treat the underlying causes of period symptoms, which can help you sleep better at night. These come in a variety of forms, including dried herbs and supplements. These herbs include:


Cramp bark, which helps relieve cramps. Make it into a tea, steeping one to two tsp of dried cramp bark into a mug of hot water for ten to fifteen minutes. Start drinking these teas two to three days before your period starts to get the best effects. Chasteberry, also known as vitex-agnus castus, which stabilizes your hormones. Take 20 to 40 mg tablets each day before breakfast. Consult your doctor before using this one if you are on birth control because it can have adverse effects.Black cohosh, which may reduce cramping, tension, and other common period symptoms. Take 20 to 40 mg tablets twice a day.
Chamomile, which helps reduce anxiety and calms you down. Steep one to two tsp of dried chamomile or a bagged chamomile tea in a cup of hot water for ten to fifteen minutes.