 Generally, speedcubers start with solving a 3x3 (standard Rubik's Cube). Find a Rubik's Brand, or any cube that's lying around the house, and learn how to solve it through a tutorial on YouTube or wikiHow, if you don't already.;
, Try layer-by-layer or block building methods. Keep practicing, and eventually you will be able to solve it in a minute or two. You just have to keep solving and figuring out different ways to solve the cube.
 Speedcubes are cubes, well, designed for speed. They can be turned very fast, the layers can be misaligned and still turned very well. Basically, these cubes will feel heavenly compared to your 4-year-old Rubik's Brand. A good first speedcube is the Moyu Guanlong. It's cheap and still performs very well. Another more pricey but popular choice is the Dayan Zhanchi. Buy speedcubes online.
 At first, it will feel extremely fast, especially if you've been using a Rubik's Brand or another speedcube. Breaking a cube in is basically solving and playing with it until it's reached it's full (or close to full) potential. To break it in, just keep solving it, turning it, etc.
 Any silicone based lube is good, just don't use Vaseline or WD-40 or any other oil based lube, as it will eat away at the plastic and make your cube unusable. You can find a few good lubing tutorials on YouTube.
 At official cubing competitions, the WCA (basically the NBA of cubing) uses those SpeedStacks timers for cubing. If you have one of those, then use it to time your solves. If you don't own one, however, then just use a program on your computer. Some good sites for timers are qqtimer.net, and cstimer.net.
 Keep practicing using your new speedcube, get a feel for it. Get your solves more efficient, try to not pause for long periods of time while solving, and turn faster. That's about all the tips I can give you for this step. Keep practicing, and eventually, you'll be able to solve the cube in under a minute.
 Does improving give you a sense of achievement? Is it a skill that impresses people? Is it relaxing? If you get any positive feelings from cubing, then keep going! If ever since the start, you've been frustrated and bored, then stop. You obviously don't enjoy it, so why should you keep going? Remember that bad times and slow improvement is normal; don't get discouraged from just a few slow times.
 Chances are, you've probably been using a beginner's method. This method isn't very move-efficient or fast, so if you want to keep getting faster, choose a faster method. Four of the most popular methods are called the "Big Four". They consist of CFOP, Roux, Petrus, and ZZ. Here is a brief introduction to all 4 methods:


CFOP (or Fridrich) - This is the most popular method, and so far the fastest (but not the most efficient). CFOP is an acronym, standing for Cross, F2L, OLL, and PLL. Basically, you solve a cross on any side of the cube and then place it on the bottom, complete 2 layers at the same time, solve the color of the top face, then solve the rest of the cube. The current World Champion, Feliks Zemdegs, uses this method. Chances are, the method you've been using when you learned how to solve the cube is probably a simplified version of this method. If it is, then this is probably the best choice. It's easy to understand, and a lot of it is algorithm-based, so not THAT much thought is required. 
Roux - Invented by Gilles Roux, it is the second most popular method. This is an example of a block building method, which is more intuitive, meaning it requires more thought and improvisation. Basically, you build 2 blocks on 2 opposite sides of the cube, orient and position 4 of the corners at the top of the cube, then solve the centers and edges. A famous Roux solver is Alexander Lau, who is also extremely fast. Though it may not be as popular as Fridrich/CFOP, it is more efficient move-wise, and definitely has the same potential to be extremely fast. The reason you don't see many records broken with it is because it's not used by many, though that doesn't mean you shouldn't try it. If you don't really like layer by layer methods, try block building methods, and chances are you might like it better. 
Petrus - Another not that common method, though still most efficient and intuitive out of the 4. It was invented by Lars Petrus. Basically, you solve a 2x2x2 block, expand it, orient the 7 remaining edges, solve the first 2 layers, and solve the last layer. This is a very move-efficient method (45-55 moves), very intuitive, so it requires a minimal amount of algorithms. If memorization's really not your thing, give this method a try.
ZZ - Probably the least used method, but can still be very fast (all these methods can get to the same speed). It involves orienting all the edges in one step, solving the first two layers, and then solving the last layer with 1-4 algorithms. Once you get really serious with this method, you can learn up to 493 algorithms for the cube. The reason this method is so good is because you don't have nearly as many algorithms to learn (unless you want to be at a world class speed), it can be very good for one-handed solving (yes, that's a thing). A notable ZZ user is Phil Yu, who is one of the fastest one handed solvers, and uses ZZ. He is the owner of the cubicle.us, one of the most popular cubing stores.
 I'll leave some good tutorials in the sources section. Keep practicing and getting faster. As you get faster, perfect your solutions, make your solves efficient, increase your turns per second, maybe get a faster cube. Try bigger cubes, like the 4x4 or 5x5. Try different puzzles, like the Pyraminx or Megaminx. Just keep practicing 3x3, and all your other events will get faster (eventually you will need to practice them separately and more in depth, though).
 A very significant milestone is trying to get under 20 seconds. At this point, you really need to think about the flaws of your solve. Chances are, you're probably turning very fast, then pausing, then repeat. This is very bad. Try turning slower, track the pieces you're going to solve next.
 Chances are, the speedcube you have now will eventually wear out and you'll need to get a new one (cubes these days can usually last around 7,500-10,000 solves). The following are good second or third speedcubes:


Moyu Aolong V1/V2 - This is a good cube if you are around the 20 second mark or beyond. It is fast, but controllable, and was one of the most popular cubes at a certain point (and still is in some cases). Many records were broken/nearly broken with this cube.
Gans 356 - This cube is about the same speed as an Aolong, and the turning is buttery smooth, with good corner cutting. This cube is extremely good, though it is quite pricey (around 20 dollars). Feliks Zemdegs, the 2013 world champion, currently uses this as his main 3x3 cube.
Dayan Zhanchi - This cube was revolutionary at its time, and it set a new standard for speedcubes. Even though it is a few years old, this cube can be made to work for almost anyone, including beginners to world class speedcubers, just like the Aolong. The former world record single by Mats Valk (5.55 seconds) was set with this cube.
 You're a speedcuber, and usually this means you will try to cube competitively. You don't need to be a sub-9 solver to compete in a competition, you can attend no matter how fast you are. Competitions are a great place to meet people with the same hobby as you, you can make new friends, beat your own personal records, and overall have a good time. Competing is nothing to stress over, it's mainly for fun.
 The governing body of cubing is the World Cube Association. They hold official competitions and record times of every competitor. You can check for competitions in your area by going to the WCA website and searching for competitions in your city/state.
 When registering, you'll need to choose events to compete in. After you choose the events, you'll usually need to pay a registration fee, either online or at the door of the venue for the competition. Here is a list of all WCA events (note that usually not all these events will be held at a single competition):


3x3 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 3x3 cube as quickly as they can.
2x2 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 2x2 cube as quickly as they can.
4x4 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 4x4 cube as quickly as they can.
5x5 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 5x5 cube as quickly as they can. This is the first big cube event.
6x6 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 6x6 cube as quickly as they can. This is a big cube event.
7x7 speedsolve - Competitors solve a 7x7 cube as quickly as they can. This is a big cube event.
3x3 One-Handed (OH) - Competitors solve a 3x3 cube as quickly as they can with only one hand.
3x3 Blindfolded (3BLD) - Competitors memorize a 3x3 cube and solve the cube blindfolded as quickly as they can (memorization time included).
3x3 Fewest Moves - Competitors have 1 hour to come up with a solution to the 3x3 cube in as few moves as possible.
3x3 with Feet - Competitors solve a 3x3 cube with their feet as quickly as they can.
Square-1 - Competitors solve the Square-1 puzzle as quickly as they can.
Pyraminx - Competitors solve the Pyraminx as quickly as they can.
Skewb - Competitors solve the Skewb as quickly as they can.
Megaminx - Competitors solve the Megaminx as quickly as they can.
Rubik's Clock - Competitors solve the Rubik's Clock as quickly as they can.
4x4 Blindfolded (4BLD) - Competitors memorize a 4x4 and solve it blindfolded as quickly as they can.
5x5 Blindfolded (5BLD) - Competitors memorize a 5x5 cube and solve it blindfolded as quickly as they can.
3x3 Multiple Blindfolded - Competitors memorize multiple (their own choice of number of cubes) 3x3 cubes and solve them all at once blindfolded. The goal is to get as many cubes solved in the shortest time possible.
 Before a competition, you'll usually want to practice a bit more than you're used to. For example, if you usually practice 30-45 minutes a day, you'll want to practice for about an hour in the days one week before the competition.
 This is something a lot of new competitors just skip over, though it is very important. Once you go to a competition and you don't know the rules and regulations, there is a higher chance you'll accidentally do something you're not supposed to without knowing it. You don't need to memorize the regulations word for word, you can just skim over it quickly, so you get a basic idea of the rules.
 Usually, at your first competition, you'll be very nervous. When you're up and solving, just forget that you're at the competition, and pretend you're at home, in your room, solving just as you would normally. Meet new people there, race each other, or just have a casual conversation. Cubing competitions are supposed to have a very friendly atmosphere, which is what makes the cubing community so great. The competing part of competitions is mainly just to test your limits and to break your personal records. The bigger part is making friends and socializing with the people who enjoy doing the same thing you do.
 If you want to check your results, it's pretty easy. Once you go to your first competition, the WCA will give you a personal public profile, where all your times and world/national/continental rankings will be posted. To check your profile, just go to the persons search on the WCA website and search up your name.
