 Doing something that requires work but no focus can help your mind to relax.


Try doodling or drawing an abstract image. You are forced to focus on the act of drawing and are therefore unable to think about stressors in your life.
Performing chores that use repetitive movements can induce relaxation. Think of raking leaves, sweeping the floor, or folding laundry.
If you know how you can also do things like weaving bracelets or knitting.
Avoid things that require a lot of movement or that are very busy, as this can induce stress rather than reduce it.
 Although you may love rocking out to hardcore rock or rap, find some slow, soothing tunes to help relax your mind.


Avoid music that has heavy instruments or loud vocals, as these, will make it hard for you to relax while listening. Sometimes it's better to not have words in it at all.
Instead of music, you can also listen to nature sounds and white noise which are developed to help people relax. Look for sounds of the ocean or forest, or find samples of white noise to try.
Binaural beats are a special type of music or sound that produce higher levels of alpha waves in your brain, which help you to relax. Find free versions of binaural beats online or through your favorite music streaming site.Try listening to some music that has a lot of repetition in it and not that much vocal. Many genres of electronic music have this style such as house, trance, trap, and trip-hop.
 Studies show that people who spend time with pets or touching animals have lowered blood pressure and are significantly less stressed than people who rarely come in contact with animals.


If you don’t have your own pet, consider borrowing your friend’s dog to take for a walk or cuddling up with your neighbors cat. A little animal time a day can go a long way.
Look into animal assisted psychotherapy. This is a type of therapy that helps to reduce stress and anxiety by using animals. Often times horses are used, but dogs and cats are also popular options., This is when you use soothing scents to help you relax. Many popular aromatherapy smells include lavender, peppermint, and eucalyptus.


You can purchase aromatherapy oils to place directly on your skin. Dab a little around your temples and the inside of your wrists and elbows. These are some of the warmest places on your body, and will work to diffuse the scent faster.
Aromatherapy mists and home fragrances can be used to make your bedroom your own personal relaxation sanctuary. Find them in mists and candles to help your home smell peaceful.
 Warm water can help to release endorphins that reduce stress, so take a hot bubble bath for twenty minutes.

