 Many games have the option to either browse through available servers or set your matchmaking region. Selecting a location close to you is the absolute most effective way to decrease your ping.


The process for this will vary wildly depending on the game you are playing. Look for location filters in your server browser, locations in the server name or description (US-West, EU, etc.), or region settings in the matchmaking menu.
Not all multiplayer games allow you to select a region, and may automatically try to connect you to the closest server or player to you.;
, Before playing your online game, make sure any bandwidth-chugging programs are closed. Torrents, streaming music, and open browsers can all have a big impact on your in-game lag. Close these programs before starting your game. Look in the System Tray for programs that may be running in the background., If someone is streaming video in the other room, you'll likely take a big hit to your ping. Try to time your gaming to when others aren't using the network, or ask politely if they can do something else for a while.
 If your computer or video game console is connected to your network wirelessly, you may experience worse performance in-game. If your network setup allows it, try to run an Ethernet cable from your computer's Ethernet port to an open LAN port on your router.


You may need to select the wired connection if you are already connected wirelessly.
 If you're noticing worse lag than usual, resetting your network hardware may solve the problem. This will disable your network for a short while, so close your game first and make sure you're not interrupting anyone else:


Remove the power cable from your modem and from your router, if you have a separate one.
Let your network hardware rest unplugged for about 30 seconds.
Plug your modem back in and wait for it to boot up. This could take a minute or two.
Plug your router back in after the modem finishes turning on, if you have one. The router may take an additional minute or two to turn back on.
 If you have a virus or adware infection, background processes may be eating up a lot of your bandwidth and processing power. Make sure your antivirus program is up to date, and run scans with Malwarebytes Anti-Malware and AdwCleaner (both free) to find and remove most common infections. See Remove Malware for more detailed instructions.
 If you have a router that supports QoS (Quality of Service) controls, you can use them to prioritize gaming traffic on your network. The process for activating these controls vary depending on your router, and not all routers have this feature.


Most QoS default settings will prioritize gaming and web browsing over other traffic. You may need to look up specific settings for your router.
See Access a Router for instructions on accessing your router's configuration page. The QoS settings, if they are available, can usually be found in the "Traffic" section.
 If you're connected wirelessly and you haven't upgraded your router in a few years, you may be able to get a much more stable connection with a new router. See Choose a Wireless Router for some tips on finding the right router. Look for routers with QoS controls, which can help prioritize gaming traffic on your network., This is a bit of an extreme step, but you may be able to find a good deal on a major speed upgrade. If you haven't checked prices in a while, you may find that you're paying the same amount as a faster package.
 Sometimes, your ISP may route your traffic through a variety of servers before it reaches its destination. This can lead to bad ping, even if you are physically close to the server. If this is the case, a VPN may help reduce your ping as there will be less hops between you and the gaming server.


A VPN cannot make you magically closer to the server. If you're trying to connect to a server overseas, you still have to contend with the speed of light and a VPN won't make much of a difference.
In many cases, a VPN will actually increase your ping, as it's another hop your traffic needs to go through. VPNs are only really useful if your ISP throttles your gaming traffic or routes it in an unusual way.
See Connect to a VPN for instructions on finding and connecting to a VPN service.

