 Attach the dust brush to the end of your vacuum and run the vacuum over the wall. This is the least abrasive way to clean walls and should always be your first step. If you find that your walls are sufficiently clean after using the vacuum, you should stop after performing this step.Do not put pressure on the wall as you vacuum it. Lightly rub the vacuum over it and allow the suction to pick up dirt.Pick a section of the wall. Start at the top and move the vacuum from side to side, then down, until you reach the floor. When you reach the floor, move on to the next section. Use a ladder if you cannot reach the ceiling.
Empty the vacuum cleaner before beginning this process.;
, Keep the pail of water near you while you clean so you do not need to make constant trips to the sink. As you clean, regularly squeeze dirty water out of the sponge and wet it again in the bucket of clean water., A small amount of detergent can also be thrown into the water, just enough to create a few bubbles. However, this creates the danger of damage to your paint job. Consider starting without detergent. Add detergent if warm water does not seem to be sufficient for cleaning the wall. You should begin the cleaning process with the least abrasive cleaner available and then work up to more abrasive cleaners only if necessary., A sponge is the least abrasive cleaner that you can use. Dunk the sponge in the water. Squeeze it to remove excess moisture. A soft towel can also work if you do not have a sponge available., To prevent water from dripping on the floor, place something on the floor to absorb moisture. This can be a towel or a newspaper., As you did with the vacuum, pick a rectangular section of the wall to clean. Start at the ceiling moving left and right, then when you reach the end of the section, move further down. Keep on moving until you reach the floor. Use a ladder to reach the ceiling if necessary.Consider wearing gloves to keep your hands clean during this process.
 Once you have cleaned a section of the wall, grab a dry towel. Repeat the same motion as before to dry the wall along the section you have chosen. Pick a towel that is soft to the skin to avoid causing damage to the paint.