 Starting your day with a healthy meal sets an important tone for the rest of your day.Eating a breakfast low in sugar and refined grains while being high in protein may be the best way to increase your energy levels and boost metabolism. The following are good ideas for simple, healthy breakfasts:


2 scrambled eggs with ¼ cup of 1% cottage cheese
2 boiled eggs sliced with 2 pieces of whole-wheat toast
1 cup of plain nonfat Greek yogurt mixed with 1 cup of raspberries
1 cup of a fiber cereal with ¾ cup of fat-free milk;
, Adding chili powder to your food can improve your weight loss and metabolism. It contains compounds called capsicums that are shown to improve metabolism for a short period of time after eating.Studies have shown that eating just 5 grams of chili pepper can increase your metabolism for up to 30 minutes.Try adding chili powder to meat and vegetables to get this important compound.
 Include at least 30 grams of fiber in your diet every day to help you lose weight. Fiber has also been shown to help improve your blood pressure and blood sugar.Try to get your fiber from food, rather than supplements. Good sources of fiber include:


Cereals: oatmeals, whole-grains, brown rice, quinoa
Vegetables: spinach, broccoli, carrots, green beans
Legumes: beans (kidney, lima, chickpeas)
Fruits: dried fruit (prunes, raisins), pears, apples, banana
Nuts and seeds: peanuts, popcorn, almonds

, Protein is an important nutrient needed for muscle growth, which will increase your metabolism. Metabolism increases when your body has a higher amount of lean muscle. To increase your lean muscle, exercise and diet are important. Try to eat a minimum of 0.8-1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight.(One kilogram is equal to 2.2 lbs.) For example, a person who weighs 150 lbs weighs 68 kgs. (150/2.2) This person should eat a minimum of 54-82 grams of protein each day. (68 x 0.8 = 54) (68 x 1.2 = 82)Make sure that the protein you add to your diet comes from a lean protein source like chicken or turkey breast, low-fat dairy options, or egg whites.
Avoid protein that adds a high amount of saturated fat to your diet like fatty meats or high fat dairy options such as fatty steak, high-fat ground beef or turkey, whole milk, and cheese.

