 This will be easier for girls than guys – both in obtaining makeup and feeling comfortable using it. You will be less likely to feel the need to aid your pimple in healing the rough way if you are less self-conscious about it. Though it is unlikely that your friends will comment on the pimple, applying cover-up may make you feel more secure.
 You are most likely the only person fixating on your pimple, but there are ways to get others not to focus on it. Try using mascara or eye shadow to bring out your eyes if they are one of your best features. You may also want to try getting a hair-cut or buying some new clothes to detract from your pimples.
 Especially if you are a teen, you may be afraid that people will make jokes or comments about your pimple. The worst part of this may be the anticipation. Remember that most people will only joke with you if they like you. Brush off the comment and play it cool. Treat their comment like you treat your pimple: leave it alone and it will go away.
 Avoid looking in mirrors. This will help you keep from obsessing over it. It is important to keep a healthy distance from the pimple. Keep in mind that everyone gets pimples from time to time – especially teenagers, but adults as well. The pimple will go away on its own in no time.
 Pimples are an unavoidable aspect of adolescence for most people. Unfortunately, they are caused more by genetics and hormones than anything you do or don’t do. Nonetheless, there are ways you can reduce the number and frequency of your acne.


Do you often rest your hands on your face? This is a common way that people get acne, as the dirt and oil from your hands clogs the pores on your face. Try putting your hands in your pockets when they are not busy until you train yourself not to rest your hands on your face.
Are you stressed out? Feeling under pressure or stressed can contribute to acne. If this is simply a phase of your life, take comfort in knowing that your face will clear up as soon as your life slows down a little.
Eating greasy foods does not cause pimples, but being in greasy environments does. If you work at a restaurant, rinse your face every time you use the restroom.