 You should avoid gifts and trinkets that look poorly made or breakable. Some pet toys are made with cheap plastic or have features that are easily broken. You should also avoid gifts that could come across as offensive to the pet lover in your life, such as products that make unreasonable claims about cleaning up unpleasant odors or with regards to their ability to cure or train a pet. Ask the owner of your local pet store about the durability and appropriateness of the gifts you are considering:


“Is this gift appropriate for someone with a dog that is very hard to train?”
“Is this gift durable or do you think it will break down within the first few months?”
“Do you think this gift would come across well or do you think they might find it offensive?”
“Does this product really work?”
“What feedback have you received about this product from other customers?”;
, If you enjoy baking, try making some dog treats for the pet lover on your list. Make them some delicious, crunchy dog treats that can be used for training.To make pumpkin squeaks dog treats, you will need two cups of rice flour, half a cup of natural peanut butter, a cup of pumpkin puree, two eggs and a teaspoon and a half of cinnamon. After preheating the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (176 Celsius), mix the ingredients together. Spread the dough onto a cookie sheet and cut into bite size cookies. Bake them for fifteen minutes, let them cool, and then store them in the refrigerator., Dog beds take a beating and can be pricey to replace. If you want to get the dog lover on your list something that is both practical and luxurious, consider making or purchasing a dog bed.You can find suede and fleece lined beds that are durable and comfortable.You can find organic cotton beds made from recycled soda bottles. This is a great choice for the eco conscious dog lover in your life., Although a dog leash may not sound like the most exciting gift, it can actually be hard to find a good quality dog leash. You might consider finding the dog lover on your list a good quality leather leash or a leash with visibility features such as reflective strips., If you have noticed the dog lover on your list getting anxious about a lost dog, you might consider a dog tracker. Dog trackers help the owner track the movement of their pets around the yard and alert them if the dog escapes. Newer models are coming out that also allow owners to walk their dogs in the backyard remotely., There are many great grooming tools on the market. If you think the dog needs some grooming, consider picking them up a new grooming tool.Some grooming tools, such as Dyson’s, have a vacuum attachment that makes dog grooming much easier., A homemade shampoo can be tailored to the dog lover in your life. If they have a hard time with washing their dog because of the dog’s anxiety, you can add some lavender for a calming bath. To make some natural dog shampoo, you will need a cup of natural liquid dish soap, a cup of apple cider vinegar, a cup of warm water, two ounces of glycerine, and an empty container or mason jar for the shampoo itself. Pour all of the ingredients into the mason or other jar and then mix them thoroughly. If you use lavender, add a few drops at the end., If the dog lover in your life always has dirty car seats, consider getting them a cover for their car seats.You can find some dog seat covers that are shaped like a hammock, such as the Filson. Hammock shaped covers tend to be easier to install., Although poop bags are not the most exciting gift, they are practical and will certainly be appreciated. You can get biodegradable poop bags that make it very easy to pick up after a dog., Pet feeders are available that are fully programmable and can be synced to a feeding schedule on your smart phone. Help bring them into the new world of programmable pet feeders., Purchase or make a cat mat for the cat lover in your life. Try one of the following options:You can make a cat mat with an old car tire. The tire treads will catch cat litter as the cat comes out of the litter box.
You can also purchase cat mats in a variety of shapes and sizes at your local pet store.
 If the fish lover in your life has been complaining about their aquarium, you could get them a gift certificate to the local pet store to purchase a new aquarium of their choice. You could also look into new models and purchase them an aquarium that is suitable for their house and goldfish.