 If there are more than 12 hours remaining in the auction, it is relatively simple to retract your bid.


Closer to the end of the auction, eBay allows you to cancel your bid within 1 hour.
If you have placed your bid more than one hour ago, and there are less than 12 hours left in the auction, you may have to contact the seller.;
, If you are cancelling your bid due to a typographical error or communication problems with the seller, you can use ebay’s standard bid retraction form. Ebay will routinely allow you to cancel your bid for the following reasons:



You entered the wrong amount by accident: If you accidentally enter $890.00 instead of $89.00, you can retract your bid and enter the correct amount as a new bid.

Significant changes made to the auction after you entered your bid. You may cancel your bid if the seller makes changes to the item's description, condition or shipping terms.

You are unable to contact the seller. If you have unanswered questions about the item and are unable to reach the seller by email or telephone, you can cancel your bid.
 You will need to enter the item number for the auction, and choose the reason for canceling your bid from a drop down menu.


You can find the item number in the top right corner of the “description” section of the item listing, just above the rectangle labeled “Item Specifics”
Click "Retract Your Bid" at the bottom of the "Bid History" page. Follow the instructions on each page until you reach the form.
There is also a link to the form on the “Retracting or Canceling your Bid” page in ebay’s help section.
If you select “entered wrong amount” as your reason for cancelling, you will be asked to re-enter the correct amount.
Remember to click "Retract Bid" at the bottom of the form to finalize your request.
 Bids may be cancelled at the seller’s discretion, and many sellers will be willing to cancel your bid as an act of good faith.


Contact the seller as soon as possible, and remember that it is up to them whether or not to cancel your bid.
If the seller does not want to cancel your bid and you win the item, you are under legal obligation to buy the item.
This will not affect your feedback rating. However, a “bid retractions” line will be added to your feedback page, and if you cancel bids too often, sellers may block you from bidding in the future.
 Due to the complexities of these types of transactions, ebay acknowledges that these bids don’t create a formal contract between the buyer and seller. While you may not be legally bound to complete the purchase, bidding without the intent to buy is a violation of ebay’s policies.
”Buyers’ remorse” is not considered a valid reason for cancelling the transaction, but if you learn of a problem with the purchase after you win the item, it is within your rights to cancel.

