 To do this, click the Start menu at the bottom-left side of the screen (or the Orb icon), type in “command,” and select the first search result.
 This will show all the IP addresses associated with your computer.
 It can be found on the list titled “Wireless LAN Adapter Wireless Network Connection.”

, Copy the number on the second line. This number should look like “10.0.0.1.”

, This will likely bring up a login screen. To log in, use the username “admin” and “password” as the password. This should work for most routers.
 Locate the “Advanced” section of Settings, and select “Add service.” Change the service name to “Other,” and type in the IPv4 address that you copied earlier. Change the start and end ports to 25565.
 These are the versions included as part of the alpha stage of development.


To download an alpha version, navigate to mediafire.com/download/ng6o5fw0wmvh4hq/Minecraft_Server.exe. In the top-right corner of the screen, click “Download,” and the server will automatically be saved in the Downloads folder.
Getting an alpha server is important because the server version and the profile version must match in order to host a server.
 On your desktop, right-click any area. Select “New” then “Folders” to create a new folder. Right-click the new folder, select “Rename” then type in “Alpha.”

, Drag the server from the Downloads folder to the Alpha folder on your desktop.


When the server is run for the first time, other files containing server settings will be created in this folder.
 This may be done two different ways depending on what type of file was downloaded:


For an .exe file, double-click the file to launch the server.
For a .jar file, right-click the file and click “open with Java Platform SE binary” to run the server.
 To do so, open Minecraft by double-clicking its icon on your desktop or your programs list, and click “Multiplayer” on the main menu.
 In the center of the screen will be a textbox, and to connect to your server, type in “localhost” in that textbox.


For other people to connect to your server, go to cmyip.com, and give them your IP address at the top of the screen.

