 Phillips head screws are those that have two grooves forming a cross. In some cases one of the grooves will be longer than the other; if one groove is longer, this is the groove you should use when trying to unscrew your screw because it is easier to use with a variety of improvised tools.


Phillips head screws are particularly prone to being stripped, when the corners formed by the grooves are worn. This makes it very difficult to unscrew your screw because there are no longer solid grooves in which to insert your tool. Be very careful when using these methods so as not to strip your screw.;
, Try inserting a small coin into the longer groove and seeing if it will turn the screw. Dimes and pennies are particularly useful for this method. This will usually only work for larger sized screws rather than very small ones.


Insert the coin into the larger groove and turn counterclockwise.
 Your thumbnail will only work if the screw is quite loose in the surface. Insert your nail into the longer groove and turn counterclockwise. If the screw is relatively loose then the screw should come out easily but if it is tight then this method likely will not work.
 Kitchen butter knives can be used in a very similar way to coins. Insert the end of the butter knife into the longer groove and turn counterclockwise to unscrew the screw.


If your butter knife is of low quality and strength or the screw is very tight, then you may bend your butter knife rather than unscrewing the screw. Be aware of this potential damage., Insert the edge of an old CD into the longer groove and turn counterclockwise. This can damage and/or break the CD so make sure to use an old one that you don’t mind damaging.


If the screw is very tight then this method might not work very well.
 This will only work if the head of the screw is somewhat raised above the surrounding surface. Use the pliers or vice grips to grab the sides of the screw head and turn the screw counterclockwise to twist it out.


Needle nose pliers may work better than regular pliers.
 If your screw head is raised above the surface, you can use a hacksaw to create a groove similar to that of a flat head screw. Hold the hacksaw vertically and slowly cut the end of the screw to create a groove.


Make sure you do not cut the surface of the wood or whatever the screw is fastened to.
Remove the screw as you would a flat head screw, such as with a flat head screwdriver or another flat object such as a credit card., If you can't find your Phillips head screwdriver but can find a flat head screwdriver, try using a flat head that is about the same length as the longer groove in the Phillips head screw. Insert the flat head into the longer groove and turn counterclockwise to unscrew.


This will not work with smaller screws, but it should be fine for normal size and larger screws.
Be careful not to damage your screw because there will now be less surface area in contact with the screw head., Take a plastic toothbrush and lightly melt the end using a lighter or other source of heat. Once the plastic is soft you can insert it in the head of the screw and allow the plastic to harden once more. Once it is hard try to turn the screw counterclockwise to unscrew it.


This will usually only work with screws that are not too tight and relatively easy to turn.
Be very careful when using the lighter to avoid accidents and make sure to melt the toothbrush slowly so you can monitor the melting and prevent a mess from the melting plastic.

