 Whisk together the dry sherry, oyster sauce, and a pinch of white pepper in a non-reactive dish. Place the pork in the marinate and toss to coat. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.


A non-reactive dish can be made of glass or plastic. Do not use a metal dish.
Alternatively, you could combine the ingredients in a large resealable plastic bag. Add the pork to the marinade inside the bag, then seal the bag and toss gently to coat the pork. Let the bag of marinating pork sit in your refrigerator for a full 1 hour.
 In a separate bowl, whisk together the two ingredients until smooth. Set aside.


Wait until the pork is nearly finished marinating before preparing this slurry.
Keep an eye on this cornstarch slurry as the rest of your dish cooks. If the cornstarch appears to start separating and settling on the bottom of the dish, give it another quick mix to recombine the liquid and starch.
 Place the shortening in a deep, heavy skillet and heat on medium-high until melted.


You could substitute butter for the shortening if you want a richer taste, or substitute oil if you want a healthier alternative.
 Drain the marinade from the pork before tossing the meat into the hot shortening. Stir-fry for a few minutes, just until the pork starts to brown on all sides.
 Add the onion to the skillet. Cook the onion and pork simultaneously for another 5 minutes, or until the onion becomes more aromatic and starts turning translucent.


Do not allow the onion to start browning just yet.
 Mix these ingredients into the skillet and cook, stirring frequently, until the color becomes brighter and the vegetables feel tender-crisp.


You could cook the vegetables for a longer period of time if you prefer them to be softer.
If the pan seems dry before you add the vegetables, you could add a bit more shortening or oil before tossing the vegetables into the pan.
 Toss the snow peas and bean sprouts into the pan and immediately pour the stock and cornstarch slurry in afterward. Cook for another 5 minutes or so, until the sauce has boiled and thickened.


Bean sprouts cook quickly, so you should only add them to the pan once the rest of the ingredients are just about fully cooked. Otherwise, the sprouts may become soggy and unappealing.
Make sure that the cornstarch slurry is still well-combined before adding it to the pan.
You must allow the liquid to thicken. The thickened liquid is a necessary attribute of the dish, but in addition to that, thickening liquid is a sign that the cornstarch has fully broken down into the sauce. If the cornstarch does not break down, it could leave a bad aftertaste.
 The chop suey is now done and ready to eat. Serve it over rice or chow mein noodles and enjoy it while the dish is still hot.

