 Good communication is important in order to resolve any type of conflict. Therefore, it’s important to know exactly what it is that you want to discuss. Before beginning any conversation, reflect on what it is that is bothering you and what you want to get from the conversation. Try asking yourself these questions:“What do I want to get from this conversation?”
“What exactly is bothering me?”
“What do I want the other person to do or not to do?”
“What are my goals for this conversation?”

, Try to set a time to meet as soon as possible but make sure that the time is convenient for both of you.Setting a specific time to talk rather than springing it on her without warning is important. If she isn’t expecting it, then she may feel that she is being attacked which means that conversation will not go very well.
 Start the conversation by sharing with your friend the facts of the situation. Only after you have finished sharing the facts should you share how you feel about what happened.For example, you could start by stating the facts, “I was told that you shared a personal secret about me to Maria.”
Then you could share how you feel by saying, “I am very upset and feel betrayed.”
Be sure to stick to “I” statements rather than “You” statements. For example, you should say “I feel upset and betrayed” instead of saying, “You betrayed me.”

, This conversation should be focused on finding a resolution to the problem. This means that both of you should have the opportunity to speak. Listen to your friend without interrupting and try to hear her perspective.


For example, you could ask your friend, "How do you see the situation?" or "What do you think about what happened?"
Then allow your friend to speak without interrupting her. Try really hard to focus on what she is saying and not what is running through your own mind.
 Tell your friend what you think needs to happen in order to salvage the friendship.Also, be open to hearing what your friend has to say. This is the time to set boundaries to make sure that the situation does not recur. Also, do not be afraid to ask for an apology if you think that you deserve it.


Be sure to explain why you are making the suggestions and how that would benefit your friendship. For example, you could say, “From now on, let’s agree to not discuss what we have shared with each other with other friends unless we have received permission from the other person.”
Your friend may decide that she does not want to offer an apology. Be prepared to accept her decision if that happens. If she refuses to apologize, you will need to decide if you want to continue to reconcile the friendship.
 Once you have finished the conversation and things are amicable again, celebrate the success of the meeting.Remember, the goal is not to win, the goal is to resolve the conflict.


If things have not been resolved then schedule another time to revisit the conversation. Alternatively, you could decide that reconciliation may not be the best option right now.
 If your friend continues to act in a hurtful manner toward you even after you've tried to resolve the conflict, then it's probably time to make new friends. You deserve to be respected and treated well. Therefore, if the conflict goes on for an extended period of time or if you find that your friend keeps doing the same thing over and over again, then it's time to start looking for new people to spend your time with. Here are some great places to meet new friends:


Extracurricular activities
Hobbies
Work
Church
Classes
Online forums

You should not go to meet anyone in person that you don't know unless you are not an adult or accompanied by a Guardian. Also, be sure to go during the day to a pace where there are plenty of people.
 Sometimes resolving the conflict with your friend can be harder than you thought it would be. When this happens, it could easily escalate into a situation of bullying. Be sure to know the signs of bullying so that you can seek help from a trusted adult if you feel that you are being bullied. Here's what bullying looks like:Physical or verbal aggression that happens repeatedly or has the potential to happen repeatedly
Making threats offline or on social media
Spreading rumors offline or on social media
Purposely excluding you from the group

