 A female dog usually becomes fertile for the first time after she is six months old. However, she should not be bred during her first estrus. Since heat usually occurs every six months approximately, this means that she should be at least a year old when she is bred.The age of sexual maturity will vary a lot depending on the specific dog and what breed she is. In general, smaller dogs tend to reach sexual maturity sooner than larger dogs.
 Signs that your dog may have infertility issues include problems with an irregular cycle. Track your dog's reproductive cycle to help identify a potential issue. A dog's reproductive cycle includes four phases:Proestrus: In this phase the female dog attracts males, has bloody vaginal discharge, and her vulva is swollen. She will not allow breeding during this phase, which lasts approximately nine days.
Estrus: During this period the dog is fertile and she will allow mating. It usually lasts for about nine days but ovulation usually occurs in the first 48 hours.
Diestrus: Diestrus is the sixty to ninety day period when the dog is no longer fertile but discharge may continue. This occurs whether or not the dog becomes pregnant.
Anestrus: Anestrus usually lasts three to four months and no sexual activity takes place during this phase.
 If your dog is having a hard time mating, it could lead to an inability to reproduce. This is a physical issue that could be caused by injury and by a misalignment between the female and male dog.


In order to assess your dog's physical ability to copulate, you may need to talk it to a veterinarian or an expert in dog breeding. They should be able to assess your dog's physical reproductive issues.
If the dogs you are trying to mate are having a hard time completing the act, then you may need to step in and help. In extreme cases, you may even need to have your female dog artificially inseminated if she and the male dog cannot physically fit together., There may just be issues with your dog's comfort or interest in sexual intercourse due to where you are trying to dog the mating. Make sure your dog is comfortable and well cared for before mating. Sometimes copulation does not occur because the dog is inhibited in its usual environment.Try taking your female dog out of its normal area and having it mate at the male dog's location. This could help her to become less inhibited.
 If you are having a hard time breeding your dog and you have exhausted all other avenues for promoting fertility, then you should get a medical opinion. Your veterinarian should be able to assess your dog's health and look for issues that may be impacting your dog's fertility.


Problems impacting fertility could include a wide variety of issues, including hormonal imbalances, physical abnormalities, or reproductive tumors or infections.

