 If you're building a new home or office, you'll need housings specifically designed for New Construction. If you're replacing an old recessed light, or adding to an existing structure, you'll need a Remodeling, or Old Construction, housing. Once you've narrowed your search this way, consider these options:


Ceiling Insulation (IC, Non-IC): If your ceiling is insulated, you'll need IC rated housings. If your ceiling is not insulated, you may use either IC or non-IC rated housings.

Airtight/Energy Efficient:These are energy-saving, and are an evolving trend across the country. Traditionally, recessed lighting has been manufactured with many penetrations to the outer housing allowing heat or cooled air to escape into the ceiling space. This creates an unnecessary strain on heating and cooling systems, ultimately resulting in higher than needed electric and gas bills. To find out if your state has an energy code, refer to the map below, and remember: Airtight Ready fixtures are not Airtight, they require certain trims or a field-installable gasket kit to cover the holes in the product.

UL/CUL Damp Locations: A Damp Location is an area that is exposed to moisture, but not directly to water. Keep an eye out for items noted as UL or UL/CUL listed. These products are the safest bets for showers, kitchens, or any other area that might be exposed to moisture.



 



Fire Rated Light Covers: Many contractors and home-builders struggled in the past trying to maintain the fire rating of the ceiling when penetrated by recessed light fixtures. They either built labor intensive drywall boxes or relied on expensive fire rated lights. But besides their high cost, these lights are also only available in selected sizes and colors, limiting the choice of home-builders. A smart and UL-classified alternative are Fire Rated Light Covers. The covers are made from an intumescent material that expands internally to fill all of the available space with a fire resistant, highly insulating char. They are easy to install, by simply putting them on top of the light without any additional tools and can be fitted in seconds. Besides its primary function to maintain the fire protection performance of a ceiling, the FF109-300 covers also provide thermal and acoustic insulation. The product seems to be a win-win situation for private home-builders, designers, architects and contractors.

EZ Barrier Fire Rated Enclosures: Another easy, simple and secure alternative that provides a one hour fire rating for recessed lighting and can be used with both IC and non IC fixtures. Simply mount the lighting fixture to the inside of the rectangular 24 GA non-porous, corrosion resistant galvanized steel enclosure and then secure the enclosure to the ceiling/floor assembly simply by screwing four wood screws through the pre-drilled holes in enclosure's flange to the wood truss and finally run your wiring through one of four round knockouts. The ezb 16-24-9 meets the following fire-rated specifications: UL 263, UBC 7-1, NFPA 251 and ASI A2.1.







Firebox: Separation walls and floor/ceiling assemblies have specific hourly fire ratings. These ratings identify the amount of time it takes for fire to pass through these barriers, as well as how much time a building's occupants have to escape before the structural integrity of the building is jeopardized. Fireboxes maintain this fire rating, while historically, recessed lighting has eliminated a structure's rating. A Firebox housing installs the same way any other downlight would, and eliminates the hassle of custom built boxes. Additionally, they are UL classified to maintain fire ratings, where custom built boxes are not tested for anything. When using recessed lighting in fire rated ceilings it is critical to use a Firebox to maintain the integrity of the structure in the unfortunate event of a fire.<br.


Commercial Use: If your needs are aimed toward commercial use, check out housings like Progress' compact fluorescent Pro-Optic Series. These housings allow for higher light output, and are available in 6" and 8" trim sizes. These housings will also greatly minimize the perceived brightness of the fixture, and improve the overall efficiency of the housing/trim combination.;
, Trims come in all different colors and styles, and are the only part of recessed lighting that is visible. When purchasing trims, make sure the trim you choose corresponds with your current or new housing. There are several types of trims:



Baffles: Baffles trap and shape the light, ultimately minimizing glare and reducing brightness by narrowing the focus of the downlighting beam. They also provide control for R, BR, and PAR lamps. (see lamp details below)

Reflectors: Reflectors maximize light output. These trims are ideal for general, accent, and task applications for both residential and commercial needs.

Wall Washers: Wall Washers emphasize vertical surfaces and visually increase the perceived size of a room. Aim wall washers toward pictures, fireplaces, or wall hangings.

Lenses and Diffusers: Lenses and Diffusers are ideal for closets, bathrooms, and covered porches to diffuse light and shield the lamp.

Eyeballs and Adjustables: Eyeballs provide adjustable and directional lighting suitable for accent, task, and wall washing.

Open: Open trims are the most economical choice for recessed lighting. They create an attractive finished look without compromising the efficiency of the light source.

Decorative: Decorative trims are a great way to give a room or space a stylish boost. They're all UL listed for damp locations, and accommodate a number of lamp types.
, Your housing and trims will specify what type of lamp you will need, but here is a general rundown on major ones to consider:

' 'Incandescent: Standard incandescent bulbs give off a warm glow, and work well with day to day decorative lamps.


Incandescent R Lamps: R Lamps also give off a warm light color, and are ideal for recessed downlighting and downlights in chandeliers. These are reflective general service lamps.

Incandescent Par Lamps: Par Lamps are the most sophisticated reflector lamps with incandescent or tungsten halogen light sources. These lamps offer a wide variety of beam patterns and a whiter light.

Incandescent Halogen Lamps: The lamps are miniature halogen lamps that provide excellent color rendition and maximum beam control.



Compact Fluorescent: Compact Fluorescent lamps are great for general illumination. They are long life and energy efficient fluorescent lamps.

Low Voltage 12 Volt:Low Voltage lamps offer excellent color rendition and beam pattern control. They also offer good precise task lighting with energy savings.

MR and PAR Lamps: MR and PAR lamps are compact halogen unit sources with good beam pattern control.

Bayonet and Bi-Pin Lamps: Bayonet and Bi-Pin lamps are halogen or incandescent low voltage lamps ideal for landscape and undercabinet applications.

High Intensity Discharge: There are three types of High Intensity Discharge.

Metal Halide: Metal Halide has good color rendering characteristics, long life, and optical control.

High Pressure Sodium: This is the most efficient HID source. High Pressure Sodium emits a yellowish color.

Mercury Vapor: This HID lamp is suitable for outdoor use and emits a blue/green light.

Fluorescent: Fluorescent lamps are about five times as efficient converting electricity as incandescent lamps.

LED: LED lamps are relatively new to the market but show extreme potential. LED light bulbs are highly efficient and long lasting.

