 This is a more powerful form of expungement. It not only erases or seals a record but establishes that the record should never have existed in the first place. Generally you can file a petition for this certificate if you believe you are innocent of a crime for which you were convicted, and you’ve discovered new and exonerating evidence that wasn’t available at the time of your conviction. Certificates of Actual Innocence serve to overturn wrongful convictions. For example, an accused person might be pressured to give a false confession after being unlawfully interrogated. Constitutional claims leading to Certificates of Actual Innocence often are brought by nonprofit legal-aid societies such as the Innocence Project or by clinics at law schools. , Forms and instructions should be available at your state appeals court. Legal aid societies also may have forms and information. Which form you need will depend on whether you’re trying to prove your innocence using biological materials (such as DNA) or by other means.


Unlike petitions for expungement or sealing of records, there is no waiting period to file an actual-innocence petition. If you cannot afford an attorney, you may be eligible for the free assistance of one appointed by the court. Do not pursue a Certificate of Actual Innocence without legal representation.
 You’ll pay a fee ($50 to $100) for the filing., Along with the petition, you must file copies of any court or police records regarding the conviction at issue.

Required documents may include complete transcripts of the proceedings at trial or appeal and complete court records. You’ll pay fees for these documents, which can be expensive, depending on the length and involvement of the trial. , You cannot serve this document yourself. The sheriff’s office or a private process-serving company of your choice will serve the document and file proof of service. , Unlike expungement or record-sealing hearings, getting a Certificate of Actual Innocence requires a formal trial at the appeals-court level, and you must be represented by counsel. If you cannot afford an attorney, the court will appoint one to guide you through this process.

