 This will create the sole of your slipper. Both sheets can be the same color, or two different colors. You can use plain felt from the arts and crafts store, but you'll get a nicer-looking and longer-lasting slipper if you use 5-millimeter thick felt from the fabric store instead.;
, Make sure that you don't trace too far under your arch. To prevent this from happening, look down at your foot while you are tracing it. If you can't see what you are drawing, you are going too far under the arch. Make the lines and curves as neat as you can., Instead of tracing your foot again for the other slipper, simply trace the sole you just cut out onto more felt, and cut that out too. You want to end up with four foot shapes, two for each sole.
 Start tracing from the inside of your arch, all the way around your toes, and finishing at the other side of your foot. Remember to draw over the top of your foot as well.
 If you'd like to save some time, cut two pieces of felt at the same time. This will give you the toe piece for your other slipper., Pin the toe piece to one of the sole pieces first, making sure that the edges meet up; the toe piece will bubbly up a bit. Next, pin the other sole piece on top, sandwiching the toe piece in between., Leave a 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) wide hole at the bottom of the heel so that you can turn the slipper.


To prevent bunching, cut little notches or slits into the toe area of your slipper. Be careful not to cut through the stitching, however.
 If you need to, use a long, thin tool, like a knitting needle, to push out the curves and seams.
 If you'd like to use batting, cut a sole-shape out of polyester quilt batting, and slide it into the sole. If you are using stuffing, simply fill the slipper with it, making it fuller in the arch area.
 You can do this using a sewing machine and a straight stitch for something quick and simple. You can also fold the edges in by ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter), and sew them shut with a ladder stitch for a seam-less finish.

