 June-bearing strawberry plants are the most common varieties because they bear large, healthy fruit over a period of two to three weeks. Typically, June-bearing strawberries produce one crop per season.June-bearing strawberries are further classified into early, middle, and later-bearing varieties. To extend your harvest, plant one of each plant so they bear fruit at different times.
June-bearing strawberries are best to plant in the late springtime, at least a week after the last frost. They respond well to organic, low-nitrogen fertilizers. June-bearing varieties prefer warm temperatures, so apply a 6-8 inch (15-20 cm) layer of mulch over the plant through the wintertime.Popular June-bearing varieties include: Earliglow, Honeoye, Seneca, Jewel, and Kent.;
, Everbearing strawberry plants usually produce one harvest in the spring and one in the late summer or early fall. In ideal everbearing climates (60°F to 80°F, or 15.56 °C to 26.66°C), everbearing plants can produce three harvests.Everbearing varieties thrive best in warmer climates where temperatures do not drop as frequently.Popular everbearing varieties include: Alexandria, Fraises des Bois, Weisse Solemacher, Rügen, and Muricata., June-bearing and everbearing varieties will take several years to reach their fullest harvest, but day-neutral plants produce good berries from their first year onward. Their berries, however, are usually smaller than other varieties.Day-neutral strawberry plants can be grown as annual or perennial plants.
Day-neutral strawberries grow well when planted in late April, and they enjoy cooler temperatures than other varieties.Popular day-neutral varieties include: Tristar, Albion, Tribute, Evie-2, and Seascape., There are hundreds of strawberry varieties for you to choose from within the June-bearing, everbearing, and day-neutral branches. Pick a variety that will adapt best to your climate. A higher harvest will be achieved if your strawberry plant grows in the right temperature, soil composition, and weather pattern.