 When you have asthma, you want to keep your lungs strong. Intense physical activity can trigger an asthma attack, but moderate exercise can help strengthen your lungs. Physical activity also has a variety of other health benefits, like fighting obesity, lowering cholesterol and high blood pressure, maintaining muscle tone, and improving mobility and flexibility.Good cardio exercises for asthma include walking, swimming, bike riding, and even short jogs. You may also consider trying yoga, weight lifting, or strength training.
Always talk to your doctor before beginning an exercise program when you have asthma. You and your doctor can determine the correct type of exercise for you based on your asthma.
 Maintaining a healthy weight is pivotal in limiting long term health effects of asthma. Because asthma may lead to reduced physical activity, those with asthma are more likely to be obese than those without it. More weight puts more pressure on the body and lungs when moving, making it harder to breathe. Being at a healthy weight can help improve your lung function and decrease your need to use asthma medications.In addition to exercise, eat a healthy, balanced diet. This includes eating a nutritious diet full of all five food groups: vegetables, fruits, low-fat dairy, lean meat and protein, complex carbohydrates, and healthy fats.
Fill half your plate with vegetables or snack on fruits. Choose lean meats, such as skinless chicken breast or fish. Get healthy fats from avocados and nuts. Choose complex carbohydrates, such as oats, quinoa, or brown rice.
Limit the amount of fatty foods, sugar, and simple, refined carbohydrates. Choose healthy snacks over processed foods or packaged junk food.
 Stress can cause asthma attacks to happen more frequently and more severely. Stress causes shortness of breath and restricts your airways, which can trigger asthma.This can lead to negative long-term health effects since stress can cause an asthma attack at any age. You should learn to manage your stress so you can avoid unnecessary complications due to your asthma.


Everyone relieves stress in different ways. However, there are some common stress-relieving exercises you can do to help you with this. Try yoga, deep breathing exercises, guided imagery, or meditation. You can also try to go for a walk, engage in a hobby, or listen to soothing music.

