 The surgeon will provide you with specific instructions that begin as early as two weeks before your surgery. Some instructions deal with safe practices to avoid unwanted medical events during and following your surgery. Other instructions help your body prepare for the surgery and the healing process afterwards, including steps to help reduce swelling.Every surgery, every surgeon, and every patient are different. The swelling that occurs will depend on many variables.
Pay attention to the instructions provided by your surgeon to reduce swelling.;
, Be very clear, well in advance of your surgery, regarding the changes you need to make in your medications. This will involve a coordinated effort with your regular doctor, any specialists you see, and your surgeon. Some medications can cause changes that may lead to problems during surgery and difficulties after the surgery, such as additional and prolonged swelling.Make the changes in your prescription drugs, over-the-counter agents, and herbal supplements, two weeks before your surgery.
It takes time for the medications to get out of your system, and for your system to return to its baseline level of functioning.
 Provide your surgeon with a complete list of your medications, including herbal supplements and over-the-counter agents, at least 30 days before your scheduled surgery. It takes time for your doctors to communicate with each other and determine the drugs you can stop in advance and the ones you should not stop at all.Never stop or adjust your prescription medications without consulting your doctor.
Plan early with your regular doctor or specialist. Many agents require a gradual taper downward to stop the medication.
Some prescription medications should not be stopped or dose adjusted at all. Let your surgeon know of the drugs you will need to continue to take routinely, including the day of surgery.
 Your surgeon will know if you can continue some agents, such as acetaminophen. You will need to stop many things but not everything. Your surgeon will let you know what you can continue taking.OTC anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, and aspirin, will need to be discontinued two weeks before your surgery.
This group of medications can lead to additional bleeding which causes more swelling.
 Stop taking your herbal supplements should be stopped two to three weeks before your surgery. It may be best to plan on stopping everything you take that is an herbal product or supplement. Your surgeon will tell you exactly how to proceed.Some herbal products can interfere with anesthesia and others can increase bleeding and swelling after the procedure.
Plan on stopping products that contain omega 3’s and 6’s contained in fish oil supplements, flaxseed, ephedra, Ma Huang, feverfew, goldenseal, garlic, ginseng, ginger, licorice, valerian, and kava. This is not a complete list. Talk to your surgeon about all your herbal supplements.
 A healthy diet will promote healing and reduce swelling. This means you should start following this step as far in advance as possible and continue it through the entire post-op healing process.Include fruits and vegetables that are high in fiber. Examples of high fiber foods include peas, lentils, artichokes, brussel sprouts, lima beans, and black beans.
High fiber foods prevent constipation. Pain medications provided for surgical pain often cause constipation. Straining due to constipation can lead to bleeding at the surgical site and additional swelling.
Reduce your sodium intake to help decrease swelling after the surgery.
Stay hydrated the week leading up to the surgery. Plenty of water will also help to promote healing and reduce swelling.
 If you are a smoker, then you will need to stop smoking several weeks before your surgery.The healing process is slowed in people that smoke.
Smoking also increases the risk of developing an infection.
Avoid ingesting alcoholic drinks. Since alcohol thins the blood, avoid drinking alcohol for at least five days before the surgery., Your nose has undergone major surgery so some swelling and bruising is natural. Every person and surgery is different, so the extent of bruising and swelling will vary.Visible swelling lasts for about two weeks. This is the best time to take steps to reduce the swelling since the tissues are healing.
It may take years for the swelling inside the nose to completely subside, but in two to three weeks, your casual acquaintances will not be able to tell you had any type of facial surgery.
Bruising most often occurs under the eyes and also lasts for several weeks.
 Beginning as soon as you get home on the day of your surgery, apply cold compresses to the area around your nose. Apply the cold compresses around your eyes, on your eyes, on your forehead and cheeks, and the area around your nose. Avoid placing the ice treatments directly on your nose. This is an important step in reducing swelling.Apply the cold compress as often as possible for the first few days after the surgery. Avoid placing ice directly against your skin.
The most swelling occurs on the third day after the surgery. The more cold applications you apply during the first two days will significantly reduce the amount of swelling you see on the third.
Do not place ice packs directly on your nose. The ice packs create unwanted pressure if they are placed on top of your nose.
Surgeons have preferences about the type of ice pack or cold compress used. Some recommend using bags of frozen veggies, crushed ice in a baggie, or ice packs. Use a cloth or towel to wrap any form of cold application before putting on the area.
Continue to apply the cold compresses to help ease discomfort, beyond the initial 48 hour window for swelling reduction., It is important that you keep your head above your heart at all times, including when you are resting and sleeping. Also avoid bending over. This is important in reducing the amount of swelling that develops.It may be difficult to find a comfortable sleeping position since you need to keep your head elevated.
Try using three pillows beneath your head at night. Be sure you are sufficiently propped up and will not roll over and off the pillows.
Sleep in a recliner for at least two weeks following the surgery.
Keeping your head elevated also means no bending over for the first two weeks after surgery.
No bending over also includes no heavy lifting. This can cause your swelling to worsen and the strain can increase your blood pressure which can cause the area to start bleeding again.
 The tape, splint, and nasal packing will likely feel uncomfortable. These were placed precisely by your surgeon and are there to promote healing and reduce swelling. Even though they may feel uncomfortable, your best way to reduce swelling is to leave them alone.Your surgeon will remove the packing and splint in about one week. He or she may replace the splint to continue to help reduce swelling.
Change your dressings exactly as directed. Leave the packing and splint in place to reduce swelling.
Your surgeon may have placed an additional bandage at the end of your nose to catch fluids and blood as the wound drains. The drainage helps to reduce swelling.
Change the drip bandage exactly as directed. Do not remove it early and do not apply too much pressure when changing the dressing.
 You may not feel much like moving around, but getting up and gently moving around can help to reduce swelling.The sooner you can start walking the better. Walking prevents blood clots from forming and reduces swelling.
Do not resume your exercise routine until your surgeon gives you permission to do so.
 Follow your surgeon’s instructions for any medications provided to help with pain relief and swelling. Do not take any medication without your surgeon’s recommendation.Resume your original prescription medications per directions from your surgeon and your regular doctor or specialist.
It is important to gradually increase the dose of some prescription medications to get back to the prescribed dose.
Resume your herbal and OTC medications only if your surgeon recommends it. Some agents can still contribute to swelling and/or bleeding. You may need to wait for two to four weeks before resuming based on instructions provided by your surgeon.
 Instead of showers, take baths for the time that you have bandages. The steam and excessive moisture from the shower water may loosen the bandages or nasal packing and alter the way those tissues heal.Consult with your surgeon to determine when you can resume taking showers.
Take care when you wash your face to avoid dislodging any bandages or bumping your nose.
Brush your teeth gently. Try to avoid excessive movement of your upper lip as you brush your teeth.
 Sudden pressure, bumping your nose, or a force to the injured area can cause more swelling and may interfere with the healing process.Do not blow your nose. You will feel extra pressure in your nasal passages, but the force of blowing your nose can cause damage to sutures, tissues, cause more swelling, and prolong the healing process.
Avoid sniffing forcibly such as when you feel like you have a runny nose. This action creates pressure that can cause swelling, alter the placement of bandages and nasal packing, and interfere with healing.
Try not to sneeze. If you must sneeze, then make an effort to let the pressure exit from your mouth as you would with a cough.
Even laughing and smiling excessively can cause the muscles and ligaments that support your nose to change position and put added pressure on your surgical site.
 Minor swelling and slight pressure may still be present for more than one year following the procedure. The visible swelling is gone within a few weeks, but it may take several months or longer for all swelling to completely resolve.Most rhinoplasty procedures involve changes that are small: often so small that they are measured in millimeters.
It is possible that you do not see the results you anticipated and may consider another rhinoplasty surgery.
Some internal tissues take as long as 18 months for the swelling to completely subside. Other parts of your nose may continue to change and adjust for up to one year or more following your recent procedure.
For these reasons, most surgeons will not consider a second rhinoplasty for at least one year after the most recent one.
 Always protect your skin from the harmful rays of the sun by using an appropriate sunscreen and protective clothing.Apply a broad spectrum sunscreen that protects against both UVA and UVA rays and has a SPF of 30 or higher.
Wear a wide brim hat or visor that shades your face.
 Take steps to avoid applying any pressure to your nose for at least four weeks after your surgery. Your surgeon may request a longer period of time depending on the extent of the surgery.Do not wear glasses or sunglasses during this time as they put pressure on your nose.
If you must wear glasses then take steps to prevent any pressure from the glasses. One way is to tape the glasses to your forehead. Cheek rests are also available.
 Try to avoid wearing clothing that is pulled on over your head for at least four weeks, or longer if your surgeon recommends.Select shirts or blouses that button up along the front, or wear dresses that you can step into.
Avoid sweatshirts and sweaters for the same time frame.
 Continue your exercise regimen by make some adjustments if your routine involves strenuous activity that can put pressure on your nose. Even though you may not think about it, some forms of exercise that involve an up and down motion can cause the tissues in your nose to become damaged or fail to heal as intended.Avoid routines like running or jogging. Definitely avoid any activities or sports that could result in a blow to the face, such as soccer, football, and basketball.
Participate in only low impact exercises and avoid high impact regimens like aerobics.
Yoga and stretching are good choices, but avoid any positions that require you to bend over or put your head a low angle. This can cause extra pressure to the area and might interfere with healing.
Ask your doctor when you can resume your normal exercise routine.
 Follow the diet you began several weeks prior to your surgery, or establish a regular diet that includes a good balance of the recommended food groups.Continue to consume foods that are high in fiber such as fruits and vegetables, and maintain a low sodium diet until your doctor recommends otherwise.
Do not return to smoking if you were a smoker before your surgery. Also try to avoid second-hand smoke. Second-hand smoke can act as an irritant.

