 Your clothes need room to move around. Stuffing too many clothes into the washer is bad for your clothes for a few reasons. If your clothes don’t have room to move around, they are more likely to come out crumpled and wrinkled. Make sure to separate colors from whites and separate fabric types to reduce the size of your laundry load.They are also more likely to come out less clean than desired.;
, This cycle is best for preventing wrinkles in your clothing. The steam cycle provides a deeper clean and can smooth out wrinkles and creases. Not every washer, however, has a steam cycle. You can create something like a steam cycle during the drying process.Clothes can shrink during this cycle. Make sure you don’t put in fabric that is likely to shrink during a steam wash.
 It is best to wash your clothes in water that is 60 degrees Fahrenheit and above. Laundry detergents are typically formulated to work in water that is 60 degrees or warmer. Water that is colder than that can decrease stain removal, and increase pilling and wrinkling. Wash your clothes in warm water to reduce and remove wrinkles.Wash your clothes in cold water if the instructions specify to do so.
 Use one cup of white, distilled vinegar into your washing machine to reduce wrinkles. Pour the cup directly into the laundry before staring the washing cycle. Before doing this, you should read your washing machine’s instruction manual to see if anything is said about the use of vinegar.Apple cider vinegar can also be used.
 Fabric softeners make your clothes softer, smell better, and they help reduce wrinkles. Add the specified amount of fabric softener to your load before you start the washer. Fabric softeners can be bought at most super markets. If you don’t want to add too many different products to your laundry, you can buy a detergent that has fabric softener in it.You can also make your own fabric softener out of ingredients like, essential oils, vinegar, salt, and hair conditioner.
 A heavy washing cycle can be too tough on clothes, especially cotton and delicate fabrics. Clothes that have been tossed around in the washer too much can can come out wrinkled and tangles. Instead, opt for the gentle cycle, or a cycle that is specifically for cottons or delicates.








Separate your denims and heavier fabrics from your lighter fabrics. Wash your lighter fabrics on a gentler cycle.
 Tangled and crumpled clothing can lead to wrinkles. First, remove the clothes from the washing machine. Then, untangle each piece of clothing. It doesn’t have to be smoothed out yet. Each piece of clothing should be able to lie flat.
 The untangled article of clothing may have some wrinkles and creases. Hold each piece of clothing from the shoulders and shake it out. Shake it until the piece of clothing appears smoother than it did before.
 The clothing may still be wet, so wring out any excess water. After you shake and wring out the article of clothing, fluff it using your hands. Then, you can put the clothing into the dryer. You can fluff your clothing by holding the shoulders of the article or clothing and shaking it a few times in an up and down motion.
 If you use a dryer, make sure not to load the dryer with too many clothes. Clothes need their space in the dryer. Stuffing in too many clothes can wrinkle and tangle them. You should wash a small load of laundry beforehand, but if the load was large, divide the load into two drying sessions.








Many dryers, especially newer models, have a wrinkle-free and permanent press setting made specifically to reduce wrinkles. Choose one of those settings when drying if it is available to you.
Hang the clothes that are waiting to go in for the second load of drying.
 This step should be done with clothes that were put on a line or hung up to dry. Check the clothes when they have been drying for a while. Take them down when they are still damp. Ironing them while they are still damp will make your clothes appear nicely pressed.
 Throwing your clothes into a pile after drying can lead to wrinkling. Fold each piece of clothing as soon as you remove them from the dryer. Put them away into their usual places to avoid the pile of folded clothing being knocked over and undone.
 If the article of clothing is not quite as smooth as you’d hoped, throw it back into the dryer with a damp washcloth. Doing this creates a steam cycle that many models of dryers do not have. Use the steam setting on the dryer if it is available to you.








Do not put clothes in the dryer that aren’t meant to be dried.
 If you can’t or don’t have time to put the clothing into the dryer, spritz the clothes with water. Spritz the clothing lightly with a water bottle. Then, smooth it out with your hands until the wrinkles are gone.








You can also purchase wrinkle reducing sprays to use on your clothing instead of water. You can buy wrinkle releasing sprays from big brands, like Downy, or make your own from a cup of distilled water and a cup of vinegar.