 You may have started to earn the girl's trust back, but how do you keep it? You have to make her feel special so that she knows that she means a lot to you, and that you won't go and lie whenever you feel like it. To make her feel special, you should act like a gentleman, take her out on romantic dates, compliment her looks and personality, and show an interest in her hobbies, thoughts, and goals.


If she looks beautiful, don't be afraid to tell her.
Send her flowers or a love poem, if it feels natural for you.
Ask her opinion on anything that matters to you, whether it's your new haircut or current events.
Take an interest in her life. Ask her about her family, her latest chem exam, or even show an interest in her childhood.
 If you want to keep the girl's trust, then you have to learn to really open up to her. Tell her things about yourself that you haven't told many people -- or that you haven't told anyone, even -- and make her see that you really trust and care about her. If you tell her personal or private information, then she'll see that you really value her judgment and reaction, and that you want to be really honest with her.


You don't have to tell her anything that makes you uncomfortable. Just make her see that you trust her with your personal moments, and hopefully she'll reciprocate.
If you take the time to let her really know you, she'll appreciate it and will see how sincere you are.
 If you really want to keep the girl's trust, then you have to be true to who you really are. Though it's likely that you've had to make some major changes in your life to ensure that you won't lie again, you shouldn't change who you are completely just to earn the girl's trust. If you feel like you're groveling, sucking up, or just spending all of your energy on winning her over, then you're not really being who you are, and neither she nor you will be happy with that.


Ask yourself if you feel comfortable in your own skin, and if you feel like the girl is trusting the real you -- not some new guy you've created just to win her over.
 Unfortunately, you may not ever be able to win a girl's trust back after lying. If it's been weeks, or even months, and you still feel unsteady, like she doesn't fully trust you, like she always has to check in on you, and that you're constantly apologizing for what happened in the past, then it may be too late to make it work. You're better off ending the relationship before both of you get even more hurt, and cause more pain by trying to fix something that's too broken to be repaired.


If you feel like you've been patient and have given the relationship your all and that your girl still won't trust you, then it may be best to part ways.
If it's really not working, then you're better off starting over with someone new -- as long as you've learned from your mistakes.
Once you recognize that it's really too late, you should move on as soon as you can. This is better than prolonging the pain -- for both of you.

