 Your puppy will be wet from coming down the birth canal and floating in placental fluid. Use a soft, warm towel to dry your puppy’s hair and stimulate circulation. Be gentle when drying your puppy, as it is quite vulnerable to injury at this early stage., The umbilical cord is a long tube connecting the puppy’s abdomen to the mother’s uterus. While your doggie is pregnant, the umbilical cord carries nutrients to the developing puppy. But after the puppy is born, there is no need for the umbilical cord. Your dog should gnaw the umbilical cord until it comes off.But in the event that your dog doesn’t, you should do it yourself.Measure the umbilical cord away from the puppy’s body to a length of ½ an inch (1 centimeter). Tie the cord with a piece of thread or unwaxed dental floss so that it is squeezed slightly. Snip the cord at the place where you tied it. The remaining bit will shrivel up and drop off in a few days.
 A whelping box is like a doghouse that accommodates a dog and her new puppy. It should be in a safe location inside the house and provide enough room for your dog to lie down. You can buy or make a whelping box.Sturdy, reusable whelping boxes are best if you intend to have other dogs give birth. Disposable whelping boxes of cardboard are best if your dog will not have any more puppies.
Whelping boxes should have sides that are tall enough to contain puppies, but low enough that your dog can enter and exit at will. For instance, perhaps your whelping box is a square-shaped affair with sides of 15 inches (38 centimeters) on three sides and 4 inches (10 centimeters) on the fourth side.
If you’re making your own whelping box, line it with a large plastic bag and place warm towels or blankets on top of it. Do not add wood shavings as a substrate for the whelping box.
Once your dog is secure with the puppy in the whelping box, she should begin nursing. If your dog does not begin nursing, contact your vet.
Keep the whelping box clean. Change the towels/sheets as needed.

