 Some colors can cause your skin to appear washed-out or blotchy, depending on your particular skin tone. Once you’ve determined what these colors are, avoid them. Always choose the most flattering color(s) for you.


Black tends to look great on everyone, as well as most neutral colors.
Match the color of the choker’s embellishments, like stones or cameos, to your eye color for a mesmerizing and unusual look.
 This unique and lightweight choice has become extremely popular once again. The studded velvet black choker is a classic that’s never gone out of style.However, there are options in every color of the rainbow, and there are many different styles to choose from.
 Pair a crocheted choker with a long Bohemian skirt for a look that is both feminine and carefree.


A crochet choker can make even a basic cotton top look unique and trendy.
They can look great with casual and formal outfits, so experiment a little.
 The velvet and lace versions usually have embellishments like drop pearls, intricate chains, dangling pendants, tiny fabric roses, cameos, lockets and jewels. They range from very simple to incredibly ornate.The leather versions are usually more simple, with a snap closure.
Studded leather chokers are popular in punk and goth fashion.
Try a cameo for a gothic-tinged Victorian or Edwardian look., Metal chokers come in a variety of styles and are made with many different types of metals. One of the most common varieties is a simple, dainty chain choker, which can easily accessorize lots of different looks. There are also bold statement pieces, such as wide gold or silver bands, that can make a real impact.Layered chains, tiny charms, and stacked bands in a variety of widths are all popular choices for metal chokers.
Intricate metalwork and unique wire designs are also fashionable.
 There are fashionable choker options for men and masculine people, but you do need to be selective. Simple, solid bands look best – the most favored versions are usually made of leather, rope, or hemp. Those who enjoy punk fashions will look great with a dog collar style choker.Woven hemp chokers have always been popular in surfer culture.
Some feature puka shells, which is another popular look.

