 Obtain a washer that produces pressure of at least 2,000 psi (pounds per square inch). Plan to pick it up with a van, SUV or pickup truck if needed. Consider getting help with loading and unloading it from the vehicle. Talk to the rental agent about how to hook up and operate the washer, and ask for all safety precautions.You can rent a pressure washer at a local home and building supply store.
If the washer doesn’t come with nozzles, you’ll have to get them separately. You’ll need fifteen- to twenty-five-degree nozzles.
 Spread tarp, old sheets, or drop cloths on the ground. Cover any shrubs or plants.If you’re siding is painted, the cloths will protect the ground from paint chips.
 Wear protective eyewear, strong footwear, and long pants. Follow all instructions and safety precautions for your brand and model of pressure washer. Read the instructions for a pre-operation check, operating procedures, and shutdown procedures. Don’t pressure wash your siding if it’s painted with paint that may have lead in it.It’s vital to protect yourself properly. The spray of a pressure washer is very powerful and hazardous. The force can cause many types of serious injuries.
If you’re house was built in 1977 or earlier, or if you’re not sure that it’s lead-free, get the paint tested. Ask your local health department to provide you with safety instructions., Don’t use settings finer than fifteen degrees. Never use a zero degree nozzle on a pressure washer.Lock the coupling securely in place.If the nozzle is not securely attached, it can shoot off when you turn on the pressure washer.
 Attach the washer to a regular garden hose. Attach the garden hose to your outdoor faucet. Start the engine., Move closer as you find the best distance. Spray horizontally or at an angle slightly downward.Proceed with caution when using a pressure washer, which can dent siding or peel off its finish.
 If a low pressure wash isn’t working well, scrub the siding with a soap solution and follow up with a low pressure rinse. Alternately, do a test wash with a twenty-five degree nozzle in an area of siding that isn’t very visible. Make sure no damage occurs to the siding before continuing a full wash.Proceed with a high pressure wash at the risk that you may damage the test area of siding.

