 Ryuk has a rebellious way of dressing. He wears completely black, including several chains and studs. If you want to dress like him modestly, you could incorporate black, grey, navy, dark purple, and other dark colors into your wardrobe. He also wears black boots, which you could wear too. If you don't want to wear boots, especially in hotter weather, try wearing combat boots, flats, flip flops, or even black Converse or Vans, if you wanted. Footwear isn't crucial as long as it's in Ryuk's color scheme.


Wear a lot of black. Find a way to make it look as if your shirt is sewn into your skin.;
, You could wear multiple belts, like Ryuk. Wear dark colored skinny jeans, patterned leggings, or even leather leggings or pants. Wear black skirts with ripped up black tights or pantyhose underneath.

When dressing like Ryuk, keep in mind that anything that's dark-colored goes.
 Ryuk wears a lot of metal, like his earring. Wear some chains and a heart attached to a chain on your left ear.
 It pulls the whole thing together.
 Make up is key. Since most people aren't born with blue skin, you'll need a lot of blue makeup to get the look you want (that's not even starting with the lips or eyes). It's best if someone helps you with it.
 Unless you want to go for his look at the end of the series (in which case, buy some blank contacts), Ryuk's eyes are necessary. They're haunting to someone who stares into them, like a Shinigami should be.
 Since you've read or watched Death Note, you probably have noticed that Ryuk doesn't care much about Light Yagami, correct? After all, Ryuk is a Death God and he doesn't care much about humans or their opinion of him or other shinigamis. If you wish to act like Ryuk, it's best if you adopt an "I don't care" attitude. Wear what you want, do whatever you want, and so on and so forth. Ryuk is creepy and doesn't play for any sides.


Ryuk doesn't truly care about Light. While Light digs his own grave, Ryuk sits back and watches. For example, if someone were to spread stupid rumours about you, just laugh it off and carry on. That's what Ryuk would do. He doesn't dwell on dumb stuff that has no effect on him. In addition to your "I don't give a damn" attitude, however do give a damn about friends, family, your grades in school, etc.
 Ryuk is very opinionated, sarcastic, and snarky. Keep in mind that some people don't like these qualities in a person. Yet, some do. Try cracking dry humour jokes. If someone is doing something wrong, give them your opinion on how they can do better or try harder. Being opinionated doesn't mean acting like an ass to people. Think of it as a "friendly suggestion.", Last but not least, Ryuk is loyal. True, he isn't fond of humans or of Light, but he remains loyal to him. He wouldn't necessarily risk his life for Light, as Rem, Misa's Shinigami did. For an example, he told Light that Raye Pen-bar was following him. He also was willing to help Light Yagami find out Raye's ' real name when Ryuk followed through Light's plan during the bus jacking.


Follow around a guy who acts like Light. Talk to him and tell him how to work the Death Note.
, Like the other characters of Death Note, Ryuk has strange habits. For one, Ryuk is addicted to apples. He complains the apples in the Shinigami Realm are dry and disgusting. If you want to establish your addiction to apples, always be snacking on an apple or apple slices.


Ryuk's second "habit" is he goes through withdrawal if he doesn't eat an apple. Become irritable and loopy if you don't eat one for sometime. But don't make yourself or others miserable around you, and don't make yourself look like an idiot. Be slightly loopy and irritable, yet enough so others will comprehend that it's apples that cause you to become that way.
Eat apples all the time. Say, "It's worth going to the human world for these apples." or something along the lines. Pretend to go through withdrawal symptoms if you can't eat apples.

