 The older a child gets the better prepared they are to cope with death. Very young children, such a preschoolers, may have a hard time understanding death, instead viewing it as a temporary separation. High schoolers, on the other hand, can understand the finality of death and it's causes.


Some younger children may generalize death to understand it. For example, after witnessing Sept. 11, some younger children might associate death with walking into tall buildings.
Let your child guide the conversations about death, as they will ask the questions important to them and help your decide what tone and language to use.
 Especially for young children, death is often a foreign concept. The idea that our loved ones will not be around forever needs to be learned, and parents can provide love and support while kids learn to cope with death. While this conversation is difficult, you should be yourself and be there for your child.


Answer questions with simple and direct questions, not with euphemisms like "lost" or "passed on."
Be truthful -- minimizing negative emotions will only confuse your child later on and hurt their trust in you., Don't whisper, make up stories, or wait to tell them "at the right time." If a child overhears about the death of a loved one from someone else it is confusing and hurtful, and they child won't know where to turn for advice.


A trusted loved one should tell a child about a death whenever possible so that they feel protected., Just like adult, children can have a hard time expressing themselves or knowing when to speak. Be sure to encourage them to talk about how they feel, but respect their wishes if they are quiet or uncomfortable -- feeling pressured will only confuse them more and make it harder to comprehend their grief.
 Talk to children about the good memories they have with the deceased, look at pictures from happy moments, make an effort to stay positive. While this is difficult when you are going through grief as well, it can help everyone cope with negative emotions.
 Letting a child recite a poem at the funeral, help pick out flowers, or tell a story about a loved one let's them become a part of the family grief process. They feel like they have some control over their feelings and can contribute to the memory of the deceased in a meaningful way., While parents should always be supportive for their children, they will take cues from you as well. If you resist showing emotion, crying, or talking about the death of a loved one your child will likely do the same., While most children can learn to cope with death over time, there are cases when a death hits a child particularly hard and the advice of a trained mental health professional may be necessary. Keep an eye open for any of the following symptoms:


Trouble performing basic tasks
Sudden bedwetting
Persistent irritability, mood swings, or sadness.
Low self-esteem and confidence
Sudden provocative or sexual behavior.