 One way you can locate a gym daycare is to inquire if your regular gym has daycare services. Perhaps they have a daycare area in the back that you never noticed before. Or maybe they recently expanded to include a daycare for their clients. Speak to a representative at your local gym to see if you can place your child in a daycare there.Finding a daycare at your local gym can be a convenient option as you will not have to adjust much of your workout routine and you can stick to a gym that you are comfortable with. Your local gym may also be close to your home, making it easier to get there and back with your child when you want to work out.;
, You can also try doing an online search that is location specific, such as “gym daycare in Boston” or “gym daycare in Seattle downtown.” There are many gym daycares listed online based on your area or state. Do a search and find a few options close to you that you can then check out.You can also search chain gyms, such as 24 hour fitness, to see if they offer daycare services at a location in your area. Many chain gyms have daycare services for their clients., Reach out to other parents at your gym or in your circle of friends and ask them if they have used daycare services at a gym before. Talk to them about good gym daycares they have used in the area. Get a reference for a good gym daycare from them.


You can also compare details like pricing and quality of service of certain daycares with other parents. For example, you may ask, “Which gym daycares are the most affordable? Which gym daycares offer the best services?”

, Most daycares will have a minimum age for children and/or a maximum age. For example, some daycares may not take children younger than two or older than ten. Contact the daycare and ask them if they have age requirements for the children they take.For example, some daycares may only take children that are at an age where they are toilet-trained. Some gyms only take in younger children based on the training and capabilities of their staff.
 You should also find out when the daycare is open so you can determine if it fits into your schedule. You may have a specific time in your schedule when you workout and want to be sure the daycare will be open during these times. Look for the daycare hours on the gym’s website or call them to find out this information.You should also inquire if there is a limit on the time a child can stay in the daycare and if you have to book a spot for your child in advance.
Some daycares work on a first-come, first-serve basis. If this is the case, you should make sure the daycare will have enough staff during the times you plan to workout so you can drop off your child.
 You should also make sure the daycare fits into your budget and is affordable. Find out if the daycare service is included in your gym membership or it if costs extra. Some gyms may charge a few dollars an hour for daycare or a flat rate for a certain number of hours.You should weigh the cost of the daycare with the cost of having a sitter watch your kids at home. If the daycare is more affordable, you may opt for the gym daycare so you do not need to pay more for a private sitter.
 To determine if the gym daycare is the right fit, you may decide to bring your child with you on a trial visit to the daycare. Call the daycare ahead of time and find out if it is okay for you to bring your child in for a trial visit. Having your child with you can help to ensure your child is as comfortable with the daycare environment as you are.


If you’d rather not worry about your child during the visit, feel free to check out the daycare on your own. Once you feel the daycare is a fit, you may then decide to bring your child to the daycare.
 Pay attention to the level of cleanliness in the daycare. Ask yourself several questions when you visit, including: Are the floors and windows clean? Do the toys provided look clean and in good condition? Are any climbing or jumping areas well padded and maintained?You should also ask a representative at the daycare how old the daycare is and how old the facility is as a whole. You should make sure the daycare is structurally sound and does not pose a threat to your child.
 Find out if the daycare encourages free play, where the children are allowed to play with toys as they see fit or if the daycare offers more structured activities. Maybe the daycare does educational play with children over a certain age. Inquire about the level of play offered at the daycare.


You should also pay attention to the types of toys offered to the children. Are the toys educational and engaging? You may not want to put your child in a daycare that only seems to have television as a form of entertainment.
 You should also inquire about whether children are allowed to bring outside food into the daycare, such as packaged snacks that you prepare in advance, or if they will be given snacks as part of their care. If they are given snacks, make sure you know what kind of snacks will be offered. If your child has any allergies, you should let the daycare know so they do not serve food that could put your child in danger.


You should also find out if the staff will be able to change your child's diapers if necessary. Ask if they have a changing area and if they are comfortable changing diapers.
 Ask questions about how many staff are present at one time in the daycare as well as the level of experience of the staff. Find out if the staff have passed background checks and are trained in CPR. Confirm that the staff have experience in child development and childcare.Notice if there is enough staff to take care of the amount of children in the daycare. The smaller the number of children in the facility, the better. There should be no more than three to four infants and toddlers per adult staff member, or six to ten kids that are three to five years old per adult staff member.
Ask how the daycare determines how many staff members to have at one time. You may ask, “Do you have staff on call if there is a large number of kids in the daycare at one time? Do you turn children away if there is not enough staff? Does your staff play with the children?”

, Once you have checked out the daycare on your own or with your child, determine if its a good fit. Factor in the gym facilities as well as the daycare facilities. Think about whether you would feel comfortable letting your child stay in the daycare while you work out.


If your child came with you on the visit, ask them for their opinion. Gauge if they seem comfortable and at ease in the daycare. You may ask your child, “What did you think of that daycare? Did you have a good time? Would you want to play there again?”

