 Best, apparently, oils:
Sesame oil: Penetrates follicles deeply and easily, may help to regain hair, promote growth fast and may treat premature grey hair. Acts, apparently, as a natural sunscreen, repairs damaged hair and regains the lost luster. Antibacterial which keeps fungal and bacterial infections at bay, acts as a coolant, prevents split ends and may or provide many other benefits.
Mixture of avocado and olive oil. Penetrates hair shaft, adds strength to strands, adds layer of protection, builds a strong level of elasticity to break.
Warm coconut oil: Antibacterial, Prevents protein loss, gives shine, prevents hair breakage, split-ends, conditions from within.;
, Enjoy the smoothness. Do this weekly.
For oily hair: Apply a mixture of egg (white+yellow together) and lime juice (5 tbsp) evenly and keep it on your hair for 40 mins (The quantity may vary according to the length of your hair). Wash off. It gives a bouncy effect, strengthens, prevents hair loss and last but not the least it says a real good-bye to dandruff. Do this weekly.
For damaged hair: Apply mixture of egg yolk, honey and olive oil evenly throughout damp hair and keep it for 30 minutes. Wash off. Do this twice a week.



Use Henna. Henna is a natural dye (Mignonette tree leaves) which is also available in stores in a variety of different brands. Popularly known as "Henna". Apply henna twice a month or as per the product directions. Always apply Henna when hair is clean and dry (e.g., if you have shampooed your hair today, then, apply it tomorrow.) Apply it after properly combing your hair for an even application and avoid tangles. Always prepare the mixture one night before the application and add curd (where required) 1-2 hrs before the application for better results. Cover your hair with a plastic cap after the application (optional, if you are at home). Some benefits:
Strengthening hair.
Gives a protective coating and gives an awesome color. (Available in various colors in stores and markets).
Prevents hair loss and damage.
Limp, damaged, extra thin, broken, any sort of bad hair can be repaired by use of Henna as it adds life to each strand of hair. 
"Can't keep off hands from hair" effect will craze you. Use it for 3 months (monthly twice) and see the health of your hair.
For Hair loss: Apply the mixture of 3-5 big tbsp (depends on length of hair) of Henna powder, 2 big tbsp of fenugreek (methi) powder, 1 tbsp of turmeric powder, lime juice (1 lemon), egg white from 1 egg. If you want color, you can boil water with tea powder and filter it to get the reddish brown water extract and add the extract in the Henna mixture.  Leave it for 1 hr. Wash off the hair with water (do not use shampoo). Shampoo your hair the 2nd day.
Dandruff treatment: Apply mixture of 1 cup Henna, 1/2 cup fenugreek (methi) powder, 2 cups curd, 1 lemon juice. For color, you need to follow the same in the previous step. Leave it for 1-2 hrs. Wash off the hair with water (do not use shampoo). Shampoo your hair the 2nd day.
Deep conditioning: Apply mixture of Henna powder 2 cups, Gooseberry (Amla) powder 1 cup, Hibiscus flower powder (2 tbsp)or  Hibiscus leaves ground & turned into a smooth paste (1 cup), Fenugreek (methi) powder 2 tbsp, curd 1 cup & 1 egg (white+yellow). Leave it for 2 hrs. Wash off the hair with water (do not use shampoo). Shampoo your hair the 2nd day.
For hair color: Apply a mixture of Henna powder 2 cups, gooseberry (amla) powder 1/2 cup, shikakai powder 2 tbsp, fenugreek (methi) powder 2 big tbsp, 1 egg white, lime juice 3 big tbsp and tea water extract. Leave it for 2 hrs. Wash off the hair with water (do not use shampoo). Shampoo your hair the 2nd day.

