 Before you can remove dahlia bulbs from the ground, you will need to cut down the stems. You should do this as soon as the first frost of the season has arrived.Cut back the stems until they're about 6 inches (15 centimeters) from the ground.
You can now leave the roots for two to three more weeks before removing the bulbs.;
, To start removing the bulbs, use a fork to gently loosen the soil surrounding the bulbs. Be careful not to dig too close to the stem or too deep into the ground. You do not want to accidentally cut into the bulbs and damage them.Use wiggling motions to remove the dirt.
Loosen up a small circle of soil around each bulb.
 Once you start to see the bulbs, you can remove them. You can use a blunt-ended stick to remove soil surrounding the bulbs. Then, insert your fork under the bulb. Push back on the fork gently to lift the bulb out of the ground.Go very slowly as you lift the bulb. You do not want to break off any of the stems. You will need them next year for the flowers to bloom again.
 There will be a lot of soil clinging to the bulbs. This should be removed prior to storage. Gently shake off as much soil as you can. Then, rinse off the remaining soil using water.Wear gardening gloves to protect your hands.
Be extremely careful when shaking and rinsing the bulbs. You do not want to cause them any damage. If damaged, you will not be able to reuse the bulbs next year.
 You should not store the bulbs until they're completely dry. This process takes about three weeks. After you've removed the bulbs from the soil, place them upside down in a pot.Place the pot in an area away from direct sunlight during the drying process.The pot should be placed in a dry, airy space. A storage shed or greenhouse would work well., After three weeks have passed, you can prepare your dahlias for winter storage. They should be packed into storage containers with either peat moss or dry leaves.Use a tray to store your plants. Place your bulbs in the tray, keeping them at least 8 inches (20 centimeters) from one another and the sides of the container.
Cover the bulbs in peat moss or dry leaves. Then, cover the container with a piece of burlap or a similar material.
 If your area is not prone to extremely cold winters, you can leave the tray outside near your garden. However, if temperatures drop below 16°F (−9°C), you need to store the dahlia bulbs in some kind of shelter. The area must be dry, cooler, and well-ventilated for the bulbs to thrive.A dry cellar, greenhouse, or cupboard in a cooler area of your home, such as a basement or attic, are all good areas to store dahlia bulbs.
For best results, the storage area should have a temperature between 39° to 45°F (4° to 7°C).
 You don't want to neglect your bulbs until the coming spring. Throughout the winter, check on them regularly. If you notice any signs of decay. If you notice the bulbs are shriveling, mist them with water. If any portion starts to rot, trim that portion off and remove it from the container., You should always remove your bulbs at the right time of year. This way, you have the best chance of them re-blooming in the spring. The first light frost of the season is usually the best time to remove the bulbs, but it's vital to remove them before a hard frost. Make sure to get them out of the ground before it becomes consistently below freezing in your area., You want to make sure your bulbs are stored at a low temperature. Storing bulbs inside your home, in a place like the kitchen, is not recommended. Warm cupboards and cabinets will destroy dahlia bulbs. Store them in areas in your home with a lower temperature, like the attic or basement., There should be some holes and slots in the storage container you choose. If bulbs cannot get access to air, this will cause them to decay. Always select a well-ventilated storage container when storing dahlia bulbs.