 Download Wondershare Pocket dvd Ripper version is 1.1.2;
, This software helps you rip DVDs automatically. You needn’t know how to break the css protect. You will not be confused by the complicated operation of ‘DVD Decrypter’ or ‘DVD Shrink’.
Or Load .ifo files from your hard drive by clicking “Add ifo”. IFO file is an index of DVD files. It contains many control info about the DVD movies.
Or right click on the blank area in the center of the main interface to import video files from your hard drive or DVD-ROM drive.
 In default setting, this software will help you convert multi DVD files into one file, so if you just want to convert some chapters of the DVD, you could cancel the click in front of the title, select the chapters you want to convert and click the box in front of it. The “estimated size” will let you know the approximate output files size.
 While playing the DVD, a yellow frame will appear beside the scene, you could drag the yellow line to cut any parts you don’t want.
 Click the “setting” icon to open the “Option” window. Here you could use the drop-down list to set values for “Resolution”, “Framerate”, “Codec”, “Video Bitrate”, “Ratio”, “Audio SampleRate”, and “Channels”.


Set resolution, you could select the suitable resolution according to your mobile device.
Set Framerate, there are seven choices for you to select, 25 framerate/s stands for PAL format, 30 framerate/s stands for NTSC format. NTSC is a standard used in North America and Japan. PAL is a standard used almost everywhere else in the world. If you want to know the character about PAL and NTSC, you could refer this article for more info http://www.michaeldvd.com.au/Articles/PALvsNTSC/PALvsNTSC.asp

Set codec, there are three encoders for you, they are three versions of Microsoft WMV encoder, WM1 provides fast conversion speed, and WM3 provides better quality with longer conversion time.
Set Video Bitrate, high bitrate provides better video quality with bigger output size. You could select the suitable one according for your memory volume.
Set ratio, you could configure 16:9 or 4:3 here. 16:9 is width screen. It becomes more and more popular. 4:3 is common ratio for older monitor.
Set SampleRate, high sample rate provides better quality with bigger size. This software can convert the Audio track in DVDs to a single MP3 or WMA file which can be played on MP3 player. If you care about the quality, high sample rate would be your choice.
Set Channels, select “Mono” or “Stereo”.

Select Subtitle: DVD movies often provide multi-languages for watching, you could select anyone you want, and there also has a “No Subtitle” option for you.
Select Audio: Audio setting is similar with Subtitle; you could select anyone you want.
Select output path: the default path is C:\Program Files\Wondershare\Pocket DVD Ripper\Output\ you could change it at your pleasure.
Select Format: There are three choices for you, WMV/WMA/MP3, WMA and MP3 are audio format, if someone just wants the music from the movie without video (for example, you just want the songs from the DVD concert) you could select MP3 or WMA format, then you can enjoy it on your MP3 player.
 Then a small window will be popped up.
This software supports batch conversion; you could add multi tasks at one time and then go away to do anything else. It could shut down computer automatically after all tasks are finished. You could preview your DVD while converting or click “Hide Preview” to shorten the conversion time. You could also get much info about conversion here.
 It should be easy to do it.

