 Go to the main Versace website and browse around to find a digital image of the bag that you are interested in. If the bag is vintage, then browse the internet and locate at least a few comparison images. Get the photos and do a one-on-one comparison, paying particular attention to small details, like the appearance of the lining., You should be able to fasten the bag’s zippers and clasps with little effort and without scratching the metal surface of the hardware. The hardware should also be one uniform finish. Be particularly wary if you see dull spots on an otherwise shiny finish.Versace does not use plastic hardware parts. All hardware on your bag should be a matching metal.It is a good idea to lightly tug on each piece of hardware to make sure that it is properly sewn into the bag. The hardware should not move or be attached to the bag with glue. If you are buying online, ask for a close-up photo of the hardware and where it meets the bag.
Any designs on the hardware will likely be etched into the surface, not printed.
 The stitching should be even, barely noticeable, and straight. Glance over the stitching to see if you notice any loose or frayed seams as that is a sign of a fake bag. The seams on an authentic bag may also be protected with a light wax casing, which is sometimes removable post-purchase.The threads should all be the same color, unless they are purposefully contrasted.
Pull very gently at the sides of the bag where the seams are located. They should not give at all, which is a sign of durability.
 If your bag is leather, it will likely have a light leather fragrance. Otherwise, your bag should not smell at all. Any indications of a rubbery or chemical smell is a sign that your bag is likely fake. Be aware that any fragrances that touch your new bag may be absorbed., If you buy your bag new from a store or online, it may come in a box with a dust bag. The bag is used for storing the bag when not in use. The hardware of the Versace bag itself will not be covered with plastic or another layer. This is a common sign of a counterfeit., The Versace logo should be consistent across all of the packing materials and markings on the bag itself. Look for a crisp, clear logo on all printed materials and etching, instead of printing, on the handbag.