 Your children will be more excited to bring their lunch to school if they have a lunchbox or lunch bag that has a design they like on it. For example, your children might choose one with a favorite cartoon character.You should also consider buying lunch boxes with built in dividers. Many children do not like their food mixed up, and these lunchbox compartments will also make packing lunch easier for your kids.;
, When making your shopping list, ask your kids to contribute. You might ask them to choose a vegetable, fruit, and so on to add to your shopping list. When your kids feel like they had an active part in lunchtime decisions, they'll be more likely to want to continue helping by packing their own lunch.


When shopping, you can continue this involvement by having your kids help you find items as you shop., Some foods, like vegetables, may need to be cut into smaller pieces before putting them in a plastic baggie for lunch. Do prep work with your kids ahead of time so that they can grab these prepared items and assemble their lunches quickly and easily.You can pre-cut items, like vegetables, fruits, and so on, then put them in re-sealable containers. Store these in your fridge for lunches throughout the week.
 When kids are given something, they often become possessive of it. Use this to your advantage, and make a lunch packing station for your kids to make them more invested in making their own lunch. Some ideas for a lunch packing station include:Allocating some cabinet space for your kids' snacks. For younger kids, you may want to put these in easily accessible containers (like open-topped baskets) on easy to reach shelves.
Using a separate shelf for lunchboxes and clean plastic containers. This way, your kids always know where to store and find their lunchbox and plastic containers.

Use safe labeling techniques to differentiate shelf space between kids, to designate lunch boxes, plastic containers, and so on.
You can also turn this into a craft and get your kids involved by allowing them to add personal decorations (within reason) to their lunch packing station.

