 If you know who's calling, based on caller ID and experience, feel free to greet that person as you would face-to-face. If you don't know who's calling, answer more formally and wait for the caller to state their purpose.


For a standard, internationally-accepted greeting: say, "Hello?" Answer with a slight upward inflection at the end of your greeting, as though you were asking a question. "Hello?" This will prompt the caller to respond, and in most cases they will go on to explain why they're calling.
If a friend is calling, greet them casually: "Hey, Tom! How's it going?"
If a supervisor, an acquaintance, or a potential employer is calling, greet them more formally, but with an air of familiarity: "Good evening, Mr. Lynch. How are you?"
If you do not know who's calling, revert to a simple "Hello?"

,", wait for the caller to respond. When you say "Hello?", you prompt the caller to introduce him or herself. Review the following example, with your words in bold and the caller's words in italics:


"Hello?"
"Hey, Carl, it's Tom."
"Oh, hey Tom! What's up?"
"I'm just calling to see if you're around later. I was thinking about going to see the new Star Wars movie."
"Heck yeah, I'm down to see the new Star Wars movie!"

, As you become more experienced at answering the phone, you may begin to develop greeting patterns and specific phrases that you use over and over.


Consider identifying yourself with your greeting: "Hello, this is Carl." or "Carl speaking."
Consider experimenting with informal variations of "Hello?": "Hey!" or "Hiya!" or "Hey, what's up?" or "Hey, how's it going?" These informal greetings are best suited to friends and non-professional acquaintances.
 Anyone from friends to parents to employers might wind up hearing your voice-mail message, so make sure that it's polite and direct. Avoid joke or prank voice-mail recordings unless you're absolutely sure that only your friends will be calling.


Say, "You've reached Carl's voice-mailbox. I'm sorry that I can't make it to the phone right now. Leave a message and I'll get back to you as soon as I can."
Consider setting up a family recording if you're using a home phone. Say, "Hi, this is the Rogers family. Sorry we can't come to the phone right now, but leave us a message and we'll call you back as soon as we can!" Feel free to have fun with family recordings--try having your whole family speak as a chorus, or have each family member say part of the message.
Consider asking directly for caller details, instead of just asking callers to leave a message: "Please leave your name, number, and purpose for calling, and I will return your call as soon it's convenient." This more specific approach may be most appropriate for a number at which you expect to receive a lot of professional calls.

