 This lets you jump over obstacles and collect coins in the air. You can't jump high enough to get on the top of a train unless you have the Super Sneakers powerup.;
, You'll need to roll to get under low obstacles.
 Switch lanes to avoid trains, walls, and other obstacles.
 Your hoverboard allows you to collect more coins and will protect you from a crash.
 Coins are scattered throughout the levels, and you'll need to move quickly to collect as many as possible.
 There are four different powerups that you'll come across while playing:


Jetpack - Makes you fly above the train track and lets you grab additional coins.
Super Sneakers - Makes you jump higher.
Coin Magnet - You'll attract any nearby coins without having to touch them.
2x Multiplier - Doubles your current score multiplier (e.g. x3 now becomes x6).
 You'll see ramps on the ends of some train cars. Use these to reach the top of the trains, where you can collect more coins and avoid obstacles.
 When you swipe to move, your character will still take a moment to get over. Make sure you're leaving enough time to get out of the way of approaching obstacles.
 You can swipe to change lanes at any time, even if you're in midair. Try to plan ahead so that you end up exactly where you want.


If you're on the left or right lane, you can swipe twice in midair to move across both lanes in one jump.
 Rolling during a jump will cancel the jump animation and keep you on the ground. This can be very helpful for getting coins on the top of trains and to keep you from jumping too far with Super Sneakers.
 A hoverboard will prevent you from any crash, so it's best top save them until right before you need one. If you're about to hit a train or a wall, double-tap the screen to use one of your hoverboards.


Hoverboards cost 300 coins each, but you'll often get them as rewards as well.
Save your hoverboards for your really good runs to maximize your score. Don't waste them to avoid a crash at the start of a run when you can just start over for free instead.
 The key to getting a lot of coins is to upgrade a few important powerups. You can do this from the Shop menu.
, Improving these two powerups will lead to many more coins in the long run.
 Each time you complete a daily challenge, you'll receive a reward. Oftentimes this is a significant number of coins.


To view the Daily Challenge, tap the Daily Challenge button at the top of the main menu.
You only have until the timer runs out to complete the Daily Challenge and earn the reward.
 Each day in a row that you complete the Daily Challenge, you'll get a more impressive reward. By completing five days in a row, you'll earn a Super Mystery box, which can contain a whole lot of coins. You'll get a new Super Mystery Box for each Daily Challenge you continue to complete in a row.
 While completing a mission will not directly result in coins, reaching Multiplier 30 will result in Super Mystery Boxes as mission rewards. These can contain a lot of coins, so try to complete as many missions as possible.


To view your current missions, tap the Missions button on the main menu.
 This costs $4.99, but is a one-time purchase that will permanently double all of the coins you earn. You can find this at the top of the Shop menu.

