 The second hand on the clock seems to tick slower when there’s a lot of time ahead of you and little to do. To keep your sanity on your campout, bring some games to pass the time. A deck of cards offers a wide variety of games to play, in a pocket-sized package. No matter what game you bring, make sure it can be easily put away so you don’t waste time picking up the pieces. You could also bring an mp3 player or electronic game player if you have it. That way you can still be entertained if you’re shopping solo. Be careful not to fall asleep, though, because your more valuable items have the potential to get stolen.;
, Think ahead. Since you’re camping overnight, it will get cold. You don’t want to spend all that time outside before the store opens only to make it to sunrise and be too sick to shop. Blankets are a good idea, but too many might be difficult to carry and will get in the way when it comes time to shop. If you dress in layers, you can take them off as the day begins to get warm. Especially in an overcrowded store, you don’t want to be trapped in a bulky sweater. Dress in layers so you don’t freeze or get heat exhaustion.
 You will be waiting outside the store for quite some time, so remember to pack snacks to keep up your energy and ensure you don’t go hungry. Don't overdo it and spend all your money on food, though. You can always send your shopping buddy out for a food run, but if you’d rather stick together, then pack snacks. Bring foods that are easy to eat on the go and that don’t need to be refrigerated or heated up.
 Waiting all that time in line can get lonely, not to mention that camping out is safer in pairs or groups. Choose carefully, though. Black Friday shopping can be stressful, so don’t bring someone you know will add even more stress to the trip. Bring someone you can rely on to keep you company and who is as enthusiastic as you are about finding good deals.


If you're shopping for holiday gifts, you may not want to shop with people on your list. It won't be a surprise if they're shopping with you.
 Now that you’ve waited an entire night just to get into your favorite store, it’s finally time to actually get in there and grab the bargains. When those doors open you don’t want to be caught stuffing your extra items into the bags you brought. Don’t waste any time. Black Friday shopping is some serious business, and sometimes people even get hurt trying to rush into the doors when they first open. You don’t want to feel rushed when it comes time to pack up your things and go. By packing light you can quickly grab your things and head into the store.

