 Don't simply rely on drawing to get your point across -- the film world is full of vocabulary that makes your job easier and your storyboards more precise. Writing down camera angles helps camera crews quickly see what shots they must prepare for, and lets you see if you're getting accidentally repetitive with your shot choice.



Establishing Shots: Quick shots that illustrate the set, location, or start position of the characters.

Full, Medium, Close, Extreme Close: If you're showing a character, how much are you showing? Full (FS) shows the whole body, Medium (MS) shows waist up, Close (CU) shows shoulders and head, and Extreme Close Up (ECU) shoes only face.

Up Shot / Down Shot: Up Shots look up at a character, while Down Shots look down from above. "Worm's Eye" and "Bird's Eye" are the extreme versions of each.

Over the Shoulder (OTS): One of your most important terms, these shots have one person or thing on the side of the frame, back turned, while looking at another. Very common in conversations between two people.

Two-shot: When both characters, usually speaking to each other, are both in the frame at once. When drawing dialogue, two-shots often alternate with OTS shots.

POV Shots Are simply when the camera mimics the point of view of a character., The following list is by no means exhaustive, but it is a good primer on writing coherent storyboards. Whenever you want to add one, write the actual camera motion on the storyboard.



"Tracking' is when the camera follows the action without cutting, like following someone as they walk down the street. Use arrows to indicate motion, and multiple frames if needed.

Pans are when the camera simply rotates in one direction, often following a character as they move or exposing something near them. Draw an arrow illustrating the camera's direction.

Trucks are when the camera physically moves in or out. Imagine a shot of a TV, then the camera slowly "trucking" back to reveal a family watching the TV in the living room. Use 4 lines, pointing from the center of the screen out to the corners, to show trucking.

Rack Focus is when you have a blurry object in the background and a clear one in the foreground, then the focus shifts from one to the other (it can go in reverse, too). Draw a line indicating where the focus starts and where it moves to., The following cuts are some of the most common in film, and must be noted in your storyboard. Each one requires a small drawing alongside the words, visually representing the transition. Start with a small rectangle, representing the screen, right before the dialogue, then fill this rectangle in with your transition:



Fade In/Fade Out: This is simply when the image appears or disappears slowly from a blank screen. For a fade in, draw a triangle pointing left. For a fade out, draw a triangle pointing right.

Cross Dissolve: When one image is slowly faded into the next one. To draw it, make two intersecting triangles in the box, starting from all four corners. It is the fade out and fade in drawings superimposed on one another.

Wipe: When one image physically moves across the screen, revealing the next shot underneath it. Simply draw a vertical line in the center of the rectangle, and an arrow running through it to indicate which way the first image is moving., The following terms refer to an object's place in the shot. It can also help directing motion, such as if a character walks from the back of the shot to the front, which could be expressed as "BG → FG."



Foreground (FG): The area close up to the camera.

Midground (MG): The center of the frame

Background (BG): The are furthest from the camera.

Off-screen (O/S): Helpful if there is a noise, dialogue, etc. that the viewers can't see, or if a character enters or exits the frame completely.

Overlay (OL): When one object or image is superimposed on another but both are visible.
 In general, a "scene" on a storyboard actually refers to an unbroken camera movement, not a full event. These scenes are added together to form a "sequence," which is the whole action, conversation, that you're portraying (what you normally call a "scene").


Whenever the camera cuts, you must change the scene number to indicate a new shot.
If a single scene requires multiple actions, all without changing the camera, they are labeled as panels. If one shot requires three storyboards, you would label each panel as 1/3, 2/3, and 3/3., The ultimate goal of a storyboard is to visually tell the movie, not to pass a vocabulary test. While you should always strive to learn the terminology, you want the storyboards to be easily read by directors, cinematographers, and the rest of the crew. If you have an idea but don't know how to express it, use your drawing skills to convey the point as simply as possible. Arrows, notes, and multiple panels should all be used to share your creative ideas when words don't suffice.


Imagine a long, singular shot, like the beginning of Raging Bull. While there is no cut, you could never contain that shot in just one panel. You'd need to string many panels together with arrows, notes, and dialogue to plan the shot out.
The vocab lists above are far from complete -- there are hundreds of words, shots, and cues a pro storyboarder uses. To be a professional, you should keep researching professional terms.

