 If the stain is very fresh, get a hold of some club soda instead of plain, cold water. Stir the mixture until the salt has somewhat dissolved in the water.
 Make sure a good part of the rag/cloth is saturated with the saltwater.
 Try blotting alone first. If you see no results just from that action, try wiping the stain. Alternate between blotting and wiping until the stain disappears.


You can also turn your garment inside out and flush the stain from the back with cold club soda and salt.
If this didn't work for your blood stain, go ahead an try the next steps below.
 Add two tablespoons of table salt or the same quantity of ammonia. Mix the ingredients. If the blood stain is dry and no longer fresh, pour the water and salt/ammonia mixture into a plastic tub, and soak the stained part of your jeans in it anywhere from thirty minutes to overnight. You can occasionally check on the stain to observe its progress.


Do not use warm water as that'll actually set the stain instead of removing it.
If these steps didn't get rid of your stain, try any of the ones below.
 This method should work quite well on old and set-in stains. After you've soaked your jeans in cold water, wring them out and place them in a plastic bag with two cups of lemon juice and half a cup of table salt. Let your garment soak for about ten minutes, then hang your jeans outside to dry. Once they're dry, put them in your regular laundry cycle.


Note that lemon juice can lighten your garments color. It's best to use this method on light or white jeans.
 Due to its ability to break down proteins, meat tenderizer can be an effective blood stain remover. Use a quarter teaspoon of the meat tenderizer, add a little cold water, and mix it into a paste. Work the paste into the blood stain. Let it set in for about fifteen minutes, then rinse out your jeans.


You can get meat tenderizer in any convenience store.
If none of the above steps worked on your blood stain, give the last one below a chance.
 Hairspray can be another effective product to get rid of blood stains. Saturate the stained part with the hair product, and let it sit for about five minutes. Then, get a damp rag and gently wipe the stain clean.

