 In order to file your tax return without your W-2, you will need to provide an estimate of the income and taxes that would be listed on your W-2. You can do this by reviewing the year-to-date amounts on your final paycheck.
 If you are attempting to obtain your current tax year W-2 in order to file your current tax returns, and it is past February 14, call 800-829-1040 for assistance.Make sure that you are prepares to provide the following information before you call:

name
address
Social Security number
phone number
employer’s name
employer’s address
employer’s phone number
dates of employment
estimated earnings for the year of the W-2 you are requesting



,
For line 2, enter your Social Security number.
For line 3, enter your address as it appears on your tax return.
For line 4, enter the tax year of the estimated W-2 in first section and the type of form you are estimating (in this case, Form W-2) in the second section.
For line 5, enter your employer’s or other payee’s name and complete address.
For line 6, enter your employer’s or other payee’s EIN. If you do not know this number, leave this box blank.
For line 7, enter the year-to-date numbers from your final paycheck on the corresponding lines in box 7.
Leave line 8 blank.
For line 9, enter “final paycheck” unless you had some alternate method of estimating the amounts in box 7.
For line 10, enter the steps you took to try to get your W-2. This could include calling the employer and/or calling the IRS.
If you have determined that you own money to the IRS, you must pay the amount that you have estimated you owe by April 15.
 If you want to wait to file a return until you get your W-2, you can submit form 4868 before or on April 15 to get an extension. Doing so gives you 6 extra months to file your income taxes if you are inside the US and 4 extra months if you check box 8.


Keep in mind that even if you file an extension, you must pay any amount you believe you owe by April 15.
 If you receive your W-2 and it shows that your actual income is different from your estimate, you must file an amended return using Form 1040X.