 One sign of anxiety in angry children is negative thinking patterns. Your child may vocalize how negative or damaging thoughts they have about themselves. They may say it in an angry, frustrated way or in a bout of anger.For example, your child may be critical of everything they do or be overly critical of their work, looks, or actions. They may also express guilty thoughts.;
, Children who feel anxiety may be pessimistic about everything. They have trouble finding the positive in anything. They may imagine the worst-case scenario for everything or never imagine a good outcome.Often, children with anxiety may be inflexible and unwilling to let go of their pessimism and see better alternatives.
 If your child feels anxiety, they may be unwilling to do certain things. They may get angry or throw tantrums when they don’t want to go somewhere, be around someone, or do something.They may show avoidance behavior towards things they used to do or places they used to go. The avoidance behavior is more severe than just losing interest.
 Children who experience anxiety may pull away from everything. They may stop spending time with their family and friends. They may spend more time alone in their rooms, or just refuse to talk to anyone even when in the same room.The children may respond in an angry or frustrated way when spoken to. They may lash out if they are encouraged to interact with others.
 Another symptom for anxiety in children is worrying. For an angry child, this worry may be connected to their anger or irritability. When they feel worried about something, they may lash out, yell, or throw a tantrum.The child may worry about things that have already happened. This worry is also often in the form of paranoia, where they are worried about what may happen in the future.
 Anxiety can manifest in children through sleep. A child may have difficulty falling asleep, or they may not be able to stay asleep. Your child may fight sleep by throwing tantrums, crying, or yelling around bedtime.Children with anxiety may also experience nightmares or night terrors.
 When your child complains of physical ailments, sometimes it may be related to anxiety. Anxiety can lead to negative physical symptoms, such as headaches and stomach aches.Your child may also experience restlessness, fatigue, sweating, or back pain.

