 You have to decide from the jump if you want to be a cool cat, ladies man who gets all the hottest dames, or if you want to be a hard person and don't take crap from nobody. Whatever the case, stand up for yourself and for those who cannot defend themselves.;
, Do not have, for example, a white undershirt with a black tee and white cuffs. It will show you are just starting out and other greasers will call you a poser. Get Levi's 501s, rustler jeans or any straight legged, skinny, or boot-cut jeans, and cuff either 1–4 inches (2.5–10.2 cm) or degrees for cold weather. If you have a school uniform that's not strict, you could wear Levi’s tan jeans, and shirt (even with sweater vest) you could roll the sleeves up, or wear a jacket, crop your pants, and wear chucks or, if you have to, dress shoes or motorcycle boots. For girls get skinny blue jeans and roll them up or wear leather pants. Buy H&M's or Dickie's work shirts, fitted t shirts of any color (roll up sleeves, but this is not a requirement), western shirts, bowling shirts, slim fit suits with a bola or plain tees of any color. Get a Dickies or Levi’s work jacket, denim, windbreaker, or a leather jacket (any color), and for work out or exercise, you could wear khaki shorts, a tee shirt, and chuck Taylor's or timberland boots. Timberlands are also good for everyday wear. In the winter wear leather bomber jackets.
 A pair of heavy boots like Harley Davidson or Doc Martin's will do. If you want to be a real slick cat, either for everyday use or for special occasions, get some creepers such as T.U.K.S. or wing tips.
 The main styles are pompadours/afro-dours, part/afro-arts, conk, Jheri curls, the quiff, elephant's trunk, DA, or slicked back. For girls you can get greasy curls pin-ups anything you want that shows you’re a greaser. Snooki's hairstyle from jersey shore would work too. You can make your own combinations, again as long as it shows that you are a greaser. If you don't want long hair you can get a short crew cut, or for black people, a shirt version if a hightop fade, those hairstyles where also popular in the 1950s, and keep in mind the term "greaser" didn't actually exist in the 50's. Another option is to get a stingy brim fedora. Make sure it's a real fedora made of felt with a shiny band around it tied into a bow or a leather cap.
, Watch movies about greasers, for example, "The Outsiders," and "Rebel Without a Cause", "The Wanderers", "American graffiti", and for girls the movie pretty in pink. Greasers generally see the movie “Grease” unfavourably as it creates an over-dramatic stereotype.
 Ray Campi and his Rockabilly Rebels, The Four Aces, Rockats, Imelda May, The Stray Cats, Buddy Holly and the Crickets, The Brian Setzer Orchestra, Eddie Cochran, Gene Vincent, Jerry Lee Lewis, JD McPherson ,charlie feathers, Carl Perkins, Chuck berry, little Richard, Richie Valens, Bo Diddley, the coasters, Bill Haley, Fats Domino,Johnny Cash, Jackie Wilson, Duane eddy, Ray Charles, are good examples.
 Stick to the old school "Sailor Jerry" style tats. Other common Greaser or Rockabilly themed tattoos include Pinup Girls and Hearts w/ banners. Tattoos always will portray a "tough" image. Tattoos on your arms are a commonplace, as well as on the chest or back.
 A Hot Rod, 50's or 60's muscle cars or motorcycles are common. Make sure you know a lot about cars, go to autoramas with your friends.
 Walk there with swag, or just take your muscle car.

