 Muscles that aren't sufficiently warmed up before you start working out may have the tendency to cramp more. Particularly if you're about to engage in strenuous or endurance-based exercise, adequate warm-up is crucial to preventing muscle cramps.The type of warm up you do depends on your overall workout. For example, if you're going for a run, walking for five to 10 minutes before your run is a good warm-up.
Jumping jacks or jogging in place are good warm-ups for other aerobic activity.
For strength training, do five minutes of arm and leg circles, shallow squats, and knee bends, kicking your foot forward and back. Follow this with some slow sit-ups, side bends, or push-ups.;
, If you're doing light, casual exercise, additional stretching typically isn't necessary following a warm up; however, before engaging in strength training or vigorous activity, do active stretching to engage the active muscle groups.It is important to note that stretches should be dynamic (moving through a range of motion) and not static (lengthening the muscle and holding while you are at rest). Static stretching can lead to injury and impede your performance.


For example, if you're going for a run, you want to stretch your leg muscles, particularly your hamstrings, calves, and quads. Try hip circles, walking lunges, butt kicks, and legs swings.On the other hand, for upper body strength training, you want to stretch your shoulders, neck, chest and back. Try big arm circles, arm swings, and chest openers.
 Where you work out is just as important as what you do during your exercise routine when it comes to preventing muscle cramps. Your muscles are more likely to cramp if you are exercising in extreme conditions.Your environment is particularly important if you're exercising outside. Significant changes in temperature or humidity can affect how your muscles perform.
If it's significantly hotter or colder than it normally is when you exercise, shorten or adapt your routine accordingly to account for the fact that your muscles will not be working to their full potential.
Generally, the hotter it is, the more you'll sweat. Dehydration and depletion of electrolytes in this environment can overwork your muscles and lead to cramps.
Even if you're in peek physical condition, running outside in a hot and humid environment can lead to cramps.
 If you consistently have the same muscles cramp up, your form may be to blame. Exercises done incorrectly can cause muscle cramps. To check your technique, work out in front of a mirror or call on a personal trainer.Particularly if you're a runner, you may be getting cramps because of the position of your foot as you're running. This typically isn't something you'll notice on your own, especially if it has become habit.
A certified personal trainer can observe your exercises and give you advice on how to tweak your technique. Even a relatively minor "cheat" in form can have significant consequences.
You may not be able to afford to work out with a trainer every day, but if cramps are a continuous problem and nothing else you've done seems to eliminate them, hire a trainer for a single session to diagnose your problem and offer solutions.
 Joint misalignment due to tightness may also be the cause of your cramping. This is often a result of poor posture or injuries not properly healed. Regular stretching can help. Consider taking a yoga class a few times a week to help increase your flexibility and posture.


One quick trick to improve your posture is to imagine there is a string attached to the top of your head. Imagine this string is gently tugging you upward. This should cause you to lift your head and bellybutton and pull your shoulders back.
As we get older our connective tissues are less elastic. People use tools such as foam rollers to “iron out” those tight spots.
Massage therapy may also help with recurring muscle cramps.
 More often than not, muscle cramps are caused by muscle fatigue. Your muscles may become fatigued if they're overworked, or if you're pushing yourself too hard during your workouts.This is an easy fix if you notice that you always cramp up at roughly the same point in your workout.
For example, if you try to go on 45-minute runs, but usually get a cramp around the 30-minute mark, you probably should shorten your runs to 30 minutes for awhile.
You also may be able to prevent muscle cramps during exercise by decreasing the intensity of your workout routine.
Once you make the adjustment, stick to the shorter or less intense routine for a few weeks, then gradually build up to your goal.

