 Although the majority of plastic and laminate items can be painted, there are a few that cannot. Items such as furniture, figurines, toys, containers, and décor items are generally all able to be painted. If you’re working in a home, you can paint plastic walls (in a bathroom or kitchen), cabinets, and backsplashes.You cannot paint plastic/laminate floors, bathtubs/shower stalls, or counters.
Keep in mind that if you paint something that gets a lot of use - such as a piece of furniture - it may require more coats of paint over time.;
, Plastic requires cleaning before you paint it. To clean plastic, mix a small amount of mild dish soap with water. Use a dry cloth or soft towel to wipe your plastic down with this solution. Remove any unwanted dirt or grime so your plastic is completely clean.
 Get a clean dry cloth or towel wet with clear water. Use that to wipe down your plastic to rinse off any lingering soap. Make sure you get off all soap residue before proceeding.
 Dab a small amount of rubbing alcohol on a soft cloth or towel. Rub down the full surface of the plastic with the rubbing alcohol to sanitize it and complete the cleaning process.
 After cleaning your plastic, let it dry completely before proceeding.Drying times vary depending on the size of your plastic and the climate in your region. Give plastic at least a few hours to dry.
 If there's any old paint stuck on your plastic, or if you notice any rough surfaces, use a light grit sand paper to sand off the old paint or smooth down rough patches.








Press gently when sanding plastic. Plastic is more prone to scratches than other materials., Plastic should be painted with spray paint. Not all paints will work on plastic items; if you choose the wrong paint, it will simply peel or smear off, even after drying. Head to the store or search online for specialty plastic paint. This is often available in both spray-paint and liquid (brush-on) paint, although the former tends to be easier to apply.


Plastic usually does not need a primer coat before painting.
 Work outdoors or in a well-ventilated area, such as a garage. To minimize cleanup and mess, lay down protective covering on the ground surrounding your plastic. This can include a tarp, newspaper, or sheets of cardboard.








If there are any places on your plastic you do not wish to paint, cover them in painter's tape.
 Take your spray paint bottle. Shake it up slightly, if directed to do so on the bottle, and apply a coat of paint about 12 to 18 inches away from the plastic. Spray slightly to the side of the surface you're painting. Then, move your spray paint across the plastic until you're a few inches past the edge on the other side.








Make slow, smooth motions to distribute the spray paint evenly.
 After you've painted your first line, repeat the pattern. Slowly and steadily move your spray paint across the surface, stopping when you're a few inches off the edge. Then, make another line below the first. Keep doing this until the full surface is coated.
 Usually, you need to apply a second coat. Before doing so, allow the plastic to dry. In general, it should take about 30 minutes for the plastic to completely dry., After the plastic has dried, apply another coat exactly as you applied the first one. Start applying the coat to the side of the surface, make a line running across the surface, and then stop a few inches off the side. Repeat this process until the full surface is coated in a second coat.
 After applying your second coat, inspect the plastic. If you notice any bare spots or light spots, add a splash of paint to cover them up., An acrylic sealer should be added about half an hour after you add your final touches of paint. This will protect the paint from damage. Apply it in the exact same fashion you applied the paint.An acrylic sealer is not always necessary. It's usually best used for plastic that will spend a lot of time outdoors.
 After all the coats are added, plastic should take a few days to completely dry. During this time, keep your plastic in a safe space where it will not be tampered with. Do not sit on plastic furniture for a few days after painting.