 The goal in writing for a business audience, inside or outside the company, is to clearly communicate your message. While you need to adopt a business-like tone, your style should not get in the way of your actual message.
 While trying to figure out what you want to say, you may put down more words than you need to in getting to your point. Too many of these words may frustrate your reader, leading him or her to skim over your message or to simply ignore it. While you're trying to get a handle on what you want to tell your readers, go ahead and put the words down as they occur to you, then go back and edit out what you don't need. Here are a few things to look for when editing:


Cliches. Overused phrases get ignored after a while, leading to coining new phrases that, in turn, get overused themselves. Avoid cliches like the plague; choose clear, precise descriptions over trying to be clever.
Overusing qualifiers. There's nothing wrong with using words like "many," "most," "generally" or "very" when called for, but using them too often weakens the impact of your writing. Some words don't need qualifiers; outside of marketing copy, there's no call for "very unique," and even marketers can do without saying it.
Stock phrases. As with qualifiers, phrases such as "the fact that," "the reason for," "in light of" and "on the grounds that" weaken your work-related writing when you use them too often. You can replace many stock phrases with simpler words, such as saying "can" in place of "has the ability to" and use the longer phrase only when you want to call attention to a sentence.
Redundant words. Sometimes 2 words that mean roughly the same thing, such as "hopes and dreams" are paired to give the meaning greater impact. This works when used sparingly; however, most of the time you should keep the word that fits the meaning of your sentence better and take out the other.
 Active voice, in which the subject of the sentence comes before a strong action verb and is followed by the object, is more powerful than passive voice, where the subject comes last and is preceded by a form of "to be" ("am," "are," "is," "was," "were"). Compare "Stocks rose 42 points after the Packers' Super Bowl victory" (active voice) with "The Packers' Super Bowl victory was responsible for stocks rising 42 points" (passive voice).


Some passive voice phrases such as "This is," "That is," "There is" and "It is" are necessary to refer to a previous sentence.
It's also possible to overuse forms of "to be" and "to have" without phrasing something in the passive voice. Contrast "The Packers' Super Bowl victory had a positive impact on stock prices" with "Stock prices rose after the Packers won the Super Bowl."

, Using the noun forms of words commonly used as verbs or adjectives make what you're saying sound more abstract and less concrete. This form of writing may be called for in some academic and government settings or when addressing corporate executives, but not when addressing your co-workers in a clear, unambiguous manner.
 Your goal is to communicate clearly, not to impress people with words that may take focus away from what you're trying to communicate. This is particularly important when reporting to company shareholders or giving instructions to company employees.

