  How often do your patients require treatment using expensive pieces of equipment that you don't currently possess? Sometimes referring patients to another provider is the answer to the dilemma. Keep in mind that referring patients often means losing them. ;
,  Don't settle for the first salesman that approaches your door. Preliminary research helps you understand the warning signs of a scam and how to avoid being taken advantage of. 

,  Your list should include valid contact information and as much information as you can gather about each company. Make detailed notes about the company so you may address certain issues with a representative. 

,  Your research and gathered information will help you decide on three companies to contact. This shortlist will be the top three that you feel are trustworthy and capable businesses with which to do business. 

,  Some of your questions will repeat for each company. Ask specific questions about the type of equipment they lease. You will need to know the age of the equipment and if they've ever had any reports of problems with it. Ask about maintenance procedures and how often equipment undergoes maintenance. 

,  Ask to speak to a representative or set up a meeting at your convenience. These companies are in the business of providing a service to professionals such as you. They will work with you to make appointments that fit your busy schedule. 

,  Make notes of their answers so you can refer to them later in the conversation. Clear and concise notes will help you make a more informed decision when it's time to sign the lease. 

,  Don't settle for nonchalant answers to questions that could compromise the health and well-being of a patient. Leased medical equipment must be reliable and trustworthy. Sometimes even the worst issues have a simple explanation. 

,  Make sure you have all the required information to make an informed decision. Your patients trust you to take their healthcare very seriously. Don't compromise your practice for any reason. 

,  Repeat steps 1 through 10 with each company you contact. Don't lease a breathing machine, anesthesia equipment or any other piece of medical equipment if you have doubts about the company or feel that you can't trust the representative. 

