 If you are considering a career as a dog show judge, you will become intimately familiar with the dog show circuit. Most kennel clubs have strict requirements about the number of years an applicant has spent in the dog show circuit or as a breeder before they can become a judge.


A breed type is the standard established for the ideal type of that breed. It can cover the colorings of the dog, coat type, height, weight, body structure, and ears.
Most dog shows are conformation shows, also known as breed shows. In these shows, the judge is an expert in a specific dog breed and will examine several purebred dogs to see how well these participants conform to the established breed type.In smaller shows, there may be only one judge that evaluates all of the dog breeds. In larger shows, there may be multiple judges or judges that evaluate only specific breeds.;
, Pay careful attention as you observe the judges, the dogs that are being shown, as well as the handlers and breeders that participate in the show.


You will see that even with a very detailed breed standard, judges may have to make subjective judgment calls when there are several exemplary breed examples.
You will also have the opportunity to see many different breeds and to become more knowledgeable about the different breed standards.
This is a great way to become more familiar with the dog show circuit. You will also come into contact with other breeders and aspiring judges who can help you in your pursuit to become a dog show judge.
 You should register with the kennel club that you’d like to eventually become a judge with. Judges are generally affiliated with the club that runs the show and must be licensed through this organization. For example, a judge licensed through the American Kennel Club would judge at American Kennel Club shows.


Most kennel clubs are national organizations, so research clubs that are in your country.Each club will have very different requirements. It is essential that you research the organization that you choose carefully to ensure that you have met their requirements before applying to become a judge.
If you want to work with a specific breed, research the organization to ensure that they show those breeds. Most large organizations, like the UK’s Kennel Club, will show almost all standard breeds.
 Your local and national clubs will put on different events throughout the year. These are usually showings of different dogs. By participating in these, you have the opportunity to meet other breeders, judges, and dog lovers.
 In order to begin the dog breeding process, you will need to be in contact with breeders who are willing to breed with your dogs. Keep in close contact with breeders, as they can be helpful and also provide tips and support in your path to becoming a dog show judge.


Participating in events and activities that the club puts on is a good way to meet and build relationships with other breeders.
 The road to becoming a dog show judge is a long one. You should expect to spend upwards of ten years before you reach your goal. You will need to undergo years of training, breeding dogs, working at shows, and applying for positions in order to be accepted.


Base your timeline off of the organization that you want to work with. For example, the default application to be a judge with the American Kennel Club is a 12-5-4 program. This means you must spend 12 years exhibiting a specific breed of dog that you want to judge. You must have bred 5 litters and 4 champions.If you want to judge with the UK Kennel Club, you will need to be nominated to be awarded a Challenge Certificate. Among other requirements, you must pass several assessments and exams that address your knowledge of a specific breed and to have been a steward for 12 days at shows., A steward assists judges during dog shows by ensuring that the show goes smoothly, completing paperwork, and that the dogs are well cared for. You can volunteer as a steward at any time during your membership with your kennel club, and it is a good way to gain experience.The AKC requires that aspiring judges be a steward at six shows and to participate during six judging assignments in order to apply.
Volunteer as a steward in any dog shows that are in your area to gain experience, even if they aren’t specifically for your chosen organization.
 The breed standards cover the ideal appearance of a dog. You will need to have an expert level knowledge of the dog breed that you want to judge in order to become a judge. You will need to select the dog breed that you will breed and exhibit before your judge application process.


The American Kennel Club Study Guides are very comprehensive collections that will be helpful to you as you begin to breed dogs and to become a judge.Guides cover breed history, breed standard, give information about the breed's parent national parent club and regional clubs. They also list experienced breeders and exhibitors who may be willing to share their knowledge with new breed enthusiasts.
Most judges are experts in a few different dog breeds, but you must be knowledgeable about the majority of dog breeds in order to judge at smaller shows.
 Once you have determined the type of dog that you want to breed and to judge, you need to begin the breeding process. Most kennel clubs will require that you breed a certain amount of litters and a certain number of champion dogs in order to be considered as a judge.


You will need to have a dam, which is a female that you can breed, and a sire, which is a male that will breed with the female.
You want both dogs to be in the top 10% of their breed. This means that the dogs are great specimens of the breed and meet nearly, if not all, the breed characteristics that are laid out in the breed standard.Breeding dogs is an expensive endeavor. You may need to pay another breeder to allow their male to breed with your female, you will need to purchase supplies to keep a female in your home, and you must be prepared to raise puppies for at least 8 weeks.
Find an established breeder that is willing to be your mentor and find a veterinarian that you can consult throughout the process.
Once the female becomes pregnant, you will need to take care of her during her pregnancy until the puppies come.
 When you have a litter of puppies, you will be able to determine whether any of these puppies are of show dog quality. There are puppy divisions of many dog shows where you can begin to exhibit your dogs.Bring the puppies to a veterinarian so they can undergo genetic testing. You will need to make sure that the puppies are not at risk for genetic diseases and conditions, and to ensure that they are purebred.
 You must register your new puppies with your club organization in order to begin to show the dogs.Having documentation that you have bred successful litters of puppies will be essential during your judging application. For organizations like the AKC, you will need to breed 5 litters of the same breed to qualify with the 12-5-4 process.
You may need to produce many litters in order to have 4 championship dogs.
Breeding dogs is a time intensive and costly process. You should expect to spend multiple years during this stage of the judge application process.
 Many organizations require that their judges have experience showing dogs that they have bred. Once you have your first litter and have registered them with the kennel club, you can begin to exhibit the dogs.


There are puppy divisions of dog shows that you can exhibit puppies at, or you can wait until the dogs are several months old so they can participate in different show categories.If you are unfamiliar with how to show your dog, you can attend a class taught by your kennel club or hire a professional handler to show your dog for you., Most organizations will require that you have bred several successful litters of purebred dogs in order to qualify to become a judge. Once you have begun the breeding process, you will need to repeat it until you have met organization requirements.
 This application should be completed and returned to your organization at the onset of your application process. It primarily signals your intent to become a dog show judge.Be prepared to share documentation during your initial application, such as proof that you have bred specific numbers of litters.
There are typically fees associated with your initial application, but these will range depending on your organization. For example, the AKC charges $30 USD initially. The United Kennel Club, another United States organization, charges $25 USD.This initial application will cover your basic background information and will ask questions about your breeding and dog show experience.
 Once you have submitted your initial judging application and the organization approves it, you can begin the organization-specific training to become a dog show judge.


Training may take place over weeks or months, be in person or online. It depends on your organization and the breed that you have selected to judge.
For organizations like the AKC, new breed judges are required to attend an institute before requesting regular (full) status as a judge, but no less than 2 years before submitting the initial application.
The Canine College is a great online source of information for aspiring dog judges and breed enthusiasts., If your organization requires, you may need to take and pass exams about breed standards, organization rules, dog anatomy, and the judging selection process.


For example, the United Kennel Club requires you to pass two written exams on breed standards and UKC rules.
You will need to commit to learning and studying the history of the breed, the exact breed standard, the judging process, your organization's rules, dog anatomy, and to be familiar with any changes in the dog show world.
 Some organizations require that you interview with evaluators in order to progress through the application process. These interviews may take place before or after you attend judge training.


These are often in person interviews where an evaluator will judge your knowledge on your selected breed. They may ask you to judge a few dogs to examine your judging process and to evaluate how accurate you are with conforming to breed standards.
Often, these evaluators act as liaisons between applicants and the organization., Once you have completed the necessary training, exams, and interviews that the organization requires, you can submit your final judge application.


Gather documentation that proves that you have completed the required steps, like training and exams, to submit along with your application.
The judge application will be similar to the first application that you submitted at the beginning of the process that signaled your intent to become a judge. It will be used by the judge selection committee to determine that you have met all of the organization’s requirements.
If your application is not accepted, you may be able to request an appeal from the judging committee. You can also wait and gain more experience before applying again., If your application has been approved, you will need to register with your organization as a new judge. This will establish you as a provisional judge that is able to begin judging at events.


Many organizations will publish the names and biographies of new judges, so dog show coordinators are aware that there are new judges available., For some organizations, like the American Kennel Club, you may need to judge a certain number of shows as a provisional judge before you can receive your regular judging status.


Once you have judged a certain number of events, the AKC requires you to judge 5 events, you can apply for full judging status.This is the final step in the application process. Once you have been accepted as a regular judge, you are now able to begin your career as an official dog show judge with your kennel club.

