 This is an especially good thing to do if you feel awkward or unsure what to do when you first arrive. Keep an eye out for decorations, old pictures, and music or book collections -- all excellent conversation starters and places to stop and chat.;
, More often than not, she'll have some specific things she might want to show you or favorite activities around the house. If she invites you over, remember to be a good guest and let her be a good host. If things are shy or awkward, you can, of course, suggest things to do. But try and step back and let her take the lead, respecting her and her house, before blurting out the things you want to do.


Don't worry if there is some shy awkwardness early on -- this is normal! It will pass.
 Just because you're a guest doesn't mean you have to let her do all of the work. If she's got some chores to do, offer to lend a hand instead of flipping on the TV and zoning out until she's done. Think of it this way -- the faster chores are done, the sooner you can hang out.


Want to really impress her? Don't ask to help, just start pitching in -- tackling the dishes while she mops, grabbing clean towels, changing the laundry when it beeps, etc.
 Never assume that it is "no big deal" just because you might leave the toilet seat up at your house, don't use a coaster, or leave books out on the counter when you're done with them. Assume her level of cleanliness, not yours. The best approach is to return things to their condition when you arrived, allowing her to dictate what things are important and what things she doesn't mind you exploring or tampering with.


You don't have to act like you're in a museum! Just be courteous and don't leave a mess behind you.
Make sure you're not creating more work than when you started. If you don't know where the dishes go, don't just start sticking them places to get them out of the way.
 Just because a woman invites you over is not an invitation into her bed. This fact may seem obvious, but it can be confusing if you're visiting for the first time and are unsure what she wants to do. The best advice is to move slowly, escalating romance one step at a time (cuddling, kissing, making out, etc.) instead of just assuming you'll be going all the way once you walk in the door.


Like any other situation, you should always ask for consent before moving on romantically or sexually., If her parents or siblings are expected to walk through the door, make sure you both know in advance. Talk about whether the are okay with you being there, as well as the appropriate behavior when they arrive. You should know, for example, if her parents don't want you together in her room.

