 Poor health can lead to increased depression and less happiness or well-being overall.Look at your overall health and evaluate yourself honestly.


Identify possible health-related links to your depression. For example, depression can involve decreases (insomnia) or increases in sleep (hypersomnia), significant changes in weight (either gaining or losing a large amount), and fatigue.Make a list of health goals you think you can accomplish, such as weight loss, exercise, or eating healthier.
See a medical doctor if you have any health concerns that have not yet been taken care of. Sometimes depression can be caused by medication, substance use, or a medical condition. Make sure you get screened by a medical doctor for any other possible causes of depressive symptoms.
 The “runners high” isn’t a myth; exercise releases endorphins in your brain which give you a significant mood boost. Additionally, exercise is an effective treatment for reducing depression over time.Aim for raising your heartbeat to 120-160 beats per minute for around thirty minutes a day to get your endorphin levels going up.


Traditional exercises like running and weightlifting aren’t the only means of increasing your heart rate. Try a variety of exercises like swimming, hiking, dancing, playing sports, riding horses, and yogato get your endorphins.
If you don’t have thirty minutes because of a busy schedule, try some light stretching at home or a quick bike ride to work. These can help boost your mood.
 Not only does junk food make you feel sluggish and lethargic, it can contribute to your depression.Older adults who are depressed also tend to eat fewer fruits and vegetables.Fight this by eating healthy foods with ties to positive changes in mood.


Omega-3 fatty acids have been found to correlate to reducing depression symptoms, so eat foods high in these nutrients two to three times a week.This includes fish, such as salmon, sardines, lake trout, and tuna; as well as walnuts, flax seeds, and olive oil.
Avoid highly processed foods. These are responsible for weighing your body down and reducing your energy. Instead, go for whole foods including grains, vegetables, and fruits, which help to increase your energy.

Protect your mind with brain foods. There are many foods and nutrients that can help you recover from mental illness and protect it from further problems down the road.
 Depression is often associated with either too much (hypersomnia) or too little (insomnia) sleep. Although staying up till 1am and waking up at 11am may be your thing, having an unorganized or untimely sleep schedule may be contributing to your worsening depression symptoms. The best time to sleep is when it is completely dark outside, as this is when your body begins creating melatonin (a natural hormone responsible for inducing sleepiness).


Try to fall asleep at the same time every night, after it has gotten dark but not so late that you will be spending more time sleeping when it is light outside than it is dark. Aiming for a bedtime around 10pm is a good goal.
Wake up at the same time every morning so that your body gets used to your sleep schedule. You will likely need to use an alarm at first, but as you continue your body will wake up naturally on schedule.
Take a break from the bright lights of phone, computer, and tablet screens before bed. These can minimize melatonin production and make it harder for you to feel tired and fall asleep in a timely manner..If you work a nocturnal shift (during the night from pm to am), the disruption in sleep can cause irregularities in your sleep-wake cycle. Get as much sleep as you can on your time off and take naps.If you can, change your schedule to normal daytime hours.
 These are responsible for a slew of detrimental health effects and should not be used in excess. Alcohol use can increase your risk of developing worsening depression.If you are currently a user of drugs and alcohol, work with a medical doctor and a therapist to safely reduce or eliminate your use.

