 Regardless of the remedy you are using, always wash and dry your hands before and after touching a wart. You should limit the area of normal skin treated by any of the over-the-counter methods. These methods generally work within a few days. If your wart is not smaller or has not changed in appearance after 6-7 days, check with your healthcare professional. You may need another, stronger approach.
 Salicylic acid acts by breaking up and killing the cells infected by HPV. Instead of attacking normal cells as well, the acid leaves the normal cells alone. Buy Salicylic acid, such as Compound W or Dr. Scholl's Clear Away, at your local drugstore as a patch or a liquid. Wash the area well and dry it. Apply the patch or liquid as directed. Repeat daily until the wart is gone. This can take 2-3 months.Avoid getting the medicine on any other portion of your skin.
To help the acid work better, soak and file down your wart so the medicine can soak deeper into your skin.
You can get a stronger concentration of Salicylic acid by prescription., Over-the-counter freezing medicines use dimethyl ether and propane to freeze the skin of the wart. The medicine essentially freezes the wart and kills the skin, causing it to fall off. Freezing medicines, such as Compound W's Freeze Off or Dr. Scholl's Freeze Away, can be purchased at your local drugstore. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. They can take up to 2 months to work. Keep the medicine away from any open flame. The FDA warns that these medicines may be flammable.A recent study has suggested that the freezing method may be more effective in getting rid of warts within 2 months., The duct tape method, also known as tape occlusion, is a tried and true home remedy that many people swear by. It is not known how the duct tape works. Some say that the adhesive has a substance that breaks down the skin cells and are then pulled off by the physical action of tape removal. For this method, buy silver duct tape and apply a small piece of the duct tape to the wart. Leave the tape on the wart for 6-7 days. Remove the tape and soak the wart in water. Use a disposable emery board to “file away” the wart.


Leave the wart uncovered overnight or up to 24 hours. Reapply the duct tape for 6-7 days. Repeat the process as often as necessary for up to 2 months.
You can apply onion or garlic juice on the wart before putting on the duct tape.
In one study, duct tape actually worked better that freezing the warts off.