 Being honest about your feelings is not easy, especially if you think you will disappoint someone. Showing complete transparency can be a healthy way to get out of doing something that you have a good reason for avoiding. Your honesty may be well received, and it may open up an important dialogue between you and another. On the other hand, you might find yourself wishing that you’d stayed quiet. Be tactful when you approach the conversation. Find a time to talk privately with the person. Use a friendly and firm voice that communicates your true feelings about the situation. Provide an alternative if appropriate.For example, if your parents want to do something with you, but you have too much homework, let them know. Try saying, “I know this is important to you, but catching up on work is really my top priority right now. Let’s eat together tomorrow when I’m finished with this essay.”
Communicate dislike for others softly. If you’re invited to a party with people you don’t care for, for example, say something like, “It is so nice of you to invite me, but I don’t get along so well with that crowd.”
A conversation with your boss might be a bit harder. Maybe you really hate the job you’ve been assigned, but you don’t want to quit completely. Try saying, “Ms. Bartlett, I wanted to talk to you about the project. I’m trying my best but it’s been weighing me down and I need to take break. Can we talk about a different topic for my next assignment?”;
, Set a day and time for the things you need to do to have a productive week. That way you’ll have a concrete reason to not do something if you get an invitation or are asked to do something extra for work or school.Pre-booked personal activities might include times dedicated to working, exercising, or family time.


If you are a student, you might designate certain evenings for an extracurricular activity or have a homework day on the weekend. If you’re asked to attend an event, you can say, “Sorry, but I have soccer practice that day.”
Remember to do the thing you say you are going to do. Your goal is not to be labeled dishonest.
Although you won’t be lying by saying you have to do something else, someone might get offended if you pick another activity over doing something with them. This is more likely to happen if people know that you’ve made exceptions to your scheduled activities in the past. Stick to your schedule or be prepared to explain yourself.
 Even so, turning down an invitation or getting out of responsibilities can be difficult. You probably don’t want to make the other person feel bad or cause problems. If you do not want to do something, it is likely because it causes some kind of physical or emotional discomfort. Remember that you have to take care of yourself too. Don’t please other people at your own expense.Use short and direct phrases to say “no” without going into too much detail.


You can say “No” and still be gracious and kind. Try saying, “Thank you for inviting me, but I have to pass.” Keep it short and direct. You have a right to say “no” to things, especially if they are not within your responsibilities.
 Maybe you made plans to do something and later realized that you really aren’t feeling up for it. This doesn’t always mean you have to cancel. Try suggesting a new plan that you and the others involved might enjoy.


For example, if you made plans to go to the park, but you really would rather stay home and relax, try inviting your friends over instead. You can say, “Hey, I still want to hang out, but I’m feeling lazy. Can we hang out at my place instead? I’ll make some snacks.”
Rescheduling is another way to get out of something you aren’t up for in the moment. Try saying, “Something came up. Can we change dinner to Monday night?”, Avoid taking the heat for a failed project, scheduling errors, or any situation in which you receive negative attention, by pointing to other people’s mistakes. Although shifting the blame is not the most noble way to get yourself out of something, it happens often. People in work environments have even admitted to taking the blame for something they did not do.Shift blame without using names. If you don’t want to get your coworkers in trouble, explain the facts and details of what went wrong without mentioning specific people.Remember to point out the things that were beyond your control or given responsibilities.
 With modern technology it is much easier to declare that you are not going to be where you said you would be or do what you said you would do. Send a text, tweet, or Facebook message to say that you just won't make it. The plus side is that social media allows you to avoid any disappointing looks or sighs of discontent.Keep your message short and sweet. Try writing, "Hey everyone, I'm not going to make it today."

