 This kind of urinary incontinence tends to cause problems later in life, and medical (rather than surgical) treatment is most appropriate.


This problem also goes by the name of USMI (urethral sphincter mechanical incompetence) and has a higher incidence of occurrence in neutered animals.
 The urethra is the muscular tube connecting the bladder to the outside world. It's "passive" state is flattened so that urine cannot flow (like putting your foot on a hosepipe).


However, this passivity is deceptive because it is the result of active contraction of the muscle that makes up the urethra. To maintain this muscular contraction requires the presence of receptors in the urethral wall.
With USMI there is a decrease in both the numbers of receptors and their sensitivity. Neutering a dog plays a part because the reduction in hormones also decreases the sensitivity of the receptors which means the urethra is less toned, and it takes less pressure to cause the urethra to dilate and allow the passage of urine.
 This is a synthetic estrogen hormone supplement. It works by increasing the sensitivity of the sphincter (which controls urine exit from the bladder) to the presence of norepinephrine. Norepinephrine causes the sphincter to become more toned and tightly shut.


This medication is widely available as Incurin Tablet (MSD Animal health) with the active ingredient estriol. It comes as 1 mg tablets and a dose of 1 tablet per dog is trialed for 7 days. If no improvement is seen during this time then a maximum dose of 2 tablets per dog is given for a further week.
Once urinary control is achieved and the sphincter is toned up, it may be possible to gradually reduce the dose, say to half a tablet every day, until the lowest effective dose is found. The dog is then maintained on that.
 This medication is thought to act by stimulating alpha and beta adrenergic receptors in the urethral wall, which increases urethral tone. It is readily available in a liquid formulation, Propalin, designed for use in dogs.


This syrup contains 40mg/ml of phenylpropanolamine. The dose is 0.1ml/5kg body weight, given three times daily with food.
 Some cases of urinary incontinence fail to resolve on either Incurin or Propalin syrup alone. However, the two medications are suitable for use together, and since they have subtly different sites of action, often their combined action succeeds where one medication alone failed.

