 One way to cope with peeing while laughing in public is simply to cover up the evidence. There's a good chance no one will notice, and you'll end up avoiding some humiliation. This might be easier than you think. If you have a sweater, or another longer clothing item, try wrapping it around your waist to hide the urine stain.If you have a jacket or a sweater with you, either one would work. Simply tie it around your waist. This will work better with a sweater, because many people tie sweaters around their waists anyways.
If you don’t have a sweater or jacket handy, you could always buy one if you’re near or in a store. Going to this extent would make the most sense if you’re about to meet someone where you need to make an impression or seem professional.
You could always ask a friend whether you could borrow a sweater or jacket if you don’t have one along. In fairness, you should be clear about why you need it if you’re borrowing someone else’s garments.;
, You should make sure that the pee dries, at least somewhat to avoid drawing attention to yourself. You want to get rid of stains and smells. Dampness can also cause skin irritation, so it's vital you clean yourself up after an accident in public.Get to a bathroom as soon as you can. You may have to slip into a coffee shop or a grocery store to make use of the public restroom.
Ideally, you would wipe off your skin with a cotton cloth. From there, you would use moisturizing wipes to wipe off your skin. It's a good idea to put a moisturizing cream on the parts of your skin that got wet, as this can provide a barrier that prevents irritation.
If you're in a grocery store, or near one, you may be able to quickly purchase these products before slipping into the restroom. However, for the most part, it is unlikely you would be able to wipe up properly. Improvise as best you can. Use toilet paper or paper towels to dry your skin. If you have lotion in your bag, use that for now to provide a barrier. Scented lotion may help cover some of the smell.
 The most obvious solution is to change your pants, if that’s possible given the situation. If you have a change of clothing nearby, change into it as quickly as possible. One downside to this approach is that you will have to explain your change of dress to colleagues.Many people keep workout clothes in their cars, or in a locker at work, if they head to the gym after work. If that attire is appropriate for the occasion, you could retrieve it, and change into shorts or yoga pants.
If you’re in an area with a lot of clothing stores, you could buy a new pair of pants, and put them on. For example, if you’re in a tourist area, there are likely to be many clothing stores in the near vicinity where you can buy clothing relatively cheaply.
You could ask to borrow clothes if you are with close friends or a colleague, and that person has workout clothes in the car. If you have a persistent problem with bladder control, you could keep a change of clothing in your car. You can also call someone, like a roommate or spouse, and ask them to bring you a change of clothes.

