 Buy a planner, it will help you organize your schoolwork, work, chores, sports, music, and anything else you may have on your daily agenda. Your school may supply you with a planner, or you may need to purchase one yourself.;
, If they don't tell you anything, they may have left a note for you. Look everywhere for a note, and if there's no note, you are free to check your planner for what you need to get done. If your schedule is free, enjoy a little free time.
 Finish your chores and homework, and any additional instructions your parents may give you, then set aside an hour to relax with your chosen form of entertainment. Set an alarm to alert you when the hour is up, and when it sounds off, get up and walk away from whatever you are doing for at least 10 minutes, then repeat. This will help you manage your time better.
 Try to soundproof that space if there are excessive noises in your house, or wear earplugs while you work.
 Remind them that you'll finish your work faster, and have time to talk with them when you've finished your work and ask them to stay quiet.
, Take a moment and walk around the room, or get something to drink, then reset the timer and pick up your work where you left off. Knowing that you have a timer set for an hour or less will prevent you from feeling like you're bogged down and wasting time, rather than working. If you're working near your bed, lie down and stretch across it for a few moments just after the alarm sounds. This will keep you from feeling stiff and sore, and help regulate your breathing, keeping you relaxed while you work. If you're doing homework on your bed, take breaks to stand up and walk around, from time to time.
 Turn off, or move further away from, any music, games, or televisions that may be creating distracting noise around you.
,, Take their suggestions and try them out. If their ideas work for you, you're all set, if not, adapt their ideas to suit you better.
 Listen to classical music to soothe agitation or jazz to stimulate the mind. Hop up and dance for a minute or two if you're feeling too hyper to sit and concentrate. It's often easier to concentrate after a bit of exercise.

