 Don’t insist on “winning.”If you feel that you must always be right or come out on top in a conversation or discussion, you might cause misunderstandings with your partner. Instead of trying to view each conversation or debate as a zero-sum game where either you win and your partner loses (or vice versa), try to view conversations as opportunities where you and your partner can both grow and learn from one another., Couples often encounter misunderstandings because they did not have the same expectations. For instance, if you and your partner agree to spend the day together but do not plan what you want to do on your date, you might both end up frustrated due to the miscommunication. To avoid such a situation, be clear, honest, and direct when expressing your desires and expectations.For instance, when setting weekend plans, instead of saying, “I’d like to spend some time with you this weekend,” say “I’d like for us to get to dinner at a nice restaurant and attend the opera on Sunday.”

, If, during conversation with your partner, you find that you’re not really getting anywhere, take a break and try to resume the conversation later. You might say to your partner, “This doesn’t seem to be productive. Let’s talk more later.”During the break in the conversation, do some meditation or take a walk to help clear your head and think about what was said during the previous conversation.
 There are many ways to learn from others who have been in situations that are the same or similar to the one you and your partner are in. You could, for instance, check out relationship info online from reputable sources. A better option, though, is to visit your local library and check out some volumes on relationship communication. Alternately, or in addition to relationship research, talk to other couples. Find out how they avoid misunderstandings and work to incorporate their tips and tricks into your own life., View your partner as a friend and ally. You and your partner both want what’s best for the relationship. Look at your partner as a teammate. To help you reframe the relationship, say to your partner, “We both want what’s best, we are just coming at the situation from two different perspectives. Let’s work together to get through this.”, Couples counseling or couples therapy introduces a trained therapist into your relationship to analyze – and hopefully solve – your misunderstandings with your partner. Working together with your therapist, you and your partner will be able to get an unbiased opinion about the nature of your relationship dynamic that you can use to avoid and solve misunderstandings.To find a good couples therapist, ask for recommendations from others who have gone through couples therapy, or from your own therapist. You could also search online for therapists.Interview several potential couples therapists before choosing one. The couples therapist you’re considering should hold an LMFT or LCSW license, or a Ph.D, Psy.D, or MSW degree. Only choose a therapist with experience and training helping couples resolve and avoid misunderstandings.
Ensure that any couples therapist you’re interested in working with accepts your insurance.

