 Dip a hand brush into a bucket of water and scrub down all the areas where you, or any other people, sat during the steaming. 30 seconds of scrubbing should be enough for regular cleaning.Rinse the wood down with clean water when you are finished.Keep your brush and bucket near the door to remind you to clean as you leave the sauna.;
, If you notice stains on the wood from sweat, you don’t want those to stay. Dip your hand brush into a solution of warm water and a mild detergent and Use towels in the sauna to prevent stains. You don’t necessarily want to wear one during the steam, but at least lay one down on the bench where you will be sitting. This will prevent too much sweat, dirt, and dead skin from getting into the wood, which is what causes stains.If stains are particularly difficult to get out, use a light sandpaper to sand down that part of the wood.
 If you tracked dirt, hair, or other stuff on to the floor, use a vacuum to pick up any loose particles. Even if you don’t see any dirt, vacuum every few weeks to get anything that might be in there., These include drains or ventilation where moisture may gather, places that might not dry as quickly and can breed pathogens. Take them out of the sauna, and scrub down with a disinfectant to prevent mold and bacteria., Clean out your sauna with soap and a hose to rinse it down. You don’t want anything stronger than a mild cleaner, so avoid stronger chemicals like ammonia. You should do this every few days if you use the sauna everyday, though you can do it less if you don’t use it as often., At least once a year, make sure to sand down your benches with a fine sandpaper. This will help get rid of any impurities that may have gathered over the year, as well as smooth out the surface again. When you are finished, the wood should be a “like new” white color., If you notice mold, go after it immediately. A bleach solution is probably your best bet to get rid of it, though certain saunas make their own chemical cleaners., It can be beneficial to mop the floor with a deodorizing cleaner to get rid of any odors left over. Remember to avoid harsher chemical cleaners, and stick to soap and water, or cleaners supplied by your sauna’s manufacturers., If your sauna is a separate building outdoors, use a pressure washer to clean off the outside. This will keep your sauna looking nice.Be very careful not to use the pressure washer on the interior. The wood inside the sauna is softer, and the pressure washer can damage it.
 Like any room or building, your sauna will probably also have little things that need work. Make sure to tighten any loose screws and brush out water spots as they appear.This will keep your sauna in good condition, and prevent you from having to do more work later.


If your sauna has a wooden door, the humidity may cause the door to swell. Keep an eye on the door’s hinges to make sure it opens and closes properly.