 You can choose a size that leaves a border around the photo, or you can mount the photo on a board that is exactly the same size as the photo with no edges showing. You also have the option to use a mat which will place a border overtop of the photograph.If you choose a mounting board with a border, carefully choose what color you want to show taking into account whether or not it matches the photograph.
There are many options of board mounts to choose from, including but not limited to, Fotoflat, Foamex, Foamcore, Gatorboard and Colormount.;
, Use a ruler to measure the dimensions of your print. Remember that if you want to leave a border, your photo needs to be slightly smaller than the mounting board. Cut your photo to size accordingly., Dry mount tissue is a special adhesive paper designed to attach photos to mounting boards. Cut the tissue slightly smaller than the photo, about 1/8 inch (3 mm) smaller than the print on all sides, so the edges aren't visible beneath it.Using an acid-free dry mount tissue is recommended as an acid-based tissue might cause visible damage to your mounted photos in the years to come.
 Using small pieces of clear tape, attach the dry mount tissue to the back of your photograph at each corner. This will hold it in place while you start adhering the tissue at the center.
 Too hot of an iron will damage your photo. You can also invest in a dry mounting press, although they tend to be more expensive., Clean the backside of your photograph leaving no traces of dust so it will stick to your board without fuss. Be sure the tissue is attached, and center the print on the mounting board., This is an important step as blotter paper will absorb excess moisture from the iron and will keep your photo from getting damp. The blotter paper should be the same size as the print and it goes right over your photo when you're ironing.
 Press the iron down firmly in the center of the photo. Hold your iron or dry mount press there for about 5 minutes so the heat warms up the photo, dry mount tissue and mounting board. Pull the corners of the photo up carefully after the middle is firmly attached to the mounting board and remove the tape before adhering the edges to the board.
 Practicing this step first with an old print may help you get used to the process to ensure no mistakes are made. Make sure your iron stays in contact with the blotter paper to avoid getting bubbles in the mounted photo. Press the iron firmly down on the edges of the photo under even pressure for 5 minutes at each location., Place your mounted photo on top of a cutting board, and use a box cutter or X-Acto knife to trim the edges of your mount board. Lay your ruler over an edge of the photo while cutting so you cut in a straight line. Smooth the edges of your photo with a nail file when you're finished trimming.