 During the summer, when tourism in Edinburgh is high, it will be a nightmare trying to get into Mary King's Close without pre-booking first. Each tour of the close can only hold 20 people, and one sets off every 20 minutes, so young children might get bored waiting around.;
, Mary King's Close probably isn't suitable for anyone under the age of twelve.
 The floor is quite uneven and there are lots of hills and stairs to walk up - some which have cobbled ground. Also, make sure they don't slip easily. Don't wear high heels, Ugg boots or flip flops.
 Being underground, it can get very dusty which may set off an asthma attack. Also, some flashing lights are included in the tour, which may be uncomfortable for visitors who suffer from photo sensitive epilepsy. Make sure the staff know if you have either of these conditions so they will be able to get help if needed.
 The underground closes are very tight, and it can be a bit of a squeeze trying to fit the 20 visitors into some of the smaller rooms. That being said, the attraction is inaccessible to pushchairs and wheelchairs.
 Upon arrival, each group of 20 people will be given a character from the 16th century as their tour guide. You will either be assigned 'The Merchant', 'The Foul Clenger', 'The Maid' or 'Mary King's Daughter'. It's important to listen to all the safety precautions they give you - in some rooms, it's unsafe to lean against the walls, and in one, the roof is held up by scaffolding, so listen to all precautions and instructions given to you.
 Some years ago, a Japanese physic named Aiko Gibo came to visit the Close while making a film about Britain's most haunted places, and could barely set foot inside one room for the pain and unhappiness she could feel there: "I cannot enter this room... it is too strong... there is a child beside me, her little hand is clutching my trouser leg. I... I just cannot go into this room... she was separated from her parents. She wants to go home and see her family... her desire haunts this place very strongly." Eventually, she was able to cross the threshold, and began communicating with the young girl's spirit. Gibo stated: "She wants me to ask her mummy why she left her. She didn't know that she had the plague. Her mum lied to her to take her here and then abandoned her, probably to protect her siblings... can you get a small doll for the little girl? She has lost her favourite doll and is heartbroken." And so, Gibo had a doll brought to comfort the child, who was "absolutely delighted" . That doll remains in Annie's room to this day, and ever since then, people from all over the world have been bringing Annie toys, dolls and jewellery. This is not compulsory, but it's a nice thing to do.

