 Meditating for a few minutes and allowing yourself to discover what makes you tick will help you connect to the characters you play.


Meditating can also be a daily ritual that doesn’t have to be done on the floor. It can be done through activities that fuel you and your artistic talents. Chances are, you’re an artist because you felt a calling to it. Acting is a tough business that often has you running around trying to balance jobs that pay the bills with your art.
Try taking some time every day to perform your monologue. Read a play or book. Or even watch your favorite movie. These can all be forms of self-discovery and exploration. Find what helps you stay connected to your creative process and not loose sight of your goals and love for the art. , Grab another actor friend or anyone who will read with you and practice your cold readings. Cold readings are a big part of auditioning, as well as helping you to better your skill. When you practice cold reads, or perform one in an audition, there are a few things you should make strong decisions on:

Relationship. Who is your scene partner to you (in the scene)? What do you need from this person? Always pick positives. Even if you hate this character, you love this character. Hate gives you nowhere to go. Love allows you to explore options.
Conflict. Find the conflict in the scene. What is it that you and your partner are both fighting for? Only one of you can win. Practicing these cold reads will help you understand how to win using only what’s on the page and within you.
Place. Know where you are. Learn to visualize this place. Pick places that are real and that are familiar to you. It doesn’t matter if your partner has a different place in mind. Having intimate knowledge and details in your mind of where you are will change how you behave in the space.
Moment before. Every scene has a beginning. But something always happens off stage before this moment. Learn to decide with confidence what your character was doing before the moment on the page. Having a moment before will affect how you start the scene. It will allow you to act with a stronger choice at the top and inform your partner and the auditors that you didn’t just flip on the lights when the scene started.
 Going over your lines notating your discoveries and details like place, moment before, conflict, etc. will help you improve how you perform a scene. If a certain line reminds you of something from your own life, make a note of it. When you are performing you will be reminded of your own experience. This will allow you to draw on the feelings, body language, and emotions that you had. You can pour these elements into your scene.
Make notes of what your objective in a scene is, and the lines that help you achieve it. For example, if you want your mother to make you a sandwich, note which lines help you achieve that goal. This will give your lines purpose and let you learn to mean what you say instead of just reciting words on a page.
Make notes of what other characters say about your character, especially in scenes your character isn’t in. This will give you insight into who your character is. What others say about you is true. You can use this knowledge to become your character and deliver a three-dimensional performance. This is known as given circumstances. The playwright has given you the facts about your character. You can then use these facts to inform your character. , To truly improve your acting skills you have to learn to incorporate everything you’ve learned into your process in a way that serves you.


When taking classes and reading plays and books you will learn many different theories and methods. Not every one will work for you or be beneficial. But don’t discount something until you’ve tried it.
Formulate your own process using what you’ve learned. Apply it to everything from learning lines to performing. Over time, you will develop a process that allows you to dig deep and get the best results out of your work. To keep improving, you should be willing to adapt and change that process as you continue to learn.
Use your knowledge and the skills you have for everything. Performing, taking classes, and studying are all ways that you can improve. Use what you have and what you know works and treat every audition, scene, or play as if it’s the most important work you’ve ever done. Skimping on the process won’t help you get better.
Use your real life experiences to help you as well. As you get older and experience more of life you’ll have a bank of experiences which you can apply to a character. You’ll be surprised at how a play you read five ago suddenly makes so much more sense and connects with you now. Use your own life to build three-dimensional characters.

