 Any time you touch a dog's sensitive areas, it creates a ticklish/itching sensation for the dog. This causes a reflexive response in which a dog will kick one or both of its hind legs.Your dog cannot control this reaction, much like how you cannot control the way your leg kicks when a doctor strikes your knee.You cannot train or punish this reaction out of your dog; you simply have to accept it and work around it when brushing.;
, While most dogs are ticklish in the chest, side, or belly areas, the exact spots will vary in each canine companion. (Think of how we humans have different ticklish spots as well.) If you have two dogs, maybe even sibling pups, one may have no problem having its belly brushed while the other flails around wildly at the slightest touch. Use trial-and-error to figure out where to brush and where to avoid (when possible).Give your dog gentle, playful pets and scratches up and down its body. Any areas that elicit a scratch reflex are probably too sensitive to brush unless absolutely necessary.
 Despite the variation in ticklish spots from dog to dog, the saddle region is a fairly common area for sensitivity. The saddle encompasses the stomach, lower back, and ribs.Any type of touch in this area may set off your dog's scratch reflex, including a light stroke.If you have to brush this area due to excessive dirt or tangles, do so quickly, gently, and carefully. Prepare for a reaction from your dog, and don’t linger with the brush in that area. Don’t admonish your dog for reacting; provide praise and a treat when you're done instead.
 While not every dog will react the same way to having its ears, tail, or feet touched, these areas do tend to be sensitive to touch. When you begin to brush your dog's body, try to focus most of your brushing on less sensitive areas like the head and upper back.Generally speaking, these extremities aren’t going to get too tangled in fur anyway, so just leave them alone if your dog is ticklish there. If they do need to be brushed and your dog is simply too sensitive, see a professional groomer.

