 Depression in cats can be due to inadequate attention. Make sure you're giving your cat all the love she needs to feel happy and secure.


Cats are social animals, but tend to be more independent. Cats will generally signify when they want attention, and it's best to let them come to you. If your cat approaches you and engages in welcoming behavior, like rubbing against your legs or nuzzling you, she's craving attention. While it's not always possible to drop everything and indulge your cat's needs, you should at least give her a quick pat and stroke her to let her know you appreciate her.
Cats enjoy stimulating activity, so make sure you play with your cat. A good range is 15 or 20 minutes a day. Cats enjoy toys like strings and animal-shaped plush toys you can toss for them to chase. However, never rough house with a cat. Some owners wrestle with their cats using their hands, but this can cause a cat to become timid and engage in aggressive behavior.
 If you've recently taken a busy job, and you believe your cat's depression is a response to this change, try to keep him happy when you are away. There are a variety of ways to make sure your cat is entertained when you are not present.


Leave the curtains open during the day, especially if you live in a rural area. Make sure there's a table, dresser, or other perch your cat is allowed to climb on in front of the window. Cats love watching the outdoors, and having access to sunlight and entertainment while you're gone.Some companies sell DVD's and other electronic media you can play on your television set while you are away. Such movies feature stimuli cats will enjoy, like birds, mice, and other cats. Just be careful, as cats may jump and bat the TV. Make sure your TV is secure and is not likely to fall and break in response to a cat's curiosity.Many toys are designed to be enjoyed while you are gone, such as catnip laced mice and birds. There are also puzzle games, in which a toy or piece of food is placed in a contraption. Your cat must figure out how to open this contraption to get her reward and this can keep her engaged while you are gone. However, be careful. Some toys have warnings on them advising you not leave your cat alone with them. Make sure you pick toys that are safe to leave out while you're away., If your cat's depression is related to seasonal changes, light therapy might help curb winter depression.


Buy a light that simulates UV rays and turn it on for a few hours a day in your cat's presence. Such lights are often sold in greenhouses, as people purchase them to grow plants indoors.Sol Box is a brand of UV light veterinarians recommend as it's made specifically for cats. You can buy it from the online retailer Pawsitive Lighting. It produces bright, white light and manufacturers recommend exposing your cat to it 30 minutes a day during winter months., Your veterinarian can recommend brands of synthetic pheromones designed to encourage feelings of relaxation and happiness in cats.


Feliway spray is one of the most popular synthetic pheromones, and you should be able to get a supply at your veterinarian's office. Use only as the directions instruct and ask your vet if you have any questions or concerns about Feliway spray., Medication is generally considered a last resort to treat feline depression due to possible side effects and the difficulty of getting cats to take medication.


There are four types of medications used to treat depression and other behavioral issues in cats: benzodiazepines (BZs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Most likely, if your cat has depression, your vet will recommend an SSRI or MAOI.Depending on the medication, side effects vary. Some can be quite serious. For example, some MAOIs can cause potentially life threatening reactions if your cat accidentally consumes cheese while on the medication. Make sure you understand all possible side effects before giving your cat any medication. Ask your vet about side effects, and what side effects require immediate medical attention.Cats are notoriously difficult in regards to medication. Most veterinarians only prescribe meds as a last resort. If your vet suggests meds, make sure you know the proper protocol for administration, dosage, and storage. If you're confused or concerned about anything, do not hesitate to contact your vet and ask.