



Are you expected to drive to camp, or will a bus be provided? If you drive, you'll have more room for luggage than if you take a bus with the rest of your band.

Will you be at a college with just your school, a camp with schools from all over your state? Will you be staying in dorms, hotel rooms, or cabins? Can you pick who you'll room with? Will you and your roommate/your group want to bring extra items, such as junk food for snacking? If you can pick a roommate (or two), go ahead and make sure you have that worked out.
You'll also want to note the location and weather forecast for your stay, when packing clothes. If you're camping in cabins in the mountains, and all you bring are shorts and t-shirts, you may have a problem!
Try to find out what the dorms will be like before arriving. Dorms at band camps can range from a large room with a bunch of bunk beds or have individual rooms for one/multiple people. This can help you determine what to bring because there could be limited storage space. Most times, you will need to bring your own bedding/sleeping bags, towels, etc.;
, The next few steps will outline what items you'll need to remember/consider. Write down everything that applies to you on a list, which will keep you more organized when packing your actual suitcase.
 Choose clothing based on climate, and keep in mind that band camp is hard work. Even if you're a generally "cold" person (you take longer to warm up when you're working, are constantly chilly when everyone else is fine, etc.), you'll want to have plenty of t-shirts and shorts. You may want heavier clothes for nighttime, if it'll get cold, however. Also keep in mind that you'll be dressing for comfort, not style, and after a few days of marching your feet off and getting sunburned, you won't have much patience for anything that involves excessive bending or moving to put on, anyway. If your band camp is for concert band, you will still want a variety of clothing for outdoors as some rehearsals/classes may be outdoors.


Pack a change of clothes for every day you'll be there. If it's a long stay, and laundry services will be available, try to have enough clothes to last a week or two without doing laundry, plus a couple extras of everything, should you be caught in a storm or otherwise have your clothing damaged.
Include plenty of socks and underwear. Socks, especially, as you may get so sweaty that you'll want to change your socks once or twice a day to avoid killing your roommates with the stench.
Pack a pair or two of sturdy, comfortable athletic shoes. Marching in open-toed shoes will not be pleasant, or allowed. Even if your band camp is for concert band, you will likely be doing a fair amount of walking to get to different rehearsals/sectionals/etc.
Remember your band uniform/shirt! While you may not need your full uniform, depending on the camp, you'll probably be required to bring a band polo, t-shirt, or something else that will identify your group. You'll be in some deep trouble if you forget to bring this.
Bring a reusable water bottle. You'll definitely want to have one, and all band members bringing their own to refill definitely beats buying 50+ bottles a day to give everybody. When it is hot and humid outside, you will want water! If your camp is in the middle of nowhere, you may want to bring bottled water to fill your water bottle with as the water there may not taste good.
Be sure to pack all your toiletries, medicines, and other "bathroom" items. A list of things that the average camper may need is as follows:

Toothbrush, toothpaste, cheap cup (on the off chance that your living space doesn't already have a few to use).

Brushes, combs, hair scrunchies, a straightener, hairspray, or whatever else you feel that you must put in your hair before you can be seen in public. Try to keep the heavy machinery to a minimum. You'll want to be sure to have everything necessary to French braid your hair, should you need to.
(Girls) -- Makeup, but just the bare essentials. There's no point in spending hours on fancy makeup, just to sweat and smear it all off. Just pack the bare minimum of what you'll need to feel comfortable facing the world.
Deodorant... in excess. You definitely don't want to risk running out. Most camps will not allow you to wear perfume/body sprays due to allergies
"Comfort" materials, i.e. sunscreen (and plenty of it), lotion (with aloe for sunburns), and chapstick.
Shower materials - shampoo and/or conditioner, your own bar of soap (you'd probably rather not share), razor, towel(s) (in case you can't get them at the camp), and whatever else you absolutely can't live without.
Medicines and/or other medical items. This would include painkiller (as you'll probably want your own supply), an asthma inhaler, contact fluid, or materials to manage diabetes. Your parent or guardian will likely have to fill out a form allowing you to have the medicine with you, or granting permission to go to a nurse to receive it. Be sure to know the policies on medicine, or you could actually be kicked out of camp and/or in trouble for having drugs.
Anything else you may need that hasn't already been listed.
 Before gathering this up, be sure that you know exactly what you'll be doing and playing - if you play multiple instruments, which one does your director expect you to show up with? Will you also be doing drum major/leadership camp? Are you in the guard? Does your Jazz Band, Elite Brass group, or other "special" band practice during camp? You may end up bringing a lot of stuff...


Remember all necessary instruments. If you play clarinet in marching band, tenor sax in Jazz Band, and might need your bass clarinet in case you have to fill in for the usual player if he misses camp again, you'll have to bring all those instruments. Large instruments will be their own "suitcase", but smaller instruments, like the flute, may be able to be crammed into a suitcase or duffel bag with the rest of your band stuff.
Bring your music stand and/or lyre and flipbook, as well as all music you'll need. Be sure to leave space for new music. You may also want a metronome, tuner, and all sound equipment necessary to make them work. In addition, you'll need extras and backups for all the stuff that makes your instrument work. That means more reeds, more cork grease, more valve oil... even a backup instrument, if you play something small and have an old, dinky one laying around that could be used in an emergency.
If you're in the colorguard, remember your uniform and any flags or rifles that you may be in charge of bringing.
For a percussionist, bring any sticks or drums that you'll be in charge of, as well as grip tape and plenty of extra sticks.
If you're a drum major, bring a whistle, practice mace, or anything else you'll need that others won't. You probably won't need to bring an instrument.
If you plan to be playing a school instrument, be absolutely sure that your director knows this, and someone has made arrangements for you or another person to get it to camp.
 This would mainly include a sleeping bag, pillow, and flashlight, though you may also need other things. If you'll be at a camp that offers other activities besides band, such as swimming, pack accordingly.
 It's generally better to fit a lot of stuff in a couple of big suitcases or duffel bags than to have a lot of smaller ones. Try to get all your clothes and stuff into one bag, if possible, and another smaller one for your instrument-related stuff. That makes two bags, plus the instrument itself. Be sure to pack as efficiently as possible without "stuffing", as some of the things you'll be taking may break. If you're trying as hard as you can, and you can't make everything fit into two or three good-sized bags, maybe you need to leave some stuff out.
,