 Before you can effectively negotiate a settlement, you need to know the extent of your physical injuries. You will need to know both your diagnosis and what treatment will be required.


If you are in an accident, you may be transported by ambulance to the nearest medical facility. Your discharge summary will contain the information you need to access your medical records.
Whether you received emergency care or not, follow up with your regular doctor as soon as possible. Your primary care physician will likely be the one supervising your ongoing care.
Keep careful records if you are referred to specialists for tests or treatment.;
, Physical injuries can require years of treatment or result in permanent disabilities. You need to have an idea of what costs you may incur, including medical care, durable equipment purchases and rentals, modification of your home, and caregivers.


If you require ongoing care, your doctor can provide a written care plan. The business manager of your doctor's office or hospital, along with your insurance company can help you estimate the future costs.
 This includes the time you lost as a direct result of your injury, as well as on-going and future losses because of fewer hours, job loss, or restriction of duties. Consulting with an accountant who specializes in payroll can help you calculate this amount.
 If you were in a car accident, you should get estimates on repairing the damage or replacing your car with a comparable vehicle. You should also record the loss of personal property in the accident, concentrating on electronics and other high-value property.
 If law enforcement responded to the incident that resulted in your injury, there will be a report of their actions and observations. Not only is this a valuable document to reinforce your claims and refresh your memory about the accident, it may also contain information about witnesses.


Request a copy of reports for all law enforcement offices that responded to your injury. Depending on local rules, you may have to make your request in writing and pay a small fee. If you have any problems, consult with a local attorney.
 Gather names and contact information. This can include the insurance companies representing the parties as well as the parties themselves. If one of the other parties in the accident is a minor, you will need contact information for his parents.
 A professionally written demand letter is the opening move in your negotiation. You will send copies of this letter to the at-fault party, their insurance company, and your insurance company as a courtesy.


A good demand letter is polite, concise, and to the point. Start with a header identifying yourself, the insured party, and the claim.Using plain language, give the date of the accident and a brief description of your injuries. Do not throw around legal terms or sound threatening. At this stage, do not include a dollar amount. Do include your contact information.This first demand letter is notice to the other party and their insurance company that you intend to pursue damages for your claim. It is a tacit invitation to the other side to make an initial settlement offer.
Simplicity and clarity are the keys to the first letter. "On I received physical injuries in an on at I will be pursuing a claim against and the insurance carrier I hope a reasonable settlement can be negotiated without having to resort to litigation. " You have made it clear that you are willing to talk, but are prepared to go to court if necessary.A bad demand letter can damage your claim. It can make you look unprofessional and unreasonable. Do not write anything you wouldn't read out loud in open court.Send by certified mail so you will have proof the other side received it.Keep copies of all letters you send and attach the certified mail receipts to you copy.
 While you are waiting for the other side to respond, continue with your medical treatment and continue gathering documentation of your losses. You may receive a written response to your demand letter or be contacted by a claims representative or attorney.


During this time you may be submitting claims to your own insurance company. Keep them informed of your actions. Your insurer may want to step in and subrogate, or take over, the part of the negotiation that concerns reimbursement for the bills they have paid on your behalf., The other side may respond in writing or you may receive a phone call from an insurance adjuster or attorney. At this time, they may ask for additional information or make an initial settlement offer.


Take notes during the conversation. Record the time and date. Ask who you are talking to and their job title.
 When you are in financial and physical stress after an accident, it may be tempting to accept the first verbal offer. The amount may seem like a large amount of money. However, when it is compared with your actual losses, the offer may be inadequate.The insurance adjuster or attorney has one job. That job is to settle your claim in the least amount of time for the least amount of money. No matter how concerned they seem about your well-being and recovery, you are not their client.
If you are feeling confused or overly pressured at this time, strongly consider talking with a skilled personal injury attorney.
 Compare the offer to your actual expenses. Factor in your anticipated future expenses and whether or not you will be able to return to work at your previous salary.


Do not brag in public or on social media about your anticipated award. This is not only unprofessional, it could undermine your position in the negotiation or a future court case.If you do not understand the offer letter, call or write the adjuster and ask for a clarification. If you discuss the offer by phone, take notes about the call.
 Realistically, the first written offer may not encompass all of your claims. The adjuster doesn't have access to information about issues like lost property, medical equipment, or your pain and suffering. They are operating on historical data about the cost of settling similar claims.This is your opportunity to humanize your situation. Your letter should be polite and professional, but also detail your injury and the loss you and your family have suffered. Don't exaggerate, each claim must be backed up by a document. But, "I received a broken leg in the car wreck and missed a bunch of work," isn't persuasive. The adjuster has read hundreds of these reports and letters. Be prepared to stand out and catch her attention.
Personalize your narrative and cite it to the attached documents. "Because of the severe broken leg from the accident,I lost six weeks of wages and had to use all of my vacation time.Because I haven't been able to drive, or even walk unaided,my wife had to take unpaid leave from her job to care for me and see that I get to all of my medical and physical therapy appointments.The accident wrecked our car and we have had to rent one." Continue on and include all of the costs and disruptions to your life that you can document.Finish your letter with a dollar amount request based on your analysis of your current and future financial losses.
It is a good idea to have someone proofread your letter and see if they can easily find the documents you reference. Ask if they understand your claim based on the letter.
This stage may take one or two cycles before you agree on a settlement.
 Once you and the insurance adjuster or attorney come to a tentative agreement, ask for a final settlement letter. This document should detail the exact dollar amount and how it will be paid out.


Generally, financial pay-outs for personal injury claims are not taxable as income. However, you should talk with a tax professional to make sure the settlement is structured to minimize any tax consequences.If you agree to a lump sum, remember that the money may have to last for many years. Consider consulting with a financial professional on how to maximize your award and make it work for you and your family.
If you agree to a structured pay out over several years, make sure you have enough resources to pay your outstanding bills and on-going living expenses.
 If your claim is refused by the insurance company, or a couple of rounds of demand letters hasn't resolved the situation, you need to face the fact that your case may not settle. You may need to seek assistance from the court system.


Be aware of the statute of limitations. For a personal injury, in most cases you have to file your case within two years. However, it does vary and you must research the statute of limitations for your state.If you let it pass, you are forever barred from filing a case against the at-fault party or their insurance company.
 The gross amount of your losses will determine if you can pursue your lawsuit in small claims court or if you will have to file in regular court. Claims limits range from a low of $2,500 in Rhode Island to a high of $25,000 in Tennessee.Limits are frequently adjusted by the state legislature. Check with your local court for the limit in your state.


The deciding factor is not only the dollar amount, but the complexity of your claim. Small claims court is best suited for claims that can be settled with a single payment. The rules are relaxed and the judge expects a straightforward presentation with minimal testimony. Regular court is better suited for detailed hearings with expert testimony and document analysis.
In small claims court, your evidence will be your documents. Your final demand letter is a good template for your presentation. Work through your injuries step-by-step, backed up with documents.
 Since personal injury lawyers typically work on contingency, there's no real reason why you shouldn't hire an attorney to help guide your claim through the system. Generally speaking, a personal injury attorney will collect between 30% and 40% of your court award. Consider this cost prior to going to court.


You can have an attorney review your claim at no charge. Talk to friends and family or visit your local bar association's website to find an attorney who has expertise in the type of claim you have. For example, if you were injured in a car accident, you don't necessarily want to hire an attorney who specializes in slip-and-fall cases.
When you first speak with the attorney, find out how long they have been practicing, what kind of experience they have with your kind of claim, and the results they've gotten with claims like yours in the past.If you are looking to sue a business or an insurance company, they no doubt have their own attorneys, and although you could attempt to file a lawsuit on your own, you may find you get better deal by having an attorney on your side.Before you hire an attorney, make sure you're comfortable talking to and working with them, and that you understand how their office operates. For example, if you would prefer a hands-on attorney who is personally available to you, make sure the attorney you've chosen won't be farming out a lot of the work on your case to a paralegal or other staff member., Once you decide where you are going to file your lawsuit (small claims court or regular court) you will need to gather the required forms and submit your lawsuit. In most states, you will be able to access the appropriate forms online at the court's website. For example, in California, you can download and fill out a personal injury complaint directly from the California court system's website.If you have hired an attorney, they will know how and where to find the appropriate information needed to file your claim. In general, your personal injury complaint will include the following information:


Your name and the defendant's name;
Proof that the court you are filing in is the appropriate one (i.e., the court has jurisdiction over your case);
Your cause of action (e.g., motor vehicle, general negligence, intentional tort, or product liability);
The damages you have sustained (e.g., wage loss, loss of the use of property, medical expenses, loss of earning capacity, general damages, and property damage);
Whether you are asking for compensatory and/or punitive damages, and if so, how much you are asking for., After you or your attorney files the personal injury lawsuit, the legal process will start with a period of discovery. During discovery, you and the other party will have an opportunity to share evidence and witness information.


Both parties can generally obtain any information relevant to the case.Oftentimes, lawyers for either side will ask for: anything a witness might have seen; anything anyone said; the identity of anyone involved; documents related to the case; and/or background information on a witness.However, there are limits to what can be discovered.The most common limitation is for confidential conversations.Confidential conversations between husbands and wives, lawyers and clients, doctors and patients, and religious advisors and advisees are generally protected.During discovery, you and the attorneys will utilize a number of common tools in order to get the information you need. First, you will be able to conduct depositions, which are in-person questioning sessions with someone else.Second, you will be able to request that the other party produce documents you think are relevant.Third, you will be able to send out interrogatories, which are written questions that someone must answer.Finally, you can ask a party for admissions, which requires that party to admit or deny certain facts under oath., If you and the defendant have reached an impasse in discussions, a neutral third party may be able to help you find common ground for settlement through mediation.


Mediation is less expensive and less formal than a trial. Rather than deciding who's right and who's wrong, mediators are focused on arriving at a compromise with which all parties are comfortable.Although some cases may settle before a complaint is even filed, it is more likely that you and the defendant will reach settlement after the discovery process has gone on for awhile and both of you have a better idea about the other's case., If you are unable to settle your case, you and your attorney will prepare for a formal trial in court to resolve your claim.

