 Real origami paper always comes in the shape of a colorful square. If all you have is rectangular computer paper, make your own square paper by folding the top corner down diagonally. Trim off the extra rectangle of paper at the bottom. Choose any color of origami paper. Paper with a multi-colored design works well with this project since the bird's flapping wings will make the colors dance.
If your paper has two different colored sides, note which one is facing up and which one is facing down. If your paper is the same color on both sides, make a small mark or design to identify the two sides. the side facing the table is the side that you will see when the bird is complete.;
, Start by laying the square in front of you so that the bottom corner is pointing at your chest. Bring the top corner down to the bottom corner, then use your finger to make a crease.


You will now have a triangular shape with the points facing you.
Then unfold the paper so it lays flat again.
 Rotate the square and fold it again, this time bringing the other corner to meet its opposite. Make a second crease with your finger.


The two creases will form an "X" shape in your paper.Unfold your paper again.
 Lay the square in front of you so that its bottom edge is parallel to your chest.


Fold the paper in half, bringing the top edge to meet the bottom edge. Make a crease with your finger.
Unfold the paper again to lay it flat.
 Turn the paper sideways and fold it in half again, then crease the fold with your finger.


Unfold your paper once again.
You should now have four creases running through your paper that all intersect in the middle of the square.
 Start with the bottom corner of the square pointing toward your chest. Pinch the two sides of the square along the horizontal fold, bringing the left and right corners down to the bottom corner. The two sides will collapse in toward the middle, and the top corner will fold over them to form a small square. It might take a little maneuvering to get the sides to collapse toward the middle of the square. It can help to re-crease all of the folds to make them more flexible.
If you do this correctly, the small square you make will have a crease running from the top corner to the bottom corner in the center.
 With the bottom corner of the square pointing toward your chest, fold the top layer of the right corner inward so that its edge aligns with the center crease.


Use your finger to crease the fold.
 Do the same thing, folding the top layer of the left corner inward so that its edge aligns with the center crease. Use your finger to crease the fold.


The new folds will take the shape of a little kite.
 You're going to do the folds you just made on the other side.


You will now have two identical sides that look like a kite.
Fold the top part of the kite down to create a crease. Then unfold.
 Orient the paper so that the bottom corner (the part that can unfold to reveal the interior) is pointing toward your chest. Lift the top layer of the bottom corner up and flatten it against the table. It will look like a diamond shape sitting on top of your kite. As you lift the bottom corner, the sides of the paper will fall into the diamond shape naturally along the creases you already folded.
 Repeat the folds you just made on the other side. Open up the backside of the kite. Orient it so that the bottom corner (the part that can unfold to reveal the interior) is pointing toward your chest. Lift the top layer of the bottom corner up and flatten it against the table. Now both sides have a diamond shape.


The two diamonds should align perfectly over one another when you're finished with both sides.
 Fold the right bottom flap diagonally up to the right. Fold the left bottom flap diagonally up to the left.


You should now have three points forming three triangles all facing upward, pointing away from you.
 Turn your paper on the side and open the flaps. Now take bottom portion of paper you just folded and unfolded and fold it up and into the flap. Close the flaps. Then take the portion of paper now in the middle and pull it out, keeping the two folds closed.


Pull the paper out so that all of the edges are aligned. Crease the fold.
Repeat this with the other side so that you have the head and tail pointing diagonally outward.
 This reverse fold will make the head. Open the paper to reveal the two flaps and fold down the tip so it’s between. Then pinch the flaps together and crease.
 Fold the top layer of the middle triangle down at an angle to form a wing.


Fold the wing so that it points more toward the head, not just straight down.
 Repeat the fold for the other wing.


Make sure that the wings line up with one another.
 Holding the bird's neck, pull the tail up diagonally to make the wings flap.


Finished! Enjoy your origami flapping bird.

