 Do you ever watch soccer players take a corner kick or penalty kick? Soccer players line up only a few steps behind the ball. You don't need to get a running start from 15 feet (4.6 m) away to strike the ball well. In fact, getting a 15 foot (4.6 m) running start will probably keep you from hitting the ball well.
 This keeps your foot stable so that it doesn't move when it contacts the ball. The foot needs to control how the ball moves, rather than the ball moving the foot. If you're trying to achieve a no-spin shot, the only way you'll be able to is by locking your ankle. If the foot is flimsy, the ball will make equally flimsy movements and motions.
 Never use your toe to kick the ball. Toe-kicking the ball makes it impossible to control where you want to put it. And accuracy is the most important thing you need when shooting the ball.
 Your planter foot is the foot you're not kicking with, the foot that you plant next to the ball. It should be pointed in the direction you want the ball to go. You should also bend your foot and kick the ball with your toe pointed down at the ground. There's a sweet spot on your foot, halfway up your laces, that you should try to use to drive the ball every time.









Don't try to kick the ball too hard, and remember to keep your eyes on the ball the whole time.
 Make sure your toe is pointed toward the ground. The power of your kick might send both of your feet off the ground as you shoot. Bring your leg back to generate force. You'll get speed and power.









If you want to kick a long way, jump at the end while kicking the ball. This will give it your kick even more force.
 Remember that the farther you lean back as you kick, the higher the ball will get. If your body is straight (vertical) when you kick, you should get a shot that's low to the ground or mid-height.









If done correctly, the ball should have no spin once you've kicked it, like a knuckleball shot. If it's spinning outside in, you might have moved your passing leg in the right trajectory or didn't lock your ankle.
 You should jump and leap through the ball as you strike it. Keep your head down. Your knee should be above the ball while you keep your hips pointed in the direction you want the ball to go.








This approach is used to gain more power behind the ball.

