 Whether it's telling people in passing or posting on each other's social media pages, convey how catastrophic it would be if their innocent comment made its way to your parents. Social media can be especially dangerous because you never know who is connected to whom.


Ask your friends politely not to post any incriminating comments or pictures. It may be a wise idea not to let anyone take any pictures when you are in a group setting with your significant other.
 The great thing about social media is that the larger sites are free. Set up as many accounts as you need to cover your tracks. Remember your password and only log on when using a device not shared with your parents., Not would a fake email account be advantageous because your parents won't recognize it, but you should also use it to set up your fake social media account. Remember that your parents can search for you on social media based on your email info., All social media will give you an option to filter what information you share with the public. Go to the Settings Menu and set up your profile so that only you and your partner have access to it. You can also select a few friends to be able to view your profile if you deem them trustworthy.You will have the opportunity to filter your updates and postings so that you can block your parents from seeing. However, the best way to block your parents from seeing is not to post anything incriminating at all.
 Remember that your parents can search social media sites via your date of birth, phone number, last name, school, or job. Don't make the mistake of creating a false account without ensuring every detail won't lead back to you.Change your profile name completely. Don't use your middle name, your name spelled backward, or the name of your dog. Anything remotely close to you may end up giving you away in the long run. It's better to exercise extreme caution.
 If you get into an argument with your partner, try not to show your parents how angry or sad you are. Don't emote in public for it to get back to your parents. Find an outlet to release your emotions. It may be difficult to be unable to share your emotions so research ways to prevent emotional outbursts.


For example, taking up boxing may work to vent frustration while listening to upbeat music in headphones may be enough to cheer you up after an argument with your partner. Only you know how to handle your emotions.
 If you are lying to a lot of people, it will become difficult to keep track of all the details. Keep your stories consistent and try to keep it as simple as possible. The more details you add, the more difficult it will be to remember them all.
 Don't let your parents get suspicious you are hiding a relationship from them by letting them know that you have a platonic relationship with your partner that demands your time. Introduce them openly and talk about them the same as any other platonic relationship in your life.


For example, if you introduce them as your coworker, you can talk about work related issues and meetings and how you and your partner have supported one another through deadlines.
 Meet your partner at places that you would not normally go to and that your parents are not aware of. Change your social calendar so that you leave no chance of getting caught by your parents or someone who could tell your parents. Better yet, find out your parents' schedule. Not only will you be able to have piece-of-mind knowing where your parents are but you will also be able to meet your partner as far away from them as you can.

