 The first thing you will need to do is ensure that you have all the required details from the person you are paying money to. Take time to double-check all of this information thoroughly. The details you use will instruct the bank where to send the money. This can vary a little from bank to bank, but be prepared with the following:


The name and address of the person, company or other entity receiving the money.The name and address of the bank the money is being sent to.
The recipient's account number.
The American Banking Association's (ABA) routing number for the bank the money is being sent to.If you are in the UK you will need the receiving bank's six digit sort code.You may need "further delivery" instructions depending on the receiving bank. This could be an additional account number or name.;
, If you need your transfer to arrive the same day, you will need to meet this deadline, which is typically in the mid-afternoon. There may be an extra charge for a guaranteed same-day transfer, so be sure you know exactly what the costs will be.The time will vary from bank to bank, so contact your branch if you are unsure. If you do plan to meet this deadline, be sure to arrive with some time to spare.
 Before you make a bank transfer you should always double-check that you have the required credit in your account. If you don't have the balance necessary to meet the cost you may go overdrawn and be charged by your bank. If you are making a transfer in person in the branch and are uncertain whether you have enough money, ask the bank teller to check before processing the transfer.If you are due to get paid at the end of the week, but only have time to go to the bank before that, you can set the date for the transfer so it is processed after you get paid.
The teller will most likely ask you on what date you want to send the money when she processes your transfer.
 When you go to the bank, remember to bring along some photo ID, such as your driving licence, as well as your bank card. The requirements can vary from bank to bank so if you are uncertain, call up your branch or look on the website for more details. It is better to be certain than risk a wasted trip. When you reach the teller at the bank, say you want to make a transfer. Some banks will only wire money if the sender is there in person.
 The bank teller will pass you a bank transfer form, onto which you put all the information about the transfer. Where you are sending the money, how much you are sending, and what date you want to money to be sent. The teller will then input all the relevant information into the system and send your transfer.


It can take from 1 to 3 days for the funds to appear in the receiving account. Bank transfers sent within the same country usually are credited faster than funds sent internationally.
Transfers to another account held with the same bank can arrive almost immediately.Check your account for transfer fees deducted from your account. Your bank may deduct a fee for sending the transfer, and the receiving bank may also deduct a fee.

