 Knowing your love languages and values is essential to beginning communication with each other about the romance in your relationship. Determining your love languages involves finding the way you and your partner show and prefer to receive love.In addition to learning your love languages, consider that, over time, your values may have changed.Determine where your values and your partner's values stand, as well as how in sync they are now.


Read Dr. Gary Chapman's book “The Five Love Languages: The Secret to Love that Lasts” to learn about love languages and to help determine which ones you and your partner identify with.
The five languages of love are words of affirmation, quality time, receiving gifts, acts of service, and physical touch. The idea is that your spouse shows love in one of these ways and will feel most loved if you show him love in this same way.
Notice, for instance, if your partner is always complimenting you. If he is, this may mean his main love language is words of affirmation. This doesn't mean you can't express love in other ways — don't neglect physical touch or the other "languages" — but know that he will usually feel the most loved when you give him compliments instead of, say, the gift of a new golf club.
Your love language may be different from your partner's — that's okay. If your spouse shows love by giving compliments, but you need quality time to feel loved, then he should be willing to make an effort to spend more time with you.
 Conversation is a romantic activity that you can share with your partner every day. Take the time to sit down and talk about what happened during the day. Share your feelings about the events and check in with each other about how you are doing. When your partner shares her day with you, truly pay attention and participate in the conversation. Listen actively by trying the following:]

Remove all distractions that you can while having a conversation with your partner. Turn off the TV and put down your cell phone.
Every once in a while restate or summarize what your partner is telling you. This helps you make sure you are hearing her correctly and shows her that you are making an effort to pay attention.
Avoid using “Why” questions, quick reassurances such as “Don't worry about it,” or advising by stating “You should...”

, Intimacy and romance are about feeling connected to each other.If you feel that the romance has slipped away from your relationship, check to see how connected you feel to your partner. There may be some work you can do to feel more connected to each other. Try the following tips to be more connected to each other.Say “Thank you” to your partner for something each day.
Try to be more playful with each other.
Sneak hugs with each other.
Show more compassion for your partner.
 Having a real conversation with your partner about the romance in your relationship can help you reconnect. Talking it out and being honest allows you both to discover where the other person is coming from instead of guessing or assuming.Make sure you are getting a chance to say how you feel and your partner is also getting time to share as well.


Take turns telling each other what you need from the other person and the relationship.
Ask your partner what he is dissatisfied with and what he is satisfied with in your relationships as far as romance is concerned.
Talk about how you each are planning to change to have the future you want.
Instead of being critical about your partner, try to focus on what can be changed and what you can work on together.
 Opening up the lines of communication is the first step to addressing any issues that may be getting in the way of your romance.Over longer relationships, rough patches or even resentments are bound to happen. Take the time now to address and work on these issues.


Have a real conversation with your partner about what issues you are struggling with together. Together develop a plan to change the current circumstances that are causing the issues.
Seek professional help, if necessary. If you and your partner are having difficulty communicating or connecting, see a psychologist or a marriage counselor to help you get started.