 Doing yoga may help to increase your energy levels.Try doing an energizing pose, such as downward dog, cobra pose, or bridge pose.Even doing a quick forward bend may help to increase your energy levels.


To do a forward bend, stand with your feet shoulder width apart, look down, and then bend down towards your toes.
Reach for your toes, but only bend as far as is comfortable for you.
Allow your arms to hang down and stay in this position for a few minutes. Continue to breathe normally.
Then, slowly raise your body back up into a standing position.;
, Taking in some deep slow breaths can also increase your energy levels and help you to feel more alert. Try sitting or lying down and breathing in slowly through your nose and out through your mouth. Count to five as you breathe in and count down from five as you breathe out.
 Check your posture from time to time to make sure that you are standing straight and tall. Physical movements and mental states are linked, so positioning your body in a way that expresses energy should send a signal to your brain that you are energetic.Make sure that your back is straight and your shoulders are back slightly.
Correct your posture any time that you notice yourself slouching.
 Singing aloud to a favorite upbeat song may also help to increase your energy levels in just a few minutes.If you need a quick energy boost, then put on your favorite song and sing out loud.


Try dancing while you sing for an extra boost of energy.
 Walking can boost your energy levels as well.Try heading outside for a walk around the block or just walk around your house for 10 to 15 minutes when you need an energy boost.


Try listening to some upbeat music on headphones while you walk to increase the energizing effects of your walk.
 Sunshine can also wake you up and help you to feel more energized when you are tired. Try heading outside on a sunny day to sit in the sun for 10 to 15 minutes or sit near a sunny window for a while.Do not stay out in bright sunlight for more than 15 minutes without sunscreen or your skin may burn.

