
He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside quiet waters,
He restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
Truly, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for You are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows.
Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.";
, Consider each line.
 One example of meaning is given:


"The Lord is my Shepherd" -- That involves a one-on-one relationship, as an individual -- not just a number in a flock!
"I shall not want" -- That's the source for your needs: your Shepherd supplies the way, truth and the life!
"He maketh me to lie down in green pastures" -- That's splendid contentment -- plenty of rest!
"He leadeth me beside the still waters" -- That's cool, peaceful refreshment!
"He restoreth my soul" -- That's provision for revitalization and healing!
"He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness" -- That's leadership and guidance in following God's will!
"For His namesake" -- That gives a higher purpose for life!
"Truly, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death" -- That's about testing in the darkest valley, even through death!
"I will fear no evil" -- That's knowing you are protected even at your lowest hour!
"For Thou art with me" -- That's the constant faithfulness of The Shepherd!
"Thy rod and Thy staff they comfort me" -- That's God's protection against the enemies!
"Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies" -- That's assurance of support and hope in danger!
"Thou annointest my head with oil" -- That's care, dedication and consecration!
"My cup runneth over" -- That's His abundance flowing to you and out to others!
"Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life" -- That's the blessing and power of grace, through faith remembering "God is Love," not just words!
"And I will dwell in the house of the Lord" -- That's home and security in the Lord's provision/Heaven!
"Forever." -- That's now and always -- for eternity!

,
Is it more: "Who you have" in your life?

,, Which means after you get yourself in trouble -- but better yet -- seek Him beforehand.
