 Don't call them a noob. It makes them feel bad, and then they will annoy you. So being nice is very important! They will normally appreciate that you were willing to listen to them. After all, wouldn't you rather get help from someone that be called a noob?;
, Noobs hate it when other players aren't patient with them because they may need help badly. That's why you should be patient. Sometimes it just takes a while for them to go away. When they're new, they don't know better than just to beg or ask people for help with everything.
 Getting upset makes the noobs upset too, which will also make them angry and annoy you. Noobs think that you are not listening when you are upset. Try to seem like you understand what they are saying when you talk.
 Noobs will sometimes try to make you do something you don't want to do. Do not give in to this! If they get angry at you for not doing it, try to calm them down. Only do steps 5 and 6 if they don't stop annoying you when you asked them to stop.
 Don't just imagine they're not following you, but add them to your ignore list! Now they can't talk or trade you in any possible way! The noob will mindlessly be chatting when you can't hear them!

, Don't use Home Teleport because they'll know where you're going (Lumbridge). Even if you are a non-member, there are still ways you can teleport for free- for example, the explorer's ring to teleport you to the cabbage patch etc, and it is generally better to use this than to use the money you would have done on teleport runes.
 Yes, just log out. From here, you can either go to another world, or wait a while, so you can go back to your world. If you go to another world, noobs probably won't know where you are. If you wait, and go back in your world, the noob will have probably left the area. Also if you're a member and were on a f2p world go to a members world, that way even if they put you on they're friend list, unless they're a member, they can't get you!

, Most noobs cannot go to these areas and will get killed.

