 If you have oral, vaginal, or anal sex and have multiple partners and/or unprotected sex, you are at risk of contracting chlamydia. Chlamydia is transmitted when the bacteria ‘’Chlamydia trachomatis’’ comes in contact with your mucous membranes. Anyone who is sexually active should get annual STI tests, including testing for chlamydia.You should also get tested after every new sexual partner.


You are at higher risk for chlamydia if you have unprotected sex, as your partner might have chlamydia or another STI. These infections can be prevented by using latex condoms and dental dams.
You are at higher risk if you have been diagnosed with other STIs.
Younger people are at a higher risk of contracting chlamydia.
Since men who have sex with men are at a higher risk of getting chlamydia, be sure to talk to your male partner and make sure your partner is not having sex with anyone other than you.
Mouth-to-vagina and mouth-to-anus transmission is not known to occur. Mouth-to-penis and penis-to-mouth transmission is definitely possible, though transmission through oral sex is less likely than via vaginal or anal sex.
 Chlamydia does not cause symptoms in 75% of infected women. Chlamydia could be damaging your body even if you haven't experienced any symptoms. Untreated infections cause pelvic inflammatory disease, which can eventually lead to scarring and infertility.When symptoms do occur, they usually arise 1-3 weeks after infection.
Get tested immediately if your partner discloses that he has chlamydia.
 A swab from an infected genital area can be taken and analyzed. For women, this means a swab of your cervix, vagina, or rectum and, for your male partner, a swab is inserted into the tip of the urethra or rectum. A urine sample may also be taken.Ask your doctor or visit a local health clinic, Planned Parenthood, or other agency that offers STI testing. In many cases testing is free., If you do get diagnosed with chlamydia, treatment via oral antibiotics, particularly azithromycin and doxycycline, will be offered to you. If you take the full course of antibiotics as directed, the infection should be gone in a week or two. For more advanced chlamydia, you may need IV antibiotics.


If you have chlamydia, your partner should also be tested and on treatment so you can avoid re-infecting each other. All sex should be put on hold until treatment is finished.
Many people with chlamydia also have gonorrhea, so your doctor may put you on treatment for this infection as well. The cost of treating gonorrhea is cheaper than running the lab tests for it, so you might be put on this treatment without being tested.