 Smoking is associated with a lower sperm count and lower quality for the sperm that you do have. It can cause them to have the wrong shape and be less mobile, making it harder for them to fertilize the egg.If you quit, your sperm count may improve.If you need help quitting, you can get support by:Talking to your doctor, attending a treatment program, or seeing a specialist. If you try nicotine replacement therapy, talk to your doctor about whether this could also impact your sperm count.
Talking to friends and family.
Joining an in person or online support group.
Getting support from toll free hotlines which are available in the US and many other countries. Check online or in your phone book for the numbers.;
, Heavy drinking can reduce testosterone and lower sperm production.If you are concerned that your drinking might be lowering your sperm count and you need help quitting, there are lots of resources available to help you:Join a detox program to get medical supervision during withdrawal.
Get support from a counselor or local support groups like Alcoholics Anonymous.
Get counseling, either alone, or together with your partner or family.
Try medications to curb the cravings. Talk to your doctor first before taking medications while trying to father a child.
Join a residential treatment program for round-the-clock medical and emotional support.
 Various drugs may damage your testicles or sperm. In addition, drugs that are purchased on the street have no quality controls. This means that they could contain chemical contaminants that could be dangerous for your sperm. What type of damage occurs will depend upon what chemicals you have used and how much.Cocaine and marijuana may lower sperm count and quality.
Anabolic steroids may shrink your testicles and reduce sperm production.
 If your job puts you in contact with these substances, wear safety gear and talk to your doctor about whether they could be lowering your sperm count. The greater your exposure, the more likely it is that they will lower your sperm count.These include:Benzenes
Toluene
Xylene
Herbicides
Pesticides
Organic solvents
Painting materials
Lead
Heavy metals

, STDs can cause damage the testicles, inhibit sperm production, or damage the tubes through which the sperm must pass. You can reduce your chances of contracting one by being monogamous with an uninfected partner or always using a latex condom when having non-monogamous sex.Put a condom on before sexual contact begins and use it throughout.
If the condom breaks, replace it with a new one immediately.
Don't use expired condoms. They are more prone to breaking.
 Most STDs are curable with the right medications. Getting prompt treatment can improve your sperm count. The longer you are infected, the more likely it is that you will develop serious complications and damage to your reproductive system. STDs that are associated with low sperm counts include: Chlamydia
Gonorrhea
Prostatitis
HIV
Testicular infections

, Do not just stop your medications. Always consult your doctor because it may be possible to change your medications if they are indeed the cause of your low sperm count. Medications that can reduce sperm count or affect fertility include:Anabolic steroids
Some antibiotic and antifungal medications
Some ulcer medications
Testosterone replacement therapy
Cancer treatments such as chemotherapy or radiation
Calcium channel blockers
Tricyclic antidepressants

, Too much heat can reduce sperm production. If you have a job that exposes you to extreme heat, talk to your doctor about whether it could be reducing your sperm production. You can safeguard your sperm by:Wearing loose underwear
Forgoing saunas and hot tubs
Not sitting with your laptop in your lap
Minimizing the length of time that you sit. This is particularly relevant for men who drive trucks and have to sit for long periods of time.

