 The first thing a professional dealer would do is fan out the deck and inspect the cards to see they are all there. Next turn the deck face down and mix them up. You are also checking to see that all the cards are the same color on the back. Now push them together and shuffle the cards.






;
, Hold the deck in one hand. Use your other hand to take off the top 1/3 of cards and set them on the table. Then take the middle section and place it on top. Finally set the bottom third on top of the others. Then shuffle the cards normally again.
, Start with the person clockwise of the dealer button, and deal one card at a time around the circle, until every player has two cards., During each round, move all folded cards into a "muck pile" under the hand in which you hold the deck (the "stub"). When each round is complete, the dealer moves all the chips in to a pile at the center/right (or left, if the dealer holds the stub in the right hand) of the table. (The "pot") Betting always begins with the player seated clockwise of the dealer, and continues until all players have either folded or called the total bet, including all raises.
 Each player must either: 1. call the amount of the Big Blind as a minimum, 2: fold their hand, or 3: raise the bet, in accordance with predetermined table rules.
 (This is a matter of protocol and does not truly affect the randomization of the cards.It does help prevent players from marking the cards and cheating.) The dealer then places three cards face up on the table. Another betting round commences.
 Another betting round commences.
 This will be the last betting round before players reveal their hands.
 Traditionally, the last person to bet or raise will show first...IF there was betting on the last round. If everyone checks the final round then the player to the left of the dealer button is first to show.
 Announce what the winning hand is and kill (muck) all the losers. Push the pot to the winner. Leave the 'Board' and the winner's hand face up while pushing the pot. Don't go too fast in this phase. Make sure everyone sees who has the winner so there are no arguments. Anyone at the table, whether in the pot or not, has the right to correct the dealer. It is not personal, it just helps to avoid mistakes.








