 You should never argue with your child's coach. Even if you disagree about the coach's choices, avoid arguing or disrespecting the coach's authority. Your child learns respect from watching you. If you're constantly arguing with the coach, your child is likely to do the same.Remember, your coach is looking out for the entire team's best interest and not just your child. You need to respect the coach's choices to make sure all players get a chance to compete.
Coaches should be responsible for making sure that their teams act in a sportsmanlike way. If you believe the coach values winning above the emotional and mental health of their players, you may want to move your child to a different team.
Your child needs to learn to respect others during sports games. If your child does not respect their coach, they're also less likely to respect other players.
 When playing a game, especially with very young children, kids will sometimes neglect the rules. They may want to skip over a particular rule, or only follow certain aspects of it, in order to win. Always gently remind children of the rules.Say things like, "Hey, you need to follow the rules, remember? They're there to keep the game fair to everyone."

, Even the players that are less skilled should have fun. When playing with your kids, or when coaching a game for a group of kids, make sure everyone has a chance to play.For example, say you're playing a game of baseball with your kids. Your younger son is not yet as skilled as your older children.
Encourage him to play as well. If your other children complain their younger brother is holding them back, say something like, "The point of playing isn't to win. It's for everyone to have fun together."
Encourage the older children to teach the younger children how to play. This will involve the younger children while boosting the older children's confidence about their own skills.
 If your child's little league team wins a game, focus on the victory as a group. Offer to buy all the players ice cream after the game or take all the players out for pizza. Focus on the success of the team as a unit rather than one player's achievements. This encourages your child to see victories as a group effort, teaching your child sportsmanship., If you notice your child is consistently acting out at games, you may want to take action to discipline the child. Have a chat with the coach to see if they can intervene and talk to your kid. You may also decide to have consequences at home. Make sure you talk to your child so that they understand what they have done wrong and how they can act better in the future.