 It can often be helpful to reach out to a trusted family member or friend for advice. This can help you figure out the best way to end things with your boyfriend. Be careful about who you talk to; you don’t want rumors of your break up to get to your boyfriend before you get the chance to talk to him about it. Sometimes confiding in an immediate family member is less risky., Go over the break up in your head or write it down in a notebook. Prepare what you’re going to say, and contemplate how he might react. Being prepared makes it easier to properly express and explain in the moment, which will be better for both you and your boyfriend.


Not making decisions about what you’ll say can lead to more confusion for your boyfriend.
It’s an emotional moment, which might make it tough to be clear-headed if you don’t think about what you’ll say beforehand.
 Start brainstorming new activities to try and ways to stay busy once the break up has happened. As soon as you go from being in a relationship to single, it can seem like a negative change. Work on seeing the positive aspects of this change so that you’re in a good place when the break up actually happens.Journaling positive thoughts can help you change your perspective about being single.
 While it might seem easier to you, breaking up with someone in a text message, in an email, or on the phone isn’t the way to go. Your boyfriend deserves being broken up with face-to-face. This is the considerate thing to do because it allows your boyfriend to freely react, ask questions, and feel less alone. Just as you’re expressing your emotions, you need to let your boyfriend do the same., Instead of bringing it up abruptly and in an uncomfortable location, pick an appropriate time and place to break up. You may have already started separating emotionally from your boyfriend, but consider that he will have some catching up to do. Easing him into the break up as much as possible.You might say, “Hey, could we meet up today or tomorrow sometime? I’d like to talk with you about something important.”
Avoid breaking up right around birthdays, Valentine’s day, or funerals of loved ones., It will really soften the blow if you initially communicate that you value your boyfriend.


You might say, “We’ve been close for a long time and you’re really important to me.”
You could also say, “I really like you and I’m glad that we’ve spent time together and have gotten to know each other”, Starting statements with “I” instead of “You” will make your boyfriend feel less blamed and/or attacked.


Consider saying, “I understand where you’re coming from,” if your boyfriend gets argumentative and upset., While breaking up, acknowledge the emotional toughness of the situation.


To be supportive, you might say, “I know this is hard.”Even if you don’t think you were the reason for the break up, taking ownership for at least some of the blame will make your boyfriend much less prone to depression and stress after the breakup.
 Try to be honest and straightforward without being abrasive. Avoid saying things like “maybe one day we will get back together” or “part of me still loves you.” This is a tough part of breaking up because if you are too harsh, you may come off as heartless, but if you aren’t firm, you’ll give your boyfriend false hope., Your boyfriend will probably feel confused, angry, and/or sad. Do your best to be comforting and understanding when this happens. Answer any questions that he has while remaining calm and kind.
 Even if you want to be friends with him, it’s important that you initially give your boyfriend time to heal. Resist the urge contact him so that he can adjust on his own and without you to lean on. You both need time to reflect, process, and recover from the breakup in order to move on. There’s a chance that later on you’ll be able to be friends, but don’t expect this or attempt to make it any time soon., It’s painful to let go of someone you care about, especially when you’re the one who let them go.


Remember that there was a reason you broke up with your boyfriend. While breaking up might have caused him short term pain, it prevented drawing out the pain between the two of you.Own your feelings. If you want to cry, let yourself cry. Don’t hold your emotions in, or it will be more difficult to truly move on., Once you’ve grieved, get rid of reminders of your boyfriend. There’s no need to have his old T-shirts and pictures of you two lying around. Then, start a new by keeping busy and socializing with people you care about.


Spend time doing whatever makes you happy--hiking, dancing, cooking, etc.
Consider taking on a challenging new workout routine.
Try volunteering with a friend.