 When you look at piano sheet music, you will see that there are two staffs which are attached at the beginning of each line and at the measures. These two lines indicate which hand plays which notes. The upper staff indicates the notes played with the right hand and the lower staff indicates which notes are played with the left.
 Each key, both white and black, represents a particular pitch and like the repeated pattern of the keys, the pitches also repeat. Look at your piano and you will see two black keys close together and then three black keys close together. Starting with the first of the two keys and moving to the very next key (including white notes) the pitches are: C#/Db, D, D#/Eb, E, F, F#/Gb, G, G#/Ab, A, A#/Bb, B, and C. The bolded text indicates a black key.


Labeling the keys while you learn may be helpful.
 You may see pedals at your feet if using a proper piano, rather than a keyboard. The left pedal is called the “soft” pedal, the middle pedal is called the “sostenuto” pedal, and the right pedal is called the “sustain” or “damper” pedal. When to use the most common pedal, the sustain pedal, is indicated on the sheet music:


The sustain pedal should be pressed when the word “Ped.” is written below a note and released when you see a star. Alternatively, you may see horizontal, vertical, or angled lines together. A horizontal line means to press the pedal, an angle means a brief release, and a vertical line means to release the pedal.
 Reading music is just like reading a language. Think of the staff as the sentence and the notes as the letters. Put your knowledge of the staff together with your knowledge of the notes and begin to play the music that you see on the page. You won’t be very good at first but you will get better and better as you get more experience.
 When first learning to play piano, play slowly. Over time you hands will get used to the movements and it will be easier to play without looking at your hands constantly. Play songs very slowly until you are comfortable and ready to speed it up.
 Reading and playing music smoothly and correctly takes time and practice. Don’t be discouraged if you don’t get it right away. If it was an easy skill to pick up, people wouldn’t be so impressed when you’re good at it! Practice every day and get help when you can.


A music teacher at your school may be able to help you learn to play the piano. You can also ask members of your community, such as people at your church, if they’d be willing to help you.
If you really struggle, consider taking a class. These classes don’t need to be expensive. Many piano students at your local university will offer discounted lessons and local community centers will sometimes offer cheap courses.

