 Decide whether your DVD can be fixed, or whether it has irreparable damage.


As mentioned above, disks with scratches that go deep will not be able to be mended. To assess the damage, hold the disk up in the sunlight. If sunlight shines through the scratch, the DVD is unlikely to be mended.
Scratches that are circular, around the laser track, are more likely to result in a permanently damaged disk. Small scratches that run across the radius are easier to fix.;
, Use a soft cloth and some very clean water. You may also use alcohol, but most other solvents may damage the discs.
 A cloth specialized for eyeglasses would also do., Then, gently wipe the disk from the center to the edges, across the radius, using the jewelry cloth. Continue wiping around the disk, from inside to outside, until the entire disk has been cleaned.
 Try to play it, to evaluate if cleaning the disk solved the problem. If it is not repaired, more extreme measures are required.
 There are several methods for doing this:









Buy rubbing polish from an automotive store. Apply a small amount of the compound. Rub it across the radius until it covers the entire surface. Allow it to sit for a few minutes. Then, rinse and rub with a soft cloth. Use this product in a well-ventilated area, and be sure to wash your hands thoroughly after polishing.Buy a mechanical scratch remover. This also removes the first layer of disk material and polishes the disk. Insert the DVD and turn the hand crank according to package directions. Buff with your jewelry cleaning cloth.
Buy a professional DVD scratch polish, such as SkipDr. Apply the product across the radius. Allow it to sit according to package directions, so that the outer layer of disk will be removed. Rinse and/or buff the disk with the jewelry cloth.
Try basic toothpaste. Get a plain enamel-cleaning paste at your local drugstore. The grit inside toothpaste helps to clean and buff the surface of the disk. Apply toothpaste across the radius until the entire disk is covered. Let the toothpaste dry. Then, rinse it clean and buff with your jewelry cleaning cloth across the radius.

