 The boy looks at you a ton; kids this age tend to do this.


When you talk to him, see whether he usually avoids direct eye contact and smiles/blushes, if shy. If not shy, he will tend to gaze deeply into your eyes.;
, Well, stalk is a bit strong of a word, but he tends to start "following" you around. Oh, you're going to throw something away? Hmm... this would be a fine time to clean out your binder, or get a drink? "Oh! All of the sudden I'm incredibly thirsty!" Going upstairs because you forgot your binder in the computer lab? He tags along; he forgot his, too, or some other excuse.
 He "coincidentally" ends up wherever you end up -- but if you actually approach him, he freezes up, looks at his feet, and starts rambling about some favorite video game. These are raging hormones: blushing (even trembling, voice breaking) and shy. He doesn't act like himself around you and is very, very awkward, and so he:


Avoids eye contact.
Starts talking to you about random, really geeky things (his new game/program).
Acts crazy (but only around you) or tries to get your attention.
Laughs his head off at your jokes.
Starts singing when your are near? (Why? He wants to be cool).
Just all in all acts very awkward? He cannot help this -- the hormones, anyway.
 He will text you, forward you emails, and try to act all "cool" (eg: he may come up to you and say, "Oh, we went motorcycling this weekend, and I almost broke my arm... oh, it hurts!") He will also try to impress you by telling you about "brave" things he did, or by telling you how bad he is at a school subject.


One thing he might say is, "Oh, I suck at math!" -- in hope that you will say something like: "You wanna come over and study then?"
He may also touch you (he might press his arm against yours or across your shoulder to get your attention, brush by you, or even hug you).
 If you have say, a pencil on your desk -- he flicks it off. You go and put it back up. He flicks it off again. You pick it up and put it in your binder, safe. He pushes your binder off, sigh. Despite the fact that, yes, he probably is doing this because he likes you, it doesn't make it any more right, and you have every right to tell him off.


Watch out - some guys might just do this because they are mean, not because they like you.
 But, if you aren't laughing, he will stop. He will also laugh the hardest at your jokes.
 If you are absent, he tends to be the first to notice.
 You're here..."

,, Like start talking to him more often. But if he dosn't want to be bothered don't force.

