 Since you will be using this as a centerpiece, choose a container for your succulents that matches the décor or theme of the occasion. You can create a gorgeous centerpiece in a box, a glass bowl, a vase, a small pot, or even a glass bowl or decorative lantern! The options are plentiful. Check craft stores, home improvement stores, and gardening stores for the perfect container.

If you want these containers to be the permanent home for your succulents, make sure that they have drainage holes in the bottom. If they don’t, make sure you can drill holes into the bottom.If you’re only planning on keeping the succulents in the containers for an event, drainage holes are less important.
If you’re making centerpieces for a large event, you may want to order your containers online in bulk.;
, Your centerpiece container will probably be on the small side as it is, but choose a shallow dish so that you don’t need a large amount of potting mix.You don’t need a deep, thick layer of potting mix for succulents, which makes them such an ideal plant for a centerpiece. Any container a couple of inches deep will do., This may or may not be necessary, depending on the container you’ve selected. Glass containers may have smudges, and pots from gardening stores may be dirty, so clean your pot before you get to work creating your centerpiece. You want your centerpiece to look clean and polished on the table, and it’s much easier to clean it before adding the succulents., To create an interesting centerpiece, you want to choose a nice variety of succulents. The amount you buy will depend on the size of your container, but typically you want one or two large succulents and a variety of smaller ones to fill in the space around them. Try to find ones of varying colors and leaf types to create interest., You have a few options for this step. You can purchase a succulent mix or even a cactus mix at your local gardening store.You can also make your own by combining potting soil and sand. Succulents flourish in porous potting mixes that don’t retain much moisture, so keep that in mind. Fill your container of choice with your potting mix, and then press the surface to flatten it., To start, put your largest succulent in the middle of the container. This is the focal point of the centerpiece. If you have any particularly bright and colorful succulents, place those in the center as well. Then, simply arrange the smaller succulents moving out from the center however you desire.Make sure not to leave any large gaps in the centerpiece. Use the very smallest succulents to fill in these holes.
Lay out your arrangement first, and then start covering the roots with soil.
 For a rustic-looking centerpiece, tie twine around your container. If you are using these for a wedding or a party with a specific color scheme, you can use ribbons in that color. This is a simple addition to the centerpiece that can make them look very polished and decorative., This actually has a few purposes. The marbles or stones make the centerpiece look elegant and professional, covering the less aesthetically-pleasing potting soil. Additionally, the stones keep the soil from moving or covering the leaves of the succulents. You can choose fancier marbles that will reflect light and create color in the centerpiece, or simple stones.

Make sure to water your succulent before placing the stones over the soil.
 Instead of filling the container entirely with succulents, you can place candles within the succulents for a romantic touch. Choose wide candles that won’t tip over easily, and make sure they are taller than the surrounding succulents. Light your candles for a soft, glowing centerpiece.If you aren’t comfortable having an open flame at your event, you swap out real candles for fake, battery operated candles.
 If you’re using succulent centerpieces for an event, you might as well get double use out of them. Tie a number around the container to use these as table markers. They’ll look beautiful and help your guests find their seats. For an extra special touch, include a note encouraging your guests to take them home as a party favor.