 Don’t expect your siblings to read your mind. Let them know ahead of time how they can respect your space and your belongings. Tell them in person, or post a sign.For example, if you buy special coffee, you may decide that you don’t want other people drinking it. Ask your siblings to get your permission before using your special coffee.
You can also ask them to respect your personal space and free time. You might say, "When I come home from school, I need 30 minutes to relax on my own. Please don't bother me during this time."

, If a fight does erupt, try to remain calm. Yelling or whining won't help you and your siblings solve the problem. Speak in a level voice, and avoid accusing or blaming others.Speak calmly and stick to the facts. If you feel yourself getting heated, ask for time out and go to another room to calm down.
If the issue is minor, try to laugh it off, and walk away.Do not bring up past conflicts in a current fight. This will only drag out grudges. Instead, focus on the issue at hand.
 Teasing is natural in a family relationship, but you should make sure that you never call out or make fun of an issue that your sibling is sensitive about. For example, if your sister is defensive about the way that she dresses, avoid making fun of her style.
 Sometimes, you may need to compromise to prevent an argument. If you and your sibling's needs or wants conflict with each other, see if you can work out a solution. Remember that compromise is a two-way street. Both of you should give a little.For example, if you both like to have 20 minutes in the bathroom but your sibling needs to use it at the same time as you, cut the time in half for each of you rather than giving up your time.
 Time spent together is great but so is time spent apart. If you crowd your sibling, they may feel suffocated. Instead, respect when your sibling needs time alone and time with friends.Don't touch or use your sibling's stuff without their permission. You may also want to avoid entering their room without their knowledge.
 Your sibling may have a certain lifestyle that you disapprove of, but you should not judge or criticize them for living their own life. No matter how much you may disagree with them, try to respect your sibling’s ability to make their own choices.


If you know that a subject, such as politics or religion, is going to start a fight, avoid talking about it.
If your sibling has a problem that could cause harm to them, such as substance abuse or suicidal thoughts, encourage them to get help.

Let your siblings figure out some things for themselves. Making mistakes that are not life-threatening is part of learning and growing up.

