 If you are having a disagreement with your sibling, you both need to learn to compromise and accommodate each other. Try to divide things fairly and evenly and understand both sides of the dispute. Your parents will be very impressed if you learn to deal with problems with your siblings maturely by talking it through and compromising.Learning to deal with problems on your own by talking is a big part of building strong and lasting relationships.
Remember, it takes two people to argue so it takes two people to resolve the argument.
 If you find yourself in a dispute with a sibling, you both need to understand that there are consequences to what you do. Understanding this can help you to avoid conflicts or stop them from escalating. For example, if you break your brother's toy, you might be the one who has to replace it from your allowance. Likewise, if he breaks something of yours he will have to pay for it.This is one way to learn about the consequences of actions and encourage more measured ways of dealing with problems.As well as the material consequences, there are emotional ones too. If you say to your brother "you're so stupid", it will hurt really his feelings.
 It's a good idea to maintain good open communication across your whole family. Talking at meal times and having family meetings are good opportunities to raise any problems. If your fights have become physical and violent, you should talk to your parents straight away. Violence and bullying is never acceptable and goes beyond normal sibling rivalry.It's normal for siblings to argue, but there are differences between typical behaviour and abuse.


If you are always the victim, and your sibling is always the aggressor, and the roughness and violence increases over time, this indicates an abusive situation.
If there are any sexually inappropriate elements you should talk to your parents straight away.
Alternatively, call a child abuse hotline to talk to someone about it, who will be able to give you advice on what to do, and contact any necessary authorities