 It may be a topic you're particularly interested in or one that you're studying in class.;
, Look in the non-fiction section for books related to your topic. If you're having trouble, ask the librarian, who is sure to know. They can also check their computer for available books.
 The History Channel, A&E, TLC (and even more programs on digital cable / satellite channels) focus especially on historical programs and documentaries, so look at these first. If you haven't got these channels then see if a friend or relative does.
 This means talking to someone who was there at the time. Obviously, unless you are studying modern history, then this may not be an option. However, you could talk to someone who specializes in that topic for lots of interesting information that won't be in the text books. Evidence can mainly be found in primary sources, e.g. personal diaries, parochial records, recordings of political speeches, and so on. These primary sources can be found in the archives, whether public or private. It is not always easy to go there and check the originals in person, but some documents can be digitalized and then available on the Internet.
 There'll be lots of information and knowledgeable people there, both from people who work there (docents, curators) and people who don't (locals, other visitors). You could also visit a place related to your topic (e.g. a country whose history you are researching, a coastal town which played a key role in a war, or an ancient castle).



Write the key facts you want to learn. Don't worry, you don't have to copy the whole book or documentary. In fact, extracting only the useful information is a lifelong skill.
Write any websites or books that you're recommended. This way you won't forget what they're called when you get to the library or computer.
Write the sources of your information if you can. That way you know how reliable it is before you go and tell everyone.
, Whenever you add to your notebook look back on other pages you've written. Soon you'll know all the details by heart and you'll be ready to impress!

, Don't stop at one topic if you want to be a true history buff. Keep researching and learning more. And remember to have lots of fun because that's what it's all about!

