 Retained moisture and heat, aggravated by friction, especially on the neck and other skin folds can cause rashes and skin irritation. Proper bathing and good hygiene will treat and prevent your baby from these nasty rashes.
 Do not give your baby a bath immediately after feeding her. Allow your baby to rest after she has been fed in order to avoid spewing or vomiting.Make sure to give your baby a bath when you have enough time to not feel rushed. A rushed bath can be a stressful thing for both parents and children.
 Once you get your baby in the bath, you should not leave her side until she is out of the bath. Because of this, you should grab what you need before you put your baby in the bath. These items include:


Portable baby bathtub
Cotton clothing, diaper
Unscented soap/hypoallergenic soap/soap made especially for babies
Clean washcloth
Blanket
Towel for drying
2-3 teaspoon of baking soda
A cup of oatmeal, cornstarch, lotions, and creams (optional)

, Place it on a table, in the kitchen sink, or in your baby’s room. Do not give your baby a bath in a full sized tub, as the risk of drowning increases.


Try to avoid putting the bathtub on the ground; if you do, you will have to reach down, or kneel, and this could hurt your back.
 If your baby is only a few weeks old, consider using distilled water, or boiling the water to ensure that it doesn’t contain any microorganisms that could harm your baby. To soothe a rash, add two teaspoons of baking soda to the water to help soothe the rash.


You may also consider adding a cup of oatmeal, as oatmeal is thought to soothe the skin.
 Feel the water’s temperature using your elbow or your inner wrist. The temperature should be the same as any adult would prefer for a bath or within the range of 100 degrees F (38 degrees C).However, make sure that the water is not so hot that it causes your baby discomfort. Very hot water can irritate a rash.
 One technique for holding your baby during a bath is the football hold. Support your baby’s head with one arm while washing her entire body gently with a mild soap. Do not hold your baby under running water.
 Expose the neck by elevating your baby’s shoulders and letting her head drop back. Using a washcloth, cleanse the area with mild soap. After cleaning, rinse the area and dry thoroughly.


Using mild soap without scents, perfume content or coloring are recommended for baby use because chemicals from coloring and perfume cause rashes to develop on sensitive skin.

