 After you’ve dried the cylinder head’s external surfaces with a rag, use a can of compressed air or an air compressor to spray out all of the narrow tunnels and openings in the cylinder head. This will dry the head as well as removing any dust or other debris that may have fallen into the head during the cleaning process.Spray air into every opening you can find in the cylinder head to ensure there is no remaining moisture or debris anywhere in the head.
Make certain that there is no debris of any kind in the cylinder head. Even small amounts of debris can seriously damage the cylinder head once installed.
 Leave the cylinder head on a counter to dry completely. Place paper towels over the top of the head to ensure dust does not fall into and settle in the newly clean and debris free head.Do not store a head while wet. Iron heads, in particular, will oxidize and rust if stored wet.
 Before re-assembling or storing your clean cylinder head, inspect it for any damage that may have resulted from the cleaning process or that may have occurred previously. Any cracks in the head will compromise its ability to function and blemishes, scuffs or scratches on the mating surface (the bottom of the cylinder head) will cause head gasket failure. If you notice any such damage, you may be able to have the cylinder head repaired at a machine shop, but you likely will need to purchase a new head.If you notice the cylinder head is still dirty in some places during your inspection, begin the cleaning process again.
Remember that it’s better to be safe than sorry. Reassembly and installation of a cylinder head will require a significant investment of time. If you are concerned that the head is damaged, have it looked at by a local machine shop.
 If you intend to store your cylinder head for a time before re-assembly, you will need to take preventative action to protect it from debris and oxidization while stored. Spray the head lightly with WD40 before enclosing it in a heavy duty plastic bag.Seal the plastic bag by tying it off or stapling it shut to make sure dirt can’t fall into by accident.
Make sure you store the cylinder head in a safe place where it won’t be damaged.

