 To make sure your home is as safe and prepared as possible, it's a good idea to keep a quality first aid kit on hand for emergencies. You can buy one, pre-packaged, or you can assemble one yourself and keep it in a tackle box or another plastic case. Make sure it includes:


Clean bandages and gauze
Isopropyl alcohol and hydrogen peroxide
Antibacterial ointment
OTC painkillers
Surgical tape
Antibiotics;
, In the event of an emergency, you want to be prepared. A safe home should have the following items stocked in a safe place, in case you need them:


Batteries and sturdy flashlights
Pocketknife
Needles and thread
Canned goods and other nonperishable items
Lots of water
Matches or lighters
Radio

, Whether you're a home owner or a renter, it's important to take steps to protect your home against the threat of fire. Take the following steps to sleep secure, knowing that you've done what you can to protect your home from fire damage:



Install smoke detectors and test them regularly.
Keep a fire extinguisher in your home, and keep it updated regularly.

Unplug electrical devices that are not in use and make sure your wiring is up to date.
Develop an escape plan and practice it with your family.
 Burglary is one of the most traumatic and confidence-shattering things that can occur to someone. Take the steps necessary to make sure it doesn't happen to you and your family:



Have a security system installed and display the evidence prominently.

Organize a neighborhood watch.

Outfit your doors with good-quality locks.
Keep your yard clean and well-lit.
Keep your car inside the garage, if you have one.
 If you have kids or are planning on having kids, it's a good idea to make the process as safe and smooth as possible by taking a little time to child-proof your home. Kids don't know any better, so it'll be your job to make sure accidents don't happen.Keep in mind the following steps, when child-proofing a home:



Install gates at the top of staircases.

Hide electrical cords and plug outlets.

Secure hazardous chemicals in locked or out of reach places.

Lock firearms in appropriate places.
 Natural disasters can ruin your ability to lead a happy life. Make sure that sudden and impossible to predict natural carnage doesn't leave you out in the cold by investing in disaster insurance. To be really safe, it's worth the investment now.

