 Sample the puree as it's simmering or after it has been blended to ensure that the balance of sweet and tart flavors is just right. Recipes are important guidelines for making sure a dish comes out correctly, but the best cooking is always done to taste and can be altered based on personal preference. Add more sugar to give the puree a more dessert-like quality, or increase the lemon juice to bring out the natural acidic notes of the raspberries when the puree is used in other recipes.Simmering the puree as opposed to blending it can give you more control over the flavor, as the heat will cook out the natural tartness of the raspberries, and sweetness and tartness can then be modified using sugar and lemon juice.
Always taste purees and sauces as they're being prepared.
 Up the amount of sugar in the recipe, or supplement with confectioners sugar or honey for a sweeter variety of puree. Not everybody likes sour things, and the tart flavors of the raspberries and lemon juice can dominate when not counterbalanced by sweeteners. Sweetening the puree will make it more palatable when it is being served on its own as a topping or on the side as part of a dessert plate.Confectioners sugar blends and dissolves better than regular granulated sugar because of how finely it is ground., If you want your puree nice and thick, use 2/3 tablespoons of cornstarch along with 1/4 cup of water to bulk up the consistency. Cornstarch will do little to affect the flavor of the puree, but will thicken it nicely to allow it to stand up better to cooking, microwaving and thawing after it's been frozen. Thickened raspberry purees can even be used as fillings for cupcakes and pastries, which require that the texture be more substantial.


Stir in the cornstarch a little at a time until the desired thickness is reached. Adding too much at once may cause the puree to congeal.Keep in mind that the puree will thicken on its own somewhat as it cools.
 Use orange juice, water or even honey in place of lemon juice to cut down on the tartness of the recipe. Raspberries are a naturally sour fruit, and too much acid can overpower the flavors of the puree. Try mixing the lemon juice with water first, and if that's still too tart, gradually add more water or replace the lemon juice altogether.Don't use more liquid than the recipe calls for. If you're cutting the lemon juice with water, make sure the proportions together still add up to roughly 1-2 teaspoons.
It is not strictly necessary to use lemon juice in the recipe at all. The acid in the lemon brightens the tartness of the raspberries and also helps preserve the freshness of the fruit, but all that is needed is enough liquid to break down the raspberries as they cook or blend.

