 Sometimes blind and visually impaired teenagers can struggle to make friends or be included in their peers’ social activities. Since most friendships are built on common interests, urge the teen to get involved in hobbies, activities and clubs.For example, if your teen is interested in theatre, urge them to join the drama club at school.
If your teen enjoys music, suggest they join their school’s choir or band.
 It’s important that a blind or visually impaired teen has ample opportunity to socialize with other teenagers outside of school or other structured activities. Encourage the teen to invite others to a movie night, the bowling alley, or even a hike on a local trail.Encourage the teen to become involved in non-school activities like scouting organizations, church youth groups, community center clubs, and arts groups.
 Whether you are friends with the teen or the teen is a member of your family, urge them to go on family outings, socialize with the family, and further develop relationships with family members. Invite the teen to participate in planning activities and encourage the teen to invite a friend along.Help the teen nurture individual relationships within the family by planning one-on-one activities like a brothers fishing trip or a mother daughter date.
 Blind and visually impaired teens won’t be able to fully perceive all types of nonverbal communication, which is critical to learning socially appropriate behaviors. Help the teen learn to make eye contact, turn their face toward the speaker, use good posture, and keep an appropriate distance from the person with whom they are speaking., As a blind or visually disabled teen, it can be difficult to know how others perceive your social skills. You can help the teen by encouraging good social skills when you see them, and providing honest and kind feedback about social skills the teen can improve upon., Teens who are blind or visually impaired will not pick up on the same visual flirting cues that sighted teens do. When you watch movies with the teen, or see people flirting in public, describe the eye contact, body language, and physical closeness of the couple. And if you notice someone is interested in, or flirting with the teen, let them know., Dating is an important part of the teen experience, and blind or visually impaired individuals should be encouraged to participate. For teens that are comfortable socializing on their own, encourage them to ask someone to the movies, a dance, or a sporting event. For teens that are less comfortable, suggest a group date to a play or dinner.You can have a friend or older sibling provide transportation services for the date, allow the teen’s date to drive the family car, or use public transportation.
 A great way to help a teenager who is blind or visually impaired is by connecting them with other blind or visually impaired teenagers. Talk to other parents, community members, or the teen's teachers to find out if there are other visually impaired or blind teens in the community.


Try exploring community and state affiliates of the National Federation of the Blind to link the teen to other blind and visually impaired teens in the region.
Make sure you also encourage the teen to socialize with sighted individuals to avoid isolation from these groups.

