 Daily brushing helps keep a Westie's coat neat and clean. This is especially important for white Westies, as their coats make dirt and debris more obvious.Use a firm-bristled brush with short, closely spaced bristles. A slicker brush also works well. Both should be available at most pet stores.In addition to keeping the dog's coat clean, regular brushing is also good for its circulation.Regular brushing also reduces shedding.
 Stripping refers to the process of plucking old, dead hair from the dog's coat. It is the traditional way to keep the Westie's coat neat and clean.Stripping is necessary if you want to enter your Westie in dog shows. It isn't strictly necessary if you don't plan to show the dog.Visit the groomer every four to six months for stripping., Another way to keep the dog's coat neat is through regular clipping of the dog's coat.Bring your dog to the groomer a clip regularly.


Clipping every four to six weeks will keep your West Highland White Terrier looking its best.
 If brushed consistently, Westies don't require frequent bathing. They have naturally dry coats which can be damaged by over bathing.Bathe your Westie if gets into mud, excrement, or similar filthy substances. Otherwise, baths a few times a year will be sufficient.
You should, however, wipe your Westie down frequently. When the dog comes inside from playing, feel free to wipe it down with a dry or lightly damp towel to remove dirt and debris clinging to the coat.This is especially important for keeping white Westies looking their best.
When you do bathe your dog, never use human shampoo. It has the wrong pH for a dog and can be bad for the coat and skin.Purchase dog shampoo at your local pet store.
 Nail care is important for Westies, as their nails are strong and fast growing.Keep an eye on the nails and cut them whenever they begin to get long.


Westie's nails can split and crack if not kept trim and neat.
Use a nail trimmer or grinder made for dogs. Don't use human nail clippers.
Be careful careful not to cut their nails the quick. Cutting nails too short can be painful for the dog and cause bleeding.If you aren't comfortable cutting your dog's nails, have a groomer do it.
 Like a person, a dog needs its teeth brushed to avoid decay, remove plaque, and prevent gum disease.Brush your Westie's teeth daily, if possible.Use a dog toothbrush and toothpaste, available at any pet store. Never use human toothpaste, which can make your dog very sick.
 A West Highland Terrier needs its ears checked once a week. Look for wax buildup and redness.As necessary, clean the dog's ears with a cotton swab and pH balanced cleaner.


If you note a foul smell, see mites, or notice that there is frequent, excessive wax buildup, visit the vet and get the dog's ears checked.