 Shut off the power supply from the circuit breaker or electrical service panel. Flip the switch controlling the electricity going to the garbage disposal on your circuit breaker.


Confirm that the power supply has been shut off by attempting to turn the garbage disposal on before proceeding.;
, Unplug the garbage disposal from the wall. If the unit is hardwired into your home then you have to disconnect the wires.









If the unit is hardwired to the house then you have to use a screwdriver to remove the plate covering the wire connections on the disposal. Disconnect the exposed wires and then remove the plate covering the junction box on the wall. Untwist the wire caps securing the disposal wires to your home wires and set the disposal’s wires on the side. Twist the wire capes over the exposed wires in the junction box, put the wires into the junction box and reattach the junction box plate.
Use a voltage tester to ensure that there is no electrical voltage before putting the wires back in the junction box.
 Remove the pipe connecting the dishwasher to the side of the garbage disposal. Not all garbage disposals are connected to a dishwasher so this only applies for those that are connected.
 When you disconnect the pipes there may be liquid leftover in the pipe. Placing a bucket underneath the pipes will catch any wastewater remaining in the pipes.
 This is a u-shaped pipe that connects to the garbage disposal and takes the wastewater away from the disposal.
 Let any remaining water drain out of the pipe and into the bucket.
 Some models will unscrew from the sink drain while others might have a snap ring. To remove the snap ring insert a flat-head screwdriver under the ring to pry it open and off the flange.









Make sure to hold the underside of the garbage disposal with your hand while removing. They are very heavy!
You may want to put rags on the bottom of your cabinet as protection; in case the disposal drops this will protect your cabinet floor from damage.
 Remove the mounting assembly by first loosening the three mounting screws that hold the upper and lower rings apart. Remove the ring that is in a groove on the sink sleeve and then remove the sink sleeve, flange and fiber gasket.









Clean out any remaining sealing gaskets, plumber's putty, or debris from the sink opening.
If you are replacing your disposal with the same disposal then you can leave the mounting assembly.
 This will install a new sink drain and connect the drain to the waste pipes, allowing wastewater to drain directly from the sink into the drainpipes.
 Use a pipe wrench to loosen and remove the nut securing the drain flange. Then you can push the sink drain up through the sink for removal.
 Scrape the putty off using the putty knife. If the putty is very hard and difficult to remove then you should use a razor to remove the excess. After cleaning off the chunks of putty use a scrubbing pad and water to scrub the area clean.


If the putty is too difficult to remove, use rubbing alcohol or spirits to remove the putty.
 The rope should be long enough to go around the circumference of the drain. Place it on the underside lip of the drain and then set the drain into the sink opening. Press the drain down firmly and wipe away excess putty.
 The drain will come with a washer when it is purchased. Move to the underside of the drain and place the washer over the threads and secure with the large nut that comes with your drain. Tighten the nut as securely as possible using tongue-and-groove pliers.


It may help to have someone hold the drain from the top so it does not move around.
Remove excess putty after securing the drain.
 This will connect the drain to the elbow pipe. It should be long enough that it is at the same level of the pipe it needs to be connected to. Hand-tighten the tailpiece to the sink drain to secure the piece.
 Attach the pieces together to create the bend in the pipe directing towards the adjacent sink.
 Use the connector pipe to connect the elbow piece to the T-fitting on the adjacent sink. The connector piece might need to be cut down to the correct length depending on your sink. Use the nuts and washers provided with your pipes to secure the pieces together using the tongue-and-groove pliers., If you are installing a garbage disposal of the same brand then you could keep the mounting bracket on the sink drain rather than removing it.
 The rubber seal will usually come with your new disposal. You can simply wrap it around the flange and then put the drain flange in the drain hole.


You will need to use putty if your disposal does not include a rubber seal.
 Use another of the provided seals on the drain flange on the underside of the sink. Attach the metal backup ring flat side up by pushing over the underside of the drain flange underneath the sink.
 First loosely attach the mounting ring with three screws. Then secure the mounting ring with the snap ring, which snaps into place. Finally tighten the three screws, making sure the assembly is tight and even.









The mounting bracket is now attached and ready for the new garbage disposal.
 Turn the disposal upside down and shake it to remove anything inside. Remove the electrical plate and pull the wires away from the disposal. Screw the strain relief sleeve into place and feed the electrical wires through it into the disposal.


If you are connecting the disposal to a dishwasher, then you must remove the knock out plug using a hammer and screwdriver.
 On many disposals you will connect the ground wire to the green screw on the disposal, and then splice the white wires to white wires and black to black. Secure the connections with wire nuts and tighten the strain relief sleeve. Replace the cover plate on the disposal.
 Lift up the disposal and push it into the mounting bracket. Then turn the locking ring until all three housing pins catch. Tighten the locking ring as far as possible, using slip-joint pliers to finish tightening. You should hear the pins snap into place.
 You will attach a 90-degree disposal drainpipe to the disposal and the tailpiece to the other sink drain. There should be p-traps on both the disposal and the tailpiece from the other sink and they should be level to one another. Use straight pipes and a T-fitting to connect both drains into one line and route the drainpipes into the main drain.


Dry fit the pieces together at first.
Connect the pipes using PVC glue on both the outside of the pipe and inside of the fitting. PVC glue will melt the material a little to give a strong weld.
 If you are running the drain from a dishwasher through the disposal then you must connect the pipe to the disposal at the spot where you knocked out a plug previously.
 Turn on the sink and let water run through the pipes for several minutes to make sure nothing is leaking. This can prevent many problems in the future with leaks so make sure you test your pipes., Flip the circuit switch back on at the electrical service panel to power up the disposal. If all works correctly then the installation is finished.
 Check to see that your garbage disposal actually needs to be replaced. If the disposal is not making a humming noise then the problem may simply be electrical and can be checked.


If it makes a humming sound but does not work, then it may be stuck or need the sub-breaker reset.
 While this may seem obvious, make sure that your disposal is plugged in properly.
 This resets the garbage disposal and will pop out if it has reset. It will make a click as it goes back in.
 Check to see that the circuit breaker has not tripped and turned off in the electrical service panel or breaker box. All the switches should be fully on at the fuse box.
 If nothing else has worked then either there is a faulty switch or a faulty garbage disposal. Replace the switch to test if that is the problem by first turning off the circuit breaker at the service panel. Then replace the switch and turn power back on at the service panel.


If none of these steps is effective, then the disposal will have to be replaced.

