 Although aerobic exercises will not necessarily tone your upper body, they will help support weight loss and the decrease in your overall body fat.As your body fat amount decreases, the toned muscles underneath will be more visible.


Include at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity cardio exercises each week. This is any type of activity that gets you to sweat and makes you slightly out of breath.For more results like quicker weight loss, increase your cardio time to 200 or 300 minutes per week.Exercises to try include: jogging/running, playing sports, swimming or using the elliptical.
Remember that to lose fat, you need to aim to achieve a sustained elevated heart rate of 70% to 80% of your heart rate maximum.;
, This common exercise is a great move that specifically targets and isolates the chest muscles.To do this exercise:


Bring your body down into a plank position. Your hands should be placed on the floor at a width slightly wider than your shoulders.
While keeping your body in a straight line, slowly lower your body by bending your elbows back, pointing towards the ribs or hips, and away from your body. Lower until your chest is about 1-2 inches off the floor. Slowly push back up into the starting position.
Increase the intensity of this exercise by turning regular push-ups into plyo-push-ups. Once you have lowered your body, instead of coming back up slowly to the starting position, explosively push yourself up into the air. Aim to be able to clap your hands in front of your chest while you're mid air.
 This exercise move uses the weight of two dumbbells to work your pectoral muscles.To do this exercise:


Grab two dumbbells. Lay down on a bench with your legs bent and feet flat on the ground.
Hold one dumbbell in each hand. Lift both arms straight up towards the ceiling with your palms facing away from you.
Slowly lower the dumbbells down toward your body. Your elbows should be bent at a 90 degree angle and your upper arms parallel to the floor in the finishing position. Push weights back up towards the ceiling and repeat.
 Similar to the bench press, dumbbell flys work your pectoral muscles and your inner arms.Grab two dumbbells. Lay down on a bench facing the ceiling. Your legs should be bent so your feet are flat on the floor.
Hold a dumbbell in each hand. Extend your arms out to the sides and parallel to the floor. Your elbow should just be slightly bent.
Bring your hands together, palms facing each other, in front of your body. Arms should remain extended.
Slowly lower your arms back down until they are again parallel to the floor.
Repeat the exercise eight to 12 times and when you are strong enough, perform two or three sets of eight to 12 repetitions.
 While toning your arms and chest can be helpful, it is also important to do exercises that will target, your legs, back, and abs. Aim to develop a total body strength routine and include cardiovascular exercise as well.


Develop a fitness plan for yourself that includes at least 30 minutes of moderate cardiovascular activity five days per week and that includes two weekly strength training sessions that target all of your major muscle groups.