 Try to avoid lecturing to your students. They often have short attention spans and need a little help to remain in the present teaching moment. Encourage their input when you are teaching. This will help them participate more in their own education and will make them more confident about speaking up in class.


Try to participate in conversations with your students even when you are not specifically teaching them. Allowing students to get to know you and showing them that you want to get to know them too makes them feel more comfortable in your class.;
, Try to make your students think as much as possible. Ask them questions about their life; ask them questions about the world around them; ask them questions about the things you read in class. The more questions you ask, the more they'll be forced to think about the topic and come up with their own answers.
 Different students learn in different ways. It's important to acknowledge this and to allow for a certain amount of flexibility in your daily schedule. If students are clearly interested in a certain topic, spend a little more time on it than you had initially planned. If an activity you planned isn't going over well, switch to something else. Always try to choose the option that keeps the students as engaged as possible. Unplanned active learning is better than forcing students into an activity that isn't holding their interest.
 Students will be more engaged on a daily basis if they feel valued and rewarded. Make it a point to prominently display some of their artwork or other projects in your classroom so that they know you value what they do.This will help them feel proud of their accomplishments and want to continue the level of work that helped them get there.
 Each subject is different and requires different methods of teaching. The longer you teach 4th grade, the more you'll figure out what works for you. But here are a couple of tips dealing with various subjects:


English. 4th grade English involves a lot of vocabulary and spelling practice, in addition to reading and writing. One of the best ways to help improve students vocabulary and spelling is through good old fashioned worksheets and spelling tests.Social studies. A lot of what is learned in 4th grade social studies classes has to do with historical events, dates, people, and places. These topics can be hard to remember, so sometimes it can be helpful to show interesting educational videos that help students put a face with the name.
Science. Science should be hands-on whenever possible to help students learn. Make students create a science project, make them draw out the phases of mitosis, or make them do anything else that gets them involved in the process.

