 Start a few months to a year before. Make sure to find the right time to tell them your intention. Don't tell them when they are in a bad mood. If you do, your parents will know that you want it badly, and they will have time to consider their decision (whether it be 'yes' or 'no'). Chances are, you don't want to let them know the day before, as they will likely disprove of the decision as it seems very rash. Start talking about what you want to do with your life, at the dinner table is probably the ideal place for conversation with your parents, and talk about your future. Simple stuff. However, never blurt it out. You don't want to make it look like they did something wrong, or you want to get away from them. Construct your ideas fully, analyze your plan, ensure that is it possible to keep your thoughts straight, make your point without any rejections.;
, In life, all parents wish that their children are stable in their lives. If your parents are the type of people who absolutely do not want you moving out of the house at 18, they may say that you need to have a stable job to support yourself in order to live separately. Take that moment as an opportunity to prove yourself rather than fearing failure. If you do your research properly, it is harder for them to say no.
 Sometimes, the only reason parents don't like their children living on their own at 18 is because the world isn't exactly the safest place. They might feel more at ease with the idea of you moving in with a friend. Make your roommate feel comfortable with your parents. In some cases, parents might believe the fact that trusting anyone is a threat. In that case, you need to make sure that your roommate is not a danger to you. They should be supportive, helpful, and someone you get along with. He or she must be first trusted by your parents and you.
 Taking out the trash, doing the dishes, doing laundry are all things you'll need to do once you're living on your own. Prove to your parents that you can handle these things without their help or them telling you to do chores. Even cooking dinner for the family can sometimes prove you'll be able to sustain yourself well. You will probably want to get a job. Showing your parents that you can keep a job will comfort them.
 At 18, you may be married with a child and a job. If you want to talk to your parents about moving out, it can't hurt to point out to them how responsible you already are., Some parents may feel that when you move out it means that they failed you. And remember, be as gentle as you can. As parents only desire to be remembered and loved by their own children who they have tried to help and support their whole life. If they aren't supportive, don't flip out. They are just nervous. If you make threats, and then leave, they will worry about you to death.


Understand that your parents love you no matter what they say, although they might show anger or shock at the beginning.
Be close to them, no matter how they shouted or showed massive anger to you. We all know how a parent deals with the truth of losing their kid. Show that you are grateful for what they've gave you. Parents love when their kids show gratitude.
Handle situations with strength and responsibility. Sometimes some parents tend to test your emotional and physical balance regarding taking important decisions. People who pass in this immediately gain their parent's confidence as their parents will feel that nothing wrong could happen. However, if you fail on handling tough situations, parents may realize that you are still a kid who cannot be let out flying on its own.

