 In Arizona, a person can garnish your wages in a variety of situations. For example, if you owe child support, then your wages can be garnished. Also, your wages can be garnished because you owe someone a debt. Once that person prevails in a lawsuit against you, they can get a judgment from the court. This judgment then allows them to file for a Writ of Garnishment.


The reason why your wages were garnished will determine what options you have for reducing or eliminating the garnishment. If your wages are garnished for child support or alimony, you have fewer options.;
, It is very difficult to stop a garnishment. However, you could argue that the amount garnished is too high. The maximum amount that can be garnished depends on the reason for the garnishment.


Typically, a judgment creditor can garnish up to 25% of your pay after taxes.However, more can be garnished if you owe child support.
For child support, up to 60% of your disposable earnings can be garnished. If you are also supporting a spouse and another child, then up to 50% of your earnings may be garnished. An extra five percent may also be garnished if you are more than 12 weeks in arrears on child support payments.If you can prove “extreme economic hardship,” then the maximum amount garnished can be reduced to 15% of your total earnings.Proving extreme economic hardship is difficult, but it is an option available for reducing the garnishment.
 Some income sources are exempt from garnishment. If your only income comes from these exempt sources, then you will be effectively exempt from having any money garnished. Exempt income generally includes:Social Security benefits (unless garnished for child support, alimony, or government debts)
state or local pensions
public assistance, such as unemployment benefits, welfare benefits, and workers’ compensation
some insurance benefits, such as proceeds from life insurance benefits or accident, health, or disability benefits

, If you want to stop a garnishment, then you should talk to an attorney. Only a qualified attorney can listen to your situation and offer appropriate advice. An attorney can also come up with ways to reduce or eliminate your garnishment.


To find a qualified attorney, you can visit the state bar association’s website, which runs a referral program.Costs could be a concern. Instead of hiring an attorney to handle the entire case, you could contract with a lawyer to provide limited scope representation. Under this arrangement, the lawyer could provide advice, attend a hearing, or look over forms for a flat fee.Limited scope representation is a good way to get the legal help you need but for a reasonable price.
 After a judgment creditor files a garnishment action, they will send you the following papers within three business days. You should read them and make sure that you understand the information contained in them:A signed Writ of Garnishment and Summons (Earnings). The Writ of Garnishment was served on your employer. It will state the amount you owe the judgment creditor, the interest rate, and the outstanding balance.
Initial Notice to Judgment Debtor of Garnishment (Earnings). This notice informs you of the court name, location, and case number. It also tells you that the judgment creditor is garnishing your wages.
Request for Hearing on Garnishment (Earnings). This is a blank form the judgment creditor will send to you. You need to fill it out if you object to the garnishment. There should be two forms: Form 8 and Form 11. They contain different objections.
Notice of Hearing on Garnishment (Earnings). You will need to send this to the judgment creditor if you request a hearing.
Garnishee’s Answer. Your employer, the garnishee, must file an Answer to the Writ of Garnishment. You will be provided a copy.
 You have a limited amount of time to object to the garnishment. Specifically, you have 10 days from the date you receive the Garnishee’s Answer to request a hearing.You should write down all deadlines and be sure to get your objections in on time.
 To object to the garnishment, you should fill out one of the Request for Hearing forms that was provided to you. You should receive two forms: Form 8 and Form 11. Either type the information or print neatly using black ink. The forms will ask for your defenses to the garnishment.Find the Request for Hearing form that has your objection printed on it.


For example, use Form 8 if you are objecting to the garnishment for the following reasons:

the judgment creditor’s judgment isn’t valid.
you have paid the judgment in full.
you receive no earnings.
your employer did not provide you with a copy of its Answer or with a copy of the Notice to Judgment Debtor within 15 days of receiving the Writ of Garnishment.


Use Form 11 if you object to the garnishment for the following reasons:

your earnings are already subject to a Writ of Garnishment and there is no money left for the judgment creditor to garnish.
garnishment would cause extreme hardship. (Check “Other” on Form 11 and explain).
your income is exempt. (Check “Other” on Form 11 and explain).
 Take your completed forms to the clerk of the court listed on the Initial Notice to Judgment Debtor of Garnishment. Ask to file the forms.Keep a copy of all forms for your records.
 You must send the Notice of Hearing to the judgment creditor at the address provided at the top of the Initial Notice to Judgment Debtor of Garnishment. You also need to give it to the garnishee, which is your employer.You may mail the forms or have them personally served.Personal service can be made by anyone 18 or older who is not a party to the case.
 If you are claiming that certain income should be exempt or that you would suffer extreme hardship if your wages are garnished, then you will need evidence to support that assertion.


To prove extreme financial hardship, you will need a lawyer to prepare a financial statement. You should work with an attorney to create that document for the judge.
 You should give yourself adequate time to find parking and go through security. Try to get to the courtroom with at least 15 minutes to spare.Be sure to turn off all pagers and cellphones, as well as anything else that might make a noise, like a watch., Court is a conservative place, and judges will expect you to look a certain way. You should choose clothing that is “business casual”—slacks and dress shirts with shoes and socks. Do not wear shorts, flip flops, see-through clothing, or baseball caps.


For more tips on appropriate clothing choices, see Dress for a Court Hearing.
 The judge will have questions for you. You should answer them as fully as possible. Always call the judge “Your Honor” or “Judge.” Stop talking when the judge talks, and always stand when addressing the court.
 When you file for bankruptcy, you must provide the bankruptcy court with a list of creditors. Whoever is garnishing your wages is a creditor who should be listed. Once you file for bankruptcy, an automatic stay goes into effect. This stay prohibits any creditor from trying to collect on a debt.The stay is in place only until you emerge from bankruptcy. Unless you wipe out the underlying debt during bankruptcy, your wages can be garnished again once you emerge.
The stay does not affect all creditors garnishing your wages. For example, garnishments for child support or alimony are not stayed., You should have an attorney if you plan to go through bankruptcy. An attorney can also advise you about whether or not the underlying debt that is the source of garnishment can be wiped out in bankruptcy.


To find a qualified bankruptcy attorney, use your state’s bar association’s referral program.
Bankruptcy courts have self-help centers that you can use. But you will be better off hiring a bankruptcy lawyer to guide you through the process. Bankruptcy law is sufficiently complex that you will need a lawyer to assist you., You should ask your attorney about what purchases you can make as you prepare to file for bankruptcy. Federal law will limit your ability to make certain purchases or take cash advances right before you file. A creditor can challenge your attempt to discharge these debts:You purchased more than $650 worth of luxury items within 90 days of your filing for bankruptcy. Luxury items are those items not reasonably necessary for you to support yourself or your family. For example, expensive cosmetics, a new vehicle, new home furnishings, and magazine subscriptions can all be considered luxury items.
You took cash advances from one creditor totaling more than $925 within 70 days of your bankruptcy filing. It doesn’t matter what you spend the money on. The cash advances themselves will be presumed fraudulent.

