 Take ten minutes to pamper your dog with a gentle massage. Open your hands and use your flat palms to slowly rub all over its body.Apply gentle compressions with your palm around its rear and shoulders to remove muscle stiffness.
Use your fingertips to softly massage behind its ears and around its neck.
 Studies have shown that the essential oils of lavender and chamomile calm dogs, and that those of peppermint and rosemary help increase energy.However, if you choose to use aromatherapy for your pooch, keep in mind that dogs have senses of smell thousands or tens of thousands of times more powerful than that of humans.Avoid using pure, undiluted essential oils. Try filling a spray bottle with water, and use as little as a drop of oil for the spray bottle. Even if you can’t smell the fragrance, your dog most likely will.
Spray the air around your dog, but avoid spraying or applying aromatherapeutic oils directly on its skin or fur.
 Accessories can be a fun way to finish up your dog’s makeover. If your dog is a short-haired breed, you can use special bows with a gentle adhesive available at your local pet store.You can also try using bows with elastics that attach to your dog’s ears.
If your dog is too macho for bows, a simple bandana loosely tied around its neck adds lots of personality.
If you want your dog to get used to accessories, try using them as early as you can. A puppy will get used to accessories more easily than a fully grown dog. Try offering a treat when you put the accessory on your dog to create a positive association.
 You can get a cute outfit for your dog, especially one appropriate for a holiday or other festive occasion. Dressing your dog can also have practical purposes, like giving your short-haired dog a jacket or sweater to keep it warm.Try using outfits or sweaters that don’t restrict your dog’s movement at all. Go for size-appropriate dog clothes that are marked for your dog’s breed. Avoid those that cover any part of your dog’s legs, as these are more likely to bother your dog.

