 Glitter and rhinestones can be used to decorate all sorts of shoes - not just canvas. Use glitter or rhinestones to jazz up flip flops, dress shoes, tennis shoes, or any other type of shoes.
 The only materials you need to decorate with glitter and rhinestones are glue and the glitter and rhinestones of your choice. Go to a craft store and pick up the following items:


Spray-on adhesive. This makes it easy to apply the glue - all you have to do is spray it on, rather than painting it on with a brush. You can certainly use the painting method if you don't want to buy spray-on glue.
Solid or multi-colored glitter. Buy a large bag or can of glitter to make sure that your shoes get entirely covered (if that's the look you're going for).
Rhinestones, buttons or other baubles. Craft stores carry all kinds of rhinestones and other small items with one flat side that makes it easy to glue to another surface. Pick out the colors and shapes you love.
 Covering the shoes entirely with glitter has a striking effect, and it's also a style trend that has been popping up in stores. You can go all the way or make a subtler pattern to decorate your shoes.


Make a glitter border. Plan to paint a line of glitter just above the soles of the shoes if you want just a hint of glitter.
Do a glitter base dotted with rhinestones.
Make alternating glitter and rhinestone stripes.
Make a rhinestone heart or star with glitter bursts along the edges.
 Spray or paint the first shoe with adhesive according to the design you created. If you're glittering the whole shoe, go ahead and spray the whole thing. If you're making a pattern, spray only in the places where the pattern will be.


If you need to block of areas that shouldn't get sprayed with adhesive, you can keep them dry with masking tape.
For more complicated designs, it's best to use a paintbrush to apply a little glue at a time.
 Sprinkle the glitter over the areas where you planned to use glitter. To apply the rhinestones, simply press them onto the surface of the shoe. For extra security, you can apply a little glue to the bottom of the rhinestone before pressing it on the shoe.
 When you're finished working with the first shoe, move on to the second.
 Wait several hours before wearing the shoes. Glitter and rhinestones aren't machine-washable or waterproof, so be careful where you wear them.

