 Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before you insert your tampon. Dry your hands, making sure they are not damp. Unwrap the tampon and have it in a nearby, so it's easy to reach. Then, relax.To relax, you can try some Kegel exercises first just to remind yourself to release the muscles. Contract then release your vaginal muscles three or four times.
If the tampon has a paper applicator, you can try lubricating it with some vaseline, KY jelly, or mineral oil before inserting., Getting in the right position can help ease the process of inserting your tampon. One way you can position your body is to stand with your legs and knees apart. Another way that may help is to stand with one foot up on a stool, the edge of the toilet, or the edge of the bathtub or a chair.If none of these makes you comfortable, you can try to lay on your back with your knees bent and your feet about shoulder width apart.
 Hold the tampon in your dominant hand. Hold the tampon at the middle, where the smaller tube inserts into the larger tube. Use your other hand to spread apart the labia, which are the flaps of tissue on either side of the vagina. Make sure to relax.The string should be pointing away from your body because it will remain outside of the body and used to remove the tampon later.
Remember, you can use a mirror to help guide you, especially the first few times.
 Place the top of the tampon applicator at the vaginal opening and gently push the tampon up to the point where you are touching your vagina. The tampon should be at an angle directed to the small of your back. Use the index finger of the hand holding the tampon to gently push on the smaller tube. Push gently until you feel a bit of resistance or the inner tube is completely in the outer tube.Use your thumb and middle finger to pull out both tubes without touching the string.
Avoid touching the string while you are inserting the tampon because the string should be moving along with the tampon up into the vaginal canal.
Throw away the applicator and wash your hands when you are done.
You should not be able to feel the tampon once it is inserted. If you do, remove it by pulling straight out using the string and insert another tampon.
You can also try pushing the tampon higher up into your vagina to see if you can get it into a comfortable position. If this does not work, then pull it out and start over.

