 Don't travel from Los Angeles to New York and then back to Oregon unless you find some incredible deals. Instead, try to hit each stop along the way to the next one.
 Depending on how many stops you plan to make, how long your trip is, and where you're going, you may have better luck with one method of transportation than others.


Buses and trains are exciting and unique ways to see America and often cost less than planes and cars if you book far enough in advance. Not only do you save money, but you get to see the countryside roll peacefully by out the window. Also, you can leave your phone on, and many buses and trains now come with outlets at every seat.
Cars are nice because they allow freedom, both in and out of the cities. You don't have to worry about transportation schedules, and you'll easily reach each destination. However, you also might be stuck driving long distances, you could get lost, and you're responsible for all gas expenses. Also, if you plan on making a one-way trip, the car drop-off fee can be exorbitant.
Planes can quickly cover long distances, but are also often expensive and inflexible. It also means that upon arrival you may be paying additional transportation fees, since you'll probably have to rent a car or use public transportation around your destination city.
If you must fly, try to find out whether your nearest airport serves as an airline fortress hub or not. Fortress hubs are airports where a certain airline has a near-monopoly, allowing them to raise ticket prices out of that airport. Avoid flying out of these airports if you're hoping to save money. Additionally, pack light to avoid extra baggage fees.
 You don't have to stay in a five-star hotel to have an amazing trip. There are tons of other, more budget-friendly options.


Think about couch surfing, where kind-hearted homeowners allow travelers to sleep on their guest beds or couches—often at no cost.
If sleeping on a couch sounds like the wrong type of adventure, look into hostels. Most major cities have at least one, and rates are much cheaper than hotels. However, you'll probably be sleeping on a cheap bed (or bunk bed) and sharing a room.
If your budget is a bit higher, you can always stay in a motel or hotel. Use budget travel sites to find cheap rates. Inexpensive hotels aren't always the best quality, so make sure to read reviews also before making a reservation!

, Don't wait until the last minute to plan any aspect of your trip. While you can occasionally find a great deal by postponing your reservations, the risk isn't really worth it. You'll get cheaper prices by booking months in advance of your trip. Most hotels and transportation companies provide early bird discounts, sometimes to the extent of cutting your rate in half. Early, early, early is the motto of the budget adventurer.

