 Kosher mezuzah scrolls are written by scribes. The scribes use a particular type of quill and ink on a particular parchment. Good scrolls follow these traditions and should be bought from a trusted religious authority.According to religious doctrine, you are supposed to have a mezuzah for every proper room. This includes hallways and large walk-in closets but excludes unclean areas and areas of improper dress such as bathrooms and indoor pools.Ask your rabbi for locations where you can get properly made scrolls.;
, The scroll rests inside the case you’ll hang beside your door. The scroll needs to fit inside comfortably, never pressing against the sides of the case. Most cases come in heights of 10 or 12 centimeters and may open from the sides or back. These can be found online or at Jewish religious shops.


Cases come in a variety of styles, such as simple wood, metal, or glass. They can also be decorated, such as sculpted or painted with religious imagery.
 You will need measuring tape in order to determine how high you must place the mezuzah. Once you’ve measured the proper distance with tape, use an implement such as a pencil to mark where the bottom of the mezuzah will hang.
 A hammer and nail or a screw and drill are common ways to hang a mezuzah. Choose a nail or screw that corresponds to your mezuzah. These will go into the door frame and must be big enough to allow the mezuzah to hang securely. Strong glue or double-sided tape are also options.Glue or tape should only be used with cases that open from the top or bottom. They do not support the part where the scroll rests in cases that open from the back.
 The mezuzah should have been rolled from left to right. Now set it in the case, making sure it does not get damaged. The word Shaddai (אֵל שָׁדַּי) should be facing outwards and the letter Shin (ש) should be on top and facing the doorway., The mezuzah will always be on the right side of the door’s entrance. When entering your home from the street, it will be on the right post. For doors inside your home, it will be on the right when you enter into the room the same way the door opens.For an entryway without a door, consider the hierarchy of a room in daily life. The dining room is a gathering spot and is used more than a kitchen, so the mezuzah should hang on the right side when entering the dining room from the kitchen.
 Use your measuring tape to get the total height of your door. Divide the height by three. Measure that resulting amount from the top of the doorpost and mark it with your writing utensil. This is where the bottom of the mezuzah will hang, about shoulder height on an average doorway.If your door is taller than average, hang the mezuzah at shoulder height.
 Before you hang the mezuzah, it needs to be given a blessing. Hebrew is the proper language to do this in, but if you do not know Hebrew, do it in a language you understand. In Hebrew, the blessing is "Baruch atah, Adonai Eloheinu, Melech haolam, asher kid'shanu b'mitzvotav v'tzivanu likboah m'zuzah."In English, the blessing translates to “Praise to You, Adonai our God, Sovereign of the universe, who hallows us with mitzvot, commanding us to affix the mezuzah.”
When affixing multiple mezuzahs, only one blessing is needed, but try not to talk until all of them are in place.
A mezuzah that is removed from its spot for over 24 hours should be blessed again.
 Where you marked the door frame is the place where the bottom of the mezuzah should hang. Bring the mezuzah up to the wall or measure upwards if you know how tall the case is. Hammer in the nail or secure one half of the mezuzah with whatever alternative hanging material you’re using.
 Now the bottom of the mezuzah should be on the mark around your shoulder. Slant the top of the mezuzah towards the inside of the room and the bottom to the outside of the residence. Add a second nail or screw to hold it in place or secure it to the wall with tape.