 Be honest about the intensity of your symptoms. Your doctor is there to help you deal with your depression, so be honest about your feelings and symptoms. It might seem scary or embarrassing, but being honest and talking openly is the best way to help your physician help you.


Avoid saying things like "Oh, it's not so bad" that make the issue sound smaller than what it is.
 Beyond honesty, you also need to be direct about your symptoms. Refrain from speaking about the issue ambiguously. Your doctor can easily believe any problems you are experiencing are a result of a medical condition rather than a mental illness.Being as clear as possible prevents confusion.


To be direct, you might say, "Dr. Barden, I think I have been feeling depressed lately" or "I have been feeling totally hopeless about my life. I haven't been eating or sleeping, and I have missed several days of classes over the last few weeks."

, Mention any changes in your daily medication regimen when you discuss depression with your doctor. Adding or removing medications from your daily regimen could be increasing symptoms of depression, as certain medications used to treat medical conditions cause side effects such as sadness or despair.For this reason, you should make your doctor aware of all prescription and over-the-counter drugs you take.


Medications which may cause depression include Accutane, anticonvulsants, beta-blockers, statins, Zovirax, benzodiazepines, Noroplant, and more., Prescription medications are a common remedy for treating symptoms of depression, but they're not the only option. You might be able to explore personal exercises like journaling, or even holistic treatments, such as meditation or acupuncture, to help with your depression.Be sure to discuss all your options with your doctor to get his opinion about their effectiveness so you can make the decision that best fits your lifestyle.
 Your family doctor has the authority to prescribe you antidepressants, but generally these doctors are not especially trained in treating mental disorders. Firstly, you need to be absolutely sure what you are experiencing is depression in order to appropriately treat it. Then, you can decide with an experienced mental health professional which treatment strategy is right for you.What's more, mental health professionals like psychiatrists have a better understanding of medications proven to alleviate depression, and a therapist or psychologist may be required for therapy.
 You have taken the first step necessary in recovering from your depression. Now, it is important for you to follow up. If your primary care doctor prescribed you meds, you must attend a follow-up visit to discuss if and how they have been working. If you are being referred, you must schedule additional appointments with other providers.You have shown great courage by speaking to your doctor about depression. Continue to take ownership for your mental health by getting the care that you need.

