 The overall setup will look like the sample in the image.

Stand one pair of poles upright, 15 inches apart. This pair of poles is called a wicket. As a guideline, the disc can be used to measure, allow two inches of space on each side. Drive the two poles into the ground far enough to keep the poles stable, roughly eight or twelve inches.
 Gently place one cup upside down on top of each pole.
 Place the poles so that all four are in the shape of a rectangle roughly 40 feet away., Divide into two teams, often two players each., This can be determined any number of ways, flipping a coin; Rock, Paper, Scissors; etc. The team that goes first begins with both of the flying discs., One team takes one end behind one wicket, the other team takes the opposite end behind the other wicket., The team that has been determined to go first takes the discs and begins to play offense, remaining behind their wicket. The opposing team will play defense, remaining behind their wicket., The offense attempts to hit one or both of the poles of the wicket in an attempt to knock off the cups or pass the disc through the poles themselves. They must not cross in front of their wicket while throwing. Meanwhile, the defense will stand behind their wicket and attempt to catch the cup with one hand if it gets knocked off by the offensive player., The offense scores are as follows:

One point for the offense for each cup that has been knocked off and touches the ground
One point for the offense for each cup that has been knocked off and is not caught one handed by the defense, either using two hands or part of the body to help "trap" or wedge the cup.
Two points for the offense for a disc that passes cleanly through the center of the wicket
No points if a any part of the body has crossed in front of their wicket, resulting in a "fault"

, The defense scores as follows:


One point for each cup is caught one handed
No points if the cup is caught two handed or is trapped against the body

, Replace any cups that may have been knocked off to their original position., The defense gathers the discs and teams switch playing offense and defense., Repeat steps four through seven and continue until one team has reached eleven points., Congratulate each other and shake hands, or play again!