 What is coming back right now? Are you happy with it? What aspects of it do you think could be improved? What aspects do you consider are currently problematic?


Do you even have a reputation online? No digital presence can be viewed by tech-savvy employers as odd and possibly decrease your chances of employment.
Use Google Alerts, Yahoo Alerts, etc. to bring back anything with your name in it. If your name is commonplace, include other identifying factors linked just to you, such as your hometown, your business name, your job title or a hobby you actively participate in, etc., or you'll get snowed under with every other return for Joe Smith and Jane White too!
There are online services that can track your comments trail (forums, message boards, blogs, etc.), check your Twitter reputation, search blogs for your name, etc. There are sites that show when people have searched for you or asked questions about you. Focus on what you know you're most active on, then work your way down the list.
 In many cases, this may be as simple as deleting a profile or messages from specific sites and waiting out the time for the search engine to stop returning these as top returns (in some instances, you can apply to have removal of search returns sped up). In other cases, you may need to seek professional help to get bad returns from continuing.


Contact a person who has uploaded damaging images, information or videos of you first. Ask that person nicely to remove it. Don't use curse words or rude statements––keep it clear, simple and factual and ask the other person to kindly remove the offending information.
Contact webmasters of sites to ask that your details or offending information be removed.If you can't find details on the website for a webmaster, check Whois for more information. In some cases, the webmaster may ignore or refuse your request, or you won't be able to find the webmaster at all (it does happen). In which, case, keep trying while doing other positive things.
Google suggests overriding the negative with the positive if your initial search engine returns are not flattering. This means posting lots of positive things using your name or uploading positive profiles, information, running groups, creating blogs, writing white papers, create a website with your name or business as the domain name, conducting interviews on podcasts, writing think pieces, etc. to try to drown out the less flattering stuff. This suggestion sounds helpful but can be easier said than done, especially where the sites holding reputation-damaging information are high in the search engine returns and for one reason or other, you can't remove, have wiped or change the information yourself. It also requires time, something you may have precious little of or interest in investing.
 There is a point at which self-help is useless and you may need legal advice and help to make substantial changes. Especially when dealing with search engines that don't make it easy to contact them...


There are companies that specialize in online reputation management. They can be pricey, but they might be important for some cases.

