 While most marathons have a qualifying time, the Honolulu Marathon does not, and a great starter for first-time marathon runners.;
, Hawaii residents have two advantages to the marathon: early registration date notifications and lower entry fees. There are separate entry fee amounts for Hawaii residents, United States residents, and international residents. Note that the entry fee is non-refundable and in US currency.


When open, online registration can be done.
All incoming Japanese residents must register at http://www.honolulumarathon.jp/ .
 Signups start in the Spring and the entry fees increase over the year for all three categories of residents.
 People participating in the marathon must pick up their own packet in person at the Hawaii Convention Center during the free expo, which is the week before the marathon. There are no exceptions and others cannot pick it up for you. The marathon packets includes timing chips and race numbers.
 Hawaii winters does not go below 60°F (16°C) at the coldest, but be prepared to get into the 80's (27°C) after noon on a sunny day.
 The only ascending section of the marathon is Diamond Head, around the mile 9 point, which raises up to 124 feet (37.8 m) above sea level. The remaining paths are mainly paved and leveled.
 If you are not properly dressed and a first time runner, the weather itself can either make or break your mentality.
 You must self-propel yourself in the marathon, which means you cannot have a baby stroller, walking cane, walker, etc. Bicycles and skates are included as well.
 The race starts at 5 am, so it's important to get there early. It's important to know the marathon route, as all streets are closed overnight and re-opened during certain hours throughout the day.
 Avoid thinking and concentrating on running like it's the only thing on your mind. There are lots of Pacific Ocean sights over Kalanianaole Highway and Diamond Head, so take a breath and enjoy the views.
 Take advantage of any water cups or sponges as you move along. Even if it's throwing the water on your hair or the back of your shirt, you will feel better and more energized.
 The marathon doubles up along Kalanianaole Highway, so cheer on encouragement to those on the other side of the road. There is a lot of Aloha spirit and even if it's cheering on a Japanese participant, everyone has fun.

