 Get an identifying microchip inserted below your pit bulls skin and put a collar with an identification tag around his neck. These will make it easier to locate your puppy if he gets lost. Pit bulls are good at escaping their yards, so microchipping is important. Consider asking humane societies to microchip, since some offer low-cost microchipping.Make sure your yard is secure, ideally with at least a six foot solid fence. Chain link fences can be climbed and they are not a visual deterrent to other animals or humans bothering your pet.
 Talk with your veterinarian about choosing a high-quality food for your puppy. Avoid commercial foods that list low-quality ingredients like meat by-products and grains. Instead, choose one that immediately lists a meat.Offer your puppy several regular meals throughout the day instead constantly leaving a full dish of food out.


Read the package or ask your vet about a specific amount of food to feed your puppy each day.
 Talk with the veterinarian about spaying or neutering your puppy to prevent unexpected litters and ask about treating your puppy for worms. Your puppy will also need the basic vaccinations that all puppies get, starting at 8 weeks old. A booster should be given 3 or 4 weeks later. Any other vaccines that your vet recommends will need to be boosted every year.Your puppy should have his first veterinary exam before you bring him home. After that, make sure he sees the vet every year.
Check local laws to determine a rabies vaccine requirement. Most rabies vaccines are started at 12 weeks old and Lyme disease vaccines begin at 9 weeks followed by a booster 3 to 4 weeks later.
 Try to take your puppy for short walks (less than 15 minutes) if he's less than 3 months old. You'll want to walk him at least twice a day, even as a puppy. Exercise is important to keep him healthy, burn energy, and make him happy and engaged. If you can, let your puppy exercise in an area with lots of space. This gives him the freedom to run around.


Playing fetch is a great way to interact with your puppy while he gets some exercise., Offer your puppy kibble, toys, and treats while you do training exercises. For example, you might bury treats and let your pit bull dig them up. This will let him use up energy and engage his brain. Or, you can let him play with puzzle toys that release kibble. This will keep your pit bull from becoming bored and destructive.Pit bulls are highly intelligent and can become destructive if left with nothing to do. Don't leave your puppy alone for too long. If you must, leave him in an enclosed area like a crate or pen with plenty of toys.

