 Maybe you think croutons or bacon bits are the only things you can place on top of a salad. Actually, you can throw just about anything on top of a salad. Try roasted nuts and seeds, or raw onions, carrots, or red cabbage for some extra crunch.Try warm, cooked ingredients, like grilled onions and eggplant. Sauteed vegetables can also make a nice salad.
 Avocado is a healthy fat that can leave you feeling fuller. It is also a delicious addition to a salad. It provides a smooth, creamy texture for the salad. Chop up chunks of avocado and sprinkle them on top of your salad.You can also try mashing the avocado and mixing it with the base for a creamier salad.
 Salads don’t have to be all savory or vegetables. A little bit of sweetness can totally change your salad experience. Fruit is a perfect addition to a salad that people often forget. Try putting your favorite fruits or no-sugar added dried fruits on your next salad.For example, apples, berries, pears, orange or grapefruit slices, grapes, or pomegranates make great additions to salads.
Try dried fruit, such as raisins, figs, dates, cranberries, or apricots, or canned fruit such as mandarin oranges.
 You can add protein on top of your salads for extra taste and nutrition. Sprinkle cut up pieces of chicken breast, steak, shrimp, ground beef, or salmon on the salad. You may want to add eggs or ham.Adding leftovers from the night before can be a good way to eat the rest of your food and easily add meat to the salad.
Try a salad with a base of kale, tomatoes, chickpeas, apples, and avocado with a vinaigrette. Add roasted chicken breast to it or baked salmon from the night before. Or put together arugula with feta, pears, nuts, black olives, and steak.
 Cheese can help enhance the flavors of the salad. Any cheese will be good on a salad. You can use shredded cheese, small cubes, or thin slices. Throw on your favorite cheese or try to match flavors.For example, pear goes well with gorgonzola or havarti cheese. Apples go well with cheddar, edam, and muenster. Grapes also go well with münster and edam., Switching out your dressing may be a way to make your salad taste more satisfying. You can try olive oil and vinegar, a raspberry vinaigrette, or switching to a ginger-based or spicy dressing. Try a new flavor palate to make the dressing more appealing.Be careful with salad dressings. Make sure to read the label carefully. Salad dressings can be full of calories, fat, and carbs, and they can also be packed with unhealthy artificial ingredients. Consider making your own salad dressing, like Italian, a Vinaigrette or even Avocado Ranch.


