 Children learn a great deal about how to act by watching their parents. Children, especially young ones, think their parents are more or less infallible. They see their parents as being supremely intelligent and powerful - basically incapable of making bad decisions. Do your best to live up to this idealized image. Before you lash out or blow your top in front of your child, think about the example you're setting. Embody the traits you wish to cultivate in your child: respect, friendliness, honesty, kindness, tolerance, and many more. Do things for other people without expecting a reward. Above all, treat your children the way you expect other people to treat you.


Children also look for role models at school, among their friends, and in the media. Some of these things you can control, others, you cannot. Know that, though your child may have multiple role models, you have a unique privilege in that you are a near-constant presence in his or her life. Make the most of this privilege.;
, When you have a child, the most important duty you have is ensuring his or her physical well-being - feeding, clothing, and housing him or her well. This and countless other responsibilities require you to spend time working so that you're able to provide for your child. However, once these necessities are assured, it's very important to invest your remaining time in your children themselves. Never lose sight of the fact that, in the balancing act between your family and your work, your family should always come first.


With so many demands on your time, it's often difficult for parents and children to get together for a family meal, let alone spend some quality time together. Children who are not getting the attention they want from their parents can act out or misbehave because, to them, negative attention is better than no attention at all. Many parents find it mutually rewarding to pre-schedule time with their child on a regular basis. Create a "special night" each week to be together and let your child help decide how you will spend your time.
Look for other ways to connect with your child, even when you can't be present - put a note or something special in his or her lunch box, for instance.
 Though your children should obey you, you can't expect them to do everything you demand simply because you, as a parent, "say so." Children want and deserve explanations as much as adults do. Parents who (at the very least) attempt to calmly reason with their children give them a chance to see why certain rules and restrictions are good for them. Make your expectations clear. If there is a problem, describe it to your child, express your feelings about it, and invite your child to discuss solutions with you. Be sure your child understands the consequences of his or her actions.


It bears mentioning that, even in the best cases, from time to time, your child will flat-out disagree with you about certain rules and decisions. Don't back down - you have an obligation to explain and discuss your rules, but not to acquiesce.
 If you frequently feel "let down" by your child's behavior, honestly assess your expectations. Are you expecting reasonable things from your child? Is your child capable of doing these things? Conversely, is your child more capable than you expect him or her to be - in other words, is s/he not being challenged? Don't be afraid to change your parenting goals, provided you keep your values consistent and sensitively explain your motives to your child.


As your child ages, s/he changes. Over time, you will have to change your parenting style - sometimes gradually, sometimes abruptly. Be ready and willing to face this change - just because your child isn't always a cute little baby doesn't mean s/he is less deserving of love and respect.
 Let's face it - we are all imperfect parents. We have strengths and weaknesses as family leaders. This is OK. Rather than agonizing over your shortcomings, recognize your abilities and vow to work on your weaknesses. Try to have realistic expectations for yourself, your spouse, and your children. You don't always have to have all the answers - be forgiving of yourself and your child will learn to forgive, too.


Try to make parenting a manageable job. Focus on the areas that need the most attention rather than trying to address everything all at once. Recognize when you're burned out. Hire a babysitter and take time out from parenting to do things that will ensure your happiness as a person (or as a couple). Focusing on your needs does not make you selfish. It simply means that you care about your own well-being, which is another important value to model for your children.
 If you have more than one child, as they grow, their needs and abilities will naturally diverge. Older children will be more independent and need less supervision, while younger children will need extra help and supervision. This is natural. Still, make an effort to spread your affection evenly among your children. Even if, for instance, you find that your younger children take up most of your time and attention, try to periodically let your older children know that you love and appreciate them just as much.


Never arbitrarily give one child more gifts, affection, or punishments than another. Children will pick up on your prejudices very quickly and may grow to resent you, or, worse, the "favorite" child.
 As an effective parent, you are responsible for guiding your child with a loving, corrective influence. Just as you are imperfect, so is your child. How you acknowledge this imperfection and express your corrective guidance makes all the difference in the world. When you have to confront your child about a mistake, avoid excessive blaming, criticizing, or fault-finding, which undermine self-esteem and can lead to resentment. Instead, strive to nurture and encourage, even when you are disciplining your child. Use every mistake as an opportunity to teach your child something new. Make sure he or she knows that, although you want and expect better, your love is available no matter what.
 Discipline is necessary in every household. The goal of discipline is to help children gain a sense of respect for others and self-control. Establishing house rules will help children understand your expectations and develop self-control. You may want to have a system in place: one warning, followed by consequences such as a "time out" or loss of privileges. Use these rules to punish bad behavior and encourage good behavior.


Be fair, but consistent. Don't cave to your children just because they're cute or throwing a fit. Doing so teaches them that they can misbehave without consequences. In fact, it's important to make sure to punish children when they make a scene, simply to demonstrate that it won't get them what they want.
 Parenting isn't just about pointing out the mistakes your child makes - it's just as much about lauding his or her triumphs. Have you ever stopped to think about how many times you react negatively to your child in a given day? For many, it's far too much. Make a point of finding something to praise every day - even something small. Be generous with rewards, but don't spoil your child - your love, hugs, and compliments can work wonders and are often reward enough. With positive reinforcement, you will soon find more of the behavior you would like to see.
 Eventually, your child will have to make the transition to living away from you. This transition is far, far easier for the child if s/he has some idea of how to work. It's absolutely essential to ensure children learn how to apply themselves. From grade school to college to the working world, success depends on being able to tackle ambitious problems with a sense of self-duty. By providing your child with this early on, you do him or her a great service in the long run.


Basically, you need to help your child learn that, to get the things they want, they need to put in effort. For instance, to get an allowance, s/he needs to complete chores, to get a new toy, s/he needs to do well at school, and so on.
 It's easy to forget that children have virtually no experience to draw on. They're doing everything in their life for the very first time. You, however, have years and years of experience to draw on. When your children are unsure of what to do, whether they're dealing with their first crush or applying to college, be there for them as a mentor and as a resource. Give your child the help s/he needs to make life's difficult decisions.


However, never do hard things for your child. Children must learn the value of perseverance, which is nearly impossible for them to do if their parent is willing to, for instance, do their homework for them.
 From time to time, even the best-behaved children will act out and require discipline. When the time comes to discipline your child, talk with your husband, wife, or partner before you make any major decisions. Decide on a fair, fitting punishment together. Then, and this is crucial, – be sure to agree that you will both enforce the punishment equally. If one of you is "softer" than the other when it comes to punishments, your child will quickly learn to exploit this knowledge.


If you are a single parent, you'll be the sole source of authority for your child, so it's extra import to be consistent with your rules and punishments. Stick with the punishments you set, and never let your child see you as a pushover.
 You can love, encourage, and praise your child to your heart's content, but, as its name suggests, true self esteem comes from within. For self esteem to develop, a child needs to earn his or her own respect. S/he needs to feel that s/he's good at certain things - be it sports, academics, music, theater, or anything else - and that this skill came from within, through talent and practice. To this end, try to give your child the opportunity to excel in his or her talents. If s/he has a talent for music, help purchase an instrument, for example. If s/he is good at sports, let him or her try out for whatever teams they want. Every child deserves the chance to be good at something.
 Your words and actions as a parent affect your child's developing self-esteem more than anything else. Praising your child's accomplishments, however small, will make him or her feel proud; letting your child do things independently will make him or her feel capable and strong. By contrast, making belittling comments or comparing your child unfavorably with another will make him or her feel worthless. Use your words and actions to teach your child that proper behavior and achievement are sources of good, positive feelings.
 When it comes to your child's self esteem, actions speak louder than words. Make sure that your actions reflect your loving views toward your child. For example, if you praise your child for his or her courage in taking on a lead role in the school play, but then don't even make an effort to actually see the play, you've shown that you don't value your child as much as you say you do. Parenting is just as much about loving your child as it is about demonstrating that love. This doesn't have to mean giving extravagant gifts - simple gestures are better than the most expensive toys.


Adults are busy people. From time to time, it's inevitable that you'll miss one of your child's concerts, recitals, games, plays, etc. As long as you express your sincere regret to your child and put in a genuine effort to make it next time, you're still demonstrating your love for your child.
 French author George Sand (real name Lucille Aurore Dupin) famously said, "There is only one happiness in life, to love and be loved." The instructions above have focused mainly on how to love your child. Children are capable of expressing their affection from a young age - welcome and cherish this affection. As time goes on and your child grows, however, be sure to let the love between you deepen. Mostly, this depends on your being present in your child's life and being emotionally available to him or her. If you make sure to spend time with your child and communicate openly with him or her, your child's love for you will naturally mature. S/he will learn to support you when you're feeling down and to give your love back when you need it. Parenting a child is the most serious investment you'll ever make, but, because of your child's ability to love, it's also the most rewarding.

