 Skinny jeans and cigarette pants were basically made for tall women. Not only are they often cut longer, they look fabulous on girls with long legs. Even if the skinnies are a little short, you can cuff them and make it look intentional. Plus, it's an opportunity to show off your shoes.


Avoid capri pants. They'll hit your calf at an odd spot and it will look like your pants shrunk in the drier.
Tall women can pull of flares or wide-legged styles, too. Just make sure your pants are the right length.
 The truth is, wearing flats isn't going to hide the fact that you're tall. If you want to wear heels, do it! A heel can elongate your legs, lift your butt, and actually make your feet look smaller.


Start out with a shorter kitten heel if you don't feel comfortable with full-on high heels.
A tall woman in heels appears confident, proud, and sexy.
 Create an hourglass figure and break up your length. This will help your body look proportional and shapely.Tucking in your shirt can also give the same effect.
Tall girls can get away with thicker belts.
 Large purses and totes can look overwhelming on smaller women, making it look like they're playing dress up. A tall girl can really work bigger accessories, so go for that oversize tote or that big, statement necklace.
 A tall frame is long enough to pull off patterns without being overwhelmed. Mix things up on your top and bottom half--so a patterned shirt with black pants, or different colored tops and bottoms--to break up your height.


Be aware that dressing all in one color (monochromatic) can make you look longer.
 Sleeves and hems that are too short can give your shirt that "shrunken" appearance. Unless it's a crop-top, look for shirts that at least hit you at the hip.


Look for 3/4 length sleeves or create them by rolling up sleeves that are just a little too short.
 A tall girl can rock a maxi dress like no other, or she can show off her killer legs something shorter. You probably don't want to be flashing your booty or underwear, however, so pay attention to skirts and dresses that are so short they don't cover the essentials. Remember a dress that is a flirty length on a shorter girl may look straight-up indecent on a taller girl.


A pencil skirt can make your legs look even longer, which is great if you have a long torso and shorter legs. Otherwise, pair a pencil skirt with a top in a contrasting color to keep your proportions balanced.

