 There are three types of potion used in different versions of the game, all of which serve a specific purpose. These are:


Red Potion—Available in all version of the game. It replenishes Link’s heart containers (a measure of the character’s HP) at will.
Green Potion—In certain versions of the series (A Link to the Past, Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, and The Wind Waker), where Link has another set of character meter called Magic Points to be used in varying purposes like magic spells, a Green Potion refills this meter.
Blue Potion—Blue Potions serves as the combination of a Red and a Blue Potion. It refills both the Health and Magic meter at once. It also fully replenishes the two, regardless of how low the levels are. This potion is available in The Legend of Zelda, A Link to the Past, Ocarina of Time, Majora's Mask, The Wind Waker, Twilight Princess, and A Link between Worlds.;
, Rupees are the game’s currency, and you need these to buy potions. You can earn money by opening treasure chests found in various locations in every game, killing enemies, or even cutting grasses or breaking jars.


Potion price varies from shop to shop, town to town, and game to game. Red and Green potions costs around 30 Rupees, while Green potions can cost anywhere between 50 and 100 Rupees.
 Every town has a Potion Store. You can tell one from its big potion bottle sign found at the front of every shop in every version of the game. Enter the store and you’ll find a store clerk.
 Potions can be found placed on top of the store counter. Walk in front of the item and press the Action button on your controller to start buying one. The store clerk will tell you its price. Press the Action button once more to confirm or the Cancel button to discontinue your purchase.


The potions will then be added to your inventory.
 You can only buy one to three Potions at once from a store (applies in all version of the game). When the store runs out of supply (you can tell because the item will disappear from the counter, or the clerk will tell you that they’ve ran out of supply), simply walk out of the store and go back inside again. You’ll find new supplies in the counter. You can keep buying as much as your money allows by repeating this step.

