 There is evidence that using hand gestures when you talk makes people more likely to listen to you.It can also help you remember what it is you are trying to say.Don’t make them too big! Your hand gestures should be kept "inside the box". This means keeping your hands inside the area of the top of your chest and the bottom of your waist. Outside of that, and they will become distracting.Make your hand gestures smooth. When you use your hands to add expression, it should appear as natural as possible. You want to avoid looking like a robot.The best way to make sure they look fluid and natural is to practice in front of the mirror.
If you give a speech, you could also film yourself to see what gestures you tend to use often.;
, This takes a lot of practice, most of which you must do on your own. The best communicators, however, know how to use their face in order to make their point.Arching an eyebrow can convey that you are surprised or skeptical about something.Frown when you disapprove or are concerned about something.Grimace when you are worried, afraid, or in pain.Most importantly, smile! If you are happy about something, pleased with an outcome, or simply happy to be in someone's company, you should smile to express this emotion.Nearly everyone enjoys a nice smile.
 This can be tricky for some. However, your body language is usually the first thing people will notice, so it is important to be aware of what you are conveying.If you want to appear more confident, assume a “power pose”.This means standing with your feet apart and your chin slightly elevated (not pointed in the air). If you are sitting in a chair, you might lean back and put your hands behind your head. This will not only make you look more confident, but it may also help you feel more confident.If you want to demonstrate agreement, mirror the expressions and postures of the person you are talking with.This doesn’t mean mimicking them completely, but rather noticing the general expressions and body language, and letting yourself slip into a similar posture.
To have an open friendly posture, make sure your arms are not crossed, but relaxed at your sides with your palms open (i.e. not balled into fists). If you are sitting, uncross your legs, and keep them relaxed. Point your body in the direction of the person you are talking to.