 Follow this method to put together simple pieces of photos into one image, quickly and easily. This method is not for convincing photoshop jobs, but may be what you're looking for to create a fun holiday card or similar amateur creation without taking a lot of time.


For best results, download free photo manipulation software such as GIMP, Paint.NET, or Pixlr. If you happen to own professional software such as Photoshop or Paint Shop Pro, you can of course use them, but purchasing them is not at all necessary.
Because this method requires only a few tools, you can use this method with simple software not mentioned above, such as Windows Paint. However, you may not have access to a "feather tool" to create a more attractive result, and without "layer" functionality, it will be easier to mess up and cover portions of your photos you meant to keep.;
, This is the image that will serve as a background for the image or images you will superimpose. Use your photo editing software to File → Open it.


Use File → Save As to save it under a new name if you want to keep the original version. You can also do this after you're done, but if you do it in advance there's no risk of forgetting and overwriting your file.
 You will transfer part of this image on top of the background image. Use the same program to open the second image in a new pane. For this one, you'll definitely want to File → Save As now under a new name to avoid altering the original.
 You should see a grid of buttons with different images on it, usually to the left of the screen. These are your tools. Click the circle or oval made of dashed or dotted lines, usually located near the top of the list.


You can hover you mouse cursor over a tool and wait for the name to appear to confirm your selection. It may be called "ellipse selection", "ellipse select", or a similar name.
If you can't find that selection tool, you can use the rope "lasso tool" or the square "rectangle select" tool instead.
 Drag around the person, animal, or other piece of the image you want to overlay onto a different background. Try to find a selection that looks attractive, with the subject centered and no incongruities included (like someone else's arm coming in from the side).


Most photo manipulation programs come with a Invert Selection command, which selects everything except what you currently selected. This is handy for seeing what your selection looks like by itself: use Ctrl + Shift + I (or command + Shift + I on a Mac) to invert selection, then Edit → Cut to remove everything but the image you'll be transferring. Be ready to Edit → Undo so you can try different selections.
If you dislike every selection, you may need to follow the steps for Overlaying a Detailed Image.
 The resulting image may have harsh or strange-looking edges, which can make the final result seem unnatural or obviously manipulated. You can adjust this by using a "feather tool" or "feather setting" to soften the edge, but be aware that different programs require you to access the feather ability in different ways:


In Photoshop, right click the selection and click Feather.In Gimp, use the top menu: Select → Feather.In Paint.NET, you will need to download the Feather Plugin and open that plugin's menu to use this tool.
In Pixlr or Paint Shop Pro, click the selection tool and alter its feather setting before making a selection.In any program, you should see an option to enter a numeric amount determining how extreme the feathering effect will be, measured in pixels. Start with 1 or 2 pixels for this method to avoid losing fine details.
 You can do this with the Edit → Copy and Edit → Paste commands, making sure to select the desired background image you opened earlier before pasting.


If everything but the selection gets copied, you need to use the Invert Selection command a second time to get back to the original selection.
 Select the move tool, which looks like a cursor arrow or a four-point compass, then click and drag the superimposed image to the desired location. If you need to change the size of the overlaid image, follow these steps:


Go to File → Free Transform (or hit Ctrl + T) to transform the image.
A box should appear around the superimposed image; click and drag the sides and corners to change the size and shape. To maintain the proportions, hold Shift while clicking and dragging a corner.
If the wrong thing moves, make sure you’re on the right layer by going to View → Layer or Window → Layer, then clicking the layer that contains the superimposed image.
 Make sure that you've selected the image that contains the final result before saving. It should be in front of any other images.


You can add additional pictures to this picture in the same way, no matter how many times it's been altered.
In order to change which pictures are placed over or under other photos, reveal the Layers menu with View → Layers or Window → Layers on the top menu, then drag each photo thumbnail higher or lower on the list. The lowest layer should always be the background image, while the highest layer will always show up in full on top of everything.

