 Think about why you are concerned about your child. Do they seem to be feeling differently? Have they had unexplained changes in mood? Maybe it seems like your child is acting fearful for no clear reason. It is possible that it could be marijuana use. Marijuana is a psychoactive substance; it interacts with the user's brain, temporarily changing the way he or she thinks and feels., Smoking marijuana can cause cognitive impairment during a high which increases as more marijuana is consumed. If you think your child may be high, look for the following mental symptoms:Slowed reaction time
Impaired decision-making
Diminished memory
A tendency to "space out" or lose the thread of conversations
Paranoia or irrational beliefs that one is in danger. This symptom may be more common among users with existing psychiatric problems or a predisposition to them., It's normal to be concerned about your teenager, but it is also normal for teens to go through rapid mood changes. At times, trying to keep track of your child's moods can seem like you are on a roller coaster. It is important to remember that teenagers are going through a lot of changes, both physically and emotionally. Some changes in behavior and mood are typical. Try doing some research or asking a trusted friend for advice in order to help you better understand your teen's actions., Even though your teen might not always acknowledge it, you are one of the most important people in his life. Your relationship is sometimes a big factor in why your teen behaves the way he does. Try to step back and objectively think about your relationship. Has anything changed recently? Is it possible that your teen is acting differently as a reaction to something that is going on in your home life?, Although teens often behave in a confusing manner, not all of it can be chalked up to normal teenage angst. Pay close attention to all aspects of your child's life, while at the same time respecting their boundaries and growing independence. If the signs are all pointing to possible drug use, it might be time to be concerned. Also, check in with yourself. You know your child best. What does your gut tell you? Even if you think your child can do know wrong, make sure to realistically be aware of the signs., If you really think that your child is smoking pot, it is time to start actively looking for evidence. Red eyes are one of marijuana's most notorious side-effects.Marijuana sometimes gives a reddish or reddish-yellow cast to the whites of a user's eyes. This happens because marijuana may cause the capillaries in the eyes to dilate.It's also possible for marijuana smoke to irritate a user's eyes and cause redness, though marijuana doesn't have to be smoked to cause eye redness. Remember not to jump to conclusions. Did your child stay up too late last night studying (or playing video games)? That could easily cause red eyes.


Note that marijuana may also cause a user's pupils to dilate (open wide), although this is disputed and not as well understood as the red eye effect.A supply of anti-irritation eye drops (like Visine, etc.) can be an indirect sign of marijuana use, as these are often used to reduce redness of the eyes.
 Marijuana use can cause drowsiness, leading to reduced activity levels.If you're suspicious of your teenager, be wary of lots of time spent napping, vegetating on the couch, playing video games all day, and a general unwillingness to "do anything.” Keep in mind, however, that this isn't the only reason a teenager may seem to need lots of sleep; many teens simply have a naturally higher sleep requirement than most adults.While the drowsy, relaxing effects of marijuana may seem amusing, they can also impair important cognitive functions like memory, reaction speed and critical thinking, making marijuana use dangerous in situations that require careful attention (like driving)., It's a common observation that people who are high on marijuana seem to act sillier than usual.Users may, for instance, have a tendency to giggle uncontrollably at things that aren't especially funny. Some may have a hard time acting serious in situations where it's required of them. If your teen can't seem to keep his or her goofiness under control, marijuana use may be the cause, though, as for many of the other common symptoms of marijuana use, it is far from the only possible cause.
 If your teen has started to embrace the pot culture, you may be able to pick up some clues based on their choice of entertainment. Movies that heavily feature drug use could potentially spark your child's interest in smoking pot. Some examples include Dazed and Confused, Friday, and The Big Lebowski. It's entirely possible that your teen enjoys these types of movies, but if you notice repeat viewings, you may want to pay attention to other signs of marijuana use., Look for changes in your child's patterns of coming and going. Habitual marijuana use can disrupt sleeping patterns, leading teenagers to oversleep during the day and stay up at night. If your teen is using marijuana you may notice other changes in behavioral patterns, such as hanging out with different friends, visiting different places, going out at unusual times, etc.


However, it's important not to make baseless accusations of marijuana use solely because your child has been keeping an odd schedule, or hanging out with friends you do not approve of. Behaviors like this can have many causes.
 Look for the drug itself. If you come across your child's hidden marijuana "stash" while doing laundry, for example, you have very strong evidence that he or she is using the drug. Because the drug is quite expensive by weight, it's likely that any single child's stash will be quite small, making it easy to hide in small crevices.


Marijuana usually comes in the form of green or greenish-brown clumps of plant material that resembles the herb oregano and has a strong, unmistakable odor.Marijuana is often stored in small plastic baggies, plastic pill containers, small jars, or other improvised containers.
Look for drug paraphernalia. Devices like pipes, grinders, bongs, rolling papers, roach clips, lighters, and other accessories are strong indicators of marijuana use and are usually some of the very strongest pieces of evidence a parent can find. Smell for the telltale marijuana odor. If you can smell marijuana or its smoke, you can be sure that it is nearby (or has been recently). Marijuana has a distinctive and often powerful smell. Fresh marijuana has a pungent odor sometimes described as being similar to the smell of a skunk, but less unpleasant. To some, marijuana can also smell sickly sweet or like yard waste.
Marijuana smoke has an "herbal" odor sometimes said to resemble that of fresh tomatoes and burnt tea leaves. Marijuana smoke is sometimes also described as smelling "sweeter" than tobacco smoke.The smell tends to linger in clothing, hair, and upholstery.
 Cases of "the munchies," or increased appetite, have long been associated with marijuana use, but in recent years, research has actually definitively proven that marijuana use has a tendency to increase both the user's appetite and the palatability of food.Thus, if your child seems to have periods where he or she has an insatiable appetite for snacks, the cause may be marijuana intoxication.Note also that marijuana can sometimes make a user's mouth and throat feel dry or scratchy, which can lead the user to drink lots of water or other beverages.Keep in mind, however, that some increase in appetite during the teenage years is normal. The body undergoes rapid growth during adolescence, which can cause teens to eat more., Teenage marijuana use is illegal in the United States. If you discover that your teenager is using marijuana and has not been caught by authorities, then it is your responsibility to decide how to handle the situation. There's no single correct answer, but you can start by having a conversation about expectations. It's up to you to set rules for your children that you believe are reasonable.


Understand that your teenager may be curious about marijuana. During a child's teenage years, his or her friends or classmates may begin to use and talk about marijuana, so your child may eventually develop a natural desire to understand what the "fuss" is about.
Explain that regardless of one's feelings, marijuana possession and/or use is still a criminal offense in most states.Even in states where marijuana is legalized, teenagers are not allowed to possess or consume it, and adults are not allowed to provide it to minors. , Even if your child doesn't fully understand the effects of marijuana use, there's a very good chance that she or he will understand that using marijuana is something that many grown-ups deem to be bad. Thus, your child may be nervous, agitated, or defensive when you confront him or her about the evidence of their marijuana use. Your child may even initially lie in order to hide his or her marijuana use. Calmly discuss your views, while keeping an open mind to hear your child’s. Your goal is to come to a mutual understanding with your child, not to terrify him or her.
 Rather than forbidding marijuana use on the grounds of "because I said so," it's a wiser idea to justify your decision by explaining the harmful effects of marijuana use to your child.This gives your decision much more legitimacy; a child is unlikely to respect or side with a parent who wants to take away his or her marijuana for no reason. You may, for instance, want to focus on some of the proven dangers correlated with heavy marijuana use at a young age, including:


Greater school dropout rate
Higher rates of anxiety and social disorders
Impaired memory and thinking skills
Increased rates of psychosis
Respiratory/lung problems (similar to those from tobacco use)
A greater likelihood of using other illicit drugs., Light, occasional usage of marijuana is unlikely to result in any personal issues or health problems. However, depending on where you live, as little as a single use of marijuana could conceivably land your child in trouble with the law. In addition, penalties associated with marijuana are almost always greater if the child is caught with lots of marijuana or has been selling it to others. Whether you personally plan on tolerating your child's marijuana use or not, make sure he or she clearly understands the law's stance on the matter.


In the U.S., recreational marijuana use is illegal for minors everywhere and illegal for adults in all but two states: Washington and Colorado. Marijuana intoxication while driving is treated similarly to alcohol intoxication.
Outside of Washington and Colorado, state laws regarding marijuana use vary greatly. For instance, in California, possessing marijuana for personal use is considered a misdemeanor punishable by fines and/or very short prison sentence.On the other hand, in neighboring Arizona, possessing marijuana for personal use is a felony with greater penalties, as is possessing marijuana paraphernalia., If this is the first time you've talked to your child about using marijuana, take the opportunity to clearly define your family's marijuana usage rules for the future. Emphasize that you're not upset about your child's initial curiosity but that you expect them to abide by your rules in the future. Make sure your child understands that she or he may still come to you with questions about marijuana in the future with no worries.Again, if your child knowingly broke your family's rules or lied to you, you can punish or chastise him or her. Explain to your child that you're not upset with his or her curiosity, but rather that he or she has disappointed you by breaking your clearly-defined rules.
Remember that although your teen is a child, they are quickly moving towards becoming an adult. Try to involve them in the decision making process, if your child seems receptive towards communicating with you. Sometimes, if given more responsibilities, your child might behave more responsibly.