 Very important, you have to learn every part of this map before you get to know the strategies. It is very simple though; two rooms with two doors on the left and right side, and a corridor in the middle with two staircases leading up to a side of the corridor.;
, If you are one of those people who fear that people always come through the doors to sneak behind to the corridor, then this is for you. You should use an L96 Arctic Warfare sniper, or a semi-auto sniper. Be sure that if you kill a person, immediately move to the other side, and the other door.
 Death Room is not a good place to crouch because it is very tiny. Instead, you should do the opposite: jump around. This is even more effective when using a shotgun because the reticle does not change in size. However, if you are using an assault rifle, machine gun, SMG, or something else that makes the reticle change in size, then make sure that you are very close to the enemy.
 You have to be brave enough to do this. Sneaking up can be lethal to your opponent, especially if they are attacking. You can also try to knife them, but it is strongly not recommended if they are constantly moving. Make sure that in the other room, you have to kill everyone in their line of sight (including YOU!) before you sneak up. This works with the grenade dropping.
 Go to the left side of the door and when you are near the staircase leading up to the corridor, and drop your grenade. This is extremely effective in CTF (Capture the Flag mode) because everyone will think you are trying to get the flag, and dropping it decoys your opponents. There are also other ways to use these grenades. If people are bunched up defending their flag, hide your grenade and try not to let your opponent see the grenade. That way, if they don't notice, you can kill a lot of people, making a clear path for your ally to capture the flag (or YOU!). If your rank is above SFC-2 (Sergeant First Class 2), you can buy the M69HE Frag. It is very powerful, especially if they are in the open. You can also equip this as your primary support weapon, and your M67 Frag as your secondary support weapon. If you have an advanced backpack, you can equip a shotgun in the B Slot (optional).
 If you use a smoke grenade, you can obscure your path to the ledge and you can camp there. One of the most effective strategies in Death Room, this has fooled people for months. This is awesome in CTF too because you can see your own flag and monitor the whole area to see if it is being taken or not. If a protector comes up behind him, you can kill them both, especially if the person who has the flag is holding a knife; he can't attack you.
 It will slow you down and grenades from the opposite place of the corridor can land on you, and you can get damaged because you are slower with a heavy gun. Instead, use an assault rifle, preferably a G36E, since it has the scope and it has decent damage, fire rate, and recoil. If you guys are wondering where to use a machine gun, Junk Flea is the most effective, as well as a close range weapon in Snow Valley (L96A1 for long range weapon in backpack).
 They are most effective on your side of the door, again usually the right door, because they will go there to sneak up behind you into the corridor. People have gotten ultra kills with simple planting of mines like those. Also, your opponent can use up ammo just destroying mines, especially if he is low on ammo.
 In the corridor, it can be useful if people are bunched up, especially if they have been damaged by a previous ally. You only get 3 rockets, so be sure to use it wisely.


If non-elites request that you do not equip it, then you should do so, because there may be an Elite on the team that can kick you. Use a shotgun of you can but again, some people think they're cheap, and so forth do not allow it.
 Crouch (remember that you shouldn't crouch in this map? Well, this is the only exception) so they can only head-shot you. This will make it harder to hit, and it is OK if you are camping.
 What this means is that at the edges of the corridor has an open space for you to shoot. This means that you can shoot from above to a room below. You can also drop grenades, gas grenades (aka "color" grenades to newbies), and smoke grenades too. However, keep in mind that smoke grenades are allies for everyone, not just the person who threw it. The enemy can also use the smoke to obscure their soldiers. Keep in mind that you are still vulnerable, so when you do it once, make sure that you either do it somewhere else, or leave the edge all together.

