 Cognitive distortions are unhelpful “habits” your brain has developed. They are biased ways of thinking that may have originated from an experience you had long ago. They may arise from something someone told you, or something someone did.The key about cognitive distortions is that they're irrational, and they're unfair to you. You can learn to recognize cognitive distortions, and once you know what they look like, you can challenge them.Because cognitive distortions stem from something we've learned -- such as a specific behavior or a response to a situation -- everyone experiences cognitive distortions from time to time.Recognizing cognitive distortions involves paying specific attention to how you're thinking. Try not to judge how you're feeling. You can't really help whether you feel sad, angry, happy, etc. You can learn to alter your brain's "habits" of thinking, though.
 Filtering happens when you focus on the negative details of a situation and allow them to overshadow any positives. This sort of all-or-nothing thinking can leave you feeling sad or worthless because you’re holding yourself (and others) to impossible, unhelpful standards.For example, if you’re late to the movies and miss out on the trailers, filtering would ruin the rest of the experience for you because you were unable to get over the one negative element.
Challenge filtering by allowing yourself to land in the middle. Things do not have to be perfect to not be failures. Remind yourself that there are positives in every situation. To return to the movies example, acknowledge that you missed the trailers, which are fun, but you haven’t missed the movie -- the real reason you went out. Challenge yourself to enjoy the experience rather than focus on the one thing that went wrong.
 Catastrophizing happens when you assume the worst is guaranteed to happen. Catastrophizing thoughts spiral out of control very quickly, and can leave you feeling overwhelmed or out of control.For example, a catastrophizing thought about failing an exam could look like this: “I failed this exam. I’ll fail the class. I’ll get kicked out of school. I’ll end up having to live in my parents’ basement until I die and I’ll never have a job or a romantic partner.”
Challenge catastrophizing by asking yourself for evidence for your assumptions. So you failed an exam. What is the weight of that exam in the class? Is it possible to pass even with that failing grade? Probably! Even if you fail the class, would you get kicked out of school for failing it? No, you would just have to retake the class.
Require yourself to give logical evidence for your thoughts, rather than jumping to conclusions.
 Personalization happens when we think that everything another person does is a direct response to us. It may be a way of thinking others are “out to get us.”For example, you see a coworker with an angry expression on her face as she passes you in the hallway. Personalization would assume that she is angry at you, based on this one instance.
Challenge personalization by reminding yourself that other people have emotions and bad days, just like you. In most cases, others’ behavior has nothing to do with you. If you’re really worried you might have done something to upset another person, ask them what’s going on! What you learn might surprise you, and you won’t have jumped to irrational conclusions.
 When you overgeneralize, you apply the results of a specific situation to life in general. This can lead you to interpret a single bad day as a spiral of failure.For example, imagine that you spill coffee on yourself on your way to work. An overgeneralization would interpret this coffee spill as a sign that the rest of the day is doomed to failure.
Challenge overgeneralization by remembering that one event does not make a pattern. Instead of imagining that spilling your coffee is just one in a long list of terrible things that always happen to you, remind yourself that you’re reacting to one particular event. Spilling coffee may not be pleasant, but it’s only one small, specific thing in the rest of your day.

