 You should purchase a purebred puppy from a reputable, AKC-registered breeder. Note that a good breeder will ask you a lot of questions, and make the effort to ensure that their puppy is going to a suitable home. Make sure to:


visit the breeder
ask detailed questions
see the condition of the litter’s mother
request proof of health for mother and puppies
ask for references;
, An important part of show dog breeding is understanding breed standards, as established by the American Kennel Club. The true purpose of dog shows (also known as conformation shows) is to evaluate breeding stock. Dogs are judged based on established criteria for what is considered the best of the breed; to better understand the best attributes of your dog’s breed:attend dog shows
read books, articles, and other reputable source material about breed standards
look up your dog’s specific breed on the American Kennel Club’s website: www.akc.org

, Whether you learn by attending local dog shows, watching them on television, or reading about them, it is a good idea to get informed before you participate. Dog breeds are generally grouped into seven categories, based on the jobs they were initially bred for – “sporting,” “hounds,” “working,” “terrier,” “toy,” “non-sporting,” and “herding.” Show dogs are also grouped into different classes at shows – “puppy,” “twelve-to-eighteen months,” “novice,” “bred by exhibitor,” “American-bred,” and “open.” There are a series of different ribbons presented to participants that judges choose as the best of a class (e.g. a blue ribbon is awarded for first place in any regular class).Many AKC clubs offer conformation handling classes for owners wishing to show their dogs. The classes show owners how to present their purebred dog to judges at a conformation show. Local AKC clubs offering these courses will be listed on the American Kennel Club website.
 If your dog meets breed standards, is older than 6 months, and is not spayed or neutered, you can enter it into a conformation show. If you do not feel ready for this step yet, consider entering your dog into a match show first; match shows are informal shows where dogs and owners can socialize and get accustomed to the procedures for official conformation shows. Alternatively, you can hire a professional handler to present your dog to judges at the conformation show, for a fee that should be established upfront before the show.The American Kennel Club Registered Handlers Program promotes professional handlers who meet a specific criterion of responsibility and knowledge., Most dogs entered in conformation shows are competing for championship points, which are essentially credits earned towards championship status. Dog shows are essentially a process of elimination leading to one dog being named “Best in Show” at the end of it; other dogs are able to earn points along the way. Either way, you dog’s participation signals that it is an AKC-registered purebred, whose parents and ancestors are also purebred.