 Very pale skin was in vogue in France during the 1700s and 1800s, so aristocratic women would lighten their skin using cosmetics. We can learn from their mistakes; they typically applied paint made from lead! Instead, try these safe alternatives:

Rather than matching your makeup to your face, select a shade of foundation one shade lighter than your actual skin color. Remember to also use concealer and setting powder one shade lighter than your skin. Blend the makeup into the skin at your jawbone and neck so that it fades gradually rather than leaving an obvious line that divides the pale skin on your face from the darker skin on your neck (or better yet, wear a turtleneck or scarf).
You can try out a version of this tactic without spending a ton of money on new cosmetics by simply purchasing a finishing powder in a lighter shade. Apply it over your normal foundation and concealer, and if you like the effect, consider buying lighter foundation and concealer as well.
 Most major cosmetics brands are jumping on the trend, which is also known as highlighting or strobing depending on the technique. You can adapt this trend to create the illusion of fairer skin temporarily. Contouring using makeup involves carefully placing lines of darker color on areas that are meant to recede, like under your cheekbones and along the sides of your nose, while placing lighter streaks of color along areas that are meant to stick out a bit and catch the light, like the cheekbones, bridge of the nose, or forehead. Then, the colors are carefully blended so that you can't tell that you've put color in either place, but it gives a very nice visual effect of well-defined facial features.

Learn about contouring techniques from this helpful wikiHow article, but when you go shopping for products, purchase products in shades slightly lighter than you would normally buy.
Apply the products using the contouring technique, but at each step, go one to two shades lighter than you would normally go. For instance, when you begin, apply foundation to your entire face in one or two shades lighter than your skin tone. Then, when you contour the darker areas, use a color that matches the natural color of your face (rather than a darker shade). The highlighted, lighter areas should be a shade or two even lighter than the color you began with to really stand out.
It's important to stay in the same color family as the rest of your skin. If you are cool-toned, choose products that are meant for cool-toned skin; and if you are warm-toned, choose products that are meant for warm-toned skin. Otherwise your contouring will seem like you've painted your face.
 For a more subtle effect, simply mix a highlighting cream into your regular foundation. It will only subtly lighten the actual color of your skin, but because of its very fine sparkle and luminosity, it will make your complexion appear fairer in the light.

Try Josie Maran Argan Enlightenment Illuminizer, NARS Illuminator, or a similar product from your favorite drugstore brand. The key is to choose a liquid highlighter that can be easily blended into liquid foundation, and in a shade that is slightly lighter than your skin tone but in the same color family.
The end result should be skin that seems to glow, like a freshly moisturized face; if it seems glittery or shiny then you've added too much illuminator to your foundation.

