 You can listen to emo music, shop at Hollister, and read Edgar Allan Poe if that's what floats your boat. When you deviate from the stereotypes and do what makes you happy, there's only one name for you: a free thinker.;
, This teaches tolerance and awareness for people who are different from you, and it helps to expose you to all different things.
 Confidence is defined as "belief in oneself and one's powers or abilities".How many times have you looked in the mirror and thought "ugly" or "worthless"? Probably at least once. Confidence is a gradual process for some, and so, it takes time to build. When you look in the mirror, look not for the little flaws and blemishes, but for the parts of you that you love. (You know there's at least something you like about yourself.) Know that you're beautiful and unique, even when you can't see it, and that you don't need to be like everyone else to be happy with yourself.
 If you love your black Converse All Stars, then, by all means, wear them! Same thing goes for that frilly pink dress, the baggy pants, and the Zelda Triforce tee. Wear clothing that you feel comfortable in, you like, and that shows something about you and your interests.


Shop wherever you want. You don't need to limit yourself to "prep" stores, like Aeropostale or Hollister, nor do you need to shop only at "emo" stores like Hot Topic. If you like an article of clothing, don't worry about what your friends will think when they see you sporting it; if they're really your friends, why should it matter what you're wearing?
Wear clothing with personality (yours, not the personality others think you should have)! Let your outfits reflect the real you and how you see yourself.
It's not about the way you dress: it's about the way you act. Wearing cutoff shorts and a tank top doesn't make you a "slut", so don't let others address you with this sort of derogatory term. Dressing a certain way is different than acting the part, so never let anyone tell you otherwise. It's your body, so others have no right to negatively influence your body image. Just remember that modesty is an important virtue.
 Whether your passion is dancing, baking, or trading Yu Gi Oh! cards, get out and do it! Doing things you love makes you a happier, better person, and when others see that you're comfortable in your own skin, they'll respect you. You should never hold back talent for fear of what others might think; instead, share your talents and interests, and maybe you'll meet people who share your interests.
 Maybe you're not "emo", but you still love to rock out to emo music; maybe you're not too into the "goth" thing, but you love Anne Rice! While you shouldn't go out of your way to "like" things that simply aren't you, you still shouldn't deprive yourself of things you like just because you don't want to be labeled. Learn to appreciate all sorts of things, and you'll have things in common with everyone.
 Give them the same respect and acceptance that you want from them, and you'll receive it.
 Don't be afraid to be eccentric and odd; the world needs more people like that! Share your strange ideas and express yourself.
 As humans, we're often afraid to deviate from the norm; instead, we tend to stick to it and wait for someone braver to break the cycle. Only, sometimes nobody's brave enough to step up to the plate. What happens then? It's on you. Don't be afraid to be the only one; be your own person, and others will be inspired.
 You may get judged not only by looks, but by personality. Be a good, kind friend to everyone. Nobody will ever look at you again and think "poser" or "liar" or anything. Just be sweet and be you!

