 Lickitung was introduced in the very first Generation of Pokémon games, but its evolution Lickilicky wasn't introduced until Generation IV. This means that you can't evolve Lickitung unless you are playing a Generation IV or later game.
 You can transfer Pokémon from III to IV, but you'll need to beat both games first in order to do so.

You cannot transfer Pokémon from Generation I or II to Generation IV.
 These are the only DS systems that support Game Boy Advance cartridges. Put the Generation III game into the slot along the bottom of the DS. Put your Generation IV game into the regular cartridge slot., Power on your DS and start your Generation IV game., This will begin the migration process. You'll be warned that you won't be able to transfer the Pokémon back to the Generation III game., You can transfer multiple Pokémon during the Migration process., After you've selected and migrated your Pokémon, your Generation IV game will restart. Start your saved game as normal., In order to get your migrated Pokémon, you'll need to visit the Pal Park facility.

Diamond, Pearl, Platinum - The east end of Route 221
HeartGold and SoulSilver - Fuchsia City

, You can start this by talking to the person behind the front desk. You'll be taken to the back and given six Park Balls for the activity., Throw your Park Balls to capture the Pokémon and add it to your roster. You don't need to weaken the Pokémon at all before throwing the ball., Lickitung needs to know this move in order to evolve into Lickilicky. The TM for Rollout was only available in Generation II, and can't be used for this. Below are a couple ways that you can learn this move., Likitung will learn this move automatically at Level 33. You can level it up by battling, leaving it at the Day Care center, or by using Rare Candy. This is the easiest way to learn the move., In Platinum talk to the Move Tutor at the Survival Area. Rollout costs four red shards, two green shards, and two blue shards. In HeartGold or SoulSilver, talk to the Move Tutor in the top-right of the Frontier. Rollout costs 32BP., Once Likitung levels up while knowing Rollout, it will immediately begin evolving into Lickilicky. There are a couple of different ways that you can level up., This is the most common way to level up your Pokémon, and Lickitung is no exception. If you're fighting tough Pokémon, send Likitung in for one move and then swap it back out for a stronger fighter. Lickitung will receive a share of the experience when the battle is over. If you equip Lickitung with an Exp. Share, you can level it up without even sending it into battle., Rare Candies and Rare Soda will immediately raise Lickitung's level. You can find a few Rare Candies throughout your journey, and you can purchase Rare Soda from the Juice Shoppe.