 Don’t try to ask your mom about chores right before she is about to go to bed or before she has had a cup of coffee in the morning. Wait to talk to her when she is in a good mood and is not preoccupied by something else.


Say, “Mom, do you have a minute? I wanted to talk to you about something.” ;
, Your mom is much more likely to say no to you if you ask her without showing her respect. Instead of asking for less chores upfront, as if she is obligated to give you less, tell her you appreciate her and are grateful for her.


Say something like, “Mom, I know you work really hard for me and I really appreciate that, but I was wondering if I can have a few less chores.”Stay calm. Don’t scream or cry or whine., Knowing the reason you are getting extra chores can help you not get them. When you know the reason, do what you can to fix it. If your mom says it is because you are getting bad grades, get better grades.


Say, “Is there a reason you have been giving me extra chores lately?”

, Your mom wants you to understand the meaning of hard work. If you don’t understand this, she will keep giving you chores. You can try negotiating with your mom to see if you can trade other hard work for the chores you have. For example, “Mom, I was wondering, if I get an A in math this term, can I stop doing the dishes on Sundays?”

, You can’t just say you don’t want to do chores because you don’t want to work hard. Explain that chores are cutting into your homework time or social life or taking away from your experiences in life.


Say something like, “Mom, I know hard work is important, but these extra chores have just been too much. Is it possible to cut down on my chores so I have more time for homework, soccer, and my friends?”

, You might not be able to cut back on all of your chores, but you can come to a compromise. If you want to do chores three days a week and your mom wants you to do them seven days a week, try to compromise and have chores five days a week. If there are particular chores that you hate doing, try to compromise by asking if you can do a different chore instead.


Say something like, “Mom, can I please start vacuuming for my chore instead of mowing the lawn?” or “Can I just do chores on weekdays and not on weekends?”
Ask for an allowance as a compromise. This way the chores still get done but you will have more incentive to want to do them.
 No matter what the outcome of your conversation is, accept your mom’s reasons. If she insists on giving you a lot of chores, accept it and understand she has her reasons. Your mom just wants you to understand the meaning of hard work and to contribute to the family.

