 As soon as you finish speaking with Cheshire Cat, start walking up the sloping path to the left of the creek.;
, It is located at the top of the platform near the ledge, and looks like a glowing silver house. You should see it directly in front of you. Press the Action button to grab the memory.
 This is the Jumping tutorial. The dominoes will form a bridge for you to cross the gap.
 Keep heading forward until you see more domino blocks. This is the Twirl tutorial. Twirl will allow you to jump farther by spinning you through the air.


To do a Twirl, press Jump and press Jump again while you're in the air. You can twirl up to three times, but only need to twirl once to reach the domino.
If you fall you can climb back up and try again.
 Jump down from the ledge once you get to the platform across the Domino blocks. You will see the girl in white jump down from the ledge first.
 It is directly in your path at the bottom of the ledge. Grabbing the memory will make some mushrooms appear ahead.
 The mushrooms act like platforms, allowing you to jump off of them. Jump from mushroom to mushroom to reach the next ledge. Use the glowing mushroom to boost up to the higher spot.
 Ignore the next glowing mushroom for the moment. Instead, jump over it and grab the third memory.
 Use the glowing mushroom to climb up the next ledge. You'll see a huge bottle with violet liquid pouring out.
 Jump down the ledge and head towards the huge bottle. You'll be shown a small cutscene.
 After the cutscene, move back towards the ledge. In the left corner, you'll see another memory next to a keyhole. Grab the memory.,, Use your new shrinking ability and walk through the keyhole. Keep going through the keyhole until you arrive at the exit. You'll see a glowing mushroom.
 You'll notice you're back at the platform before you jumped down to the Drink Me potion (where you got the 4th memory).
 You can see the next keyhole from the top of the mushroom jump. Approach from the right angle and land on the ledge with the keyhole. It will have arrows pointing to it.
 The keyhole will bend to the left a little. Keep walking until you get to the exit.
 At the bottom of the ledges, you will see another keyhole in a corner. Shrink down to see the arrows pointing to it.
 You'll see some stacked-up blocks. You will need to shrink again to pass through them. Once you pass underneath, you will find yourself in a chamber with plants on the ground.
 Continue around, past the glowing mushroom in the ground. Behind the rock with the moss on top, you will see the fifth memory. Grab it.