 It sounds like a textbook concept, but if you don't know how something works in any given situation, you aren't going to train at your full potential. Learn everything about the maps you play on, such as important item areas, vantage points, secret (or just less visible) locations, and "sucker zones" (areas where players are the most vulnerable). Learn the weapons or units and how to use them in more than one situation effectively, because you can't perform a "Zerg Rush" twenty minutes into the game. Also, know your glitches and cheap tricks, so you don't feel like a loser when you can't find the guy who just "Super Bounced".;
, Learn about strategies, tactics, and game breaking moments that other players speak about, and use this to your advantage. Also, try to get used to the terminology for the game you want to learn. You don't want to be confused when your last teammate dies after telling you "2 on cat w/b". There is a lot of important info underneath all of the useless stuff, so don't be afraid to sift.
 Start a multiplayer game by yourself, and if it's hosted online, slap a garbage password ("asdfasdf") on your game so nobody can join. Play around with the game, and get a feel for the timing, speed, and caution you need. For RTS, practice your ability to "micro" your base and units correctly. For FPS, practice with your guns and grenades. For example, find safe points in Halo 2 and memorize how to throw the grenades into popular camping points.
 Find the game with the lowest ping and the simplest name, so you get good results with simple rules. When you play, generally focus on your opponent only while skirmishing. Don't waste your time thinking, "Well, he's not here," because chances are, he's been there. Concentrate on when you see your enemy, and when he sees you. Watch for patterns. Play a few games, and see how you fare.
 If somebody spots you, you're now engaged in what is referred to as a "mind war". For example, if you plant the bomb in Counter-Strike, the enemy will know your general location. You can either guard the bomb, strike while they're defusing, or run the map looking for the enemy. Do whichever feels right for who you're playing against. On the other hand, if you're playing the opposite team, think about where your opponent might be waiting or watching. Consider your opponent's options, actions, and common patterns (if you play the same people for a while). If your enemy did it once, he's sure to do something really similar at some point (more often than not).
 Learn to shoot when something moves. Throw a grenade if you can't see your enemy. Memorize a strong build order. Crouch-block sweep attacks, stand-block jumping attacks. As soon as you can do this without thinking, you'll be so much better already. Don't, however, practice a bad habit. As soon as you start doing a bad habit, practice alone, or do whatever it takes to get back on track. Bad habits develop fast.
 You won't get anywhere killing newbies all day. Learn it the hard way from the top dogs themselves. A lot of players online are good, and almost fifty percent of those players are total jerks. When you find a player who isn't a jerk and you get whooped, talk. Make friends, ask questions, get answers, and learn. Give them the occasional, "Wow, where were you?" or, "How did you do that so fast?". They're bound to share some tips with you.
 If you skip out for a few days, you're going to get rusty. Also, play in medium bursts, around two to three hours per session, two to three times a day. You would generally want five or more hours under your belt before bed. This ensures you don't overplay the game, which adds to stress and boredom, and that leads to quitting.
,