 In 1-2, there is a golden pineapple in a crate behind your birds. You will have to launch your bird backwards; so that it bounces off the other birds and hits the crate.;
, The golden pineapple is secluded inside the big crate with a sticker on it, under the yellow bird.
 This one is a difficult one. The golden pineapple in 1-7 is inside the crate with the sticker on the very bottom right. Try to aim your bird so that it flies high, then drops down on the crates above it.
 Another tricky one, this one is in a small package on the top right of the level. Try to aim your blue bird at the stone blocks to the left of it, so they fall onto it. If that doesn't work, simply touch the screen so your blue bird turns into three, and shoot it high.
 This one is in plain sight. On the top right, there is a bunch of pineapples on a wooden plank. Amongst them is the golden pineapple.
 This one is in the stickered crate on the bottom right. Try to wipe out the birds in that area before trying to reach it.
 This one is fairly easy, yet requires some skill. This golden pineapple is hidden in a lamp in the top left, behind your bird. You must launch it backwards so it hits the lamp.
 This one is in the stickered crate on the bottom right, amongst the other dark crates. Use the first few birds to clear out blocks, then shoot the last bird at a high angle to get it from above.
 This one is in the stickered crate on the top of the second suspended bird area. You must slingshot the yellow bird high up, then speed it up once you get closer to it.
 This one is quite tricky. The golden pineapple is suspended in the top left. Since your bird can't reach it from shooting backwards, you have to slingshot your bird into the lamp, so it flies backwards into the pineapple. It takes some practice, but it is possible.
 This one is in the stickered crate on the bottom right. Try to clear out as much as you can with the first few birds, then use the last bird to hit the crate.
 This one is in the far right labeled crate. To retrieve this, you have to wipe out a majority of the birds and blocks so you can find a navigable path to get to this one.
 This pineapple is fairly easy. It's hanging on the ceiling, suspended by chains. Just launch a yellow bird very high, speed it up, and you should break the chain and retrieve it.
 This one is in plain sight at the far right. Try to hit one of the triangular blocks at the edge so it tumbles over and collides with it.
 This final golden pineapple is behind your birds, in a stickered crate. Try shooting a yellow bird backwards so it bounces off the birds. Then, time yourself so you speed him up; making an arc onto the crate.

