 You will need information about who you allege discriminated against you because you filed bankruptcy, as well as information about your bankruptcy itself.Federal law primarily protects you against bankruptcy discrimination from government entities. For example, no one in federal, state, or local government can use the fact that you filed bankruptcy as a reason to deny you a job or public benefits, or terminate your employment or receipt of public benefits.
You also cannot be denied licenses or contracts, or be evicted from public housing because you filed for bankruptcy.
If you intend to sue a private employer for firing you or subjecting you to discipline because you filed bankruptcy, you generally will need some documents or other information that indicates this was the sole reason for the employer's action.
Compile information about your income, since your damages may include loss of wages or income as a result of the discrimination.;
, Since you typically must file a bankruptcy discrimination lawsuit in federal court, an attorney can best help you assert your rights in the face of complex court rules and procedures.If you are suing a government entity, you typically must file in federal court under the provision of the federal bankruptcy code that prohibits discrimination.
Your state also may have laws against bankruptcy discrimination in the private sector, which would enable you to file your lawsuit in state court. An attorney can advise you on your state's laws and which court would be the best for you to use.
If you had an attorney for your bankruptcy and you were satisfied with how he or she handled your case, you probably should start there. Even if your attorney doesn't handle bankruptcy discrimination cases, he or she may be able to recommend someone who does.
You often can find a bankruptcy discrimination attorney who will work on a contingency-fee basis, taking a percentage of your award or settlement rather than charging you by the hour, so you need not worry about paying out-of-pocket attorney's fees., Your complaint will provide the court with the facts of your case from your point of view, and explain why you are entitled to monetary damages under the law.The first part of your complaint will identify you and the person or government entity you are suing, and explain how the court has jurisdiction over the case.
The bulk of your complaint consists of your allegations. Each paragraph contains a single factual statement, all of which together add up to a violation of the law.
Finally, your complaint will describe the monetary damages or other relief to which you believe you are entitled under the law.
Your attorney will go over your complaint with you and make sure you understand the allegations and the computation of damages for which you are asking.
 You must file your complaint with the clerk of the court you want to hear your lawsuit to initiate your lawsuit.The clerk of court will take your documents and filing fees and stamp your originals and copies "filed" with the date. The originals are for the court files while the copies are for your own records and for delivery to the defendant, or person you're suing.
The clerk will assign your case to a judge and give it a unique case number. This number must be present on any other documents you file with the court regarding your case.
If you are represented by an attorney, you typically don't have to go along with him or her to file your complaint. The filing fees will be added to your litigation costs.
If you're filing your lawsuit in federal court, you may be able to submit your complaint for filing electronically.
 Once you've filed your complaint, it must be delivered to the defendant so he or she has notice of the lawsuit.Under federal court rules and the rules of most states, you have no longer than 120 days to serve the defendant after you've filed your complaint.
Typically a complaint and summons is hand-delivered by a sheriff's deputy or private process server, who will then file proof of service with the court. In some jurisdictions, you may have the option of using certified mail with returned receipt requested.
When filing in federal court, service is completed by the U.S. Marshal's Service.
 After the defendant receives your complaint, he or she will have 21 days to file an answer along with any other motions such as a motion to dismiss.Typically the answer will consist of a denial of all or most of your allegations. This means you must prove all of those allegations are more likely than not true if you want to win your lawsuit.
Don't be surprised if the defendant files a motion to dismiss or a motion for summary judgment.
If, on the other hand, the defendant does not file an answer by the deadline stated on the summons, you can file a motion for a default judgment.
 If the defendant files a motion to dismiss, you typically must file a response to the motion and attend a hearing so the judge can decide whether your case can proceed.During the pretrial phase of litigation, either you or the defendant may file various motions. Typically the court won't have a hearing on procedural motions unless one of the parties requests a hearing and has a good reason for doing so.
Substantive motions, on the other hand, are motions that relate to specific allegations or aspects of the case. Judges typically do schedule hearings for these types of motions to give both parties the opportunity to argue their positions.
 In addition to hearings on any motions filed, the court typically will schedule a number of conferences to ensure litigation is proceeding according to plan.Scheduling conferences typically involve the attorneys and the judge, and set deadlines for discovery and other activities to happen before the trial. These conferences may be held in person at the courthouse or over the phone.
The judge also may order the parties to attend settlement conferences, which are relatively informal conferences with the judge in which you discuss the possibility of settling the case prior to trial.
Closer to the trial date, the judge likely will schedule a conference to establish the order in which evidence will be presented at trial and get a good idea of how long the trial will take.
 Through the discovery process, you and the defendant will have the opportunity to exchange information relevant to your bankruptcy discrimination case.Since you likely will have limited access to the information necessary to prove a case of bankruptcy discrimination, the discovery process gives you the opportunity to get documents and other information from the defendant.
Your attorney likely will want to depose a number of people, including the defendant. In a deposition, the person being deposed is interviewed under oath. The questions and answers are recorded by a court reporter who makes the transcription of the deposition available to both parties for later use.
Through depositions you can get the defendant's testimony regarding whether he or she knew about your bankruptcy and how that knowledge affected his or her decision.
Discovery also involves written discovery, primarily through interrogatories and requests for production. Interrogatories are written questions that must be answered in writing under oath, while requests for production ask for copies of various documents related to the case to be given to the party requesting them.
 Throughout litigation, it is possible that the defendant will extend to you an offer to settle the case.Your attorney can advise you on whether to accept or reject a settlement offer, but the final decision is yours.
Although the offer may be less than what you asked for in your lawsuit, you also must consider the costs of litigation along with the time it will take to continue to trial. Particularly in federal court, bankruptcy discrimination trials may take months if not years to conclude.
Keep in mind that the reality is that very few civil cases actually go all the way through litigation to trial. The vast majority of cases are settled out of court at some point.
Since a settlement typically doesn't involve anyone admitting fault, the defendant probably will prefer to settle the lawsuit rather than risk a judge or jury finding him or her liable for bankruptcy discrimination.
 Many courts require litigants to at least attempt to resolve their dispute through mediation before proceeding to trial.Through mediation, a neutral third party trained in negotiation and dispute resolution works with you and the defendant to come to a settlement on the dispute.
What happens in mediation, along with any settlement reached, typically are confidential. For this reason, the defendant may prefer the process to a public trial which could be a public relations nightmare.
If your court requires mediation, either a mediator will be assigned to your case, or you must choose one from a court-approved list available from the clerk.
 If either you or the defendant has chosen to have a trial by jury rather than simply a trial before a judge, you must select the individuals who will serve as jurors for your case.You and the defendant, through your respective attorneys, and the judge will ask questions of a panel of potential jurors. These questions will be designed to ensure the jurors are able to fairly and impartially decide your case. It also gives you the opportunity to choose jurors you and your attorney believe would be more "friendly" to your situation.
For example, one of the questions may be whether the potential jurors have ever filed bankruptcy. As the plaintiff, you may want at least a couple of jurors who have filed for bankruptcy as they may be more sympathetic to your plight.
 You and your attorney must appear in court on the day your case is scheduled for trial.Your attorney may meet with you at his or her office so you can travel to the courthouse together.
You'll want to arrive at least 30 minutes early so you have time to go through courthouse security and find the courtroom where your trial will be held.
After the judge calls your case, each side will have the opportunity to present opening arguments. Your opening argument provides a summary of the case against the defendant and the evidence you will present to prove your case, while the defendant's opening statement summarizes the evidence he or she will present to cast doubt on your case or to prove a defense against liability.
 Since you are the plaintiff, you typically have the first opportunity to tell your story to the judge after attorneys from both sides have presented their opening arguments.Your evidence will be presented in the form of exhibits – which are documents or other physical evidence introduced to the court – and testimony from witnesses.
When you call a witness to the stand, the defense will have the opportunity to ask that witness questions also through the process of cross-examination.
Typically after cross-examination is completed, you can ask the witness additional questions through redirect. The purpose of these additional questions is to clear up any confusion that may have arisen as a result of the defendant's questions.
 Once you've finished presenting your evidence, the defendant will have the opportunity to introduce its own evidence and defend against your allegations.Just as the defense had an opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine any witnesses the defense calls to the stand.
Cross-examination often is where deposition transcripts may come in handy. For example, if one of the defense's witnesses says at trial that the defendant wasn't even aware that you had filed for bankruptcy, but said the opposite in his or her deposition, you could use that deposition transcript to show that the witness wasn't telling the truth.
 After both sides have presented their closing arguments, the judge or jury will rule on your case.If you have a jury, the judge will prepare juror instructions and then the jury will deliberate. Once they reach a decision, they will return to the courtroom and present that decision in open court.
The judge will have the clerk's office prepare a judgment order that provides a written record of either the judge's final decision or the final verdict of the jury.
If you won your case, your attorney will begin the process of enforcing the judgment unless the defendant appeals. The check typically will be sent to your attorney, who will take his or her fees and court costs off the top and then issue you a check for the remainder.
 If the ruling isn't in your favor, discuss post-judgment options with your attorney and decide whether you want to file an appeal.To appeal, you typically must first file a notice of appeal and pay an additional filing fee.

