 If your problems with this teacher continue despite your best efforts to improve the situation, then you may need to get help. Talk with your parents about the situation first. Tell them in detail what has been going on and what you have done to try and make the situation better.For example, you might tell your parents that your teacher often singles you out in class and punishes you more than other students. Provide some specific examples of when this has happened, such as yesterday afternoon in class or last Thursday before lunch.
If your teacher frequently treats you in a way that you think is unfair, then document it. Write down what the teacher says and does along with the date and time. Keep this log somewhere safe where your teacher will not see it, such as in your backpack. Share the entries with your parents so they know what is going on.
 Your parents may decide to arrange a meeting with your teacher to discuss the issues you have raised. This meeting may happen with or without you present. Either way, you may want to speak to your teacher ahead of time to let him or her know that you want to improve the relationship between the two of you.Showing that you are willing to work for a better relationship with your teacher may cause him or her to ease up. Try saying something like, “My education is important to me and I want to do all that I can to promote a positive educational experience for myself. I am willing to make changes to the way I behave to make that possible.”

, If your teacher still does not change despite talking with him or her, then you may need to go up to the next level. Arrange a meeting with your school’s principal next to discuss what has been happening.Be sure to provide lots of details and explain what you have done to try to improve the situation, such as changing your behavior or talking with your teacher.
The school principal may also meet with the teacher to discuss what has been happening and to get both sides of the story.
 If meeting with your school principal does not change the way the teacher treats you, then you may need to request a class change. This may be the best way to improve your situation.Talk with your parents and your school principal if you think that a class change might help.

