 Bananas contain potassium, which may reduce cramps, as cramps could be due to a potassium deficiency.Other foods that contain loads of potassium include:


White beans, such as Adzuki, soy, or Lima beans
Leafy greens, such as spinach or kale
Dried fruits, such as apricots, prunes, or raisins
Fish, such as salmon, halibut, and tuna;
, Having too much caffeine can make your cramps worse. Some sources recommend avoiding foods and drinks that contain caffeine, such as coffee, teas, colas, etc before and during your period., A recent study done by the Imperial College of London found that drinking German chamomile tea (also called Matricaria recutita) helped relieve pain caused by menstrual cramps.Chamomile contains glycine, an amino acid that can relieve muscle spasms. By relaxing the uterus, chamomile appears to be helpful in relieving cramps caused by periods.
 Although there is no scientific evidence to suggest that drinking a sports drink will help with period cramping, it can't hurt. Sports drinks contain electrolytes, which help regular cramping.


Why might sports drinks be ineffective? Regular cramping may be caused from hyperactivity or a deficiency of essential nutrients such as potassium or magnesium. Period cramping, however, is caused by contractions of the uterus, which tries to expel the uterine lining and any eggs that went unfertilized during ovulation. Because period cramping isn't caused by the same thing as normal muscle cramping, sports drinks may be less effective than advertised.
 Taking a daily fish-oil supplement — high in a healthy fat called omega-3 fatty acid — could help you reduce pain caused by menstrual cramping. One study found that women who took daily fish oil supplements had less pain associated with cramping than women who simply took a placebo., Ask your doctor about supplements before you begin a serious change in your diet. Some supplements may interact adversely with one another or with medications that you may be taking. The following supplements may also be beneficial to your health and keep you from reeling with pain when your period does come:


Calcium citrate, 500 - 1,000 mg daily. Calcium citrate helps by maintaining muscle tone.Vitamin D, 400 IU daily. Vitamin D helps your body process calcium as well as help fight inflammation.Vitamin E, 500 IU daily. Vitamin E may help reduce menstrual pain.
Magnesium, 360 mg daily, for 3 days before menstruation starts. Magnesium helps reduce the prostaglandins, or chemicals released during menstruation that cause muscle contractions, involved in menstrual pain., Derived from the sugar refining process, blackstrap molasses is a nutrient-rich syrup. This grade of molasses boasts high amounts of calcium, iron, potassium, magnesium, manganese, vitamin B6 and selenium. These nutrients reduce cramping by minimizing blood clots, relaxing the muscles and restoring the system’s nutrient level.

