 When you’re placing a quote inside your essay, you’ll likely have to use a comma or period at the end. If you’re quoting without giving a citation (because your entire essay is about a single work, for example) commas and periods go inside the quotations marks. If you’ve included a parenthetical citation, the comma or period goes outside the quotation marks after the citation.
 If there is an exclamation point or question mark inside the quote you are using, keep it inside the quotation marks. If you’re asking a question or exclaiming the importance of a quote, add the punctuation outside of the quotation marks. If you are asking a question about a quoted question, use a single question mark inside the quotations.


Example of a quotation that comes with a question mark: Alice said “but where will I go?” (24).
Example of asking a question about a quotation: With so much contention, will literary scholars ever agree on “the dream-like quality of Alice’s adventure” (39)?
Example of a question about a quoted question: At this point in the story, readers communally ask “but where will I go?” (24).
 When you use the majority of, but not all of a quote, or if you begin in the middle of a quote, it is necessary to insert ellipses. These show that some of the sentence is not included in your quote. Use ‘...’ to show that a part of the quote before or after your selection has been excluded.


Ellipses can be used in the center of a quote to leave out words that you feel add unnecessary length to the statement without adding value. For example: As the man stated, “reading the book was...enlightening and life-changing.” This is done rather than: As the man stated, “reading the book over the last few weeks was not only incredibly enjoyable, but also enlightening and life-changing.”
Ellipses should be used only before or after a quote, not both. If you are only use a part of a quote from the center of a selection, it is just a partial or dropped quote.
 The opposite of ellipses (used to leave something out), brackets are inserted into a quote to add information that you deem important/necessary but which is not included in the quote itself. You can include brackets in a quote to give a few words, typically the name of a person or place that the quote is focusing on, to help the reader understand the context.


For example: As scholars have noted, “Rembrandt’s portrait of her was both accurate and emotion-filled” (Wallace 49).
 If you are using a colon or semicolon after a quote, or there is a colon or semicolon at the end of your selection which you are quoting, place the punctuation mark outside of the quotation marks., If you are using a direct quote, it is imperative that you copy it word-for-word. Include all spelling and grammatical mistakes as well, even if you are aware they are incorrect. If your quote has a mistake that you are aware of, put (italicized and in brackets) immediately after the mistake. This signifies that you are aware that there is a mistake in the quote, and that it is not a mistake on your part.


Ex: As Dormer has noted, “his work is much more valuable now then it was at the time of its creation.”

