;
, Establish protocols with clients on how inquiries will be handled.



Spend time watching the local television newscasts, listening to local radio and reading local newspapers and magazines.
Become aware of the reporters and their specialties. You will build a rapport more quickly with a reporter with whose work you are familiar.



Maintain a social media presence through such venues as Twitter and Facebook. Use these wisely to increase visibility and provide helpful information without "spamming" or bombarding recipients with annoying and irrelevant messages. Consider developing an agency blog on current industry issues, becoming a contributor to an industry blog or a columnist on advertising issues for the local business press.



Return calls promptly and always include a cell phone number or alternate contact information on your office voice mail greeting. A call returned after deadline can damage your client's and your own credibility with the reporter.
Initiate contacts with reporters at times that are between their deadlines: don't call radio reporters at the top or bottom of the hour, call television reporters and assignment editors early in the day.
If you do not have the information the reporter is requesting, tell him or her you will need to find the information. Call back promptly with the results of your research.



Never ask for advance copies of interview questions or to preview and approve an article before publication.
Do not expect favorable coverage based either on personal relationships or on your client's advertising relationship with the reporter's employer.
Be firm but polite if you must decline to offer a comment or to answer a question. Never seem evasive or defensive.



Whether speaking on behalf of your agency or a client, take the time to consider the points most important for you to convey. List all of the questions you think the reporter may ask and prepare your answers. This will help you answer questions with confidence while remaining focused on the message you need to deliver.

