 Dedicate your every breath and waking moment, your every strength and weakness, your every success, your every dream; let it all fall into His Hands. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding; in all ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight. -Proverbs 3:5-6;
, Trust that He shall never forsake you. Pray to Him, and cast your every care, Tell Him everything that is going on in your life and tell Him you are giving it to Him. Jesus will carry it for you. Be able to honestly say that you wish for your situation to glorify Him, and be solved in terms of His Will. Be patient, as you will get an answer. Most often, you will receive more of His strength and wisdom to help you, rather than direct solutions. This makes your journey very meaningful. Just trust. Remember, "Come to me, all ye who labour and are burdened, and I will give you rest."-Matthew 11:28

, Whether it is for the better, or worse, it will change. God often makes things get worse on the way to better. Focus on the facts. God sees a bigger picture than we do. He knows our every need, and everything that will ever happen. In fact, He creates it! “For I am the Lord, your God, who takes hold of your right hand and says to you, do not fear; I will help you.” –Isaiah 41:13

, Every difficult moment is a gift. The tragedy and suffering is insignificant compared to the reward in the end. Your suffering will lead someone into faith. Due to human suffering, others come to know life!

,"Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character; and character, hope. And hope does not disappoint us, because God has poured out His love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom He has given us." -Romans 5:3-5

, Every tragedy has lessons, from calamity to triumph, which God presents to us, in order to gain His wisdom. You may come to discover yourself as an individual, in terms of who you are. God reveals amazing things before us. He knows us and loves us more than we could, or may ever imagine! He shows us our motives and our individuality, just when we forget who we are.
 Note the way in which all of these fit together and bring you to faith. Record every lesson learned, every joyful experience, all of your hopes, dreams, and aspirations; every pain and peaceful moment. You may choose to journal this account. Look for patterns. Begin to notice this as part of His plan. Cherish this plan, and find enthusiasm that Jesus will show you where you need to be. Everything is a gift from Him; all are blessings, that one day lead us to our life purposes. Every experience leads us to something more, and unto what God meant for us to do and be: serve Him. You will grow in your faith as you realize how one thing leads to another, and then unto the truth. Jesus is the truth! "I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me" (John 14:6)

, God’s love is unconditional. Jesus loves you, regardless of what you say, think, or do. Jesus loves you no matter what how you dress, or what type of personality you have. Jesus loves you because you are you!"And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard our hearts and minds in Jesus Christ."-Philippians 4:7

, “Rejoice in the Lord always; again I say, rejoice” (Philippians 4:4).Find joy that He created you!

, Look around at all the miracles. Focus on His creations, including you and the world around you. Notice every beautiful thing you see; whether it be an animal, plant, or person. Look at things a little deeper. Slow down, and notice how still and wonderful nature is. Stay in the present moment, as it is the only reality. Breathe slowly, and deeply. Notice kind actions of others and yourself, and be grateful that God is the center of all loving-kindness. Feel His presence. Feel His arms wrapped around you, His love filling your heart. Be grateful for everything you see. Be grateful for His love. Be grateful that you were once lost, and now, you are found! "By faith we understand that the universe was formed at God's command, so that what is seen was not made of what is visible."-Hebrews 11:3

