 Take some time and check in with yourself about how you feel when he pays for everything. There is a chance that if you're reading this article, you might be uncomfortable with it for one reason or another. Know that there is no right or wrong way, only how you feel about it.Ask yourself why you are okay with it or why you are not.


Do you like feeling pampered or spoiled by him?
Are you concerned that he's paying for everything when he doesn't have the money to do so?
Do you worry he feels obliged or obligated for some reason?
Does it bother you when he refuses to let you pay for something, or even split the cost in half?
Does he offer to pay because he thinks that you cannot afford to pay?
Do feel obligated to him or like you have to acquiesce to his requests because he pays? This can include any impacts to your physical relationship or the control of the relationship.
Do you think he pays to show off?;
, Think about where you are in the relationship and why he might be doing this. Have you just started dating? Or are you just “seeing each other” and haven't made it exclusive yet? If so, he may be paying for everything to impress you or because everything is new.Maybe you two just have different attitudes towards money.If you have been dating for awhile and he's always paid, maybe he feels like he has to keep paying or maybe it's time to revisit how you manage finances as a couple., It may be something that is really important to him or he may feel like he has to, to impress you. Money can be a sensitive topic so make sure it's a conversation you have carefully and calmly.Open the topic. ”Hey, I've noticed when we go out, you always pay. Don't get me wrong, I love being spoiled by you! I was just wondering if that's something you like doing or something you feel like you have to do.”
If you are afraid you are missing out on certain dates or trips because he doesn't have enough money to pay for both of you, and doesn't want you to pay anything, let him know. “I just don't want us to miss out on things because you feel like you have to pay all the time. I can pay sometimes too.”

, Maybe you have just started out dating each other, or maybe he set up an expectation he feels like he needs to uphold. He may feel like he has to pay for everything to impress you or continue to impress you. Let him know that is not the case, or remind him of it periodically.


“You know I care about you, whether you take me out or whether we are just at home.
"Just so you know, I'm impressed by you not your money.”
Tell him other things that impress you about him that do not include him paying for things.
 If your boyfriend paying for everything bothers you, let him know. It is important to keep open and honest communication in your relationship. Try and pick a time where you are both calm to talk about it. Avoid attacking him or appearing to blame him, but rather explain your side of things. Use "I" or "me" statements to keep the focus on how you are feeling, and have the goal be finding a solution.“I feel like maybe you think I can't take care of myself, or take care of you.”
"I'd really like to pay for myself once and awhile. It's important to me."
"It makes me feel like things are not equal between you and me. How can we fix that?"

