 Before you can decide on a policy, you’ll have to find an insurance carrier. This is easiest on the West coast. In California, where the risk of earthquake is greatest, earthquake insurance is sold through the California Earthquake Authority (CEA). In addition, GeoVera and Arrowhead sell earthquake insurance to residents along the entire Pacific Coast.If you don’t live on the West Coast, ask your home insurer about earthquake insurance. Most of the larger carriers will offer it, and those that don’t will be able to point you in the right direction.
 In most policies, different limits are applied to personal property coverage, living expenses, and coverage for structural damage. People often try to save money by skimping on personal property coverage, which starts out at about $5,000. Only you know how much your property is worth, but be sure you aren’t significantly under-insuring yourself. Watch out for items like stock certificates, cash, and art. Most policies limit the coverage of collectibles, and don’t cover high ticket items like crystal and china at all.
Additional living expenses (ALE) covers temporary expenses like hotel rooms you might have if an earthquake rendered your home unlivable. Basic plans start out with just $1,500 worth of ALE coverage, but it can go as high as $25,000If you live on an elevation or at the bottom of a hill, make sure that landslides are covered in the policy.
 The chances of your home being destroyed in an earthquake are small. Still, the damage caused by earthquakes is often severe. Because of the severity and expense of the damages, premiums for earthquake insurance are high—as high as the premium for homeowner’s insurance. In order to save money, a lot of homeowners keep the premiums low by agreeing to a high deductible.This can be risky. Instead of a number, the deductible for earthquake insurance is a percentage of the home’s value. So a 20% deductible for a $500,000 house would amount to $100,000. Most people won’t be able to produce $100,000 on demand. Can you?

, Since the risk of an earthquake and the level of damage from a quake is mostly out of a homeowner’s hands, it’s not easy to get a discount on earthquake insurance. That’s because risk is calculated based on the location, size, and age of your home, as well as the type of soil it sits on and its proximity to fault lines. However, you can try to make your home more earthquake resistant, which can bring down premiums.Even though these bring down premiums, the discount might not pay for itself right away.
Earthquake proofing your home would include upgrades like bolting the framing to the foundation, bracing the walls with plywood, and attaching the hot water heater to the studs in the wall. 