 Perhaps, it’s that the holidays are seen as time of giving and goodwill. Maybe it’s because it’s also a time of excitement and excess. But, you can set limits with others and say ‘no’ if you practice doing so.Ask someone close to you to help you role play some situations in which you might need to set limits and say ‘no.’ For example, you might ask your sister to help you role play saying no to party invitations.
Make a list of different ways you can politely, but firmly say ‘no’ and set limits with others. For instance, you might write, “I can tell Sandy I have too much to do to visit for two weeks.”

, When you are setting boundaries with other people during the holidays, or any other time, you want to do it as peacefully and stress-free as possible for everyone. Remaining calm can make it easier for you to express your reasons for setting limits. It can also make it easier for the person to understand and respect them.For example, instead of yelling, “Are you serious?” when your partner asks for an extravagant gift, you might calmly say, “That’s not in my budget this year. Can you think of something that costs a bit less?”
Or, for instance, you might say, “No, I’m sorry I don’t have time” when your co-worker invites you to another holiday party instead of saying, “Don’t you see all the work I have to do?”

, When you are setting boundaries with others you need to make sure that they understand what the limits are. You can do this by being clear and direct with them rather than trying to soften things.For instance, instead of saying, “I’m not sure if I’ll be able to go to the holiday lunch,” you could say, “I won’t be attending the lunch this year. I simply don’t have time.”
Or, for example, if your boss asks you to work overtime you might say, “I can’t because of other obligations I have right now,” instead of saying, “Let me check my calendar.” It's human nature to want to put off difficult things, but it is actually easier to just be direct and honest up front, such as the first time someone asks you if you are sure of your position.

