 For example, if you do not have a lot of currency, buy a weak kit such as chainmail or gold or leather. If you have more currency, you could buy something more powerful such as iron or even diamond. Not all maps have kits, but if yours does, it is better to go in with a kit than with nothing at all., If you play the map multiple times, you will memorize it and know where the good loot is, like studying for a big exam., As soon as the game starts, decide how you want to get your initial loot. A lot of players will attempt to loot the Cornucopia at the start of the round. Decide if you want to risk the crowd and score some loot, or immediately run off and hide.


Don't immediately equip anything good that you find. This will make you a quick target for other players who want what you have. Save your equipment for important fights later.
If you decide to head straight for the Cornucopia at the start of the round, grab as much as you can and then immediately run away. The Cornucopia will soon turn into a slaughter, and you probably don't want to be around for that.
 Most maps have chests scattered around that can provide a lot of helpful items. If you know where these chests are located, make a beeline to them. Not only will this help you get good items, but you can set up an ambush at the chest for other players.
 Food is essential for staving off hunger, which has a direct effect on your stamina. Try to hoard some food so you can survive while hiding and keep your health up.
 Although there can be only one survivor, you might last longer if you team up with someone. This can be mutually beneficial and can improve both of your chances at survival. It's much easier to win fights if you're working with someone else.


Make sure your teammate does not have more powerful items than you; this way you can kill them and they cannot kill you easily, but give them a little bit so they do not know what you are planning.
At some point, you're going to have to turn against your teammate. Make sure to always keep an eye on the other person, in case he or she decides to strike first.
Many times, offers to team up will just be traps. Be very wary when invited to join up with someone else.
A good time to sadly kill your teammate is before the deathmatch or if they try to kill you.
 After killing someone, make sure to take most of everything they were carrying. They may have powerful equipment that can help you out, or they may have healing items that can help prolong your life.


Above all else, taking your dead opponent's items keeps those items from falling into another player's hands.
 If you have lots of materials, you can try to craft some better items. These can give you an edge in battle, but crafting can be dangerous. Make sure that you're in the clear before you start crafting, or you might find yourself dead with your menus still open.

