 Coat the inside bottom and sides of the slow cooker with nonstick cooking spray.


You could also use specially designed slow cooker liners for an even easier clean-up.
Note that this recipe requires the use of a 2-qt to 4-qt (2-L to 4-L) slow cooker. If you use a smaller or larger slow cooker, adjust the recipe by proportion accordingly.
 Mix the flour, granulated sugar, 2 Tbsp (30 ml) cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Stir until evenly combined.


These ingredients form the base of the actual cake batter.
 Pour the milk, vegetable oil, and vanilla into the wet ingredients. Stir them into the dry ingredients until evenly combined.


The resulting batter may have a few small lumps, but use the mixing spoon to break apart any notably large lumps.
Keep stirring until you can no longer see any of the dry ingredient mix.
 In a separate medium mixing bowl, combine the brown sugar and 1/4 cup (60 ml) cocoa powder. Stir the hot water into the mixture, as well.


Combine the two dry ingredients first, followed by the hot water.
Continue stirring the mixture until it appears evenly combined and very smooth. Do not leave any lumps.
 Pour the cake batter into the slow cooker, then pour the pudding mix on top. Do not stir the two together.


Since the cake batter will be thick, you'll need to spread it over the bottom of the slow cooker with a spatula or the back of a spoon. Do so before topping it with the pudding.
Try to pour the pudding over the cake batter layer as evenly as possible.
 Cover the slow cooker and switch it onto its high heat setting. Cook the cake for 2 to 2-1/2 hours, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.Do not remove the lid while the cake is cooking. Doing so will release too much heat and may increase the final cooking time.
 Turn off the slow cooker once the cake is done. Remove the lid and allow the cake to stand for 30 to 40 minutes before serving it.


Instead of serving this cake in slices, you'll need to spoon it out into serving dishes.
You can enjoy this cake by itself or serve it with ice cream and dessert sauce.

