 If you are depressed, you may not feel up to meeting new people. You may not feel like anyone will like you or see the point of making friends. However, pushing yourself a bit outside of your comfort zone can be the first step to making new friends. When you are in a place with new people, such as a party or social gathers, introduce yourself to someone.You don’t have to make friends with everyone or introduce yourself to tons of people. Just try starting with one person.
For example, when you are at a social meetup, look for someone who is nice or interesting. Approach that person and say, “Hello. My name is ____. What’s yours?”;
, If you are depressed, going up and introducing yourself may be too much. Instead, you can use the situation you are in to start a conversation with someone. Relying on your surroundings or the location may make it easier and less stressful for you.If you’re at a party, comment on the food or the music. If you are in class, talk about the homework reading.
For example, you may say, “This song is one of my favorites” or “I’m really excited about this cake.”

, You should not make the decision to tell someone about your depression lightly. Your depression is a very personal thing, and not everyone needs to know about it. But you may come to befriend someone you’d like to share your condition with. Before you tell the person, think about why you want to tell them and how they will react.Ask yourself about the person’s personality. Is the person an understanding person? Are they patient and supportive? Do you think the relationship will be damaged by the news?
You don’t have to tell them everything about your depression. You may say, “I have depression. That means that sometimes, I may not be in the mood to socialize or feel like leaving the house. I just need you to be there for me if that happens.”

, If you are struggling to make friends, or are unable to make the first move to start meeting people, you may want to discuss it with your therapist. There may be a something your therapist can suggest to help you meet new people.For example, your therapist may suggest cognitive behavior therapy techniques, such as replacing thoughts that you don’t want to leave the house with your desire to meet people.

