 Put two large, peeled Russet potatoes into a saucepan and pour in enough cold water to cover the potatoes. Turn the heat on to medium-high, so the water starts to bubble gently. Simmer the potatoes for about 20 minutes.They should be soft when you poke them with a fork.;
, Carefully drain off the hot water and put the potatoes into a bowl. Use a potato masher to mash the potatoes until they're smooth. Or you can place the potatoes in a ricer and push them through it, so you have riced potatoes. Set the potatoes aside.If you don't want to make mashed potatoes for this recipe, you can always use purchased mashed potatoes or leftover mashed potatoes.
 Pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) of whole milk into the saucepan and add 4 tablespoons (56 g) of unsalted butter. Stir in 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water. Turn the heat on to medium-high, so the mixture begins to boil. Turn off the heat and remove the pan from the stove., Add 1/2 cup (60 g) of all-purpose flour and use a wooden spoon to thoroughly stir the mixture (roux). Put the saucepan back on the stove and turn the heat to low. Keep stirring and cooking the it for about 5 minutes.The roux will look shiny and pull away from the pan once it's finished cooking.
 Scoop the roux into the mixing bowl of a stand mixer. Beat the roux on medium-high speed for one minute. Beat in half of the mashed potatoes and 1 large egg until they're combined. Add the rest of the potatoes and 3 egg yolks. Beat the mixture for one more minute, so it's smooth.The eggs will help bind the puff batter together.
 Pour 2-inches (5 cm) of peanut or vegetable oil into a deep pot. Turn the heat on to medium-high and attach a deep-fry thermometer onto the pot. Heat the oil until it's at 325 degrees F (160 C). While the oil heats, attach a 1/2-inch (12 mm) round tip to a pastry bag., Place a piece of parchment paper on a cutting board. Fill the pastry bag with your mashed potato puff mixture. Pipe 24 mounds of puff mixture onto the parchment paper. Each mound should be about 1 to 1.5-inches (2.5 to 3.5 cm). Use a small knife or box cutter to carefully slice the parchment paper between each mound.You should have 24 mounds of puff mixture on small separate squares of paper.
 Once the oil is hot, add about 6 mounds of puff mixture to the pot. To easily add them, take one mound on a square and gently tip it over onto the oil, so the mound and paper end up in the oil. The paper will float off and you can use tongs to lift it out. Fry the batch of puffs for 6 to 8 minutes. Turn them every once in a while until they're golden brown. Use a slotted spoon to lift out the fried puffs.Drain the fried puffs on paper towels before you serve them.
Remember to let the oil heat back up before you fry another batch of puffs.

