 Part of being self-reliant is undertaking certain responsibilities that enable people to experience independence. Doing simple things such as paying your bills on time, cleaning up after yourself if you make a mess, and going to work or school on time can help you feel more responsible and self-reliant.


If you do not have a job, you have the responsibility of looking for a job, seeking education that will lead to employment, or starting your own business.;
, Try to be well-rounded and keep up with information about what is going on in your place of business or school, your town, your state, your country, and the world.


For example, knowing that a local ordinance determining whether backyard chickens can be kept in your area is coming up for a vote can give you the opportunity to lobby and vote for the ability to keep chickens for fresh eggs.
 You should have a sense of direction.Something has to drive you. For example, if you are attending college, you should at least have an idea of what you want to do after college and what you are passionate about studying. You should also try to set goals for yourself. Try setting short-term, medium-term, and long-term goals, then be realistic about what you need to do to meet those goals.


Seek out a career counselor if you are not sure what you’d like to do with your life. Career self-assessments can be found online. Many websites like this one or this one can offer helpful guidance.
Most schools have career centers or guidance counselors available to all enrolled students. These resources can help you shape a vision for your future.
 Allowing people to make your decisions for you is essentially giving up your independence and self-reliance.Assert yourself and make decisions for yourself based on your goals and dreams. While it is important to be considerate towards other people, it is not necessary to give up your ability to make your own decisions.


For example, if you are looking for a place to live with a roommate, be sure you are making decisions based on what is best for you. If you prefer to rent a house and have a bit more independence than an apartment building, stick to your preference and do not allow your roommate to talk you into something that you don’t want to do.
It can also be common for some people to allow their spouses or significant others to make all the decisions in their relationship, from where to go out to eat to where to live and what kind of car to buy. Changing the dynamic of such a relationship may strain the relationship, but having a part in the decision making at both daily and long-term levels can give you greater control of your life.

