 If you're going to do this trick, you need to take steps to ensure that you won't set the house on fire and burn yourself. Go outside to do this trick, and find a clear area, without any brush around or anything else that's a fire risk. You need to have a bucket of water handy, in case you need to extinguish flames quickly, and you need to have adult supervision.


If you use gloves, use an old leather glove or lined garden glove that's tight-fitting with a hard palm surface. While wearing bulky flame-retardant gloves is an excellent safety precaution to protect yourself from being burned, cloth gloves in general mostly keep the trick from working at all, and can actually make the trick more dangerous. Bulky flame-resistant gloves will often extinguish the flame before it lights, while a regular glove can absorb the lighter fluid, increasing the possibility that you may light the glove on fire and burn yourself.;
, Make a fist, but leave enough space to insert the end of the lighter into it comfortably. Your fingers need to be relatively tight, so the butane won't escape when you release it into your palm. Use your thumb to cover up the gap on the top of your fist, where you index finger meets your palm.


Try to imagine you were holding water in your palm and keeping as much of it as possible from escaping. The trick basically involves filling your fist with butane, then lighting it as you open your hand.
 Put the flame-end of the lighter into your hand, far enough to push the butane into the pocket your fist creates. It won't work if you're holding the lighter just at the edge of your palm, you need to really get it in there.
 To start the trick, hold down the red button on the lighter, releasing the gas. Do not strike the flint by rolling the thumb-roller, but instead just depress the red button.


Different performers of this trick will hold down the button for longer, or shorter, depending on the gas flow of the lighter, and the size of fireball you want to make. To be on the safe side, it's better to hold it down for around five seconds–long enough to get enough light-able gas, but short enough for the resulting fireball to be relatively brief.
If you get more comfortable handling the lighter, you could then Try to create a bigger one if you want, holding it down for 10 seconds, or slightly longer. But when you're first starting out, go small. This is a dangerous trick, and you don't want to get in over your head.
 After you've counted to five, you need to move quickly, so the butane won't evaporate. Hold the lighter about a foot away from your fist, then strike the flint by rolling your thumb over the roller and holding down the gas button again.


Under no circumstances should you strike the flint while the lighter is still inserted into your fist, having released butane into it. This is extremely dangerous.
 Quickly bring the lit lighter toward your fist, while simultaneously opening your palm, one finger at a time, starting with the pinkie. Do it quickly. The butane will ignite, burning up quickly, and you'll be able to "control" the fireball by quickly opening your hand to display it.


The timing takes some practice. You want to "fan" your fingers away from the lighter, raising your pinkie first, then your ring finger, and so on to open your fist. If you open all your fingers at once, the butane may not ignite, while if you don't open your fist at all, you risk burning yourself. Under no circumstances should you leave your fist closed.

