 Along with many other health risks, smoking is associated with osteoporosis caused in part by the body’s inefficient processing of calcium. Smoking prevents your bones from absorbing calcium. Vitamin D helps your body process calcium, but smoking interferes with this process of absorption. Less calcium is then available to help build bones, and your bones will start to become brittle.


Smoking after the age of 30 will speed up your naturally-occurring loss of bone mass.
People who are exposed to secondhand smoke in childhood are at an increased risk of developing low bone mass., Current recommendations include receiving 15 minutes per day of direct sunlight without sunscreen to naturally produce enough vitamin D.If you get little sun exposure or are at high risk for skin cancers, you can get vitamin D from most multivitamins and fortified foods. While doctors aren’t yet sure of the optimal dose of vitamin D, teens and adults may safely take up to 4,000 IU per day.Talk to your doctor before taking any supplements.
Many people are deficient in vitamin D without knowing it. Consider getting your vitamin D levels checked at your next doctor’s appointment.
 Active people tend to keep calcium in their bones, while sedentary people lose calcium as they age. Combine strength training with weight-bearing exercises, such as walking or jogging, for maximum benefits to your bones. Weight-bearing exercises strengthen your lower body - your legs, hips, and lower spine - while strength training helps build the bones in your arms and upper spine.By keeping your bones healthy, you’ll be increasing your body’s ability to process the calcium it takes in.
Swimming, cycling, and exercising on machines provide great aerobic workouts, but are less effective for strengthening bones.
 Research suggests that excessive drinking of alcohol can interfere with the body's use of calcium, particularly in adults younger than age 35. Moderate drinking (one drink per day) doesn't appear to have any negative consequences.


Chronic alcoholism weakens the body's bones, preventing them from proper absorption of calcium.
People who drink alcohol are more than 75% more likely to smoke than nondrinkers. However, research is still inconclusive on whether or not the combination of lifestyle factors is more detrimental than just one or the other.