 Just like any other type of conversation, the best way to ensure that the conversation continues to flow is to ask open-ended questions. This means asking questions that cannot be answered with a simple “yes” or “no” so that your partner is encouraged to elaborate. This will help keep the conversation going. There are even certain questions you can ask that may help to bring you and your partner closer together.Some good questions to ask include:


“What would your perfect day be like?”
“What are three things that you think we have in common?”
“Do you have a dream that you have not yet had a chance to do anything about? If so, what is it?";
, Once you have initiated the conversation with some romantic questions, another way to encourage a romantic conversation is to increase the intimacy between the two of you. A great way to do this is to cutely confess something to your partner that really elaborates on your feelings for them. This is a subtle way to say something romantic without being overwhelming. Just be sure the thing you “confess” is light and romantic in nature. For example:


“I have to admit something. I’ve wanted to hold your hand like this since the moment we met.”
“I have always wanted to know where you got that scar on your knee from.”
“I really want to tell you that I love the perfume you are wearing.”

, As you carry on the conversation, be sure to keep the conversation topics light and positive. Talking about things like money, work, or any problems in your relationship will ruin the romantic mood. Instead, stick to positive subjects like your future, what you love about your partner, and intimate aspects of your relationship. Tell your partner about your goals and dreams and ask him or her to share these as well.
Focus on showing your positive personality traits in the conversation as well. Are you outgoing? Accepting? Honest? Hard working? Whatever your positive personality traits are, try to find a few opportunities to showcase them.
 Using “I statements has been shown to help keep a conversation going if it starts to wane. Try telling your partner something surprising about yourself to keep things interesting.For example, if the conversation starts to wane, you might say something like, “I have always wanted to go to Antarctica.”

, Great stories can help to connect you with another person, so choose a few of your best ones to share with your partner. Good stories to tell are ones that reveal something about you, such as how you ended up moving to the city you live in now, how you decided on your college major, or how you met your best friend., Although you should not interrupt your partner most of the time. It is okay to briefly interrupt your partner to express agreement acceptance of something he or she has just said.For example, if your partner mentions a band he likes, then it is okay to interrupts with something like, “Oh yeah! I love that band too.” Then, be quiet again and allow your partner to finish what he or she was saying.
 Showing appreciation for your partner’s experiences and opinions can also be a great way to enhance the romance of a conversation. Make sure that you acknowledge your partner’s interests and accomplishments during your conversation.For example, if your partner mentions something that he or she likes to do or mentions a recent accomplishment, then you can say something like, “That’s awesome!” or “I think that is so cool!”

, Sometimes your partner might mention something bad that happened or express something that he or she has struggled with in the past. When this happens, make sure that you acknowledge your partner’s statements with sympathy.For example, if your partner shares a challenge or a struggle with you, then you might say something like, “That seems like it must be difficult,” or “It’s terrible that you had to deal with that.”

