 It’s your key to dressing appropriately on this special day. Weddings, at their heart, are serious occasions and often take place in a house of worship. If there’s any time to follow a dress code, this is it! Your attire should be appropriate, conservative and respectful. If the invite does not state a specific style of dress, then follow the “Dressy Casual” or “Semi-formal” step below, or ask someone in the wedding party; they usually know months in advance.Along with the invitation, base your attire on the season, venue and weather. Time is also important. Weddings in the evening are usually more formal than daytime ceremonies.
If you don’t know the couple (perhaps you’re going as the date of a friend or family member of the betrothed), you may want to call the venue and see what dress is appropriate. Consider packing a few accessories to either dress up or dress down your outfit.
 Avoid wearing white, off-white or the same color as the bridesmaids. Even if the bride isn’t wearing white, still avoid this color. It’s okay, though, to wear a patterned outfit with white mixed in. Tradition also states that guests should not wear black. However, it’s no longer considered off-limits unless specifically stated on the invitation.


Don’t wear black, however, if it’s a summer, outdoor wedding held during the day. You could look out of place, not to mention the heat factor., Keep the chunky necklaces, cocktail rings and earrings for an evening ceremony and less dramatic pieces for a daytime wedding. For your bag, a clutch purse is a terrific choice for most weddings. If you want your hands to be free, though, a purse with an elegant chain strap looks great, too.
 For this ultra-chic occasion, you’re expected to wear a formal, full-length ball gown with either white gloves or the same color as your gown. Match your gown with glamorous makeup, your finest jewelry, and an upswept, elegant hairstyle, if possible. Shoes should match your gown.Gloves are optional.
 An A-line cocktail dress in either metallic or with rich embellishments is a good choice., But keep outside factors in mind. A tea-length (3 to 4 inches above the ankle) or knee-length, stylish sundress; a dressy skirt and blouse; or a dress with flat sandals with grip is appropriate. Hair and makeup can be everyday and natural.


As a general rule, bathing attire should not be worn, even under your outfit unless the invite specifically states.
 For a daytime ceremony, a classy sundress is perfect. Save dark colors for an evening wedding and lighter colors/fabrics for a daytime ceremony.


Assume business casual if the invitation says “Casual.” Usually, casual means just about anything goes. However, unless it states on the invite, tank tops, shorts, and jeans are probably not appropriate.

