 These instructions should indicate how often you should clean the device, as well as list the chemicals safe to use for cleaning.


To clean most vaporizers, you will need cleaning solution, a bottle or vegetable brush, clean water, and a microfiber cloth or paper towels.
Consider purchasing rubber gloves to protect your skin as you clean.
 Bacteria grow in moist environments, and if the vaporizer is not cleaned and dried properly, bacteria can actually begin growing inside the machine. If bacteria grow inside the vaporizer, it will be transferred into the air as the machine creates steam.Change the distilled water every day and clean the machine at least once every three days.Clean more often if you use the device during the day as well as at night.
 A few squirts of antibacterial soap or mild dish detergent mixed into hot water is usually sufficient. For something stronger, use three percent hydrogen peroxide.If the particular vaporizer you use specifies a cleaning solution you should use, follow the manufacturer's instructions and use the recommended type.
For an especially deep cleaning, use 1% bleach solution: one part bleach to nine parts water.
Wear rubber gloves to protect your skin when cleaning with any variety of bleach.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions on disassembling the machine. Usually, the only part of the machine you need to take apart for cleaning purposes is the tank.


Check the tank and base for signs of mold growth. If you need to clean the base, use care not to submerge any mechanical parts; use a wet brush dipped in cleaning solution and dry with a cloth instead.
On some models, the machine is not designed to be disassembled. For these steam humidifiers, you will only need to open the lid or cover of the water tank and attempt to clean it while it is still connected to the rest of the machine.
Use only gentle pressure to disassemble the machine. Use of too much force may damage the locking components and make the machine unsafe for use.
 A baby bottle brush or vegetable brush should suffice, but a clean, microfiber cloth works just as well. Dip the brush or cloth into the cleaning solution and thoroughly scrub the inside of the water tank, re-soaking the cloth in solution as necessary until the entire tank has been scrubbed clean.
 You can either use tap water or distilled water. Pour a little water into the water tank, swish it around, and dump it immediately to rid the tank of any soap or detergent.


Rinse the tank thoroughly, then soak the components in white vinegar to fully disinfect the device.
Use a toothpick to clean any visible mold from the narrower tubes and valves, as necessary.
 The tank should be completely dry in order to prevent contamination of the machine with germs or minerals from the water. This is especially important when you are preparing to put the vaporizer back into storage.


Paper towels are the most hygienic option, as they are fresh with each use, unlike towels, which can trap and spread germs.
Let the tank fully air dry before reattaching to the base.

