 One of the things girls deal with during puberty is developing breasts. Usually, girls start developing breasts when they are 10 or 11 years old. Once this happens, you may need to wear a bra to feel comfortable. Ask your mom or an older sister to help you find a bra that is the right fit for your body.It’s tough to know when you’re ready for a bra, but if you answer “yes” to any of the following questions, it is a good indication you’re ready to get one: Do you feel uncomfortable changing in the locker room? Do you feel uncomfortable wearing a light t-shirt because your breasts feel exposed? Are most of your friends wearing bras? Are you developing faster than most of your friends?Asking your mom for help picking out a bra can be embarrassing. Remember, she went through the same thing at one time in her life and will be happy to help you. If you’re not sure how to bring it up, try saying something like this: “I’ve been feeling a little uncomfortable about my body lately. I think it might be time for me to wear a bra. Can you help me pick one out?”

, Another change you’ll face during puberty is that your hips will get wider. This might make you feel like you are gaining weight, but you are actually just developing a more womanly shape. You may be tempted to diet when you see your body changing to get back the shape you had before, but you should instead focus on eating healthy.


Focus on eating lots of fruits and vegetables, whole grains like whole wheat, oatmeal, and brown rice, and drinking lots of fat-free and low-fat milk, which will help you develop strong bones. In addition, make sure you’re eating a good amount of protein, like fish, lean chicken, beans, nuts, and eggs to give your body energy., In addition to eating healthy, you should also exercise regularly. Exercising will help you stay healthy and feel good about your body, even with all the changes you’re going through. Try playing outside with your friends after school, playing a recreational sport, or taking up running. In addition, you might be able to use the exercise equipment at your local YMCA, like treadmills, stair steppers, stationary bikes, and weight machines. Be sure you get proper instruction before using this equipment.
You could also exercise at home by getting some exercise videos. Look for routines that will allow you to build muscle strength while also providing a cardio workout.
 Another thing you’ll experience during puberty is hair growth. You’ll begin to develop hair on your underarms and your pubic region. Ask a parent or someone you trust to help you figure out how to deal with your new hair growth.


For example, you may deal with the hair on your underarms by shaving it or starting to wear deodorant to prevent sweating and body odor.
You may also have questions about what kind of hair growth is normal. Don’t be afraid to talk to an adult about the changes you’re going through., Acne is another unfortunate symptom of puberty. As your hormones change, the glands on your face, and maybe even your back, neck, or chest, produce more oil. This excess of oil causes pimples, which can be embarrassing and annoying. To help control acne, try some of the following:


Use medicated face washes, creams, and wipes. Also, look for non-comedogenic and hypo-allergenic makeup. This type of product won’t clog your pores or cause any other skin reactions.
If your acne seems particularly bad, you can ask your parents to make you an appointment with a dermatologist, or skin doctor. They can prescribe you medication, face washes, and creams that are more powerful than what you can buy over the counter.
Avoid using oily makeup, hair products, or lotion. In addition, avoid direct sunlight when you can and don’t ever pick at, squeeze, or try to pop pimples. These things can all make acne worse.
You acne might be worse when you are on your period or if you are extra stressed out. Take especially good care of your skin during these times., During puberty you may experience a white, jelly-like discharge from your vagina. This is normal and is your body’s way of cleaning itself. If it bothers you, however, try wearing a panty liner. Your mom or an older family member can help you find the right kind of panty liner., You may start to get more attention from people, especially boys, when you go through puberty. Some of this attention may make you feel uncomfortable, but remembering a few things can help you cope:


If you ever feel uncomfortable about the attention you are getting, speak up and let the person know their actions or words are making you feel uncomfortable and you’d like them to stop. Try saying, “I don’t like when you talk to/touch me that way. Please don’t do it again.”It can be tempting to hang out with an older crowd, but you may not be ready to deal with the situations you could face by doing so—like alcohol, drugs, and sexual situations. Spend time with a trusted group of friends your age. This will help you avoid these situations. Not to mention, many of your friends are probably going through the same things and having someone to relate to can make puberty easier to deal with.People might make comments that make you feel self-conscious about how you look. Instead of dwelling on these comments, focus on the features you like about your body. For example, maybe you really like your hair or your eyes, or maybe you’ve noticed your calves are more defined since you started puberty., Many changes you experience during puberty are uncomfortable. You might feel like you’re never going to feel comfortable in your new body. When you’re feeling this way, remind yourself that puberty is a necessary phase of life and you’ll get through it. In the meantime, focus on doing things that make you feel good about yourself. For instance, spend extra time doing your hair in the morning, make sure your fingernails are painted, play a sport you’re good at, or take up a new hobby.

