 When describing the application of a splint or cast, it is necessary to understand the basic terms regarding the proper orientation and position to splint your injury. Two terms are particularly important:Flexion — A bending movement that decreases the angle between a segment and its proximal segment. For the purposes of making a splint for the hand, think about this as the movement applied to clenching a fist. Making a fist uses flexion of the muscles in your fingers.

Extension — A straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. You can think of this as the opposite of flexion, or making a fist with your hand. Extension will be moving your joints away from each other, or opening your from a closed fist.;
, Splints should be applied with the idea of splinting the joint above and all the joints below the injury site, to keep free movement of the injury to a minimum and restrict movement of the surrounding tissues

, The type of splint depends on the injury. What follows in the next two methods are general guidelines. However, there are specific injuries that require slightly different splinting techniques, including:



Extensor tendon injuries — For this type of injury, the purpose of the splint will be to prevent any flexing of the hand and fingers. Place the split along the palm-side of the hand (volar side). The wrist should only have about 20 degrees of extension and the Metacarpophalangeal (MCP) about 10-15 degrees flexion (not straight).Thumb injuries — For injuries solely to the thumb, a thumb spica splint can be used and will allow the uninjured fingers to function normally. The interphalangeal joint of the thumb should be splinted in a straight position. The thumb spica splint will immobilize the wrist and thumb, adhering to the policy of splinting above and below the injured joint.Single finger injury — For injuries only to one finger, you can purchase aluminum splints with foam padding, which can be shaped to the right position. Alternatively, you can also use a tongue depressor cut to the appropriate size as a splint.Little finger (or "pinky") injuries — When the only injury occurs to the smallest finger of your hand, an ulnar gutter splint can be used and will allow range of motion to the other uninjured fingers, possibly allowing for continued day-to-day use of the hand. The splint will be applied to the outer edge of the little finger running alongside the ulnar bone (the opposite side of the thumb). Often the little finger will be attached to the ring finger in the splint to provide greater support and the wrist is immobilized (since the splint extends down the wrist)., It should be a hard, straight object that is at least as long as the distance from the middle of the forearm to the tips of the fingers. Ideally, use an object that will form to the shape of the arm, wrist and hand. Rolled up newspaper provides adequate support to make an impromptu hand splint.


Many first-aid kits have splinting material that is firm enough to hold a fractured hand in place, but with a handle that the injured person can grasp with their fingers.

