 Daily exercise can help you maintain a healthy weight, lower your blood pressure and can lessen the hardening of your arteries, which can lead to serious cardiovascular problems.Exercise also has a positive effect on your mental health, improves your mood, and boosts your self-esteem. Spend 30 minutes per day walking, swimming or other activities you enjoy.Including a variety of weight-bearing exercises will help strengthen your bones, while aerobic exercise helps your heart rate and blood pressure.
If you’re just starting an exercise practice, check with your doctor for recommendations.
 As you age, so do your dietary needs. Experts recommend that people over the age of 50 choose healthy foods that support healthy cardiovascular system and avoid hypertension, osteoporosis, and diabetes. A healthy diet is one containing a variety of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, high-fiber foods and lean sources of protein, such as fish.Avoid trans fats and cut back on foods high in saturated fat and sodium.
You might find that you feel less hungry or need fewer calories than you once did. This is particularly true for women.
Try to steer clear of “empty calories,” or foods that contain little nutritional value. This includes foods and beverages such as chips, cookies, soda, and alcoholic drinks.
 Smoking contributes to hardening of the arteries. It raises both your blood pressure and your heart rate. If you smoke or use other tobacco products, it's time to quit. Ask your doctor for help.Smoking speeds up the aging process of the skin. If you smoke you’re more likely to have facial wrinkles. Smoking also increases wrinkles and skin damage on other parts of your body.Smoking increases your chances of developing osteoporosis.
If you need help to stop smoking, ask your medical care provider. Your employer might also have a smoking cessation program.
 Stress is a natural part of life, but if unmanaged it can sometimes become unhealthy. If you feel overwhelmed by stress, try using some calming strategies to help you deal with it. Taking deep breaths, using positive imagery, trying meditation and relaxation techniques can help calm your stress and clear your mind.Eating a healthy diet and doing regular exercise are also ways to minimize the effect of stress.
Focusing on the positive aspects of your life will help you avoid being overwhelmed.
 Adults need seven to nine hours of sleep per night, but as you age you might find yourself going to sleep earlier and getting up earlier than you once did. In addition, you may find yourself having to get up and go to the bathroom more frequently during the night.If you're having a hard time getting enough sleep, follow some simple strategies to sleep better, including following a sleep schedule, avoiding caffeine in the evening, and taking a hot bath before bed.
Avoid alcohol in the evening. It might help you fall asleep, but it diminishes the quality of your sleep. Even small amounts of alcohol make it harder to stay asleep.

