 Ticket scalping is most likely illegal where you live. Although the chances of you being caught are slim, you should look into getting a proxy browser like Tor if you're any bit worried. Proxies will block your IP address and make it difficult;
, If you're going to be using an online outlet to sell, you won't be doing yourself any services if you wait to strike. Keep your eye out for presales and wide-release sale dates.The sooner you buy tickets, the better tickets you'll have at your disposal. Better tickets will maximize the likelihood of being to sell them off to a potential customer.
 Ultimately, it depends on the original price, quality of seat, and predicted demand for the ticket in question. Generally speaking, if a show has sold out, it becomes a seller's market. Many professional scalpers tend to upmark resold tickets by 50%.Don't forget to factor in service fees (including fees from the online marketplace) into your final price.
If your ticket price is way over the face value on personal ad sites like Craigslist, you run the risk of getting your post flagged., You can sell tickets online as you would anything else. Websites like eBay and Craigslist are known hangouts for online scalpers although the police are wise to that now.Both of these sites allow the resale of tickets, and you can do so without incurring the major fees of ticket sites like StubHub.
 Websites like StubHub will allow you to post your tickets in a trusted setting.These marketplaces are helpful because they're relatively safe and the buyers on that site will be there specifically with what you're selling in mind.


A ticket resale website also allows you to browse your scalping competition more conveniently. If you're unsure how much you should mark up your ticket price, you can look up on what other scalpers are charging for the point of reference.
 If you're using an online marketplace like StubHub, you should keep in mind the fees you may incur.StubHub typically siphons 15% of your profits, plus a service charge. If you're selling enough tickets and cutting enough of a profit margin, this shouldn't be an issue. If you're a more small-time scalper however, you may be better off with using a site like Craigslist or selling the tickets in person.
 While scalping tickets in person tends to be a casual affair, purchasing and reselling tickets online for profit is more of a business than anything. Because the logistics are easier, you can think more about it in terms of supply-and-demand, market value and probability. With that in mind, keeping a spreadsheet of your profits and losses is essential for success in the long run.If your tickets are selling fast, you may want to buy more tickets next time. On the other hand, if you're not getting enough sales, you could lower your upmark a bit to attract customers.
Not everything will work the same for each category. Sports events may see different rates of success than an avant-garde metal concert. It may be a good idea to split your spreadsheet into different types of event. That way, you'll be able to see where the most money is.