 Italy is chock-full of scenic beaches, so your biggest problem once you’ve decided to get away to the coast is figuring out which one to visit in particular. The Amalfi coast is arguably the most famous and luxurious Italian getaway of this kind, but your other options include Lake Como, or the less-known but equally gorgeous Cilento coast.When making your choice among Italy’s coastlines, consider factors such as budget, crowds, and activities. If you’re looking for a resort vibe with tons of foreign tourists, shopping, and sunbathing, as well as historical sites such as the ruins of Pompeii, go Amalfi. If you want a less crowded, budget-friendly escape, opt for Cilento., No matter which coastline you visit, there will be plenty of beach and sun for even the most avid sunbather. Your romantic, sun-soaked experience can be easily ruined by ice cream-waving, screaming toddlers or rowdy teenagers, though, so book a small hotel with private pools and beaches. The Santa Caterina in Amalfi, for example, offers its own beach club and bar, and honeymoon suites contain private infinity pools.On the Cilento coast, the Palazzo Belmonte and Il Cannito offer private beaches for their guests., Guided bike tours along the Amalfi and Cilento coasts are extremely popular, as they offer a budget-friendly, fun, and active way to explore the coast and take in the stunning, panoramic views of the coastline. For your romantic getaway experience, you can take in all the untouched sights and sounds without the distraction of a guided tour by renting bikes on a daily or weekly basis.


Consult online cycling groups and forums for sample itineraries and must-see landmarks. On the Amalfi coast, you won’t want to miss the ruins of Pompeii on your cycling tour. In Cilento, be sure to stop by Paestum—one of the oldest Greek temple ruins in the world—and one of the many buffalo mozzarella farms dotting the coastline., Instead of paying top dollar to sit on crowded terrace overlooking the sea, you can make your own, intimate picnic for a fraction of the cost. Buy a bottle of wine, a baguette, cheese, and prosciutto, and pick a spot on the rocks with a view. Voila, you’ve got your own, private restaurant.In Italy, a decent bottle of wine should cost you no more than 5-10 euros, while bread, cheese, cured meats, and olives are priced equally reasonably., The Italian coasts boast some of the most jaw-dropping and romance-stirring sunsets in the world. Make sure you get first-row seats to this nightly spectacular by perching on a marina dock or beach, sitting on your hotel room’s balcony, or hiking to a cliff-side vista, such as the Villa Communale in Sorrento.You can also hire a private boat to take you for a sunset cruise.


In September and October, the sun sets between 6 and 7:30 p.m., while summertime will have a later sunset.