 There are no legitimate short cuts to muscle gains. There are many supplements that claim to enable you to build muscle quickly, but may come with disastrous long-term health consequences., When you're trying to accelerate muscle growth, the best way to do so safely is to talk to someone who has experience with sports or bodybuilding nutrition and can advise you on which supplements will most benefit you.If you're a member of a gym, they typically will have a dietician or nutritionist on staff who you can consult. If not, they may be able to recommend someone local who can help you.
Once you have recommendations from a dietician or nutritionist, talk them over with your healthcare provider before you start any supplements, particularly if you are at risk or have a history of nutrition-related health issues.
 The bottle of any nutritional supplement will have important information about recommended dosages based on your age and sex. Be careful not to exceed these recommended dosages, or you may put yourself at risk for health problems such as loss of appetite and osteoporosis.Check the bottle as well and make sure all seals are still intact and it has not been tampered with.
 Amino acids are protein-builders, and are essential if you want to gain strength and grow larger muscles. They also help in fat loss and recovery after workouts.You can get amino acids from meat, dairy, and seafood, but it's possible you won't get all the amino acids you need through food sources. For this reason, an amino acid supplement can be beneficial if you want to accelerate muscle growth.
Amino acid supplements are especially important if you are a vegan or vegetarian and want significant muscle gains.
Keep in mind your body does not store excess amino acids, which means sufficient consumption is a daily requirement.
 There are a number of vitamins, including vitamins C, D, and E, as well as B vitamins, that are essential for healthy muscle growth.Minerals such as calcium and magnesium also are essential if you want to accelerate muscle growth.
A good multi-vitamin should provide you all the muscle-building vitamins and minerals you need. You may want to ask a dietician or nutritionist for a recommendation.
 A 1,000- to 3,000-mg fish oil supplement will increase blood flow to your muscles, which reduces inflammation and helps accelerate muscle recovery after workouts, leading to enhanced growth.Look for a supplement that provides the omega-3 fatty acids DHA and EPA.
If you are a vegetarian or vegan, you can get the same omega-3 fatty acids present in fish oil from flax seed, chia seeds, or an algae-based supplement.
 You may not notice any results from supplements when you first start taking them. In most cases, it takes at least four weeks before you'll start to see any difference in your results.Measure your muscles on a weekly basis for awhile before you start taking supplements. Once you've reached the four-week mark, start measuring them again and compare the gains after supplements to the gains before.
 If you're taking protein supplements, remember that they are meant to supplement the protein you're getting from food sources. Calculate the amount of protein you should consume each day, and make sure you're not consuming much more than that.Too much protein will not increase the benefits or cause you to grow muscles more quickly, and may have a negative effect on your health in the long run.

