 Use cough drops, hard candies, or throat sprays to ease a dry cough. These can be found at any local pharmacy or drugstore and are usually very effective for less-serious coughs.
 A dry, non-productive cough is most commonly associated with irritations in the throat. These are mostly minor, but can be very annoying. A dry cough can also be due to:


Inhaling an environmental irritant
Certain medications: Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and Beta-blockers in particular. Both ACE inhibitors and beta blockers are prescribed to treat high blood pressure and some heart diseases.
Some disorders including Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD), tuberculosis, viral infections and congestive heart failure.
Smoking
Post-nasal drip: irritating the throat and causing a reflex cough
Allergies
Asthma, especially in children
Chronic bronchitis

, If you are on an ACE inhibitor or other medication that you suspect is the reason for your cough, speak to your physician about changing the medication or the dosage. That may be sufficient to eliminate the cough.


For other causes of a cough, make sure you have a proper diagnosis and are being treated for the underlying disorder. If the cough does not disappear after that, you may need to get a second opinion about the specific cause of your cough.
 If you don’t get any relief after several weeks OR if you experience any of the "red flag" symptoms, call your physician for an appointment. Symptoms that are red flags and require immediate medical care include:


If you or your child are coughing up thick, greenish-yellow phlegm
If you or your child are wheezing, or there is a whistling sound at the beginning or end of the breath
If you or your child experience have ANY odd sounding cough and have difficulty catching your breath, especially at the end of a cough.
If you or your child experience a fever of more than 100.4°F (38°C)
If you or your child experience any shortness of breath
If you or your child has a whooping cough. Whooping cough has been on the rise, likely because of decreased immunization rates and the appearance of new bacterial strains. It is characterized by fits of uncontrolled, violent coughs making it very hard to breathe. The deep breaths that follow a fit of coughing often sound like a “whoop.” This is a highly contagious disease that can be prevented and treated. Early treatment is very important.