 Even if something is ugly, try to see the beautiful side of it, and try to befriend people who you usually wouldn't get along with. And if you're feeling really gutsy, take the most unpopular girl in the school, and become friends with her! You never know how cool she might be!;
, that they'll be there to cheer you up! having four or five mates is great!

, Even if you're not the best at what you are trying to do, give it your best shot and see how well you can do - if you do your best, you'll be proud of yourself when you finish!

, Go for a Red/Brown, it will look more natural! If you want, you could give yourself a light side fringe and flick your hair out with a straightener! It also looks really cool if you put a small, vintage clip in your hair with your fringe!

, Now, you may think that you should wear an oversize black top with stripe socks, but that's not the case. Shop online or look around for black, interesting 'Gothic Lolita' dresses, and find some really cool stripe socks to go with them! You might want to get some cool shoes to go with them too. Find variations of her style. If you want, instead of wearing a dress, you could wear a puffy skirt and a pretty top with stripe socks and shoes if you want. Or you could wear shorts/skinny leg jeans with an over-sized top with the 'Ruby Gloom' logo painted on it! (you will have to do this yourself, but more on that later). It's all up to you, do what you like!

, Go for a Victorian Gothic look with light pink wallpaper and Vintage decorations. But in your room, you 'must have a large, comfy chair to sit in!!! It's good for people to sit on, and it's really relaxing.
 The guitar, drums, piano, harp, flute, maracas, anything! It will keep you occupied, and it give the opportunity for you and your best friends to make up a band.
 Write anything and everything in it! It's your journal so keep it somewhere where no one can find it.
 (Note, some of them are Japanese, they love this sort of stuff). Nana Kitade(search Nana Kitade-Siren on YouTube, it's brilliant), Fall Out Boy, Olivia Lufkin (Note, some of her music is distorted rock, so take care), DDR (very good to dance to.)

