 The first of Kübler-Ross’ stages is denial. It is common for a person to experience shock and disbelief upon first learning about a loss. Some people even feel numb emotionally. These emotions happen to protect the person from experiencing the full intensity of the loss. In many cases, it is helpful because it gives the person time to take action and do things like plan a funeral. Once the person starts to acknowledge the loss, the denial and disbelief will fade away.A person in denial may make remarks like “This isn’t real” or “You must have misunderstood.”;
, The second stage of grief happens when the person realizes that he or she can no longer stay in denial. At this point, frustration and anger occurs. The person may feel helpless or powerless about the loss, or even feel a sense of abandonment. Anger may be directed at the person, place, or thing lost, at close loved ones, or at a higher power.


During the anger stage, the person may question “Why is this happening?” or “Who is responsible?”

, The person may try to seek compromise like “If you keep her alive, I will never take my family for granted again”.


The person may become obsessed with thoughts about what could have been done to prevent the loss. If the bargaining process is not resolved, it can transform into lasting issues with guilt or remorse and hinder the person from properly healing after the loss.
 While sadness may be apparent in other stages, at this point, the person has truly acknowledged the extent of the loss. Depression may be accompanied by feelings of hopelessness, problems with appetite and sleep, poor concentration, low energy, social withdrawal, and negative thought patterns.The individual may despair about their own impending mortality making comments like “My life will not be the same without him/her. Why keep trying?”


A depressed grieving person may refuse to take visitors and spend a lot of time alone crying. Sustained depression can put a person at risk of having suicidal thoughts and behaviors. So, you should see a grief counselor if depression significantly interferes with your ability to function.
 While the person might not be fully back to “normal”, it is important to recognize that he or she is trying to become reintegrated back into the real world after the time of mourning. The person may start to believe “It’s going to be OK” and assimilate the loss into their unique life story.


Although acceptance is the fifth stage, it is common for a person to revisit many of the earlier stages across the lifespan. Grief is a very personal process. To fully grieve, one must experience all the emotions that come with the process.
 Although these stages have been accepted as the normal process of grieving, everyone experiences grief differently. Some people may skip certain stages or go through them in different orders. Just as there are multiple ways to experience loss, there are multiple ways to grieve them. Other misconceptions about grieving include:It lasts about a year. There is no set amount of time for grieving to take place. The time frame required to heal will depend on the person and the type of loss.
Death is the only thing people can grieve. While death may be one of the most significant of losses, a person can grieve many other losses, such as divorce, aging, loss of a dream, loss of a friendship, moving, or retiring after many years of work.
I can move on more quickly by ignoring the pain. Ignoring or numbing the pain you feel after a loss will not make you heal faster. In fact, doing this can actually delay the normal grieving process. It’s better to deal with the pain head on because ignoring it can make it worse over time.
 Your support system is one of your greatest assets during periods of grief. Identify the people in your life who are supportive and capable of being called during a time of crisis. These people may include spouses, siblings, parents, and other family members as well as friends, coworkers, doctors, and religious figures.


Although it’s important to acknowledge the people you can count on during this difficult time, you must also have the courage to ask for support. Be honest when others ask how you are doing or if there is something they can do. Sometimes, it might be nice simply to have someone present with you as you cry., If you are a spiritual person, you may draw comfort from your faith or beliefs after a loss. Read books about that explain the grieving process. Talk to others who share your beliefs. Engage in activities that serve to comfort you, such as attending services, praying, meditating, or even taking walks in nature., These are symbolic gestures or processes that allow you to say “goodbye” and make peace with a chapter in your life that is coming to a close. How you find closure will depend on the type of loss you are grieving.


Potential rituals may be sorting through and packing away the belongings of a loved one who died, writing a letter and reading it at an important site to express pain or frustration, or disposing of sentimental items that defined a relationship that ended.
 If the feelings you experience while grieving become overwhelming, it can help to see a professional grief counselor. This person can help you sort through your emotions, come to terms with a loss, and develop a plan for moving forward. A counselor may also recommend special support groups you can join to talk with people who are going through the grieving process like you., When people are suffering from a loss, they do whatever they can to get through each day. As you start to come to terms with the loss and heal, it’s essential to rebuild a daily routine. A routine offers structure during a time when everything seems topsy-turvy.As you start to heal, your routine may become more full of things you did before the loss. However, it might be helpful to start with a simple routine that includes waking at a consistent time each morning and eating breakfast. Plan a few things to do each day and write them down on a to-do list. Check off each item as you finish it., During such an emotional and upsetting time, you should take care to nurture your mind and body. Keep yourself hydrated by drinking plenty of water. Eat a diet filled with healthy, nutritious foods and avoid fast foods and junk foods if possible. Get plenty of rest—at least 7 to 9 hours each night. Try to stay physically active by taking walks or visiting your local gym. Fight off stress by doing things that are nurturing, such as taking long baths, reading, listening to soothing music, and journaling., It’s common to want to numb the pain you feel after a loss. Unfortunately, numbing your emotional pain can lead to unhealthy habits and hinder your ability to heal. In addition to taking good care of your body and mind, you should also refrain from using alcohol, drugs, sex, or food to temporarily lift your mood., Remember that everyone grieves differently. You may never feel like you did before the loss, but it’s important to be patient with yourself. You may feel better for a short while and then notice that a new wave of grief hits you. Keep in mind that you must heal at your own pace.