 In addition to the enjoyment you'll get from walking, you will also be helping the environment. Driving uses gasoline and contributes to pollution. While sometimes driving is inevitable, you can reduce your environmental impact by walking or biking whenever possible. Through healthy exercise, you will improve your health, which will also contribute to your happiness.Exercise is an important part of self-care. It releases feel-good hormones known as endorphins, which can boost your mood. Walking briskly for about 35 minutes five days a week, or for an hour three days a week, can be effective in treating mild to moderate depression.In addition, exercise can lower blood pressure; reduce risk of heart disease, stroke, and cancer; and improve self-esteem., Food is often transported long distances, and companies will spend energy on freezing and preserving foods to keep it fresh. By supporting local farmers, you reduce the gas and energy needed to transport the food, and you can ensure that your food is as fresh as possible.Go to your local farmer’s market for locally grown produce.
Join a grocery co-op. For a small fee, you will have access to fresh local produce.
Look for signs in the grocery store that indicate local products.
 Some waste is inevitable, but you can find new uses for old products. Do not throw anything away until it has been fully used. Find new uses for disposable items to reduce waste and consumption. You will also save money, which you can use towards activities that make you happy.


Cut up old T-shirts to use as rags around the house.
Save packing materials when you order items. You can use these next time you need to move or ship an item. It saves you from buying new plastic bubble wrap or Styrofoam.
Clean empty jam jars to store other food. You can also use jars as a drinking glass, as a pot to grow herbs, or as a coin jar.
 If something breaks in your house, resist the urge to replace it. It is often cheaper to have it fixed instead. Locate a local repairman. This will reduce the waste of a new product, and it will keep your goods working for a long time. You will save money and increase the satisfaction you receive from your eco-friendly electronics., Material goods do not provide happiness. You may have accumulated many objects over your life that clutter your house. These can foster a disorganized mindset. Go through all of your belongings. Hold each object in your hand. Decide if it makes you happy or not. If you don’t need the item and it does not make you happy, put it in a pile. Donate this pile to a charity or thrift-store.

