 Even if you intend to mainly promote your business, you can show your authority by becoming a LinkedIn professional and expert.;
,, This will include adding past and present jobs, a summary, hobbies, skills, education and more.


Make your profile public to ensure that you are being connected to your business on search engines. Use your name instead of "I" or "My" to improve your search engine results.
 Add connections in a number of ways.


Request LinkedIn connections through your email account. If you type in your email, LinkedIn will suggest email contacts who are active on LinkedIn. This is the fastest way to grow your connections. The more connections you have, the more information you will be able to share about your business.






Look through the "Suggested Connections" in the "Contacts" tab. LinkedIn will also suggest "People You May Know" on the right hand column of your screen.
 Add a photo that is clear and professional.
 Email people to ask for recommendations on your profile. Complete endorsements for other people to strengthen your connections.


Complete your skill section, so that you can be eligible for endorsements. Colleagues and friends can attest to the skills you have without writing a recommendation.
 Every time you add a new duty, job, organization or other aspect to your profile, LinkedIn will update your friends. This increases your job and professional visibility.
 To the right of the search bar, you will find "Add a Company."

, If you are not, appoint someone at the company to create the company profile and update it.


Use your company email to prove you are the official representative for the company.
 You can adjust your marketing info for a professional and creative social media environment.


You will need to fill out the Overview, Careers, Product Pages, Employees and Statistics sections. Make sure you have this information before you begin a company profile.
 Try to connect all your social media and database channels, if possible.
 The listing will link to the company profile page.
 This will deliver special announcements or discounts to people who recommend or view your page.
 These analytics will tell you who is viewing your page. You can experiment with targeting posts and messages to different groups of people.
 Make sure it is relevant information or expert advice, rather than spam.
 Backlinks improve the search engine optimization (SEO) of your website. You are likely to generate leads from this practice.
 An expert blog posted to your LinkedIn status update and linked to your Twitter and Facebook accounts will improve your connections, authority and web traffic.
 You should include info about press releases, new promotions, new products and industry information. You may even choose to include info about new hires or excellent employees who have connected with the page via their own LinkedIn profiles.
 Invite people from your contacts and company connections to attend.
 Target certain people, like clients or former employees, with especially pertinent news from a blog or site. Go to the "Compose Message" section.
 Every time you post to a forum, people will see you and your job/company title.
 Creating an expert group allows you to network and communicate with people who may be ideal customers.
 These groups should serve to increase industry knowledge and communication, not directly promote a product or business. The more quality content and discussion you have, the larger your group will get and the more people will see your business online.
 In the "Manage" options of your group, choose "Send an Announcement" up to every 7 days. Make sure your announcements are valuable, posting industry training sessions, events and more, instead of simply promoting your business.

