 It is important to find a therapist who is equipped to deal with your situation and who you feel like you can trust. Therefore, you may need to talk to a few different therapists before you find one who really works for you. The most important thing is to find a therapist who makes you feel comfortable, so pay attention to how the therapist makes you feel.If you are in high school, check with your school counselor. You may be able to meet with your school counselor on a regular basis or your school counselor may be able to refer you to someone who has experience helping students to overcome academic challenges.
If you are in college, contact the counseling center at your university. Most universities have counseling centers that employ trained and licensed mental health professionals. Many schools include access to counseling services as part of a “Student Service Fee” that is charged to all students, which may entitle you to a certain number of sessions.When you call, ask about counselors who have experience helping students with academic challenges.
 Although counseling may result in significant improvement in your academic performance, you may not go from earning all C's and D's to earning straight A's. It is more likely that your improvement will be subtle and gradual.


For example, after a few months of counseling, you may notice that your GPA has risen from a 2.4 to a 2.7. Or, you might notice that after using some of the strategies your counselor has taught you, you improved your math quiz score average from 60% to 80%.
You might also notice little things, such as being able to retain more of the information that you read or hear in class, or feeling less overwhelmed by your schoolwork.
Keep in mind that counseling takes time to take effect. While using the strategies that you learn in your counseling sessions may provide some immediate benefits, you may not see the effects of these strategies for a few months. Try to be patient as you continue to attend counseling and use the strategies that you learn., Maintaining a regular counseling schedule is essential for continued growth. Make sure that you schedule and keep your counseling appointments. Do not stop going because you feel better or because you think it is not working.


Remember that it is important to be consistent with your therapy and follow through with the process so that you can achieve your academic goals.
If you find yourself wanting to skip a session or stop going altogether, consider your reasons. Did your last session make you feel upset? Are you worried about what you might have to talk about next? Try to figure out the reason you want to skip or quit and tell your therapist about it., Some types of therapy require you to do some work outside of the counselor’s office to work on changing certain thoughts and behaviors. These assignments can help you to develop new thoughts and behaviors that can help you to overcome your academic challenges. Your therapist cannot do this work for you, so it is up to you to make sure that you complete any assignments.If your therapist gives you an assignment to complete before your next session, then make sure that you complete the assignment. The assignment might be a writing exercise, a self-affirmation, or something else to help you become more aware of your thoughts and behaviors.

