 Deal so that each player has the same number of cards as there are people playing. This will mean that the more people are eliminated, the less cards each of you will be dealt.
 Start with the person left of the dealer and put down any card. All players must follow suit if they can (this includes all magic cards and trumps) and the highest card in that suit, or the winning magic card wins the trick., They are are as follows:

2s make that suit the trump suit for the trick
7s automatically win the round, but if more than one player plays a 7, the last one played wins
Jacks are not suit-sensitive, so if the Jack is the highest card played, even if it's not following suit or a trump, it wins.
If more than one Jack is played and they are the highest cards, the trump or one following suit wins, or failing that, the one with the highest suit (S, H, D, C).
 After all the cards are played, the round is ended and any player who hasn't won at least one trick becomes a bitch and if they have a partner they also become a bitch.

Bitches only get given one card, but they can play it in any trick they like. If you don't win the trick, or, if you're in a pair and neither of you win a trick, you are eliminated. If you do or your partner does, you are back as a regular player in the game.
 Between rounds, you are allowed to split with your partner. If one of you has not won any tricks in the last round and you split then, only the one who didn't win any tricks will become a bitch. However, if you have become bitches and neither of you have won a trick in the next round, it's too late and you are both eliminated., Between rounds you can also partner up with people, if they have also split, or you can ask someone to split with their partner and pair up with you (only two people per pair, though)., At the end of that time, if you still can't get a partner, you are eliminated., The game ends when there are one pair remaining, who become the winners (you could then battle it out between the last two, but that's up to you).,