 Writing in the same space every session will help you stay on task and will train your mind to get into “writing mode” every time you sit down. Choose a quiet space that allows you to keep all your writing material on hand. You can set aside a whole office, a desk in a corner, or even your kitchen table., Keeping everything in a regular place and in easy reach will let you focus on writing instead of searching for lost pens and files! Depending on your writing style, you may need a laptop, printer, pen and paper, reference books, or other materials close by and well-organized. Line up books neatly, put writing utensils in a container, and keep loose papers organized into folders., Making yourself comfortable will help your mind concentrate on writing and will vary from person to person. Wear the clothes you like to write in, adjust your chair, and make sure the thermostat is at your perfect temperature!, If you are hungry or thirsty, you won’t be able to concentrate, so make sure that you keep your favorite snacks and drinks on hand. Keeping them within arm’s reach of your work area will prevent you from interrupting your writing time to visit the kitchen--those refrigerator trips can add up!, Some people need total silence to write, but others feel inspired by their favorite songs. If you need silence, keep your music apps or stereo turned off! If you love to listen to music while you write, make sure your favorite writing music is ready to go before you start writing so you don’t have to stop writing to find it later. Try listening to classical music too--many people who don’t like to listen to it find that it’s helpful while writing., It’s okay to take a break from writing, but don’t try to write while watching a movie, texting your friends, or working on other projects! You need to be able to concentrate to really get your mind in the mood to write. Put your phone in another room or turn it off, close social media pages on your computer, and turn off movies and television shows until your next break., If you can set aside a regular time to write, it will be easier to get yourself in the mood. If you write full-time, you can give yourself a regular workweek, with a start time and an end time every workday. But don’t worry if you work or go to school full-time--you can still make a writing schedule! Even if you can only set aside a few hours a week, having a set time will help you mentally prepare to write. It will also make it much harder for you to put off writing time!, Every writer has a work routine, and finding yours will make it easier for you to get started with your writing! Some writers like to check social media and get a second cup of coffee before they start to write, while others like to wake before dawn and begin writing immediately before taking a break. Think about what you like to do best before you write, and add it to your routine. Once you make it a habit, writing will become a habit too!, It might be tempting to sit down and write for ten hours, but that can actually make it more difficult to write! Take plenty of breaks to keep your mind fresh and in the mood for writing. Be sure to set a time limit on your breaks--you don’t want to spend the rest of the day on a “break” from writing!, At the end of every writing session, read over what you’ve done and plan your next step. It can be something small like “add a sentence about the latest business report” or something major like “kill off your main character.” Write your goal for the next session on a sticky note or on the last line of your file so it’s the first thing you see when you sit down to write next time!, Think about what you want to do as a writer--do you want to write a great novel, or an A+ research paper, or even the best sales brochure your company’s ever seen? If you have the end goal in mind before you sit down to work, it will be easier to get started achieving that goal., Spend some time writing an outline of your entire plan--for a novel, you could break it down into chapters, for example. If you are working through an especially boring part of your writing, knowing that there’s more exciting material ahead will help you get in the mood., Every writer has read something that got them excited about writing. If you’re finding it difficult to get into the mood to write, read something that makes you want to write--your favorite novel, a new story everyone’s talking about, or even something on the same topic as your own work. Being inspired by writing is a great way to get in the mood to write.