;
, Assure your parents you'd do great there.
 There are advantages to homeschooling. If you really want to go to a public/private school then you may have to:


Wear a uniform
Carry a heavy bag of books (which can damage your spine.)
Get up earlier, so that you have the time to travel to school.
Give up the freedom of being able to watch television, go on the computer or listen to your ipod/CD player at lunch time.
Deal with a teacher you don't like.
Give up being able to do science experiments, etc., that could be done at home but not at school.
Make less progress at school, due to the fact that the teacher will have a whole class to teach and not just one student.
 They are homeschooling you so that you will not have to endure all the disadvantages of going to a public/private school, as mentioned before. Other reasons they may be homeschooling you are:


It may save them money as they won't have to pay for your uniform or for sports equipment, art materials, etc., as they may have to in a public school. If you want to go to a private school they will be paying even more money because they are paying just to get you into the school as well.
They may not like to see their "baby" go off to school, so they keep you at home.
 Plan your conversation in advance. Tell them that you understand why they would want to homeschool you, but if they could please listen while you tell them why you would prefer to go to a public/private school. Tell them the advantages of going to a public/private school:


You will have better facilities at school, such as sciences laboratories, P.E. halls, perhaps even a sports field or swimming pool.
You won't get distracted by television, radio, or other noises.
You will make new friends.
You will have people to talk to at lunch time.
It may be less expensive for your parents if they have been hiring a tutor for you rather than teaching you themselves.
Your parents will have more free time if they have been teaching you themselves.
You will have the experience of a new teacher(s) and what its like working in a classroom.
You will have the chance to go on a school tour.
You may be moving around for different subjects, particularly if you are in secondary/high school.
You may have a wider choice of subjects, again particularly if you are in secondary/high school.
, Offer to pay part of the cost if money is the issue.
 But if they say no, then tell them you understand and try again another time.

