 Help your family to also spot the signs of hoax emails. And let friends know if you suspect they have been hacked or have unwittingly forwarded on spam or hoax emails; that way, you all learn together.
 Both you and family members can shield yourself a lot more by asking the following questions of every email you receive:


Has this person ever sent me spam before? Is there a sudden barrage of nonsensical spam emails from this person (an indicator that their email is hacked)?
If the email tells you to open an attachment, you should not do this. This is especially so if the attachment name ends in .pif or .scr.
If the email is from a 'free' email account (hotmail.com, yahoo.com, etc.), and you don't know the sender, treat it with great suspicion.
If there is a link in the email, hover your cursor over it (but do not click it!). This often reveals that the real location the link will take you is a (phishing) website you have never even heard of.
Is the email mentioning recent natural disaster or similar headline events? Scammers watch headlines carefully to monitor for anything causes people distress; it is a way of setting up fake charities to ask for funds that only ever help the criminals involved. This includes links to fake websites and PayPal accounts (again, don't ever click).
If you do click the link to go to, say, an online banking website, check to see if the address says 'https' or 'http'. Almost all banking websites will use 'https'. If you are still not sure, go to the actual website by opening a new tab and typing its name into your search engine. Compare the 2 addresses.
If you get an email from a friend who lives close by, or who you can contact by phone, ask them if they sent you that email. Even the best phishers haven't found a way to direct calls to them and perfectly imitate your friend's voice!
Think back and ask yourself: Did I physically enter my name into this sweepstakes? Even if you think you "might" have, why aren't they phoning you? Call the company direct, using the Yellow Pages phone directory, not the email contact details.
Check both the 'To' and the 'From' lines. If they both have the same address/person/name in them, it is a phishing email/scam.
Is there a threat of immediate detrimental action if I don't respond with personal information? Threats by email are illegitimate, do not deserve your attention but may need to be drawn to the attention of police or anti-scam officials. Remember, you have done nothing wrong––the scammer is the one doing that.

