 How does it act when it wants to play? When it's hungry? When it wants to cuddle? Understanding what the dog wants is a great first step in being more responsive to the dog's needs, and as such will make him or her like you better.;
, All dogs should be taught obedience routines. Find out whether the dog knows how to respond to commands to sit, lay, stay, come, heel, and other simple behaviors. If so, try the commands and use food rewards. This command and treat process helps to create bonding with people. You get to know the dog better and its behavioral issues, quirks and preferences.
 Some dogs consider it a threat. Look off to the side. Dogs bare their teeth when they are ready to lash out and may take your pearly whites the wrong way.
 This is a good way to start. However, observe signs that the dog is done with being petted. Many dogs won't let you pet them when they want to play, so play with them instead.


When petting the dog, find its "sweet spot." For example, if you are scratching its ear and it leans its head towards you, that shows that it likes it. If you rub its belly and its leg twitches, that's also a good thing. However, if it leans away from you when you scratch it somewhere, the dog obviously doesn't like it.
 The fastest way to a dog's heart is through its stomach. Soft treats that give off a strong meat scent are usually a great way to get attention. If the dog is being trained, get him or her to sit, or lie down, or stay before giving the treat. Don't offer treats too often if you're using them in training. If they come too easily, the dog thinks every action is the correct one.


Remember, if the dog isn't your own, always ask permission from its owner before attempting to feed the dog.
Treats are fun for you and the dog––you get to see the dog do tricks and the dog gets a treat for doing it.






Don't overdo treats––an overweight dog carries health risks.
 Don't always be smothering the dog, or it may begin to avoid you. Every animal needs some time to not be bothered, so respect its space and it'll enjoy the time around you more.
 For example, say "Good dog/Fido".
 Every dog likes a pet on the back!

, However, you must ask its owner if it likes these first. While most dogs love belly rubs, some don't. If the dog loves it, you will love it too as you get to observe the way its little tongue sticks out, with its little eyes looking at you with happiness.
 If you can, offer to occasionally take it on a longer walk every weekend or any day where you have additional time to walk the dog. This gives exercise for you and the dog and gets you in the good books with the owner, as walking regularly or for long distances can be hard for an owner to fit in all the time. This will make the dog happy and provides more bonding time for you.


Ensure that the dog knows how to heel properly; this ensures that you can direct it without the dog pulling you over or tripping you. This skill also helps the dog to release energy.
 Take a few minutes out of your day to brush the dog. It'll benefit from the daily attention, and its coat will be healthier too. Plus, if you keep complaining to your date that there is dog hair everywhere, you'll be helping to reduce it!

, This will help the dog to get to know you better and reassures the dog that you like him or her.
 This will help it to find your place its own territory too, which will help raise you in its esteem. Just make sure you do not use the digging area for plants or garden.
, You can care for the dog each day, including letting the dog outside for at least 30 minutes a day and playing with it outdoors.
 The more time you interact with the dog, the greater the chance it will grow to love you.

