 Taking care of yourself means on the inside too. If you always feel negative, consider getting help to change this approach, whether it be via therapy, reading self-help books or spending time around more upbeat people (the latter is always important).;
, Stand up for yourself by being tactful, not aggressive. Being a diplomatic person is a good way to see you through life on an even keel.
 Schooling and college are important but it also matters to be a "learner for life". Find ways to keep learning through reading, studying others, doing things differently and staying open to advice. Be ready to learn new things,no matter what age you are

, Mental disorders and illnesses are commonplace and many have very good treatment regimes. Don't suffer in silence––by reaching out and getting help, you can find ways to improve your life and be less perturbed by daily events. Depression, anxiety, personality disorders, etc. can be managed, so do yourself a favor and seek the help you deserve.


Dyslexia, dyscalculia and other cognitive or information processing disorders are extremely common, yet they are very disorienting if you haven't had them diagnosed. Seek help from a health professional.
Never underestimate the power of talk. Talking with others whom you can trust can make a big difference to how you feel about yourself and your place in the world.
 Sleep deprivation ages you and reduces your mental abilities. Sleep restores your energy, repairs your body and improves your concentration. Adequate sleep can also help you to keep an even body weight.
 Good food in, good things out. Junk food in, junk out. If you are having trouble working out what is a good diet, ask your health adviser for recommendations. Be sure to consume the nutrients you need, calcium included.
 Whether it's a daily walk with the dog around the block or a gym workout, fit some exercise into each day. Take the stairs instead of the elevator, get off the bus a few stops earlier and walk the rest of the way to work, or add walking time to your lunch hour. Whatever your preference, just find ways to fit in good movement that helps keep you toned and fit.


Pick a time frame daily to do something physically healthy, such as cardio (walking, kickboxing) or yoga, and even picking up weights will keep your muscles healthy and strong.
 Be nice to others who are different from you. It can be confronting at times when you don't agree or see commonalities with another person but see it as a way of keeping an open mind. While you might not want to be best buddies with such people, you might just make connections and good networks with a wide variety of people from all walks of life, and that can only bode well for you.


Remember, everyone has it tough at some point in their lives. A word of kindness can mean all the difference and can help you to feel you live in a saner world. Be the change you wish to see in the world.
Realize that nastiness is often a projection of other people's own pain. Even if people are mean to you deliberately, or tell you to go away, always be nice to them. You will not only make friends this way but you maintain your dignity.
 Find a group of people who share this interest and spend time with them. Take time to get to know them well, including having a coffee together or inviting them over for pizza, etc. Seek to turn some of these people into friends and then spend more time together.


Not everyone is friend material. You won't click with all people and that is to be expected. Let them be and hang around the people you do have a natural affinity for.
 When people help you, keep their promises and go out of their way to do things for you, acknowledge their kindness and generosity. Say thank you and offer to be there for them. When the chips are down for them, return the favor by being there for them too.
 Wash yourself and your hair regularly.
 Comb your hair and brush your teeth daily. Keep your nails dirt-free and trimmed.
 Moisturize your legs, feet, arms, and hands regularly, especially when it's dry and/or hot. You don't need to spend a lot; good lotions can be homemade or purchased cheaply.
 Pick out a group of outfits that make you feel good and stick to them. If you live where there are seasonal changes, divide the clothing into seasonal choices. Keeping a wardrobe of fewer but higher quality clothes can help you to feel and look better and saves time on over-thinking daily clothing choices.
 This will help hydrate your skin and your body. It also flushes toxins out of your body and helps you concentrate. Try to drink enough so that your urine is very light yellow.

