 Because Adderall is a stimulant, it can cause excitability in those without ADHD or narcolepsy. Of course, everyone gets overly excited sometimes, but if you notice someone who seems to be getting excited over little things that they wouldn't normally react to, that could be a sign of Adderall abuse.You might also notice the person talks much more than normal.
Another symptom of excitability is the person may react more explosively than usual to something you say or may suddenly get upset.
 Many people who abuse Adderall have a decrease in appetite. If you notice someone doesn't seem as interested in food, then that could be a symptom of Adderall abuse, at least taken in conjunction with other symptoms., Long-time abuse of Adderall can lead to changes in how a person acts. Particularly, it can cause the person to be more paranoid or more aggressive. If you notice changes in behavior, look for other signs of Adderall abuse., That is, people who are addicted to Adderall start putting the drug first, always on the lookout for when they can get more of the drug. You may notice they are strapped for cash, as well. They may also start missing social events because they are more concerned about the drug., Taking Adderall can also create a crash effect as the dose wears off. That means the person may end up sleeping more. If you notice the person seems to be sleeping long hours, broken by bouts of heightened wakefulness, that could be a symptom of Adderall addiction., You may notice the person showing other side effects of the drug, which can include digestive problems, headaches, dry mouth, and changes in sex drive. The person may also mention shortness of breath or a rapid heartbeat.They may also have back pain, or they may urinate more frequently., That is, you may find prescription bottles around with Adderall. However, if the student is taking it without a prescription, you may notice pills in bags instead, as they may obtain the drug from websites or other students.

