 Frogs are especially susceptible to poisoning from pesticides, herbicides, synthetic fertilizers, and other common garden chemicals because their hydration and respiration takes place through their porous skin. If you want to attract a healthy frog population, start by using organic gardening practices.Instead of using synthetic fertilizer, encourage growth through picking nutrient-rich soils that are appropriate to each plant, rotating your crops to keep your soil rich, and using organic fertilizer when necessary.
Keep in mind that once you’ve attracted frogs, you shouldn’t have any need of chemical pesticides since a single frog will consume more than 10,000 bugs a season.
 You want to attract the right kind of frogs. Non-native frogs will compete with local ones for food and shelter. Sometimes they’ll even eat local species. Their populations are also generally difficult to control because they have no natural predators.Identify the species of frogs in your yard or garden to be sure that they’re not invasive. Invasive.org has a list of dangerous non-native wildlife that can be searched by animal type and region.If you do find invasive species of frogs in your yard or garden, contact your local government environmental agency, like your state’s DNR, or a nonprofit conservation group, like the National Wildlife Federation, for advice and support about how to remove them responsibly.
 Frogs like to hide in tall grass and are frequent victims of lawn mowers. Be sure that you can see any rogue amphibians in your path by keeping the grass in your yard or garden well-trimmed., Most male frogs hibernate in water over the winter. A thin layer of ice will not harm them. However, if their water source is completely frozen, they won’t survive. Protect any dormant amphibians by putting a pan of hot water over thickening ice., Many flowers and vegetables are poisonous to frogs. Protect the amphibian population in your yard or garden by either not planting species that are toxic to them or by planting them well away from your intended frog habitat.Vegetables that are dangerous for frogs include eggplant, rhubarb, snow peas, and potatoes.
Flowers that are toxic to frogs include honeysuckle, azaleas, hydrangeas, daffodils, and hyacinth.

