 Having a squad will help you out greatly. Below are tactics.
 Learn formations, spreads, and rules of engagement. Also, learn how to engage as a squad and also defensive tactics. A special operations squad should have a killing power far beyond it's physical size. Defending against a large group is difficult. One way you can defeat a large squad is by breaking contact and flanking. Your squad only has enough for a good 10 minutes of engagement before they are out of ammo. Be aware of this. In order to defeat a force larger then you, you have to keep calm and keep the fire on high. Listen to the amount of fire that your squad is receiving and the moment you hear that the fire is lowering, tell your squad  to do a center split. The goal is to break contact. One person will suppress the enemy as the rest of the squad falls back. After that person has suppressed the enemy for about 10 seconds, he will fall back and has he passes one of his squad mates, that squad mate will do what he did. Keep repeating this process until you have broken contact. Once that is achieved, you can ambush them and flank them. At this point you will want to kill them as fast as possible and progress as fast as possible to give them little time to form a line of defense.
 Always have your squad ready to go. When stacking up, have them squeeze each others shoulder starting from the last in line to the point man. This ensures that everyone is ready and that the point man doesn't walk into a room alone.
 Even better is to make up your own phrases for when your moving, when you tell your team to engage, etc. this will ensure that no enemy knows what you're doing if they happen to eves drop on you or your radio conversation. Use hand signals as much a possible and if you have to speak, make your phrases short. Before going to the field, ensure everyone knows the phrases so everyone knows what to do

, As they say in the SEALs: don't run to your death. Go slow and move silently. No point of rushing. Keep the element of surprise until the last minute. Don't flash bang through every door and yell everything your saying. Keep it silent. This not only prevents your squad from being compromised, but it also keeps the stress level down and allows your squad to perform a lot better.

