 Different organizations (American Cancer Society, American Urological Association, American College of Physicians, etc.) differ in their screening recommendations. While some recommend yearly screenings after a certain age, the CDC does not recommend PSA-based screening in men unless they have symptoms.The most important factors in prostate cancer screening for the individual rely on personal, informed decision making.
 While different medical organizations have differing opinions on when and how to be screened for prostate cancer, it is generally a good idea to consider screening at:40 years of age for the highest risk individuals — Men at the highest risk have more than one immediate family member who has been diagnosed with prostate cancer at a relatively early age.
45 years old for those with high risk — This population generally includes African American men and individuals with one close relative (father, son, or sibling) who has been previously diagnosed with prostate cancer before the age of 65.
50 years old for men with an average risk — Average risk is essentially all other men. Note that this only applies to those with a life expectancy beyond the next 10 years due to the slow-spreading nature of prostate cancer.
 While you may be able to identify symptoms that suggest prostate cancer, only your doctor will be able to accurately diagnose the disease. If you have symptoms and risk factors for prostate cancer, your doctor will initially perform two tests and weigh the results along with your symptoms (if any) to determine the next step. These initial tests include:A digital rectal exam (DRE), which is where your doctor inserts his finger into your rectum and presses on your prostate to feel for abnormalities relating to size, firmness, and/or texture.
A prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level test, which measures a protein made by the prostate. This involves drawing blood to check your PSA levels. In general, a PSA under 5 ng/mL is considered normal, and a PSA above 10 ng/mL indicates a risk of cancer. However, a high PSA level may also indicate non-cancerous conditions such as infection or inflammation.
A continuous rise in PSA level may indicate prostate cancer., Your doctor may also order a biopsy with an ultrasound probe. This means taking a small tissue sample from your prostate, which a lab will examine for cancer cells.MRI and PET/CT scans may also be used to evaluate the stage of your cancer. These imaging devices help determine the size of your prostate and the metabolic activity of the prostate (cancer cells are metabolically more active than normal cells and therefore can be detected by PET scan). These scans may be able to detect any metastatic lesions as well.
 Pathologists grade prostate cancer using the Gleason score. The grade indicates the cancer’s appearance and how quickly it is growing. The pathologist will grade on a scale of 1 – 5. 1 means the cancer tissue looks very much like normal prostate tissue, and 5 means the cells are abnormal and scattered throughout the prostate, indicating an advanced stage and aggressive cancer.The higher the Gleason score, the more likely that the cancer will grow and spread quickly. Based on this number, your doctor will know which type of treatment to pursue.