 If you are vomiting or have diarrhea, it is important to continue to drink plenty of liquids. However, do not drink the water too quickly, as this could make you sicker. Instead, take small, frequent sips of water to stay hydrated without making yourself feel nauseous.Other liquids that you can drink include:


Fresh fruit juice.
Vegetable broth. Avoid animal-based soups, as they could contain fats that may make you feel more nauseous.
You can also suck on frozen popsicles or ice cubes, as this will allow you to slowly hydrate yourself.
Avoid drinks with a lot of sugar, such as soda.
Avoid milk and milk products.;
, You can also puree fruits and vegetables to make a hydrating drink. Combine celery with one apple and the juice from half of a lemon. This combination is high in electrolytes, as apples are a good source of potassium, celery is rich in sodium chloride and magnesium. Lemons contain vitamin C and helps your body absorb glucose.You can blend these nutritious foods together with ice to make a cold, smoothie-like drink.
 Coconut water is a very hydrating substance. It contains natural electrolytes, including high levels of potassium. If you want, you can add one to two teaspoons of chia seeds to your coconut water.Chia seeds are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which can provide you with energy. They are also rich in protein and fiber., Bananas are high in potassium, while almonds are a rich source of magnesium and potassium. Kale is rich in calcium. If you add salt, this drink may also replenish your sodium and chloride levels.To make this drink:


Blend two bananas with milk and almonds. Add in four to five kale leaves. Add sea salt to the mixture.
 Papayas are rich in electrolytes and can help to reduce the severity of your diarrhea by reducing peristalsis in your gut.In order to make this papaya tea:


Grate one raw papaya. Boil three cups of water (roughly 750 mL) and add the papaya to it. Let this combination boil for at least 10 minutes. Strain the mixture and drink the tea throughout the day.
 When you vomit or have diarrhea, you lose essential salts from your body. These salts include sodium, chloride, and calcium. In order to replenish these salt stores, you should try to drink Oral Rehydration Solutions (ORS). These solutions can provide your body with essential nutrients while also hydrating you.You can purchase commercially prepared ORS solutions at your local pharmacy. ORS are usually sold in packets that you mix with water. You can drink these solutions throughout the day.
You can also make homemade ORS. There are different kinds of solutions that you can make to get the essential salts and nutrients you need, while also hydrating yourself.
If your child is the one who is sick, give her five milliliters (about one teaspoon) of an ORS every one to two minutes. This should equal about 150 to 200 mL (5 to 7 ounces) of solution per hour.
 To make this solution, mix roughly ½ teaspoon of common salt with five teaspoons of sugar. Add this to one liter (1 quart) of boiled water, and let the water cool.For an added boost of hydration, add some coconut water to the mixture.

