 You'll have a lot more fun at school if you learn to see your teachers as human beings and to give them the respect and attention that they deserve. If you actually like your teachers, you'll be more excited to go to their classes and will be having more fun at school in no time.


Be friendly. Take the time to greet your teachers before class and to say hello if you see them in the halls.
Take the time to get to know them. Without being annoying, have a friendly chat with your teacher at his desk before class once in a while.
Show interest in the subject matter. Pay attention and ask and answer good questions, and you'll have more of an appreciation for your teacher and the subject he teaches.
 If you want to have fun at school, then you have to have fun with your friends at the right times. Though you shouldn't be disrupting your learning by goofing off during class, you can make the most of your school experience by having fun with your friends when you can.


Have fun with your friends in the cafeteria. Enjoy your fun conversations with your friends and look forward to the time you have together. Don't be late to lunch or spend all of your time trying to finish your homework for your next class or you'll be missing valuable connections.
Chat with your friends when you're at your locker or walking to your next class. Set up a walking schedule that lets you walk to class with a close friend.
If you come to school early, don't be a zombie and talk to your friends; you'll have fun and wake up from the conversation.
 Though it may not seem cool to actually like what you're learning, you'll actually benefit from taking an interest in what you're learning and will have a lot of fun in the process. You won't be having fun if you're bored in class, don't understand the material, or just aren't looking forward to anything you'll be learning throughout the day.


Be a good student. If you do your homework and study for your exams, then you'll be immersed in the subject matter. You'll be much more engaged in class if you actually know what's going on.
Understand your favorite subjects outside of school. Though you can't love every class, if you find that you really like American History or French, then you'll have more fun if you read up on the subject outside of class.
Give every subject a chance. Don't decide that you hate math and that you'll always hate math after one bad geometry class; reset your mind after every new teacher and tell yourself that there's at least one cool thing about every subject, no matter how challenging it may have been in the past.
 Another great way to have fun is school is to participate in extra-curriculars that make your days more fun. You shouldn't join a club or a sport just because you think it'll help you get into college, but because you're genuinely interested in the activity and want to improve yourself while having fun.

Join a sport. Pick a sport that makes you have to work while having a good time. An extra-curricular sport shouldn't feel like torture.
Join a club. Pick a club that helps you explore your interests, such as the school newspaper, yearbook, or debate team.
Get to know the people who participate in your sport or club. A big part of extra-curricular activities is the bond that you will build with the people around you. Make the most of the people around you and build as many connections as you can.

