 Sit down and make lists of everything you like and dislike about your room. (Color, furniture, accessories, etc.);
, Consult your parents about any big changes (Painting walls, buying furniture, getting rid of furniture, etc.)

, Choose either a color scheme or something that reflects your personality. It may be helpful to find one thing you like about your room to base your theme off of.(For example: A favorite color, hobby, a piece of furniture or accessory that you particularly like.)

, This could be extremely small, or larger, but for this how-to, it will be low. (Include your parents on this step if you expect them to be pitching in some money.) A common budget is ranges from $50- $450.
 (If it isn't already clean.) This can be done before or after shopping, but it's a good idea to do it before, that way you aren't tempted to start decorating or moving furniture in a messy room.
 Go through your room and decide what you dislike the most about it. (furniture, bedding, pictures, accessories.) And donate them to your local thrift store or, if they are in good condition, sell them online to help towards your new room budget.
 Before you even go shopping, ask your parents if there is any old furniture around the house that you can use in your bedroom. You can easily fix up an old piece of furniture with new finish or paint in order to match your new scheme.
 This might save you a lot of money. Look online for tutorials for pillows, clock, curtains, throws, blankets, etc. There are tutorials for almost everything!

, Look for cheap bedding and accessories that reflects your style. Check stores like Walmart and Target. Stores have cool materials and reasonable prices, and you may even find some inexpensive furniture. If vintage is your thing, check thrift shops. Look around, and go to some web sites before making some purchases. You don't want to pay $40 and then see a week later that you could have gotten the same thing at another store for half the price.
 Check How to Paint a Room or ask a parent for some help. Get your friends to come help you paint, it will make the task more fun. A very easy way to do this is to use 100% acrylic latex paint.
 Cool lights, posters, pictures of friends and family, nice rugs, etc. are all good ideas.
 Also, if you are aiming for your room to look more mature, a mess will hurt your cause

, Try to make sure it's reversible. If it is then when you get tired of one side you can flip it over for a new look. Bed in a Bags come with pillowcases, a bedspread, a bed-skirt, and sheets.

