



SIDS is not a catchable illness. There is a common misconception that SIDS is an illness which your child can catch from another baby or from yourself, but this is not true. Don't listen to anyone peddling a home remedy or home vaccine for SIDS.

The cause of SIDS in inherently unknown. By definition, the cause of SIDS is unknown. Since it is unknown, it is very difficult to prevent. However, many cases of SIDS later are evaluated and a cause is found, and the common problems that cause infantile death can be easily dealt with and prevented.

The usual source of infant death in these situation is suffocation. Suffocation is one of the most common sources of infantile death in these situations. This will be the main danger that you try to avert. There are lots of ways to prevent suffocation that are discussed in the later sections.

Some children may be biologically at risk. Even if you do everything right, you may not be able to completely protect against SIDS. Studies indicate that some children may be biologically prone to SIDS.This is a good reason to make sure that your baby gets regular doctor's visits and that you stay extra vigilant and pay attention to your child's behavior and health.

The chance of SIDS occurring drops dramatically after 1 year of age. SIDS is usually defined as infant death that occurs before age 1, and certainly cases of sudden, unknown infantile death after age 1 are increasingly uncommon. You can be less vigilant after your child turns 1, and allow them comforts like stuffed animals in the crib (so long as the are developing normally, physically).

This is because when your child is very young, they do not have the muscle strength to react to and protect themselves from problems like being smothered by an object. As long as your 1 year old is strong and moving confidently (especially while they sleep), they should be able to protect themselves.

;
, You should never sleep with your baby in your bed. Your bed poses a number of significant dangers to your baby, such as being crushed or smothered. However, a number of studies have concluded that your baby is much safer if they sleep next to you, so that you are more aware of and are better able to recognize when your child is suffering. A tandem or bedside crib that puts your baby right next to you is best.
 Ensure that cribs meet the current safety guidelines set by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.


All wood railed cribs should have slats no more than 2 3/8" in width, which means you shouldn't be able to pass a pop can between the slats.
Do not pick a crib with cutouts in the head board or foot boards. A baby's head could slip through the cuts outs and get stuck, causing injury or death.
Purchase a crib with stationary sides, not drop sides. Many recent infant death's have been attributed to getting caught between a mattress and a crib's drop side. If you have already purchased a drop side crib, contact the manufacturer for assistance in obtaining necessary parts to change the drop side to a stationary side.
 Having soft items increases your child's chances of being suffocated. Keep the crib clean and remove as many items that may cause breathing problems as possible.


Do not place stuffed animals or other objects in the crib and do not give your baby a pillow. Flat heads can be dealt with in other ways.






Make sure all mattress are firm, and that they fit tightly into the crib, leaving no gaps that baby could slip into.






Use only a fitted sheet. Make sure the sheet fits snugly over the mattress and that there is no broken or stretched elastic. If there is broken or stretched elastic, the sheet may slip off the mattress and bunch around baby's face, increasing the risk of suffocation.






Don't use blankets with your small baby. Instead, use sleep sacs if you are not swaddling, in order to keep your baby warm and safe. While it may be fun to have that cut throw and those adorable stuffed animals to decorate the crib with, you should remove it from the crib when baby is sleeping. As your baby gets older, you will be able to leave one small stuffed animal in the crib to entertain him/her during crib play, but for now safety is more important.






Pass on the crib bumper. If you feel the need to keep the crib bumper on the bed, make sure it is tied down well, and consider removing it from the crib when baby starts to roll and move around. When a baby starts to roll, they can end up with their face pressed against the side of the bed and the crib bumper, causing their mouth and nose to be blocked.
 Your baby should always be placed to sleep on its back. This is because very small babies do not have muscles strong enough to inhale against their own weight. They will not be able to breath deeply enough and may suffocate. Sleeping on the back is especially important if swaddling.


While it is important that all infants get time to play on their tummies to strengthen arm and neck muscles, it is vital that babies are lay on their back to sleep. Infants cannot roll over and have a hard time turning their heads from side to side, so sleeping on their back helps keep their face clear of the mattress and bedding which may suffocate them. Remember the phrase "back to sleep, tummy to play."
If you feel the need to lay your baby on his or her side because they are not breathing well, it may be a good idea to discuss your concerns with your doctor or pediatrician.
 According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, recent studies have shown that pacifier usage, especially during the longest sleeping period of the night, is related to a decreased incidence of SIDS. While the exact reasons for this are still being studied, it can't hurt to give baby a pacifier if it might just save their life.


However, if you are breastfeeding, you should wait until your baby is at least 1 month old to offer a pacifier. Using a pacifier can make it more difficult for your baby to learn how to breastfeed.
 There is a lot of misinformation out there about the safety of swaddling. A long as you swaddling correctly, your baby is perfectly safe and often most comforted by a good swaddle. Always place a swaddled baby on their back (never their front or side). Never swaddle a baby's pacifier into their mouth, even if their special talent is spitting it right out the second they're asleep! You should also make sure that their hips can move freely, but as long as you are now swaddling them to a board (as is done in some countries), this is not really a problem.


Some people say that swaddling makes it harder for a baby to wake themselves and restart their own breathing, but studies have shown that this is not the case. Swaddling may even help prevent other dangers associated with new babies, such as preventing post-pardum depression by ensuring that you sleep properly. , Shaking your baby can lead to brain damage which can in turn result in your child's death. Babies are very delicate and it is important to protect their very sensitive neck structure. Even if your baby is crying a lot and you're having a really hard time, you should never shake your baby. If you are struggling, contact local organizations that can get you some help.
 Never smoke or let someone else smoke near your baby.This can impair their lung function and increase their likelihood of death. Wood smoke may also be a problem, so make sure all fireplaces and wood stoves are properly ventilated.


If you plan on going to a friend or family members house to visit and know that they smoke, call ahead. Ask them if it would be possible for everyone to smoke outside or in one room, away from your baby while you are visiting. If they are not willing to make concessions for the baby, consider asking them to come to your home for the visit instead. Remember that it is not a loss if you don't get to see them; baby's health and safety are more important.
 Overheating is another cause of infant death (as well as becoming too cold). Do your best to keep your baby at a temperature that feels good to you too. Check inside their blankets for being overly warm and do not over-do their bedding for the season.
 Take your child for regular doctor's visits and checkups, and see a doctor when you suspect that something might be wrong. Some cases of SIDS are related to genetic problems or other conditions diagnosed at birth. By being vigilant, you can help protect your child. If you do not have the money to take them to a doctor, you should be able to find local resources that can help you. Your pediatrician's office should have more information.
 Breastfeeding will not only give your child the vital nutrition they need, it will also help build their own immune systems and protect them from illness by supplementing with your antibodies. Don't feel bad if you can't breastfeed for some reason: it happens and you're not a failure as a parent because of it. But you should try as hard as possible to make it work.
 Another common cause of infant death is malnutrition and poisoning. This can happen unintentionally, so don't rule it out! Make sure you are feeding your child a doctor-approved diet that is well balanced. You should also make sure that items that could poison your child are kept safely away. Keep up to date on formula recalls and expiration dates as well.
 This is one of the most important parts of protecting your child. There is a lot of misinformation out there about immunizations but the experts all agree that the best way to keep your baby safe is to get them their immunizations on time. There has been a significantly increased rate of deaths and infections with preventable illnesses since parents started forgoing vaccines, and your child is at greater risk than ever.

