 Each credit reporting agency has a unique format for its reports. However, they all report the same categories of information. These categories include identifying information, information about credit accounts and credit inquiries, public record and collections items, satisfactory accounts and negative items., This includes the person's name, social security number, date of birth and employment information. If the person's name has changed for any reason, such as a marriage or divorce, previous names will be listed here. Also, any nicknames or variations on the person's name will be included. Current and previous addresses are also listed., These are also referred to as trade lines. Lenders report all information about credit accounts. This information includes the type of account, the date the account was opened, the credit limit, the loan amount, the account balance, and the person's payment history. Three different types of credit accounts exist.Mortgage accounts include first and second mortgages, home equity loans and any other loans secured by real estate.
Revolving accounts are charge accounts with a credit limit that must be paid each month. Credit cards are an example of revolving accounts.
Installment accounts are credit accounts in which the amount and number of payments is predetermined in a fixed amount. Car loans are installment accounts.
 A hard inquiry occurs when the person requests a loan and the creditor checks the person's credit score. A soft inquiry occurs when a lender is not reviewing the person's credit for the purposes of granting a loan. Examples of soft inquiries include a person requesting his own credit score and credit checks made by businesses for the purposes of promotional offers. Credit inquiries may have a negative effect on a person's credit score., The credit report includes information in the public record. State and county courts and collection agencies report information about overdue debt. Examples of public record financial information includes bankruptcies, foreclosures, liens and judgments., All three credit reporting agencies separate positive and negative items on credit reports. This makes it easier to interpret the information. In the section detailing negative items, you will find information about late payments. This includes when a late payment occurred, how late it was, the balance on the account, and whether the account was written-off or submitted to collections., Each credit reporting agency has its own set of codes for payment history, public records and credit check history. Understanding these codes makes it easier to interpret the credit report.Visit the Merit Credit Engine to learn about the Experian, TransUnion and Equifax credit report formats and codes.

