 Know before you begin that the music industry is notoriously difficult to break into, so you need to be pursuing hip-hop because you love it, not to make a quick buck. Listen to as many rappers and producers as you can, discovering what sounds you love and what style of music you want to make. The more you know about hip-hop, the better equipped you will be to make it.


Hip-hop is one of the easiest genres to get into, thanks to the wide variety of free music available at mixtape websites like Datpiff, LiveMixtapes, and HotNewHipHop.;
, Hip-hop producers are famous for pulling diverse musical influences and trends together to create something new, so look for good music wherever you can find it. RZA and got famous digging through old soul albums, Russell Simmons and Rick Rubin made waves bringing rock & roll into rap, and Kanye uses a full classical orchestra behind many of his beats. There is no genre that you cannot find inspiration in as a hip-hop producer.


Listen to music for it's quality, not because of it's genre or reputation.
Keep notes of music you like so you can find it, and potentially use it, later.
 Production is the process of creating an instrumental track, but in the case of hip-hop you will usually be "playing" all of the instruments. To have full control over your sound you need to know how music works, including time signatures, chord progression, music theory, and instrumentation. Learn how to play an instrument. Since many beats are made with a keyboard, try starting with a piano.
 Hip-hop has a low barrier to entry because you can theoretically make beats with nothing more than a reasonably powerful computer. These days, extra tools can plug right into your computer to give you even greater control over your music, however, and are nearly invaluable.



Keyboards: Perhaps the second most important tool next to a computer, keyboards allow you to create your own melodies and physically play your beat, which is usually much faster than inputting the notes into the computer.

Drum Machines: incredibly versatile rhythm instruments, drum machines let you assign any sound you want to a small pad then play that sound as if it was a drum. You can program it with drums, cymbals, percussion instruments, notes, or even random sounds.

Microphone: Essential if you want to record vocal tracks, microphones also let you record other instruments and sounds to incorporate into your beats.

MIDI Controllers: Complex but powerful, MIDI controllers give you the ability to adjust tone, rhythm, loops, drums, and beats with the touch of a button. Many high-end keyboards and drum machines come with attached MIDI Controllers.

Speakers: Be sure to invest in good speakers so you can hear your music at the highest possible quality, that way you can be sure your listeners are hearing what you want them to hear. , Known as a Digital Audio Workstation (DAW), there are hundreds options out there. While there is a lot of variability in features, usability, and reliability, most of them are pretty similar in execution. Different instrument parts are dragged into a timeline where they can be layered, edited, and repeated to form your song. Choose the program you are most comfortable with and learn everything you can about it.


Some free programs to begin practicing on are Audacity, GarageBand (Mac), Cecilia, and Mixx.
For more committed beatmakers, check out paid programs like Pro Tools, Logic, MuTools, MixCraft, or Cubase. Every software has tons of tutorials, tips, and tricks available online, and you should learn as much about your DAW as you possibly can.
 This is the only way to get familiar with your equipment and to learn what kind of music you'd like to make. Make as many beats as you can, even if they are only 30 seconds long, and dig into all of the instruments you have access to.


Try recreating some of your favorite beats. You can download packs of sounds that famous producers use online and play with them to see how they're used.

