 If you know you are a good singer then pick a well known song, you could even change up the song a bit. Ask family and friends for help with this one. If you aren't sure if you could sing well, then pick a really good catchy song that isn't on the radio so often. Listen to your song a lot! Download Audacity or use the recording app on your iPhone if you have one to record your voice and hear what you sound like singing the song you have chosen!;
, Most churches offer some for free. If they won't allow this, look for some helpful singing tips on YouTube or even on wikiHow.
 This will make people think you are even more talented. Make sure you practice your song at least half an hour or an hour a day. If you but an instrument from Best Buy then you get a free 30 minute lesson! But don't forget your homework. Most schools won't let you tryout for the show if your grades aren't so hot!

, Don't get something too flashy or too boring. If your parents aren't so cool try going shopping for this special night with an older sister, brother, cousin, aunt, uncle, friends, etc. Girls wear a skirt or dress, if its winter or fall wear leggings and boots, flats, of heels. For guys don't wear a tux with dress shoes, people will laugh at you wear something casual but not too casual. Watch some One Direction videos you might want to wear something like what they're wearing. Even if you hate them trust me it will work.
 (tip: if you wear a lot of eye makeup keep your lips a nude color. If you don't wear a lot of eye makeup wear a red or pink or burgundy. NEVER wear a lot of eye makeup with a lot of lipstick, you'll look like a clown!)

, make sure each person has two pieces of paper and make them write at least one thing they like about your singing and performance and one thing they didn't like in to a hat or bowl without they're name on them! Then read them listen to what they have to say and make some changes if needed.
 Do not drink milk! and Practice makes perfect, but not too much. You don't want to strain your voice.

