 To stay stable in turns at high speed, it's common to apply only your front brake during the downshift. This should occur on the outside of the lane, opposite the direction you want to turn, and in the straight, just before the grade begins. You should immediately transition from slowing into accelerating into the turn. Higher torque engines have a tendency to spin out in the back tires, so depending on what kind of motor you've got, you may want to downshift more, accordingly. Listen to your bike and get a feel for its capabilities at speed before you try to push it.
This section assumes racing road conditions and dry asphalt.
 As you approach the grade, countersteer away from the turn and lean toward it, at no more than 45 degrees on the angle. You shouldn't have to throw much weight, but you might need to adjust your body position slightly to maintain stability at higher speeds. , More aggressive turns such as those done by competitors on sports bikes may require riders to adjust their body positions, such that the torso is parallel to the bike on the right side, and dropped low beside the fuel tank. Position your head correctly. The helmet should be in a position near the right handlebar and the right leg cocked outward on the peg at about 45 degrees, with the ball of the foot on the peg and the heel up against the bike.
 As soon as you secure yourself in your lean, accelerate the motorcycle through the apex of the turn. Keep your lean angle as stable as possible and accelerate the bike up slowly throughout the turn. The gear you use will depend on many things, the style of the bike, the road conditions, the grade, and the speed that you're traveling. There's no one gear for turning fast.
Maintain a stable lean throughout the apex of the turn, dragging your knee if necessary. The right knee may drag on the ground if properly equipped and the lean angle is aggressive enough, in competitive racing.
 As they exit the grade, racers will right themselves by countersteering back the other direction, into the direction of the turn which was just completed. This should allow you to pop up into a stable, upright position and throttle up. Shift your body back to a centered and low position on the bike for stability.
 Most of the time, you'll need to shift up immediately after a turn to continue accelerating at high speed, having drifted toward the outside edge of the track again.

