 Feeding your bunny a healthy, well-balanced diet is the best way to ensure he gets all of the vitamins he needs. Grass hay is a staple of a bunny’s diet and is an excellent source of vitamins. In addition to being a great vitamin source, grass hay provides your bunny with other nutrients (e.g., protein, carbohydrates, fiber) and helps prevent digestive upset. Give your bunny an unlimited supply of grass hay.Limit your bunny's intake of alfalfa hay. Alfalfa hay is very high in beta-carotene, which is converted to vitamin A. Too much vitamin A could lead to reproductive problems.Alfalfa hay is also high in vitamin D. Vitamin D toxicity can make your bunny very sick., Fresh vegetables are one of the best sources of vitamins for your bunny. A variety of fresh vegetables will give your bunny enough vitamins so that he will not need vitamin supplementation. Examples of vegetables to feed your bunny are leafy greens (e.g., collard, mustard), green peppers, radish tops, and clover.Vitamin A is an essential vitamin for bunnies.Feed your bunny at least one vitamin A-rich vegetable (e.g., collard greens, kale, and spinach) per day.Fresh leafy greens also provide your bunny with vitamin C.To keep your bunny interested in his food, feed him vegetables that have different colors.To ensure he gets all of the vitamins he needs, feed him three different types of vegetables per day.Introduce new vegetables to his diet one at a time to lessen the likelihood of digestive upset. If a certain vegetable gives him diarrhea, remove it from his diet., Pellets are another good vitamin source for bunnies and are nutritionally balanced.Since vitamin D toxicity can make bunnies very sick, commercial rabbit pellets contain only one-third to one-half the toxic amount of vitamin D (≥ 2,300 International Units per kilogram of body weight).Commercial pellets are formulated to contain enough vitamins and minerals to meet your bunny’s nutritional requirements.Vitamins can start breaking down in pelleted food. Store the pellets for only three to four weeks to prevent vitamin loss., Interestingly, bunnies will eat their own feces (‘cecotrophy’) to meet their vitamin needs, particularly the vitamin B complex.As unappetizing as it may seem to you, cecotrophy is a necessary aspect of your bunny’s diet. Bunnies produce two types of feces, one of which is a soft pellet covered with mucus (‘cecotroph’).As soon as your bunny excretes cecotrophs, he will turn around and eat them directly from his anus.If your bunny is obese, he may not be able to reach back to his anus to eat the cecotrophs, resulting in a vitamin deficiency.