


Thank the Universe (God, Life) for the fact you woke up
Give thanks for the bed that kept you comfortable all night, and/or for other things many of us take for granted: family, food, clothing, a job, a place to live, friends, and so on.;
, The Universe is not interested in what plans we have to postpone our happiness on the chance we will attain it in the future. Furthermore, it is not concerned regarding any subconscious desire we might have to retain our psychic obstacles to love no matter our reasons for so doing, and regardless of the origins of those love-blocking strategies. By meditating, we cooperate with the Universe’s wish for us to be happy and clear our mind of any thought that tries to convince us otherwise. Start meditation with a simple request to your mind 
Dear Mind, I am about to enter into meditation. I thank you for being concerned about my well-being and how you look for various solutions to my problems. However, I am now giving you some time off as I take over responsibility for our well-being from a deeper part of Self. I assure you that I will come back to you after a short while and ask that you support this process by not attempting anxiously to reassert your control either by interrupting the meditation, by distracting me or by creating some mini-drama. I want you to know that this process is safe, and that 'you' and 'I' will become stronger, more capable and more resilient as a result. Thank You for your trust and patience.
 When you send love to another person, it will automatically come back to you. Even if you cannot act in a loving way you can always send people love with your thoughts.
 When you begin to lose faith in a cosmic force, (e.g., God, the universe) it is always useful to take note of how far you've come over the past 1 year, 5 years, 10 years, and so on. You will be surprised at how much you've grown.
 Life has a plan that works, we don't. Surrender your own plans to the Universe and take inspired steps based on what life brings to you. You will save yourself a lot of time and a lot of heartache. This can start with a simple prayer "Dear Universe, I do not know what is best for me today, so I leave the blessings in your hands."

, The Ego's agenda, based as it is on faulty interpretations of reality bent to socially and culturally dictated criteria regarding 'fitting in' and 'belonging', can be a troublemaker. It's like a 'sincere friend' who is constantly pressuring you to act in ways that it perceives are in your (really, its) best interests. The ego's agenda is not necessarily healthy or good for you. You can ditch (or, again, discipline) your ego by doing what feels right from a deeper perspective and not according to what you think you 'should' do. You can ditch (train) your ego by loving (accepting, caring about, appreciating) yourself more just the way you are and by no longer judging other people as much.

No, this step is not asking you to go and hug a tree. This step is about going outside and receiving the gifts of the Universe for yourself. See the beauty in the flowers and the sky, listen to birds singing, take time to smell the grass and feel the wind. You may notice that, whilst you're doing any of these things, it's impossible to be unhappy.
 Life is already speaking to you in many ways. Be open and receptive to the messages Life has to offer.
 If you really want to feel the presence of the Universe (following the principle, 'what is without reflects what is within') then take some time to listen to your heartbeat and feel your breath--sense your own presence. You can do this by dancing to your favorite song, for example.
 You are free to make the decision to LOVE. As you learn to love yourself more and as you practice loving others until you become good at it, you will begin to feel love for the whole universe welling up within you. Once you're there, you'll know you've arrived.

