 The more interests you have, the more opportunity you have to connect with others. If you are an interesting person, your friends will want to know more about you and help support you in your endeavours.
 Take up hobbies, anticipate spending time on your own, and generally embrace having time to yourself. If you constantly seek the company of your friends, it may seem needy and overwhelming. Being able to enjoy time to yourself can keep your friendship.Independence and self-reliance will serve you well when there is a prolonged scheduling conflict.
 Having only one friend can put a lot of burden on the relationship. You don’t want someone to feel smothered or like you’re a burden. Allow yourself to develop other friendships so that you have a full support system when you need it., If you remain guarded or keep your friendship at a superficial level, your friend may not think that the relationship is serious enough to keep. Share the important things in your life.

Don’t feel like there needs to be a reciprocity. Some people take longer to open up than others. Communicate as openly as you feel comfortable.
 Avoid having a one way friendship. Make sure that you actively listen to your friend and offer support when you can. A friendship should be mutually beneficial so offer what you can when your friend needs it. Don’t wait for him to ask.Being a good friend means being able to read the situation and anticipate what your friend needs even though she may not know herself. This means being attentive and listening without judgement.
 You don’t want your trust to be breached, and your friend wants to know that you can be trusted as well. Don’t try to force any information out that she doesn’t feel comfortable telling you. Trust needs to be earned., Friendship is meant to be enjoyed. It shouldn’t be taxing or feel like a burden. Do things that make both of you happy and make sure that both of you are getting something positive out of the relationship.
 Check in as often as your schedules will allow. Even if months or years pass, a friendship can continue where you left off if you make the first move. Visit your friend when you can because meeting face to face brings a sense of warmth messages and phone calls can’t.
 Stay warm and upbeat. Having a negative friend may become burdensome. Don’t be afraid to let a negative friend know that her attitude is difficult to deal with and something needs to change.Talk about everyone in a positive light. If you gossip or take down someone behind his back, your friend may think that you act that way when she’s not around.
 No one wants to have a flaky friend. Friendship means that you are there for each other when you need each other most. This doesn’t just mean physical presence but also honest opinions when it’s difficult for your friend to hear.Friends will appreciate that they can count on you to hear the truth and that you will be there for them when you say you will.
 Respect your friend’s feelings and generally respect her as a person. Never disparage her and support her in her endeavors. You want to be a positive addition to her life so have her best intentions in mind.

Accept each other for your individuality. Don’t be judgemental.

