 Aim to buy a purebred puppy from a responsible local Cocker Spaniel breeder. It is a good idea to visit a few local breeders before choosing one from which to buy a puppy. Check local classified listings, talk to area vets, attend dog shows, visit dog parks, and ask other local Cocker Spaniel owners for referrals to reputable breeders. It's best to shop locally so you can meet the puppy first and establish a relationship with a knowledgeable breeder.


Browse the database of Cocker Spaniel breeders at the American Spaniel Club (ASC) website to look for ASC-registered breeders in your state: http://www.asc-cockerspaniel.org/index.php/breeders.html
;
, Ask how many years of experience the breeder has; ideally, they should have at least a few years of experience. Also, ask if they only breed Cocker Spaniel puppies or other breeds as well. If they specialize in Cocker Spaniels, they are more likely to be knowledgeable about them. Be polite and direct with questions like:"Have you been a breeder for many years?"
"Have you only bred Cocker Spaniels?"

, Making sure that your new puppy is healthy is of the utmost concern, and it should be a breeder's primary concern as well. Be sure to ask your breeder if the puppies’ mother is current on her vaccines, as puppies receive their early immunity to disease directly from their mother, and if either parent had any genetic defects. You should also inquire if the puppy will be seen by a vet before it is sold.Conditions like progressive retinal atrophy (PRA), cataracts, glaucoma, cardiomyopathy, and hip dysplasia are common in Cocker Spaniels, so ask if either parent of the litter has been afflicted with any of them., Almost all pet stores puppies come from puppy mills, which are essentially puppy factories with horrible, unhealthy conditions. Given the popularity of the Cocker Spaniel breed, many Cocker Spaniel puppies will be sold in pet stores. Buying your new puppy from a pet store, however, supports and perpetuates the puppy mill business that exploits and harms animals. Dogs raised in pet mills are also likely to carry parasites and suffer from health problems., If you contact a breeder to buy a puppy, make sure to visit the premises before going through with your purchase. Breeders who avoid your visit and offer to deliver the puppy to you are likely trying to hide the true conditions of their breeding operation. If you are not able to see the condition of your puppy’s first home, as well as the state of its mother, you should not trust the breeder you are dealing with., Given the popularity of Cocker Spaniels and their unfortunate appeal to exploitative breeders, you should be vigilant about who you are doing business with.Puppy mill breeders are concerned with profit above all else, so they will likely fall all over you to make the sale while evading questions about their business. Steer clear of any breeders who are  not forthcoming or secretive.Responsible breeders invest time and care into their puppies and are more likely to be choosy about who they do business with, and express interest in the conditions of the new home the dog will be going to.

