 Formal requirements for executing a valid will vary from state to state. Before you create a will, you will need to review the requirements for your particular state to ensure that your will is enforceable upon your death. Generally, a will must be:In writing (either handwritten or typed)Made by a person who is at least 18 years of age and able to understand the full meaning of the document.Signed by the testator (person making the will) and two witnesses.;
, If you are married, it is important that you determine whether you live in a community property or common law state before you write your will. This distinction is important to ensuring that the terms of your will are carried out as you intended upon your death. Community property states include: Arizona, California, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, and Alaska.
All other states follow the common law.
In community property states, all property acquired during a marriage (known as "marital property") is divided equally between the spouses. Upon his death, each spouse can dispose of his one-half share of marital property however he wishes. However, he may not give away his spouse's share of marital property. This means that if a wife writes a will bequeathing her entire estate to her daughter, one half of her estate will automatically be given to her husband instead, regardless of the terms of her will. The only way to avoid this outcome is by agreeing to a different arrangement with your spouse in a prenuptial agreement.
In common law states, a surviving spouse is not entitled to a one-half interest in all property acquired during marriage. However, common law states still protect a surviving spouse from complete disinheritance, usually by guaranteeing that he receive at least one third of the deceased spouse's property. Just as in community property states, this outcome can be overcome by entering a prenuptial agreement that sets forth a different arrangement.
 If you wish to ensure that your spouse receives less than one-half or one-third of your estate (depending on the exact proportion mandated by the law in your state), you will need to enter a prenuptial contract in which you agree to a different arrangement. Write a contract that specifies what each spouse is entitled to receive upon death.
To be valid, both parties must voluntarily agree to the contract, fully disclose their situations at the time the contract is executed and sign the contract before a public notary. In addition, the agreement must be fair to both parties. Keep in mind that, even if you write a prenuptial agreement specifying the share of your estate that will pass to your spouse upon your death, you will still need to a will that outlines the remaining distribution of your estate.
 If you have made a trust designating a beneficiary to receive property upon your death, you will need to review this document before creating your will. Unlike those assets specified in your will, any assets included in your trust will transfer to the named beneficiary upon your death without passing through probate. Make sure that you are aware of what assets (if any) you have in a trust and do not include those assets for distribution in your will.
 Identify the persons or organizations to whom you wish to bequeath your assets upon your death, for example, your children, spouse or favorite charity. Also, consider what portion of your estate would go to each beneficiary. Take into account unexpected scenarios, such as you, your spouse and children dying at the same time. How would you want to distribute your estate under those circumstances?

, When one parent dies, the other parent is usually awarded custody of minor children. However, if the other parent is unfit to care for your children or if you and your spouse die at the same time, the court and your family will look to your will to decide who will become the guardian of your children. Identify at least two people who could serve as guardians for your children. This will ensure you have a backup if one person is no longer available to care for your children at the time of your death.
Discuss your decision with potential guardians before naming them in your will.
 In your will, you will need to name one person to assume the responsibility of distributing your assets and paying your debts in accordance with your will. This person is known as the "executor." It is important that you choose a person who is both trustworthy and organized.Avoid naming a beneficiary of the will to also serve as the executor if you think it might create a conflict of interest. For example, if you are leaving a portion of your estate to your daughter, you may not want to name her to be the executor if it might create the appearance among her siblings that she will carry out the terms of the will to her advantage.Check your state's laws before selecting a non-resident as your executor. Some states do not permit non-residents to serve as the executor of a will.Do not choose an executor who is a minor, convicted felon or non U.S. citizen., While it is possible to create a valid will on your own, there are certain circumstances in which you are particularly advised to hire an attorney to prepare your will. Consider hiring an attorney if:You have an estate that you estimate will be worth over one million dollars at the time of your death. An attorney can help you avoid costly estate taxes.
You have complex family relationships.
You want to cut out a close relative (such as your child) from your will.
You are unsure about how to comply with your state's requirements for executing a valid will.
 No state requires specific language to make a will. However, it may be helpful to use a template as a guide for what language to include in your will. Will templates can generally be found in books, software, and online programs.Will software and online programs are the best choice for tailoring a will to your particular situation. They ask you a series of questions intended to identify the key facts needed to make you a customized will.Some states offer statutory forms that conform to the requirements of a valid will for that particular state. The downside to these forms is that they tend to be very simple and do not address many of the possible scenarios you may wish to include in your will. These templates can usually be found online, often on state Bar websites.If not using a statutory form, keep in mind the template you are using may not have been made in accordance with the laws in your state. For this reason, it is very important that you review the requirements for your state to ensure that your will is valid.
 Your will should begin with a clause identifying who you are and declaring that the present document is a will.For example: "I, John Smith, a resident of the State of California, Alameda County, declare that this is my will."

, The main purpose of your will is to state the persons or organizations to whom you wish to give away your property after you die. For this reason, it is important that you state the names of your intended beneficiaries as clearly as possible.State the name of the person (or organization), the exact property or dollar amount you wish to give them and the name of a second person (or organization) to whom the property should be transferred if the first person dies before you. For example: "I leave $5,000 to my son, Eli Taylor. If Eli Taylor does not survive me, I leave this property to my cousin, Elizabeth Johnson."If you wish for your money to be used for a specific purpose, make that clear. For example: "I leave $10,000 to the University of Wisconsin to be used for financial aid."

, Your will should specify who you wish to administer the distribution of your estate. This role is referred to as the "executor."


Include both your preferred executor and an alternate executor who you also trust to perform this role in the event that your first choice is not available at the time of your death. For example: "I name Maria Rodriguez to serve as my executor. If Maria Rodriguez is unwilling or unable to serve as executor, I name Oliver Dunn to serve as my executor."Insert a separate clause granting your executor the authority to manage your estate until it has been fully distributed. For example: "I direct my executor to take all actions legally permissible to have the probate of my will done as simply and as free of court supervision as possible under the laws of the state having jurisdiction over this will, including filing a petition in the appropriate court for the independent administration of my estate.", If you have minor children, include a provision naming all of your children and stating who should be appointed to care for them in the event that you die.Beware that if you share custody of your children with another parent, and the second parent survives you, that person will have custody of your children. The purpose of the guardianship provision is to direct the appointment of a third person, who does not currently have custody of your children, if neither of you is available to care for them.
“For example: "If my wife does not survive me, and it is necessary to appoint a guardian, I appoint John and Melissa Smith to act as guardians of my children. If, for any reason, John and Melissa Smith are unable or unwilling to serve as guardians to my children, I appoint Sara and Jim Donahue guardians of my children."

, In addition to stating how you would like for your property to be distributed, your will should also address how your debts and taxes should be paid.Example provision for debts: "Except for liens and encumbrances placed on property as security for the repayment of a loan or debt, I direct that all debts and expenses owed by my estate be paid using the following assets: Account #1822 at Rhode Island Savings Bank."
Example provision for taxes: "I direct that all estate and inheritance taxes assessed against property in my estate or against my beneficiaries to be paid using the following asset: Account #1822 at Rhode Island Savings Bank."

, Most states require that you sign your will. If you fail to include a signature, your will could be found invalid.Include a clause at the end of the document with your printed name, signature and date. , Most states require at least one witness to be present when you sign your will. Check the laws of your state for the exact number of witnesses required.
Include a declaration signed by your witnesses stating that they observed you willingly sign your will: "We, the witnesses, sign our names to this document, and declare that the testator willingly signed and executed this document as the testator's last will.", You should store your will in a place where you know your executor will be able to find it easily upon your death.If you choose to store your will in a safe deposit box, make sure your executor and beneficiaries know exactly where the safe deposit box is located. In addition, if you live in a state that requires a court order to open the safe deposit box of another person, be sure that you grant your executor with the necessary authority to be able to access the box upon your death.
If you store your will at home, place it in a waterproof or fireproof safe and tell your executor and family members exactly where it is. Also, give them clear instructions for opening the safe.

