 Select fabric that matches with your décor or storage area. It can be fabric you already own or you might wish to purchase fabric especially for the project.;
, You'll need to cut the fabric for the narrow ends, the long sides and the lid, as follows:


Measure the narrow ends of the shoebox, allowing for an equal overlap around the edges of 5cm/2 inches width and 7.5cm/3 inches to the depth. Using this measurement, cut two squares of fabric.
Measure the sides of the shoebox, making the length just slightly short of the full side length and allowing for an overlap of 7.5cm/3 inches for the depth of each side. Using this measurement, cut two rectangles of fabric.
Measure the lid. The measurement should be the same as the lid plus double the depth of the lid's sides. Cut a fabric rectangle to this dimension.
 Attach the end fabric pieces first. Ensuring that the fabric piece overlaps equally all of the way around, adhere it to the first end with fabric glue. At the corners, cut into the fabric to make vertical slits that will allow you to fold the fabric down around the corner. Spread the glue into the areas of overlap, then press down all the overlapping edges of the fabric, sticking the side overlaps first, then the top and finally, the base overlap.


Be sure to smooth out the fabric as you go.
 Check that the overlap is equal. Glue the fabric to the sides, ensuring that the overlap is glued inside the box and under it.


Be sure to smooth out the fabric as you go.
 Place the fabric facing wrong side up onto a flat surface. Apply glue to the shoebox lid, then carefully place it down onto the fabric, taking care to ensure that there is even overlap all of the way around the lid. Turn the lid over and smooth out the fabric. Cut the corner edges into a slit to make it easy to fold over the fabric. Then glue the overlap pieces over the sides and tuck them under to complete the cover.
 Once dried, add embellishments if using, such as gluing on a bow, some buttons or drawing a design on the fabric with fabric markers or paint. Alternatively, simply leave the covered shoebox as it is.


If you want to know what the box contains, glue on a fabric label and use a fabric marker or fabric paint to stencil on the word representing the contents.
 The fabric covered shoebox is now ready for using as storage. Items that will fit well inside include photos, jewelry, craft supplies, small bottles, perfumes, herbs and spices in their containers, clothes pins, and so forth.

