 Being accountable for your actions can help you stay the course in meeting your goal. Talk to someone who is supportive or perhaps even shares a similar goal as you. Ask them if they would like to be accountable with you. This means checking in with one another in each other’s progress toward a goal. Checking in with someone can help give you an extra push to stick with it.For example, if you’re studying for exams and having a hard time staying motivated and focused, team up with someone else and be sure to ask each other how you did by the end of the day.
 You must maintain a strong mindset to be 100 % responsible for your own life. You are in full control of your life and the choices that you make. No one else is responsible or accountable for any of your actions in life, and no one can make you do or feel anything you don’t want to.

Also, keep in mind that what others do with their life is not of your concern and not for you to own. People often focus on the lives of others, ignoring the fact that they have their own life to live. People may blame others or the government for their own personal woes. Take this opportunity to step out of the “victim mode”, take control of your own life, and start taking responsibility for your own actions.
 Use rewards to stay on track. When your motivation begins to dwindle, find small things that can help keep you going until you complete your project. For example, set mini goals and find little rewards for each one you complete. This may be eating a special treat (like cake or a brownie), watching a movie or TV show, or buying something small.Rewarding yourself for your hard work can help you stay motivated for the little goals in order to help you meet the big goal.
For example, if you’re trying to run a marathon, figure out how many hours you need to run each week. When you meet the week’s goal, celebrate by taking a day off to do a fun activity, like disc golf or painting.
 Notice what feelings or thoughts motivate you to reach your goals. Think about how achieving the goal feels. Maybe you’re trying to achieve a goal that isn’t outwardly rewarding and are struggling to stay with it. Remember what feelings keep you going. For example, you may like a challenge or enjoy learning for curiosity's sake.Sometimes, the feeling you get when you turn in a project or make a presentation makes all the hard work worth it. Even if you don’t get recognition or any outward advancement, it feels good to do something good for yourself or someone else.

