 If you can't seem to connect your Nook to the internet, your very first step should be to make sure your device's Wi-Fi is on with the following steps:Tap the Settings button in the top right (it looks like a small gear)
Look at the "Wi-Fi" option. If the slider next to it is in the "off" position, move it to the "on" position.
Look at the "Airplane Mode"option. If the slider next to it is in the "on" position, move it to the "off" position.
To recap, you want Wi-Fi on and Airplane Mode off to connect to the internet.
 If you can't find your preferred network out of the list of available ones, one potential quick fix is to simply reset your Wi-Fi connection with the following steps:


Tap the Settings button in the top right (it looks like a small gear)
Move the slider next to "Wi-Fi" from "on" to "off," wait a few seconds, and switch it back.
 One reason you may not be getting a good Wi-Fi connection is that you're simply too far away from the source of the signal. Try moving right next to your Wi-Fi router and connecting again.
 If you know that your home network is operating but you can't see it on your Nook, it may be set to run as a hidden network. To add it manually, use these steps:Tap the Settings button in the top right.
Tap "All Settings."
Tap "Wireless & Bluetooth."
Tap on "Find other networks."
Tap "Add Network."
Enter your network's information and finish by pressing "Save."

, Sometimes, if you don't have the most current software on your device, you may run into connectivity problems. Luckily, this is easy to find out — just use the following steps:


Tap the Settings button, then go to "All Settings."
Tap "Device Information."
Tap "Software version."
Use the Software Update pages on the Nook HD support site to determine whether you have the latest software version.If you do not, follow the instructions on the page to get the latest version — you'll need to download it to your computer, then transfer it to your Nook.
Alternatively, if you can get internet access somewhere else, go there and tap "Check for updates."

, Some problems may require more assistance than can be provided online. If you've tried everything else, call 1-800-THE-BOOK (1-800-843-2665) to talk to a support specialist.