 Turn on the hot and cold faucets until the water is lukewarm. Then hold your brush under the stream of water for five to ten seconds to rinse it, rotating it around so that the water hits all sides of the brush.The pressure of the water helps to dislodge paint that you may not have been able to clean just from wiping the brush.
 After five to ten seconds of letting the water stream over the brush, use your fingers to gently pinch the bristles of the brush.


At this point, the brush may appear clean, but it’s still necessary to keep cleaning with soap.
 Turn off the water, then put about a teaspoon of gentle soap or artist’s soap onto the bristles of the brush. Use your fingers to massage the soap into the bristles of the brush.You can also use shampoo in the place of soap.
If you are washing a big brush, make sure that you are massaging the soap into the inner bristles as well as the outer bristles.
It’s important to work the soap into the place on the brush where the bristles meet the ring around the stem of the brush, which is called the ferrule. Neglecting to clean the area of bristles around the ferrule will eventually spread out the bristles and alter the shape of the brush.
 Turn the water back on until it is lukewarm again. Then place the brush under the water. After the bubbly, soapy water stops streaming off the brush, use your fingers to massage the bristles and remove the last of the soap.
 After rinsing out the soap, squirt a dime-sized amount of soap in the palm of your hand. Hold the brush in your other hand and swirl the bristles of the brush around in the soap.


Swirling the paintbrush in soap helps to target paint in the hard-to-reach area of the brush around the ferrule.
The swirling motion mimics how you used your brush when painting, with the result that the soap reaches the areas of the brush where there might still be paint.
 After you swirl the brush around the soap in your palm, the brush should be completely clean. Hold it under lukewarm water, then massage the last of the soap out of the bristles., It’s not good for brushes to be wet for extended periods of time. After you finish rinsing out the soap, wrap the bristles of the brush in a paper towel or a clean rag, then gently squeeze to release water.Lay your brushes out to dry horizontally. Storing them vertically on their bristles can bend the bristles out of shape.

