 Anti-mold or antifungal sprays are available at most drug stores and supermarkets. Check the label for instructions, and to make sure the product is safe for use on carpets. Antifungal treatments designed for kitchen or bathroom cleaning could potentially discolor or damage carpet.


Products that include an "encapsulate" treatment or "mold barrier" are designed to leave a clear barrier on the carpet fibers, preventing future mold growth. This is recommended for carpets kept in humid conditions.
A mixture of bleach and water can be used instead of a commercial solution. Mix half a cup of bleach with a gallon of water.You may want to use color-safe bleach and test it on a corner of your carpet first to make sure that it will not cause discoloration.
 Carpet cleaning products that contain deodorizers will remove the mildewy smell as well as fighting the mold itself. Follow the instructions on the product label, since products vary.


Some people report success with Vanish detergent products for carpets.
 Some mold removal products are based on chlorine dioxide, but be aware that this chemical can alter the carpet's color. Test first on a small area normally covered by furniture, following the product label's instructions. Depending on the product, you may need access to a wet vacuum to remove it from the carpet after use.


Work in a well-ventilated area while using chlorine dioxide products, as they can produce vapors that irritate the lungs and eyes. Move to a different room if you feel short of breath or start coughing., Specialized steam cleaning vacuums are available for homeowners to rent, and can be effective at removing persistent mold. Drying the carpet quickly afterward is vital, or the water used in this method will remain and encourage new mold growth. Use a blow dryer, or keep the carpet in direct sunlight and blow a fan over it.


Do not try to steam clean your carpet without a specialized machine. Applying steam or hot water can easily shrink or damage your carpet if done incorrectly.
 Professionals may have greater experienced identifying specific mold, as well as access to specialized machines and chemicals. If you have already tried steam cleaning, hire a professional to conduct dry ice blasting or another, different treatment.
 If faced with major mold colonies that have grown onto the carpet backing, you may decide that replacement is a more effective use of time and money. When cutting out the damaged carpet, cut an additional 12 inch (30 centimeter) border on all sides to ensure total removal.


If you do this, you may find that there is mold on the floor beneath the carpet. In this case, make sure that you thoroughly treat the area before replacing the carpet.

