 If possible, get a list of cab services that work the area you’ll be in. For instance, if you’re landing at an airport, contact an airport representative to find out which taxi services utilize the airport. Then, look up their rates so that when you land, you won’t have to guess which taxi service offers the best rates.Some taxis use fixed rates, while others are metered and determine the cost of a trip based on its distance.
 Even when you’re in a metered cab, it’s a good idea to show the cab driver you’ve done your homework. This way, they will be less likely to chisel you. For instance, before you get into the cab, lean inside and tell the driver your destination. Then add, “That should be about , right?”If the drivers says they don’t know, or simply encourages you to hop in and negotiate later, move on to another taxi.
 If your cab has a broken meter (the device at the front of the cab that has a sequence of numbers) and you don’t notice, the cabbie might charge an inflated and arbitrary amount of money once you arrive at your destination. To avoid this, check the meter as soon as you get in the car. If it is not on, ask your cabbie to turn it on. If they say it cannot be turned on, get out and find another cab or come to an agreement about the fare before they start driving., Before you get in the cab, you should not only check to ensure the meter is operating, but also check to ensure the meter is turned to zero. If your driver’s meter is already running, you’ll end up paying for time that you weren’t in the cab, and that would be unfair., Never use a cab that doesn’t have a license plate or identification card somewhere on it. These are typically used by thieves or kidnappers. Using an unlicensed or unmarked taxi could save money, but it could also get you in a world of trouble, so steer clear of them., If you insist on making your driver take the route that measures the shortest distance to your destination, your trip might actually take longer than it would if you traveled a route that measures a greater distance, but can be traversed more quickly. Ask for the quickest route, not the shortest, to save money when traveling by taxi.Your cabbie should know the quickest route to your destination.
Do not assume that your cab driver is chiseling you just because they take you a way that you did not expect.It is possible that they are taking an alternate route to avoid construction, heavy traffic, or another impediment that only they would know about based on their long experience driving the local roads.

