 Everybody is attracted to people who can do cool things. Now, you probably already have a talent or the potential for a talent that you don't know about. You need to find that talent and feed it. Even if it isn't a classically attractive talent like playing an instrument, nurturing your talent and spending time with people who do the same thing will give you the opportunity to meet girls who enjoy the same things you do.


You can always learn a new talent too. Drawing is a good one, since it is a skill that can be learned, rather than something that really requires innate talent.
 Don't be the guy who sits at home all weekend, eating Funyuns and playing COD. There's nothing wrong with being introverted, but you still need to spend your time doing exciting things. If you're introverted, start writing a book or teaching yourself an art. If you're more comfortable talking to people and getting outside, go do those things. Join a club, go hiking, volunteer, whatever. Just make your life about something. You want to have something to talk to girls about, don't you?


If you're going to insist on playing COD, you better plan on becoming a championship winning competitive player because that's basically what it's going to take.
 While you're probably not walking around, if you have a bad attitude and you treat other people poorly, you are going to have a hard time attracting women. Even if you're nice to women you want to date but a total jerk to everyone else, women will notice. Be nice, legitimately nice, and respectful towards everyone and women will be reasonably assured that they can always expect the same.
 Be stable by having a good job, doing the things you say that you will, and generally being responsible. Don't think that women want you to have an awesome job so that they'll be taken care of; they just want to know that you won't be a dead weight! Just like you might not want to have to support a girl who does nothing, women don't want a guy who sits around all day eating Cheetos. If you show her that you can pay your bills and hold down a good job, she'll be much more likely to want to date you.
 Being her knight in armor isn't about treating her like she can't do things for herself. It's about giving her the tools she needs to rescue herself. Be emotionally supportive when she's had a bad day. Help her talk through her problems so that she can find a solution. When she asks you for help or advice, give it, without judgement or criticism. Find ways that you can make her life easier and help her achieve the things she wants for her life.
 You could be Jon Hamm, it doesn't matter: women are not obligated to want to date you. Remember that. Just think, if some girl you found unattractive and boring started shouting about how you were a loser or something, how would you feel? Sometimes people just don't connect. That's not your fault and it's not her fault either. Just keep trying and you'll find Ms. Perfect.

