 Although clearly influenced by singers like Janet Jackson, Madonna, and Tina Turner, Beyonce didn't set out to look or be just like some celebrity. She forged her own path and wrote her own recipe for success. You can't look just like Beyonce, and shouldn't try, if you want to really be like Beyonce.


Instead, learn what makes you look good and develop your own personal sense of style, based on your likes and dislikes, and your body style.
Dress your age, but dress well. Look elegant. Beyonce always looks stylish, regardless of what she's doing, and how formal the event.
 Beyonce's stage presence requires her to be in the peak of cardiovascular health. Whatever you do for a living, whatever your age, whatever type of body you have, it's a good idea to be active. Exercise a few times a week to stay in shape and make your physical health a priority.


It doesn't have to be a drag. Great, easy, Beyonce-like way to exercise? Crank up "I Am...Sasha Fierce" and dance like a fool. Sweat it out on the dancefloor.
Beyonce does interval training, switching back and forth between high-intensity and endurance exercises during a given period of time, to keep your body burning calories.
 Beyonce eats a healthy three square meals a day, focusing on whole grains, fresh fruits, and vegetables. On a recent tour, both she and Jay-Z even experimented with a "vegan" challenge for 22 days straight.You don't have to go all the way vegan if you don't want to, but eating a clean diet and avoiding simple carbohydrates, fatty foods, and sugars is a good idea for everyone.
 It's important to do what feels comfortable to you, regardless of what other people might tell you, or what is currently trendy, or what other people are doing. If you want to put makeup on, go for it. If you don't feel like putting makeup on, that's fine too. Don't depend on anything external to feel confident about yourself.


One of the great and notable and inspirational things about Beyonce Knowles is that she's not a rail-thin flake of a woman. She's got curves, and she proves to people everywhere that you don't have to fit into an unrealistic body-type mold to be sexy. Be proud of the body you have. That's sexy.
 Beyonce's hair is dynamic, flowing, sexy, and ombre. It's one of the first things you notice about any picture of Beyonce. Instead of having the two colors merge in the middle of the hair, her roots are a dark brown or black, while the rest of her hair is blonde.


At the hairdresser, go for a dynamic look like Beyonce has, coloring your hair if it's lighter, or getting highlights if it's already light.
Alternatively, just dig the hair you have. Natural hair is perfectly Beyonce-esque. It's more about attitude and less about looks anyway.
 Flash tattoos are temporary metallic tattoos that Beyonce has been wearing lately, on her Instagram feed. You can order these online for relatively cheap to try tapping into your "fierce" side.

