 First, find out if you have any triggers that cause ulcer pain. Triggers are any foods and beverages that make your stomach pain worse. When you learn your triggers, and avoid them.


This may involve keeping track of foods and beverages that cause you any problems. Start with the common triggers, like spicy foods, foods with high acidity, alcohol, caffeine, or foods with high fat content.Add any foods or beverages that you are sensitive to. This is a simple process of writing down the foods you eat and seeing how you feel about one hour after eating. If the food you ate an hour ago is bothering you, you should eliminate that food from your diet.
 Eating a healthy diet full of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains can help reduce ulcer pain and stomach irritation. Most fruits and vegetables (with the exception of those in the citrus and tomato family), and whole grains won’t irritate your stomach. Plus, eating vitamin-rich foods will support your body’s healing so you can get rid of the ulcer.Avoid coffee and alcohol.
Getting more fiber from fruits and vegetables can help prevent new ulcers from developing and heal ulcers.Foods rich in probiotics might help your ulcer. These include yogurt, sauerkraut, dark chocolate, pickles, and soy milk.
Cutting milk from your diet may be able to provide some relief.Eventually, you will find the list of foods that cause your ulcer to hurt . Eliminating those foods will decrease your ulcer pain quickly.
 One way to help relieve ulcer pain is to decrease the amount of food you eat at any one time. This reduces the stress on your stomach, reduces the amount of acid in your stomach at any time, and can decrease your stomach pain., Don’t eat for two to three hours before bedtime. This helps reduce the risk of acid refluxing into the esophagus as you try to sleep., Another way to help your ulcer is to wear loose clothing. Wear clothing that doesn’t constrict your stomach or abdomen. This removes any extra added pressure that could irritate your ulcer., If you quit smoking, it can help with ulcer pain. Smoking has many negative effects, including increasing stomach acid and increasing stomach pain. By stopping smoking, you can eliminate unnecessary acid and pain in your stomach., If self-treatment, prescription medication, or lifestyle changes do not reduce your pain, you should visit your doctor again. Your doctor may be able to check if other underlying conditions or complications are causing your pain.