 Dogs and all pets need professional healthcare to maintain their optimal level of health. Take your pup to the vet once or twice a year for checkups and vaccinations. This gives your vet an opportunity to check for signs of common health concerns, answer health or nutrition questions you may have, and offer recommendations for improving your dog’s health., Common indicators include bad breath or drooling; changes in appetite, activity levels, or sleep patterns; breathing troubles or congestion; digestive issues; and others. Also talk to your vet about common illnesses and symptoms for your dog’s breed., This should include Neosporin, latex gloves, cotton balls, peroxide or rubbing alcohol, gauze, and a list of phone numbers of local veterinary and emergency clinics you can call. This ensures you’re prepared to help your pup if it’s injured or sick. Always let your vet know if your pup is hurt or unwell. You may think the concern is no big deal, but the smallest issues can develop into serious canine health concerns.Keep a dog first aid guidebook handy, or bookmark a website such as http://www.humanesociety.org/animals/resources/tips/pet_first_aid_kit.html.
 Unless you plan to breed your pet intentionally, you should consider sterilization for their safety and to control the canine population. Spaying and neutering at a young age will not dramatically impact your pet’s health, and once they’re healed, they will not experience any of the common hormonal fluctuations and stressful bodily changes that accompany canine reproduction. Removing this bodily stress allows them to remain healthier longer.Some experts believe spaying or neutering reduces cancer risks, but there are also studies that indicate the opposite. It may be that “fixed” dogs live longer and therefore have greater odds of eventually developing cancer., You can purchase nutritionally complete dog foods that contain appropriate amounts of protein, fat, and vitamins based on your dog’s breed, size, and age. Talk to your vet about what foods are available to promote your dog’s health, and always read your pet food ingredients to ensure real, whole foods are listed rather than unrecognizable, chemical additives. You may also want to consider preparing meals for your dog at home. Again, the best place to start is with a visit to your vet for recommendations.


Always have fresh water available to your dog to ensure they are hydrated.
Don’t give too many treats. They are often high in sugar, and over time, too many treats will lead to weight gain. A number of canine health concerns such as hip dysplasia and diabetes are exacerbated by excess weight., There are a number of products made specifically for dogs, and you can also use those intended for human consumption in some cases. Talk to a vet before giving your pup any vitamins, minerals, or other supplemental health products. These supplements are typically available in liquid, chews, and pills.


Include glucosamine and chondroitin for dogs with joint trouble.
Provide fiber supplements for pets who have digestive concerns.
Calcium is essential for puppies who are still developing strong bones.
Use prebiotics to improve your dog’s digestive system and immune health.
Omega fatty acids improve joint health, promote memory, and provide necessary calories to keep your dog active., Dogs feel safest when they are enclosed, so giving them a dog house or crate that is comfortable and includes toys and treats that they like makes them feel secure. You can also give your dog their own bed. While it’s not enclosed, having a place of their own where they feel comfortable is a great way to keep your dog happy.


Crates or dog houses should not be used just for transportation or as a punishment.
Make sure crates and beds provide adequate padding to protect your dog from putting too much pressure or strain on joints., It's important to maintain your pup's healthy weight, muscles, and longevity. The stronger your pup is, the easier their movement will be, and the longer they'll live. Your dog doesn't need to do a special canine yoga class to stay in shape. A daily walk or a game of fetch is just as effective. However, Doga (dog yoga) can be fun too!


Keeping larger dogs moving is essential to prevent common concerns like dysplasia in these big breeds.
If weight is a concern, ask your vet about using weighted backpacks to assist your dog in losing extra pounds, or to make the most out of shorter walks.