 The Galaxy 5S uses some special effects animation, which looks like rippling water or exploding colors every time you unlock the screen. All of these animations look beautiful but drain your phone's battery without contributing to its functionality. These animations only end up detracting from time that you could have utilized in surfing net, checking your email, or using apps.


In order to turn off all the animation, you’ll need to turn off the lock screen special effects, home screen transitions, and animation in general.;
, Many manufacturers install various applications as a part of factory settings. These apps are often loaded with number of bloatware, which could be anything ranging from shopping apps to useless services. Some of them keep running in the background, even when you're not using them. This can eat up precious system memory and make your device run slowly.


It is not always possible or easy to delete these preinstalled apps completely, but you can disable them. Go to the app screen and select "Uninstall/Disable Apps" from the menu. Select the app you want to remove, and tap to disable it or uninstall it completely.
 The phone's voice assistant, S Voice, gets activated by default if you double tap the home key on the screen. With this enabled, every time you tap the home button the system waits for a second tap, ultimately slowing down the response speed. On turning this key off, the system will directly take you to the home instantly as you tap it.


To disable S voice, open the S Voice app. From the main menu, select Settings, and set "Open via home key" to off.
 Every application you run on your phone stores a cache on the storage system. With time, as the stock of cache gets larger, the system slows down. Prevent this by deleting the cache on a regular basis. This will help your device become faster.


You can install an app cache cleaner from the Google Play store. Clean your app caches manually, or set up an automatic process to do it regularly.
 Various social networking and even some shopping applications use the internet constantly, looking for updates and notifications. That way they are not only consuming your internet and battery life, but also occupying the space and slowing your phone down. Turn these features off to preserve battery and speed up your phone.

