 Go together to pick out a set of rings that the two of your can agree on. Buying a wedding ring is a big, expensive decision, and it’s one that the two of you should make together. This way you can confer about what you like and don’t like, keep each other’s expectations in check and even come to an agreement on a set of matching rings. Whatever the case, make sure you’re both present and have equal say in the matter.Your wedding ring is one of the only pieces of jewelry that you’ll wear for years to come—perhaps even the rest of your life—so it only makes sense to bring your partner along to pick it out.
Schedule a day when you and your partner can devote several hours to visiting jewelry stores and looking at rings together.
 To choose a wedding ring that's right for you and your partner, you should consider the many different kinds of metals used to make rings. Gold and platinum are time-honored favorites, but a host of other materials are available to you in addition to these options: silver is another popular rare metal, and is sometimes mixed with gold and other metals to create unique amalgamations of color and shine. Aside from the traditional metals, you also have benefits of modern metals like cobalt, tungsten and titanium, which are renowned for their durability, vibrancy and ease of cleaning. It's important to communicate with your partner to achieve the right look and construction of your wedding rings.In addition to being harder and more durable, you may also be able to save money by opting for some of the more modern material choices.
Your ring doesn't have to be metal at all—take cues from other cultural traditions and look at rings fashioned from precious stones like jade, or even bohemian alternatives like wood or bone., If you happen to be on the hunt for a one-of-a-kind wedding ring or you’re buying the ring as a surprise, go armed with an awareness of your significant other’s affinities. Do they have a favorite metal that they tend to accessorize in? Are they partial to any particular colors, inlays or band styles? Study your partner’s jewelry collection or bring it up casually in conversation beforehand to be able to tailor your search for something that you know they’ll love.It is a major plus if the ring you buy is consistent with the other jewelry and accessories your partner typically wears.
 Aim to find a pair of rings that suits you and your partner's specific needs. One of the most important truths to keep in mind is that there’s no such thing as a perfect ring, only a perfect ring for you. With this in mind, you should stay focused on you and your partner’s preferences, uniqueness and buying power and stop convincing yourself that there exists a “best” ring out there. If it meets the criteria you’ve set, symbolizes your devotion to one another and makes you smile when you look at it, it’s perfect.


There is an almost limitless variety of metals, moldings, sizes and styles available, and you’ll never be able to look at all of them. Instead, keep a clear image in mind of what best represents you and your partner.

