 The largest banks offer advantages in the way of economies of scale. Because they are larger than the other players in the market, they can afford a smaller profit margin than smaller lenders. They can therefore offer lower rates than smaller lenders. Since less money is the best money, these lenders should be the first ones you approach. Nonetheless, the larger lenders tend to be more conservative with respect to construction and development loans than community banks.For example, a 2% margin on $1 million is $20,000. A 5% margin on $250,000 is only $12,500.
The larger banks are more conservative for a couple reasons. One, they don’t know as much about a local market as a community bank does. There are always idiosyncratic and hard-to-quantify factors that can make something a good or bad risk, and these are more difficult to identify from afar. Two, even if a larger bank is less leveraged than an smaller bank, the absolute dollar value is still a factor—a $1 billion shortfall is nearly always a bigger deal than a $100,000 shortfall.
 As mentioned above, a community bank will have greater expertise about a local market than a national bank. They are the primary source of financing for building projects across the US. This expertise can make it easier to sell a community bank on your “story of the loan” than it would a larger bank. In addition, since it’s more difficult for a community bank to make money from massive amounts of smaller home and auto loans, they have to be more aggressive in finding sources of profit.While an older community bank might be able to give you a better rate, new local banks are typically looking more aggressively for opportunities to profit. While they may not be able to lend quite as much, they might be more willing to take a risk where a more established lender doesn’t see the need.
 Non-regulated lenders (usually called “financial groups” or “investment partners”) can be good sources for funding if banks turn you down. As a matter of course, these lenders usually look for equity in the projects they finance. They are therefore less likely to emphasize your financial position and more likely to emphasize your ability to complete the project and the value of the completed project.While these loans are usually higher interest, they are also usually “non-recourse” loans. A non-recourse loan is a loan that allows the lender to seize the collateral asset but nothing else.
Make sure you’ve really boned up on the details of the market before you ask a lender of this type for a loan. One of the ways they estimate a builder’s ability to execute the project is by asking more detailed questions about the local market than more conventional lenders. Pay particular attention to similar types of construction projects underway or scheduled to get underway, the selling prices of similar units in the area, and the prospective demand levels by the time your project will be completed.
 Private investors are not institutions at all, but wealthy individuals searching for investment opportunities. As such, it’s difficult to make many generalizations about them. However, you can expect a few things as a matter of course:The story of the loan and your ability to execute the project will probably be more important to this type of lenders than other types of lenders.
Private investors are far more likely to charge higher interest rates and/or shares of equity. In addition, loans from private investors are NOT usually non-recourse loans. If you fail to pay back the investors, they can attempt to seize as many of your assets as they need to in order to satisfy the debt.

