 Not all alcoholic drinks have the same amount of calories. If your favorite drink has a lot of calories, consider switching to a drink that has a lower caloric content. Consider a light beer or hard liquor without mixers, which add calories and sugar. Be aware of how many calories are in your drinks to help keep within your daily allowance.An average beer has around 215 calories.
A glass of wine will generally contain 126 calories.
Moderately active males should limit caloric intake to 2,800 calories a day.Females who are moderately active should maintain a caloric intake of 2,220 calories a day., Mixed drinks and cocktails can have extra ingredients which contain calories of their own. Any drinks that have added sodas, sugars, juice, or alcohol will also have added calories. These added calories can lead to weight gain.Use calorie-free or low-calorie ingredients when making a mixed drink. Try club soda or seltzer. Ask for diet mixers, such as diet tonic water or diet ginger ale or Coke.
Combining two or more types of alcohol will also combine the amount of calories in each type.
Many drink mixers contain a large amount of sugar. Excess sugar consumption should be avoided when trying to lose or maintaining weight.
 Combining moderate alcohol consumption with a healthy diet can be a great way to enjoy food and drink while maintaining a healthy weight. Make sure your diet is nutritious and your drinks aren't contributing excess calories.


Limit sugar intake. Excess sugar in a diet can lead to weight gain and health issues. Limit your daily intake of sugar to 100 calories worth or around six to nine teaspoons.
Protein should be a critical part of your diet. Favor plant-based sources of protein such as beans or lentils. Meat- and poultry-based sources of protein should be as lean as possible.
Eat the best kinds of carbohydrates to provide energy. Try eating fruits and vegetables or beans and legumes for a great source of carbohydrates.
Fiber is another important part of any diet. Again, make sure you are eating plenty of fruits and vegetables in addition to beans and peas.
Fats are still required in a diet, although certain types are considered more healthy than others. Try to only consume fats from olive and canola oils or lean fish and poultry.

