 You've heard it before: exercise is good for your health. It becomes even more important after middle age as your body starts to slow down a bit. Aim to get in about 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week.Find an exercise you love. If running isn't your thing, try yoga or swimming. Don't be afraid to branch out, especially as your body may rule out certain exercises over time.
Add more activity to your everyday life. You don't need to set aside a special time to go to the gym. Rather, you can just add more activity throughout your day. Take a walk at lunch. Swing around the office a few times when you go the bathroom. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. Park farther out at the store.
All these bits of activity add up. In fact, you can break up your 30 minutes of activity as you see fit. You can have three sets of 10 minutes or even six sets of 5 minutes.
 As you age, your metabolism starts slowing down and you're at a higher risk of heart disease. Sticking to a healthy diet can help with both of these things, as it can keep your heart healthier and lower your caloric intake for your slower metabolism.Make your proteins lean, such as chicken, fish, beans, and lentils.
Eat whole grains instead of refined grains. Eat oatmeal, whole-wheat bread, whole-wheat pasta, quinoa, barley, and other whole grains as your carbohydrates.
Eat your fruits and vegetables. Make sure you are "eating the rainbow" as often as possible, meaning you incorporate a variety of fruits and vegetables.
Skip foods that are high in saturated fat and sodium.
 Getting enough sleep is just as important after middle age as it was when you were younger. While not everyone needs the same amount of sleep, you should aim for about 7 to 8 hours every night. Getting enough sleep keeps you healthier overall, but it also helps you feel better rested and happier.Try setting up a sleeping routine, going to bed and getting up at the same time every day. Start going to bed an hour before you need to go to sleep. It's important to turn off electronic devices at this time, as those can affect your sleep. If you have trouble remembering when to go to bed, set an alarm to remind you to start getting ready for sleep.
Block out as much light as possible. If you get light from outside when you're sleeping, try block out curtains to make your room dark. You sleep better when you block out the light.
Use white noise or ear plugs to block out any noise.
Talk to your doctor if you're having trouble sleeping. You may need to get a sleep study done to find out if have a sleeping disorder.
 If you want to stay healthy as you get older, you should skip smoking. Smoking can lead to a variety of health problems, from lung cancer to heart disease, just to name a few. Plus, it increases your blood pressure. If you're looking for a reason to quit, make maintaining your health one of those reasons.To help yourself quit, list all the reasons for quitting, such as your health, staying alive for your family, and your finances.Ask for support from your friends and family. They can offer support as you try to quit.
You can also try assistance such as a patch or gum. They can help wean you off of nicotine.
 As you get older, your muscles and bones start to wear down a bit. One thing you can do to help is to take supplements of both vitamin D and calcium, which can help with bone health. You should be getting 1,000-1,200 milligrams of calcium each day, either from food or a supplement, and 600-800 international units of vitamin D each day, depending on your age. Talk to your doctor about whether a supplement is a good idea for you.It can also help to make sure you don't drink too much. Generally, keep it to one drink a day for women and two drinks a day for men.
 Your brain can start to decline after middle age as well, if you don't do things to keep it sharp. One step you can do is to work mental puzzles, such as crosswords or sudoku puzzles. You can also do things like change up your driving routine. Learning a new skill, such as how to throw a clay pot or how to play the violin, can also help, as learning new things keeps your brain sharp., Another way to keep up your health is to make sure you schedule regular checkups. Your doctor can keep an eye on things like your blood work, as well as things like your eyes and ears and overall health. A doctor can catch things that maybe you've missed, particularly if it's something that shows up in your blood work.If you're having trouble sleeping, you could say, "I get 8 hours of sleep of night, but I still wake up feeling exhausted. Do you think you could help me figure out what's wrong?"
You could also say, "As I'm getting a bit older, is there anything I can do to keep my energy and health?"

