 One of the best ways to learn a person's name is to really concentrate when you first hear the name. When you're meeting someone, you may get caught up in the moment and not pay as much attention to the person's name as you should. It's important to try to make sure the person's name actually enters your brain, instead of going in one ear and out the other.If you realize a person's name flew by you, ask for it again. Most people are very understanding and will repeat their name for you.;
, After someone introduces themselves, try to repeat their name immediately. One way you can repeat the person's name is to say, "Hello, Robert, nice to meet you." Repeating it helps solidify it in your brain because you've both heard it, and said it.You can also say it as a way of confirming it. For instance, you could say, "Was that Robert you said?" Confirming the name has the added benefit of making sure you pronounce it correctly.
You could even repeat the name again later, such as saying, "So, Robert, where are you from?"

, This step may seem a bit silly, but, deciding that you will be better at remembering names can actually help you to be better at memorizing names. It's like making a conscious decision flips a switch in your brain and helps you start caring more and therefore, remembering more.Tell yourself, "The next time I meet a person, I will be sure to remember that person's name because it is important."

, It can help you remember a name if you make an alliterative association with the name. For instance, if you meet Joe, who is originally from Jonesville, you could say something in your head like, "Joe joins us from Jonesville," where you repeat the "Js" at the beginning. The alliteration can help you remember the name.Rhyming can also help, if you can come up with something that rhymes. For example, you could use "Joe knows how to tow," if he owns a towing company, or just use the name, such as "Witty Kitty."
If nothing comes up in the conversation, use a visual cue with alliteration, such as "Joe has jumping jugulars."

, You can also ask if the name has a meaning or if it's important culturally. The more information you get, more likely you are to store the name in your memory. You could also ask the person if they know where their name originated., It can help you to retain a name if you connect the person you're meeting with someone else who has the same first name. You can either pick a famous person who looks vaguely like the person you're meeting, or try to pick something about the new person that reminds you of someone you know with the same name.For instance, maybe the person you're meeting is named Tom, and he looks a little like Tom Hanks.
Alternatively, maybe the person you're meeting is named Debra, and she reminds you of your friend Debra, who also has curly hair.
 If you need to see something to remember it, this technique can help. When someone spells something out, it usually creates a picture in your mind of the name, which connects it to your visual memory. You'll have a better chance of remembering it that way.You can also ask for a visual cue, such as a business card.
If you're really having a hard time getting someone's name, ask them to write it down for you.
 When you're meeting someone for the first time, you may just glance at the person's face before moving on. If you do that, you'll have a harder time remember that person's face later. It's important to take a minute to really look at the person's face, and be sure to note any distinguishing features, such as remarkably blue eyes.If it's appropriate, it doesn't hurt to compliment a person on the feature you notice. For instance, if the person does have remarkable eyes, you could say, "You have striking eyes."
Not only will the compliment endear you to the person, it will also help solidify that feature in your mind.
 To help your visual memory, you need to create a hook that sticks in your mind. Start by picking out a physical feature that stands out, such as prominent eyebrows. Next, create a visual image of the person's name, such as a robber's mask for Robert. Finally, place the prominent feature and the image together, such as placing the robber's mask over the person's eyebrows in your mind.Remember to make it as silly or crazy as you possibly can. The more out-of-the-ordinary it is, the more likely you are to remember it.
 One way to help you remember the person the next time you see them is to write down traits and details about the person. In a technological world, that means putting them in your contact list on your phone.You don't need their contact information to put them in your contacts. Just use their name, and add any details you can remember, from hair color to the number of cats they said they had.
Of course, it doesn't hurt to ask for the person's contact information, too.
In addition, putting the information will help solidify it in your memory.
 If you've met a bunch of people in a day and you need to solidify them in your memory, try quizzing yourself. Look at the name and the information you've collected and try to recall the person's face, so you'll remember them better when you meet them again.


This trick works especially well if you must memorize a large number of names quickly, such as if you're a teacher.
It can help if you can take a picture of the person because then you can quiz yourself the opposite way, too, by looking at the picture and trying to recall the person's name. Just be sure to ask the person first before you take a picture.

