 Consulting with your doctor should be your first response if you detect any symptoms of psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. They will be able to diagnose your condition and advise you as to what actions you should take to manage it.Don’t neglect to mention any of your symptoms to your doctor.
Your doctor will also want to know about your family history. People with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis often have a family member who also has it.;
, Depending on the nature of your psoriasis and/or psoriatic arthritis, your doctor might do a skin biopsy in order to learn more about your condition. This is a routine procedure in which the doctor will numb a portion of psoriatic skin, then scrape some of the cells away for examination beneath a microscope.Your psoriatic arthritis might also require closer examination, and your doctor might perform an x-ray.
 Topical treatments include creams, lotions, and shampoos applied to the skin that can relieve your psoriasis. These treatments contain either corticosteroids, salicylic or lactic acid, or retinoids as their active ingredient. Your doctor will help you determine which topical treatment — if any — is right for you.Corticosteroids are drugs that mimic cortisol, a naturally occurring hormone that reduces inflammation and immune system activity.Retinoids are a class of drugs produced using vitamin A. They enable better cell communication, limit skin cell production, and promote healthy skin.
Salicylic or lactic acid treatments are used to reduce the thick layers of scaly skin that build up over time due to psoriasis. These acidic treatments are often combined with moisturizing creams and/or corticosteroids.
You might also try a dandruff shampoo and mild soap to reduce unnecessary irritation of the skin.
Topical steroids can cause skin irritation if too much or too high of a concentration is used for too long. Always use the lowest percent that still helps the symptoms.
 While topical treatments are used to treat isolated, localized patches of psoriatic skin, more widespread or persistent cases of psoriasis require a more aggressive approach. There are a number of drugs that could be effective against psoriasis. Methotrexate, cyclosporine, and biologics are the most common systemic drugs.Methotrexate combats psoriasis by slowing down the growth of skin cells.Cyclosporine, like methotrexate, slows down cell growth and suppresses the immune system. You should be able to see a difference in symptom severity after about two weeks.
Biologics are a class of drugs, not a specific medication. They are applied through an IV drip or an injection. Biologics are useful for limiting inflammation of the skin. TNF-alpha inhibitors are one of the most common biologics. They prevent inflammation of the skin and joints associated with psoriasis.Methotrexate can lead to liver damage, kidney failure, and flu-like symptoms. Other systemic drugs like cyclosporine can lead to ulcers, flu-like symptoms, high blood pressure, and increased chance for infection. Talk to your doctor if you experience these or other adverse side effects after beginning your treatment. Your doctor will probably adjust your dosage or switch you to another medication. Minimize the force of these side effects by exercising regularly and eating a healthy diet of primarily whole grains, fruits, and vegetables.
Systemic drugs are usually taken daily in liquid or capsule form. Consult your doctor for specific use directions.
Your doctor may give you oral steroids for flare ups or at a low dose for treatment. Oral corticosteroid treatment may cause several adverse effects. For instance, you might experience emotional instability, psychosis, anxiety, and depression. You might also develop high blood pressure, diabetes, and an increased likelihood for infections. You can minimize many of these effects with regular exercise. Working out 30-60 minutes each day has benefits for both the mind and body. If you suffer from prolonged depression, psychosis, or other disruptions to your emotional or mental well-being, talk to a therapist. Let your doctor know, too, as they might be able to put you on a different medication with fewer side effects.
 New “small-molecule” treatments can target molecules within immune cells that cause inflammation, reducing inflammation and swelling of the joints. Apremilast (marketed commercially as Otezla), for instance, can be taken twice daily as a tablet and can effectively manage swollen joints associated with psoriatic arthritis. These drugs are only available with a doctor’s prescription, so talk to your doctor if you’re interested in obtaining a new oral treatment.Similar treatments include ustekinumab (Stelara) and secukinumab (Cosentyx).Side effects of apremilast include depression and weight loss. Monitor your weight carefully and if you notice yourself becoming too thin, increase your caloric intake. If you suffer with depression as a result of taking apremilast, talk to friends and family to cheer you up, and let your doctor know. They might recommend you see a therapist, or dial back your medication’s dosage in order to relieve your depression.
Side effects of ustekinumab and similar drugs include an increased risk for certain types of cancer, swelling of the brain, fatigue, an increased incidence of infection, and headaches. If you have a headache, try an over-the-counter pain reliever like acetaminophen. Consult your doctor for advice on how to best deal with cancer, infectious diseases, and swelling of the brain.
 There are a number of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that can help relieve pain from cracked, inflamed skin as well as pain in joints afflicted with psoriatic arthritis. Common over-the-counter options include ibuprofen and naproxen sodium.Commercial varieties of ibuprofen include Advil and Motrin IB.
Aleve is the most common commercial variety of naproxen sodium.
Over-the-counter medications have few serious side-effects, but you might experience bloating or gas, dizziness, abdominal pain, mild itching, or nausea. If you experience any of these side effects, discontinue use of the medicine and try an alternative.
Take extra caution with regular use if you are at risk for, or have a history of, stomach ulcers or bleeding or kidney problems. Tell your doctor about any non-prescription medications you take.

