 Check with the mall or shopping center your kiosk is located in to find out exactly how much money you’ll need. Rates often vary depend on your location and type of business you’re running.


If you’re just renting a small cart, you probably have the necessary startup capital, which usually hovers around $600 per week. Rental costs might also be 15% of your monthly gross, whichever is greater.
Cart rental fees often vary seasonally.Buying a cart might be a good idea if, after renting for a while, you think you don’t need to scale up to a full kiosk. Be sure to go over the kiosk carefully before buying, though, to avoid purchasing something inadequate for your needs.
If you’re renting a larger kiosk, you might need a loan to cover your expenses over the first few months. Kiosk rental can be $9,000-$10,000 per month.
If you’re buying a kiosk you might need $25,000-$30,000., Regulations governing what paperwork needs to be filled out vary depending on your location and what kind of kiosk you’re running. A mall kiosk will probably help you with the necessary licensing and permits.


If you lease or buy a portable kiosk, you may need a special vehicle license for hauling it.
If you will be working with food, you will need an additional permit. Contact your state or county’s board of health for more information., Your business plan should describe your business’ vision and mission, your organizational structure, your legal framework, your financial data, and your business’ history. With a strong business plan in hand, you will have more success in securing a loan. For the purposes of getting financed, the most important sections of the business plan include:


A market analysis describing your target market, your competition, and any potential roadblocks to your business’ success
How much money you expect to bring in
How you intend to repay the loan
How long it will take to repay the loan

, You’ll also need to submit personal financial information -- tax returns, financial statements, and bank statements -- to demonstrate that you’re financially responsible.


Provide a statement about what kind of collateral you can offer against the loan, if necessary.
The loan officer might also ask for legal documents and licenses demonstrating your business is legally owned and operated.
You might also need to provide a resume to show that you have the skill necessary to run a kiosk business.
Check with the financial institution or loan program you’re applying to for a checklist to ensure you don’t omit anything from your application.
 Banks and credit unions are the most common sources for loans. The specific process for securing a loan varies depending the financial institution you apply to. However, you should always aim for a loan with a long repayment period, a low interest rate, and a low minimum monthly payment.


Alternately, contact the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) for help getting funded.The SBA has many loan and grant programs available online at https://www.sba.gov/loans-grants. Explore the possibilities that might be available to you.
 A grant is better than a loan because you don’t have to pay the money back, but they are also harder to secure.


You probably won’t qualify for government grants, but you should investigate the possibility of local grants and funding for your kiosk. Many municipalities have economic development funds that might be able to help you get your kiosk off the ground.

