 Keep your cleaver and your chef's knife in the drawer for this job. To properly bone a chicken, it helps to have a knife with a fairly flexible, but quite sharp, blade that you can use to work alongside the bones and remove them, as well as scrape the meat from the more difficult joints.;
, Find the backbone. You should be able to feel quite easily where the backbone is with your finger, and carefully work the flat edge of your boning knife down the back, to one side of the bone. Use the bone as a guide, and start working your knife into the skin to create a starting point.


You may find it helpful to cut the skin in several places, then flip the knife edge up and cut through the skin from underneath. You may also find it easier to cut just to the left or the right of the spine when you get started.
 Grasp the skin with one hand, and (carefully!) cut the meat away from the bone, pulling it free as you work.


Start by grasping the skin next to the spine cut furthest away from you. Cut as close to the bone as you can, letting your knife do the work.
 As you start pulling the chicken away from the ribs, you'll encounter the wishbone quickly. Spin the chicken around so the neck hole is facing you, and work your knife around the wishbone to loosen it, pulling it free.


The wishbone is famously easy to break, and might snap as you try to get it out. That's fine, but make sure you get the pieces and be careful of bone shards as you work.
 Keep cutting meat away from the rib cage, slowly moving down from the back, around the side, toward the breast. You'll feel the wing and leg joints as you move, which you'll need to take a little more care to separate and, later, remove.


Work slowly and use pressure to pull the meat away from the ribs to make the knife secondary. Use as small cuts as you can get away with, taking care to not cut through the skin on the other side (the breast). Keep separating until you reach the leg and wing joints.
 Start working down the other side of the backbone, working your knife around much as before, stopping to separate the leg and wing joints before continuing.


Alternatively, you can move to the next step and separate the leg and wing joints before you start on the other side. Save the complete removal of the bones, however, until you've gotten the rib cage completely separated from the meat and can more easily cut them out.
 Grasp the wing in one hand, and the area on the body around the wing joint with the other. Bend the wing back and twist it a bit until the joint pops, then cut through it with the tip of the knife. Locate the gap between the bone and the socket, apply a little pressure, and it should pop free with a little help. Continue working your knife down until you get to the leg.
 Grasp the leg in one hand, and the area on the body around the leg joint with the other. Bend the leg back and twist it a bit until the joint pops. Cut through the leg joint with the tip of the knife, reach in and find the gap between the leg bone and the socket, much as you did with the wing.
 The keel is the cartilage on the breastbone, and is the closest to the skin on the front, so you want to take extra care not to puncture the skin at this point. If you haven't already started working your knife down the other side of the carcass, do that now. Otherwise, you should be very close to having removed the carcass entirely from the meat, and there's just a little left to go.


Carefully cut the meat away from the keel. Let your knife scrape alongside the bone, using it to do the work for you. You should be using smooth knife strokes and short motions, rather than stabbing and ripping at the bird. When you work around the keel, pull the ribcage free and discard it.
Before tossing the carcass, consider using it to make stock or soup. It's an excellent starter.
 You should now have a very large flattish piece of meat, but with the leg bones and the wing bones still intact on the inside. To remove the wings, clip off the wing-tips with your knife and push the bone back toward what was the inside of the carcass. Use the edge of your knife to start scraping the meat away until you can pull the bone through entirely.


It's usually easier to use the knife to scrape, rather than trying to get too intricate. You'll conserve more of the meat this way and it'll go much more quickly. Keep scraping away at the small bone until you've pulled it through.
 To remove the thigh bone, carve the meat away from the thigh bone, which should be slightly exposed from where you separated the joint from the carcass. With care, you should be able to remove the thigh and drumstick bones without separating them. Push it up to expose the end and start scraping the meat away, stopping when you get to the knee. Cut around the knee to separate the tissue and continue scraping down the bone, separating as much of the meat as possible.


When you get to the little nubbin on the end (the "ankle") put the bone flat on the side and break it, so the rest of the thigh and drumstick comes free, but the nubbin remains. This helps hold the shape of the skin as it cooks, so it won't retract too much from the meat. Some people prefer to leave the legs with the bones in, for presentation. It's up to you.
 Run your hand along the surface of the meat to feel for bone shards or little bits of cartilage and other undesirable bits that you can cut away to make the end product more tasty. Dispose of these bits, and you've got a properly boned chicken.


All the remaining bones and other bits are excellent for making a chicken stock if you want to. Throw it all in a pot with some water and let it simmer for several hours and you'll have a delicious base for soups or stews.
 The most popular use of the boned chicken is to stuff it with your favorite variety of stuffing, sew it up with kitchen twine, and bake it in the oven. For a basic recipe:



Mix up your favorite stuffing using old bread, celery, onions, sausage, sage, or whatever ingredients suit your fancy. Liberally salt the inside and the outside of the chicken, as well as using pepper and other spices to taste. Spoon the stuffing onto the inside of the chicken.
Using a needle of a paper clip, sew up the bird with the stuffing inside. Begin at the neck end and draw the string through both skin and meat on both sides, taking care to make sure it won't pull loose as it cooks. Tie a knot at the end to hold both sides together, then sew your way down the seam. Alternatively, you could sew the bird up before stuffing it.
After you've trussed it up, rub the outside with olive oil or butter and roast the chicken at 375 degrees F (190 C) for 20 minutes per pound of meat.
 A galantine is basically a boned and stuffed chicken that's either poached in some kind of stock, or roasted. Generally, the stuffing includes greens, herbs, and some kind of nuts. Either way, it's usually served with aspic and cut into slices, then served cold as part of a charcuterie plate.
 If it's summer time and you've got the grill going, an entirely boned-out chicken can be a cool alternative to individual bone-in pieces. You can cook the whole thing at once, turning it and basting it with barbecue sauce or beer as it cooks, then serve on buns.


For a trick, weight the chicken down flat with a cast iron skillet, or other heavy-bottomed pan, to keep it grilling evenly., If you're going to go for broke in the boned-out meat department, you might as well go for broke. A turducken is a boned chicken, inside a boned duck, inside a boned turkey. If you've got a whole football team to feed, or you just love the fowl, it can be a fun and completely excessive project. Why not?

