 Getting interrupted often can make knitting frustrating.;
, Knitting is a relaxing activity, so it's best to find an area that makes you feel at ease, such as a comfortable chair or couch or even your bedroom. You can also place pillows and blankets around you to create a cozy nest. Along with snacks and/or water you won't have to leave your knitting if you feel hungry or thirsty.
 If you're new to knitting, it's best to begin small before moving onto more difficult tasks. Scarves, socks, and hats are excellent choices. You can look up easy patterns online and try them out. Even if your first attempts are knotted or filled with holes, remember that you'll improve as you practice. As you become more experienced with knitting, you can branch out into different areas and see what you like to make.


If you find that focusing on one task makes you bored, try having different projects occurring at the same time. That way, you have a variety of choices, and you can change your knitting routine whenever you want.
Look through a stitching dictionary, and find patterns that appeal to you.
Create your own project using different stitch patterns you find, combining them into one long scarf or create individual squares which can later be connected into a blanket or afghan.
 Start with easy, basic patterns written specifically for beginners. Nothing frustrates someone more than starting a project, finding it too difficult and then abandoning the craft altogether. As you improve at knitting, choose more complex patterns, such as designs featuring lace, Fair Isle colorwork or cabling. These can help keep you amused, especially with larger projects such as sweaters.
 Knitting with other people is a great way to pass the time as you can chat with them while engaging in a relaxing activity. It's best to pair up with a more advanced knitter. That way, you can turn to them for guidance if you find yourself stuck. They can also offer helpful criticism regarding your knitting while pointing out any mistakes before they worsen. Watching them knit is also a good way to learn, as observing another's techniques can help you develop your own.
 As you knit, pay attention and make sure that you know what you're doing. It's easy to mess up without even realizing it. You may feel discouraged if you catch an error that lies a few rows back, so keep an eye out for any mistakes. If you feel uncertain about your knitting, look through articles and tutorials on the Internet for guidance, or ask someone who knits for advice. Don't hesitate to seek help if necessary.
 Many online communities such as Ravelry.com and others have knitalongs or KALs. This is when many people knit the same pattern at the same time and can get advice on the pattern or give advice to others. Keeping your laptop or tablet nearby and open to the community, lets you put down your work to rest from time to time and chat with others about it. Breaking up your knitting time this way instead of trying to do a marathon knitting session makes you less likely to get bored.
 Music is relaxing but don't turn on the TV. Turning on the TV can be quite distracting and cause you to make more mistakes as you get pulled in by whatever is on or even commercials.
 There are quite a number of knitting-related podcasts by your fellow knitters which help to pass the time and help you feel like you're in a group setting with others.

