 These documents will help you gather your ideas and plan of action on paper as well as give you a clear picture of needs to be accomplished. Many investors and other potential sources of capital require a business plan before considering whether or not to provide funds.;
, You should include an outline of this in your business plan, but know that many check-cashing businesses do not thrive on cashing checks alone. They also offer payday loans based on a personal checks, bill payment services, money orders, and prepaid debit card services.
 Your start-up investment will vary based on whether you are starting your own business from the ground-up or joining a franchise. The investment is large for this type of business and usually does not include franchise, advertising, and marketing fees.
 At this stage, you should also acquire the necessary business and financial insurance to protect your business from bad checks and dishonest employees.
 This is one of the most important aspects of your business, because people need to be able to locate and enter your facility or you will have a hard time getting customers. If the building is not already equipped, purchase security cameras, security alarm, computers, cash drawers, and a safe for money storage.
 This software is the biggest part of your business, as it gives you access to various identification databases to ensure you are running in compliance with government standards. It will also verify your checks and help you produce other services, including installment loans, bill pay, recurring bank account transfers, and debit card loading.
 You need honest employees in this business, as they will be handling money daily. Run background checks to ensure prospects are not lying on their application and have not been convicted of financial crimes that could harm your business. You may also want to consider drug testing employees before employment as well.
 When you are staffed and everyone is trained on how to operate the business, you are ready to start serving customers in your area.

