 Allow the care recipient to complete certain daily tasks on their own. Think carefully about what they are capable of handling. This will help them feel as though they have more control over their life, and it will help reduce your own stress. While they may be slow at some tasks, you should avoid stepping in unless they need your help.For example, if they can dress themselves, you should let them take care of it. You might check in on them to see if they are doing all right.
Assess the situation carefully. If you are worried they might fall in the shower, you might sit outside the bathroom while they wash, just in case.
Look into getting some durable medical equipment, such as a grab bar. This may help your loved one do things like balancing to put on socks.;
, Certain tools and gadgets can help the recipient take care of tasks on their own. Consider the condition of the recipient, and find tools that can benefit them while simplifying caregiving for you.


For those with vision problems, talking clocks, illuminated magnifying glasses, and computer voice recognition software can help them manage their daily lives.
If the recipient has memory problems, you can find electronic pill boxes that sound an alarm when it is time to take medication.
If hearing is an issue, there are vibrating clocks, headphones for television, or phones and alarms that flash instead of ring.For those with mobility issues, you might want to consider investing in an electric scooter or wheelchair. Standing chairs can also help them get on their feet from a sitting position. Some companies sell alarms that the recipient can press if they fall when you are not around., If the care recipient needs help with bathing, you can reduce the strain on both of you by giving them daily sponge baths. Full baths or showers in the bathroom only need to be done once or twice a week.To give a sponge bath, make sure that the recipient is lying down on one or two towels. Fill two bowls with warm water. You will use one to wash the recipient with soap and the other to rinse away the soap. Gently use the sponge to wash every part of their body, and pat them dry with towels.Medical supply stores may sell special basins meant to help make sponge bathing in bed easier.
 Music can be used for a variety of therapeutic purposes with care recipients. If they are becoming agitated or angry, music can help soothe them. If they are confined to their bed, music can prevent them from feeling lonely. Place a speaker in their room, and set up a playlist that can shuffle on repeat., If you do not live with the care recipient but are responsible for their meals, you can hire a delivery service, such as Meals on Wheels, to send prepared meals to the recipient. By doing this, you will not need to be present at every meal, and you can ensure that they receive hot, nutritious meals often.Some charities and social services offer this as a free or reduced price service. See what is available in your area.

