 To find recycling in your city or town, you can check RecyclingCenters.org. Know, however, that most cities offer free recycling, including the can to hold it, which means all you have to do is start sorting. Ask a neighbor or call your city's waste department to find out what days collection occur.


If you don't have a recycling can, be sure to call your municipal waste department to talk over your options.
If you live far from town, you may have to bring your own recycling into a center for processing. Find one at RecyclingCenters.org.;
, Single-stream recycling is when all recyclables go into the same can and the city deals with sorting paper from plastic, glass, etc. However, many cities require that you separate your paper, plastic, and glass into separate containers before you give it to them. It is much easier to sort the recycling ahead of time instead of on trash day, so ask a neighbor or check online for your city's specific policy.


If your city allows single-stream, you likely have only one can for trash.
If your city requires sorting, you will likely need to have three separate cans for paper, plastic, glass, and metal.
 95% of recycling laws are the same across each city, but there are sometimes small particulars. To make it easier, the site RecycleByCity.com has a breakdown of major rules and regulations for a variety of cities. Be sure to check in if you're unsure. If your city isn't here, search for your city's recycling laws online.


Note that most recycling cans have all the pertinent guidelines written on them. You can also find your city's waste department website for specific information.
 Almost all paper, as long as it isn't food soiled, can be recycled. This includes mail, newspapers, magazines, old books, egg cartons, cereal boxes, and gift wrap. When recycling paper, make sure any other materials, like strings or metal (such as found on high-end gift cards), is removed.
 If the plastic has the famous recycling triangle on it it can be recycled. This means empty bottles (caps removed), containers, cups, bags, plastic utensils, and more can all hit the recycling can. Furthermore, all-plastic toys, coat hangers, waste baskets, and takeout trays can all be recycled too as long as they are clean.


Styrofoam, a type of plastic, can also be recycled. However, packing peanuts must generally be recycled in a closed plastic bag to prevent a mess.
Many cities request that loose plastic bags be bundled, making them less likely to fly out of the truck and create litter.
 Metal can be a bit trickier to recycle, but all of the most common waste is easily recycled. Aluminum and steel cans, foil trays, old pots and pans, and completely empty aerosol cans are all game for recycling. Be sure to check about bigger things, like shower curtains or all-metal furniture.
 While everyone loves the shredder, shredded paper actually is less useful when recycled, as more of it becomes waste. With aluminum cans, crushing them flat can sometimes prevent them from being recycled at all. The safest choice is to just leave everything whole as it goes in the can.In some cities, like Los Angeles, shredded paper can only be recycled if it is collected in a paper or plastic bag and labeled, "Shredded Paper." This is why looking into your city's regulations is so important.
 If your recycling pick-up is on Monday, bring the recycling to the curb on Sunday night. Pick-ups are frequently early in the morning, and it's best practice to just get it out there to avoid missing collection., In 10 US states you can return aluminum cans and glass bottles for a few cents a pop at your local recycling center. If not, these bottles and cans can be recycled with your normal collection service.


Keep the bottles and cans in separate containers while collecting them. Most places require you to weigh out or turn in aluminum and glass separately.
The ten US locations that allow returns are California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, Oregon, Vermont, and Guam., Obviously, you can't recycle food. But did you know that many places don't accept napkins or paper towels at all, especially if they are dirty or greasy? While most things are obviously trash or recyclables, there are a few tricky objects that seem recyclable but are not. The following can not be recycled:


Pyrex glass
Drinking glasses
Foil-lined bags (such as chip, candy, and coffee packages)
Diapers
Greasy or food covered cardboard (you can tear off the clean parts, however)
Light bulbs
Batteries and electronics
Paint
Cleaners, oils, solvents, etc.