 The most common cause of tinnitus is damage to the sensory hair cells in the inner ear from exposure to loud noises. Moving yourself away from the center of blaring sounds such as at concerts or sporting events can help prevent damage to your ears that causes tinnitus.Avoid placing yourself close to any device that is blaring noise. Sounds higher 85 decibels can harm your hearing.For example, if you at a concert, don’t stand right next to speakers. If you are in the street with a lot of construction, stand as far away from jackhammers or other loud equipment as you can. Likewise, if your partner is mowing the lawn, stay indoors.
Let your ears rest occasionally. Do something that doesn’t involve loud noises such as hiking or biking in a park.;
, In some cases, you may not be able to move away from loud noises such as a shotgun firing or a concert. Wearing protective hearing devices to dampen sound can protect your hearing and prevent tinnitus.Buy earplugs or earmuffs to for any occasion in which you’ll be exposed to loud noises.Be aware that if you use chain saws, are a musician, use loud machinery in industry, or shoot firearms, you should always wear hearing protection that covers your entire ear.Protect children’s ears in the same way as you would your own. Earmuffs are often an easier option for children than earplugs., Any device that emits sound can harm your hearing. Keeping sound at a reasonable level can minimize your risk for tinnitus.Select a volume on electronics such as TVs, video games, laptops, and tablets at the lowest sound possible.
Set the volume of personal listening devices, such as a cell phone, MP3 player, or anything that requires headphones, at a conservative level. No one else should hear what you’re listening to. Be aware that ear-buds are more likely to contribute to tinnitus and hearing loss than other headphone models. Consider getting a pair of noise-cancelling headphones, which can help you listen at a low volume., If you’re on the market for new electronics and personal devices, see if you can find out decibel levels as you consider your options. In fact, many new models have a label with decibel ratings. Buy the lowest rating you can find to prevent tinnitus.Ask personnel at stores if they know about the lowest decibel ratings available for the product you want. Many companies also include this information on their websites.
 Seeing your doctor at least once a year protects your overall health. Keeping yourself healthy will promote good ear health, but if you are concerned about hearing loss or tinnitus, tell your doctor to pay special attention to your ears. This may identify conditions that cause tinnitus.Schedule an appointment with your regular doctor or see an otolaryngologist, which is also called an ENT — ear, nose, and throat doctor.
Tinnitus can be caused by the following: depression, insomnia, vascular abnormalities, conductive hearing loss due to outer ear or middle ear disease, and drug toxicity. It is important to address any underlying problems that may be lead to tinnitus.
Ask your doctor to check your cardiovascular health. Blood vessel disorders such as high blood pressure can lead to tinnitus. Vascular tinnitus can be caused by an Arteriovenous Malformation (AVM), which is a tangle of blood vessels that are poorly formed and poorly functioning.
Be aware that getting early and proper diagnosis and treatment for the following conditions can also help prevent tinnitus: ear and sinus infections, brain tumors, positional vertigo, thyroid abnormalities, Ménière’s disease., Just as certain nutrients help protect your eyes and heart, there are some vitamins and antioxidants that may protect hair cells and your cochlea. Taking supplements such as magnesium and N-Acetyl-Cysteine (NAC) may minimize your risk of hearing loss and prevent tinnitus.Get the antioxidants N-Acetyl-Cysteine (NAC) and Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALCAR) at your local pharmacy or health food store. They can protect your cochlea from loud noise and may even reduce damage after you hearing a loud noise. Make sure to follow dosing directions to avoid toxicity.
Take a daily multivitamin with magnesium and vitamins A, E, and C. These vitamins can protect the hair cells of your inner ear from damage, which contributes to tinnitus. Avoid taking megadoses of these vitamins, which can harm your health. You can also consider getting these vitamins from foods in your diet.
 Although noise is the primary cause of tinnitus, fatigue and stress can also contribute to tinnitus. Making sure that you get enough rest and managing the stress in your life may prevent you from getting tinnitus.Try to keep a flexible schedule that gives you time to relax or get away from stress.
Stay away or remove yourself from stressful situations. If you can’t, relax yourself by taking deep breaths.
Get seven to nine hours of sleep every night to reduce fatigue and allow your body to heal from the day. Take a 30 minute break during the day, during which you can reduce fatigue and stress.
 Too much earwax can block your ear canal and cause tinnitus. Keeping your ears free of wax buildup can not only prevent tinnitus but also hearing loss.Don’t clean your ears too often, however, because some wax helps keep your ears healthy.


Wipe the outside of your ear and outer ear canal with a soft, moist cloth or paper tissue.You can also use an over-the-counter earwax removal drops to remove wax.Never put anything in your ear! Stay away from cotton swabs (Q-tips) or other tools to remove wax. These can cause serious harm to your ears and hearing.Have your doctor remove excessive wax buildup.
 Over 200 drugs are considered ototoxic, which means they can damage your hearing and cause tinnitus. Avoiding these medications for prolonged periods or finding alternatives may minimize your risk for developing tinnitus.Talk to your doctor about substituting the following drugs to prevent to minimize tinnitus:Antibiotics such as polymyxin, erythromycin, vancomycin, neomycin
Cancer medications such as mechlorethamine and vincristine
Diuretics or water pills such as bumetanide, ethacrynic acid, or furosemide
Antidepressants such as paroxetine, sertraline, amitriptyline
Quinine for malaria
Aspirin

