;
, You will need to take the written test in the appropriate classification, and the road test in a vehicle within that classification. You will not be eligible to drive vehicles in any classification but the one(s) you have tested for, so be sure you pick one that matches the vehicles you will be driving., This license type is needed to drive any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR – the upper limit to the operating weight recommended by the manufacturer) of 26,001 or more, provided the GVWR of the towed vehicles is over 10,000 pounds. Test required:General CDL Knowledge Test
Combinations Knowledge Test
Air Brakes Knowledge Test
Road Skills Test in a Class A vehicle

, This license is for driving any single vehicle with a GVWR of 26,001 or more pounds or any such vehicle towing a vehicle under 10,000 pounds GVWR. Tests required:General CDL Knowledge Test
Air Brakes Knowledge Test
Road Skills Test in a Class B vehicle

, This license covers any single or combination vehicle under 26,001 pounds GVWR, but which is: a) designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver; b) required to be placarded for hazardous materials; or c) meets the definition of a “tank” vehicle – i.e. your vehicle is carrying a portable tank for liquids or gases with a capacity of 1,000 gallons or more. Tests required:


General CDL Knowledge Test
Must acquire one of the following endorsements: Passenger Endorsement; Hazmat Endorsement; or Tank Endorsement

, If you are operating a bus, transporting hazardous materials, carrying tanks that hold liquid or gas, or pulling double or triple trailers, you will need an additional endorsement:H-Endorsement – Hazmat – This is required if you will drive a commercial vehicle transporting hazardous materials and placarded under state or federal regulations. You will not be able to apply for this endorsement until you have your commercial driver’s permit. Requirements:

TSA Background Check
Hazmat Knowledge Test


N-Endorsement – Tank Vehicles – Required to transport liquid or gas in a tank. Requirements:

Tank Knowledge Test


P-Endorsement – Passenger Vehicles (Buses) – Required to drive a commercial vehicle transporting 16 or more people, including the driver. Requirements:

Passenger Transport Knowledge Test
Passenger Transport Road Skills Test


T-Endorsement – Double/Triple Trailers – Required to haul double or triple trailers. Triple trailers are illegal in New Hampshire, but this endorsement will allow the holder to haul them in states where it is legal. Requirements:

Double/Triples Knowledge Test


S-Endorsement – School Bus – Required to drive a school bus designed to transport 16 or more people, including the driver. Requirements:

School Bus Knowledge Test
School Bus Road Skills Test
School Bus Certificate



