 All Pokémon have preferences when it comes to eating berries. You can tell by checking their nature. Nature, or also known as personality, was introduced in the Generation III games. Pokémon in the latest games have one of 25 natures.


Flavor is also consistently liked or disliked by Pokémon, depending on which stat is raised or lowered; for example, all Pokémon who like spicy flavors will have a nature that raises their attack while those that dislike spicy flavors will all have a nature that lowers their attack.
Pokémon will like and dislike a certain flavor, which we have listed below.
Keep in mind that feeding them their disliked flavor will decrease their stats.
Lonely, Adamant, Naughty, and Brave Pokémon loves spicy. However, Adamant dislikes sour and dry, Naughty dislikes bitter, and Brave dislikes sweet flavors.
Bold, Impish, Lax, and Relaxed love sour flavors; but Bold dislikes sour, Impish dislikes dry, Lax dislikes bitter, and Relaxed disliked sweet.
Modest, Mild, Rash, and Quiet love dry flavors; but Modest dislikes spicy, Mild dislikes sour, Rash dislikes bitter, and Quiet dislikes sweet.
Calm, Gentle, Careful, and Sassy love bitter flavors; but Calm dislikes spicy, Gentle dislikes sour, Careful dislikes dry, and Sassy dislikes sweet.
Timid, Hasty, Jolly, and Naive Pokémon love sweet flavors; but Timid dislikes spicy, Hasty dislikes sour, Jolly dislikes dry, and Naive dislikes bitter.
Pokémon with Bashful, Docile, Hardy, Quirky, and Serious nature have no preference when it comes to flavors.;
, When you reach Route 7, go to the south exit and you will encounter a man and his daughter that opened a field; they will gladly let you use it. You will be given six rows of plots, each being able to grow 6 trees.


You can get berries to grow here in various trees dotted around the Kalos region.
Just like in the previous version of the game, you can place mulch on the ground then place a berry.
Once you get Sprinklotad, you'll be able to water the areas to keep the soil moist.
There are a few changes in this version of the game. First is the sudden appearance of weeds around the berries. This will hinder the growth of the plant and result in a less bountiful crop.
There are also bug-type Pokémon, such as Spewpa, that will attack your plants, and you need to battle them in order to protect your berries.
 Mulch is given added importance within these berry fields since it helps make your plant grow and give bountiful of crops. In the fields, there are two composters. If you feed them 3 berries, you will receive some mulch.


There are four kinds of mulch in X and Y version of the game:

Amaze Mulch has the effects of Rich, Surprise, and Boost. You need Kee Berry or Maranga Berry and two other berries to produce this.
Boost Mulch increases the berry harvest that can be grown by diligent watering. You need two berries of the same color and another berry.
Rich Mulch increases the berry harvest without particularly diligent care. You need three berries of varied colors to make this.
Surprise Mulch causes strange, sudden mutations based on the combination of berries. To make this mulch, you need three berries of the same color.
 If you have different berries growing next to each other, there is a chance that the berries will cross-pollinate, yielding you one or more of another berry. This chance is increase with the use of Surprise Mulch.


Plant the berry you got from other trees and then apply Surprise Mulch and wait for it to grow.
As it produces crops, you will notice that one or more of the fruits have a different color, indicating that the two trees next to each other have cross-pollinated.
Fruits resulting from berry mutation have different stat bonuses, which will be listed below.
 If held by Pokémon, Apicot Berry raises its SP and Def stat in a pinch. Plant Kelpsy Berry and Wacan Berry next to each other to get Apicot Berry. Remember to apply Surprise Mulch.


Kelpsy Berry can be obtained through mutation only.
Wacan Berry can be obtained from Yellow Berry Trees at Route 18.
Once planted, it takes 96 hours to grow, and the maximum harvest is 5.
Apicot Berry gives spicy, dry, and sour taste.
 When Ganlon is held by a Pokémon, it raises its defense stat in a pinch. You need Qualot Berry and Tanga Berry to produce a Ganlon Berry. You must also use Surprise Mulch for a more effective cross-pollination.


Qualot Berry can be obtained through mutation only.
Tanga Berry can be found at the Route 22, green berry trees.
Ganlon Berry takes 96 hours to grow once planted. The maximum harvest is 5 and minimum is 1.
It has dry, sweet, and bitter taste.
 Grepa Berry can be used on a Pokémon to make it more friendly; however, it decreases its base SP and DEF stat. You need Aguav Berry and Figy Berry to get this berry.


Aguav Berry restores the user's HP in a pinch when held but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. You can obtain this berry at Route 6, green berry trees.
Figy Berry, just like Aguav Berry, restores the user's HP in a pinch when held by a Pokémon but will cause confusion if it hates the taste. You can find this fruit at Route 21, red berry trees.
The plant only takes 32 hours to grow and start producing 1–5 fruits.
Grepa has dry, sweet, and sour taste.
 This is the same as Grepa Berry. This fruit can be used on a Pokémon to make it more friendly, but instead of decreasing DEF, this fruit lowers the base SP and ATK stat. To get this berry, you need to cross-pollinate Aspear Berry and Leppa Berry.


Aspear Berry defrosts Pokémon went held. This can be found at Route 12, yellow berry trees.
Leppa Berry restores a move's PP by 10 when held by a Pokémon. This fruit can be found at Route 15, Shalour City, and Dendemille Town from red berry trees.
This fruit takes 32 Hours to grow and produce 1 to 5 fruits.
 This fruit raises a Pokémon's attack stat in a pinch when held by a Pokémon. You need to cross-pollinate Liechi Berry and Ganlon Berry to get this berry.


Liechi Berry can only be obtained from mutation.
Ganlon Berry can only be obtained from mutation as well.
It takes 96 hours to grow and start producing 1 to 5 crops.
It has spicy, dry, and sweet taste.
 Compared to other berries that decreases two stats, Kelpsy Berry makes your Pokémon more friendly when used, only decreasing its attack stats. You will need Chesto Berry and Persim Berry to make this berry.


Chesto Berry helps your Pokémon recover from sleep once held. You can find this fruit from purple berry trees.
Persim Berry helps your Pokémon to recover from confusion once held. You can find this berry at Route 7 and Cyllage City from pink berry trees.
This fruit only takes 32 hours to grow and starts producing 1–5 crops.
 Liechi Berry raises your Pokémon's attack stat in a pinch when held. In order to have Liechi Berry, you need to cross-pollinate Hondew Berry and Yache Berry.


Hondew Berry can only be obtained from mutation.
Yache Berry weakens a super-effective ice-type attack against the holding Pokémon. You can find this fruit at Route 19 from blueberry trees.
It takes 96 hours to grow and give you 1 to 5 crops.
It has spicy, dry, and sweet taste.
 When held by a Pokémon, this will increase their special defense by one stage the first time they are struck by a special move. It is consumed once used. To get this berry, you have to cross-pollinate a Salac Berry and Petaya Berry.


Salac Berry can only be obtained from mutating.
Petaya Berry can only be obtained from mutating as well.
This fruits takes 96 hours to grow and start yielding fruits, giving 1 to 10 berries.
 Using this on a Pokémon makes it more friendly but, at the same time, lowers its base HP. You can get Pomeg by cross-pollinating Iapapa Berry and Mago Berry


Iapapa Berry restores the user's HP in a pinch but will cause confusion if it hates the taste; it must be held by the Pokémon to use this. You can find Iapapa at Route 10 from yellow berry trees.
Mago Berry is a fruit that restores HP in a pinch once held but will cause confusion if the Pokémon hates the taste. This can be found at Route 8 from pink berry trees.
This plant takes 32 hours to grow and starts producing 1–5 crops.
It is a spicy, sweet, and bitter-tasting berry.
 Once used on a Pokémon, the Pokémon will become more friendly but, at the same time, its base defense stat will be lowered. In order to make a Qualot Berry, you need Oran Berry and Pecha Berry.


Oran Berry, when held, heals the user by 10 HP. You can find this at Route 5 and Route 7 from blueberry trees.
Pecha Berry helps your Pokémon recover from poison when held. You can find this fruit at Route 7 from pink berry trees.
It takes 32 hours to become a fully grown tree. It produces 1 to 5 berries.
This fruit is spicy, sweet, and sour.
 This fruit raises the speed of your Pokémon in a pinch once held. In order for you to obtain Salac, you need to cross-pollinate Grepa Berry and Roseli Berry.


Grepa Berry can only be obtained from cross-pollination.
Roseli Berry will lessen the damage taken from one super-effective fairy-type attack. You can find this fruit at Route 14.
It takes 96 hours to grow and start producing 1 to 5 fruits.
This plant also has sweet, bitter, and sour taste.
 Using this fruit on a Pokémon makes it more friendly, but it also lowers its base speed stat. To get this fruit, you need Sitrus Berry and Lum Berry.


Sitrus Berry heals the user's HP a little once held. You can find this fruit at Route 11, Route 18 and Dendemille Town from yellow berry trees.
Lum Berry recovers your Pokémon from any status problem once held. You can find this fruit at Route 16 from green berry trees.
Tamato Berry takes 32 hours to grow into a full-grown tree and start producing 1 to 5 berries.
This fruit has spicy and dry taste.
 Ledyba is a Flying-type bug with three abilities (Early Bird, Rattled, and Swarm), and one hidden ability. You will encounter this bug from red berry trees.


Swarm - When HP is below 1/3rd, the bug's power increases to 1.5 times.
Early Bird - Sleep conditions will last for half as long, rounding down. For example, half of three turns is 1.5, which rounds down to one turn. When the number of turns to sleep is one, half of this rounded down is zero, and the Pokémon wakes up instantly.
Rattled - Its speed is raised by one stage when the Pokémon is hit by a Bug-type, Ghost-type, or Dark-type move.
 This bug will target your blueberry trees. It has Illuminate, Swarm, and Prankster ability, and also has one hidden ability, which will be unlocked when it reaches a certain level.


Swarm - The same as Ledyba, this skill increases the bug's power to 1.5 times when HP is below 1/3.
Illuminate - Raises the likelihood of meeting wild Pokémon.
Prankster - Speed priority of category “Status moves” is increased by 1.
 This is a bug-type Pokémon known for its speed. This Pokémon has Oblivious, Tinted Lens, and Prankster ability, with one hidden ability. This Pokémon is classified as Firefly.


Oblivious - The Pokémon cannot be under Attract condition or be taunted while having this ability.
Tinted Lens - The power of “Not very effective” moves is doubled.
Prankster - Just like Volbeat, Prankster causes the speed priority of category “Status moves” increase by 1.
 Burmy is classified as a bagworm; this Pokémon can be found in green berry trees and possesses two abilities (Shed Skin and Overcoat) and one hidden ability (available through transfer).


Shed Skin - Every turn, it has 1 in 3 chances of healing from a status condition, such as Burn, Paralyze, Sleep, Poison, and Freeze.
Overcoat. - This protects the Pokémon from weather effects and powder moves, such as Sleep Power, Poison Powder, etc.
 A flying Bug–type Pokémon classified as tiny bee. This Pokémon is known for its speed points and has two abilities (Honey Gather and Hustle) and one hidden (obtained through leveling). This Pokémon can be found in yellow berry trees.


Honey Gather - Pokémon may pick up honey after a battle; the higher the level, the higher the chance.
Hustle - Damage from physical attacks is 1.5 times, but average accuracy is only 80%.
 This bug is found in pink berry trees and is known for its defense points. Classified as scatterdust, Spewpa has two active abilities (Shed Skin and Friend Guard) and one hidden ability (obtain from leveling).


Shed Skin - Every turn, it has 1 in 3 chances of healing from a status condition like burn, paralyze, sleep, poison, and freeze.
Friend Guard - In double or triple battles, the ally Pokémon receives reduced damage from any form of attacks.

