 If you have no health insurance or are on a budget, federally funded health centers may be a good alternative option for you. In these facilities, you are able to receive therapy and pay only what you can afford based on your income. This will make it easier for your to get treatment without paying too much money.There is an online database that can help you find a health center in your area.
 Government funded healthcare, such as Medicare and Medicaid, provide free health insurance for those who qualify. These programs are offered to people over the age of 65 and to those with low incomes. These insurance plans cover therapy, though there will likely be a copay you must pay when you go.


Apply online to see if you qualify for these insurance plans., There may be support group therapy in your area that is cheaper than one on one treatment. These sessions may be offered at a flat fee per session or per month.


These are often issue focused, such as sessions for OCD, anxiety, or depression. Look for sessions that deal with the mental health issue you need help with.Local religious organizations may also offer free counseling services with trained counselors as well, so look for these in your area., Many large universities have cheap counseling services offered through psychology, psychiatry, or behavioral therapy departments. In these departments, you can get appointments with graduate students who provide treatment under supervision. The graduate students get experience hours and you get lower cost therapy.


These sessions may not be open to the public, so check with the university you go to, work for, or that is in your area to see if there are programs available to you.If you are unsure of how to approach people in these departments, think about writing an e-mail or calling them for more information. Start with things such as, "I am looking for some counseling help. Do you think there is anyone here that can help me?" or "I've heard you offer counseling services. Is there a way I can sign up for a few sessions?"

, Local health departments often have crisis care centers that help with mental health. These organizations may be able to help you over the phone or come to your home, especially if you need help with a mental health crisis.


These organizations also help connect you to appropriate care in your area that fits into your price range.
When you call these centers, try to explain exactly what kind of crisis you are having. Tell them, "I am having trouble with Is there someone there who can help me?" or "I am feeling very overwhelmed and don't know how to deal with it. Is there someone I can talk to?", Clinical trials are US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved tests of medications and methods that help them get approved for mass use. You can volunteer for theses trials to receive free experimental care. There are risks involved in these kinds of trials. The methods, since they are still in the test phase, may not always be effective and there may be some unpleasant side effects.


To look for clinical trials, check the National Institute of Health's database.
Many of these trials offer monetary reimbursement for your time commitment and participation.
Eligibility for these vary, so check with the different trails to see if you qualify.