 If you're going to tackle the problem of BDS, then you need to understand the motivations behind it in order to respond to them. There are quite a number of possible reasons for BDS (these are theories as there are no hard facts on the phenomenon):The most common reason people don't like to adopt these dogs is due to their perceived aggressiveness. The stereotypical aggressive rottweilers, doberman pinschers, and some breeds of pit bull, give all big, dark colored dogs a bad name.






When looking at a black lab and a golden retriever, most people will choose the golden retriever as the "safe" dog.






Another reason people don't tend to adopt black dogs is guilt by association. Black cats, and other dark animals, have always had negative superstitions associated with them. This negative association seems to carry over to dogs as well, since almost all dogs used for security purposes have dark coats to make them appear more menacing.






The concept of black for evil and white for good in many things from books to movies might have an impact on some people. Hollywood seems to favor this approach, possibly because black dogs are harder to photograph. Also, "the black dog" is a term applied to depression, making some people associate black dogs with feeling down.






Black dogs are also thought to shed more hair than lighter colored dogs. This is untrue, but since the black hair may be more visible on light surfaces, this "nuisance factor" is yet another reason people don't adopt black dogs.
Another reason people don't tend to adopt large black dogs, is that they 'go gray' in the muzzle area earlier. This makes them look older than they really are, and most people don't want to adopt a dog 'past his prime'.





;
, Several cute tricks may be the ticket to help get a black dog adopted. A higher education is many dogs' hope for a successful interview with a new family.


See How to train a dog, How to teach a dog to drop it, How to teach your dog to take your socks off, and How to teach your dog to hold an object for just a few of many training ideas.
 Dark dogs don't stand out in photos, so they don't tend to look their best photographed in a shelter. Black is a difficult color to photograph well, so select someone from the shelter staff or volunteers who loves a photography challenge!


If your camera has a "fill-in flash", use it. Hopefully the photo will then show the dog's eyes and face.
Read How to take pictures of your black pet for more hints on good photography.
 Think of all the qualities of the breed that will suit the person who might be adopting the dog and make these a strong selling point. For instance, rottweilers and dobermans are both very loyal breeds, and would be good for a one-master home. Perhaps print up a card or make a poster with the great new photo of the black dog and point out all the excellent traits of the dog's breed, using bullet points to make them stand out.
 If the person considering the adoption of a dog says something like, "Oh, but he's too big!", promote the qualities of a big dog. Large dogs may be much more laid back than smaller, more energetic breeds, and also many large breeds have been shown to get along better with other dogs, which can be helpful for an owner looking to create a multi dog household. (Just make sure these qualities actually apply to the dog you are trying to get adopted.) If the person wants a dog for security, point out that people tend to be more afraid of black dogs than dogs of lighter colors.
 None of the black dogs came on a UFO from a distant planet; each came from a non-fixed pair of pets, as a result of poor human decision-making (or lack thereof). Encourage all owners to be responsible by having the dogs spayed or neutered before they leave the shelter (include the cost in the adoption price).

