 Being clear with one another about why you want to discuss exes is an important part of having a healthy conversation. If you are talking about past relationships to coerce your partner into a specific behavior, you should reevaluate why you are sharing that element of your past., Before you and your partner begin a conversation about exes, you should agree on some common ground rules. These rules will vary from couple to couple, but having rules in place will allow both partners to be open and honest while remaining comfortable., Once you decide on some basic ground rules, you can work together to agree what types of questions are appropriate to ask. For example, you might agree that it is okay to ask why you broke up with an ex or what you learned from the relationship. You might also decide that it is inappropriate to ask about an ex’s sexual performance or preferences

, Having a focused, candid conversation with your partner about past relationships can help build trust and encourage communication. Once you set ground rules about what, precisely, you will be discussing, make an effort to stick to the issues at hand.


For example, if you agree to discuss general overviews of past relationships, avoid going into details about your former mother-in-law.
 While it is important to be open and honest with your current partner while discussing exes, you should minimize the details. Providing your significant other with detailed accounts of past sex lives and relationship woes is unnecessary. Give details when necessary, but avoid lengthy narratives that might spark insecurity in your current partner.For example, you should avoid providing or asking about intimate details of your sex life with exes.
 When you’re discussing past relationships with your significant other, it’s important that you are honest with them. If you lie to your partner, you are missing a critical opportunity to build trust and practice open communication. While a detailed account of your past isn’t necessary, it’s important that you are honest and open.If your current partner asks why you broke up with your ex, you should provide them with an honest answer. You can say, for example, “He did not support my goal of returning to nursing school.”
If you feel uncomfortable answering a question, try saying, “Jim, I do not feel comfortable answering that question about my relationship with my ex, I would prefer to leave it in the past.”

, When you decide to have a conversation with your significant other about past relationships, it’s important to take the other person’s feelings into account. Talking about exes can make both parties feel vulnerable and it’s important to take this into consideration when you decide what you will or won’t be sharing.


For example, you should avoid discussing intimate details of past sex lives that might make your partner insecure.
 When talking about your ex, try and stay focused on what you learned from the relationship and how those lessons made you a better person. Breakups often fuel self-growth, and relaying this to your current partner can help them understand why you are the person you are today.For example, you could say, “While our breakup was messy, I really benefitted and grew from becoming financially independent and being able to pursue my own interests without constraint.”
Keep in mind that complaining about your ex may give people the impression that you are not over them. It can also take away the focus from your new developing relationship.
 When you talk with your partner about past relationships, both of you can gain insight into how the other person grew into who they are today. Relationships are learning experiences that test your needs and boundaries, and talking about them will help both of you better understand each other’s character, history, and behavior.For example, you might learn that your current partner was really hurt by his ex lying to him. This will help you understand that he values honesty in a relationship.
Or, your new partner might learn that your ex did not take your opinions into account. This could enhance his communication with you in this new relationship.

