 If you have a negative or rocky relationship with your child, it’s going to be quite a challenge to guide them in their own relationships. A major obstacle to talking to your kid about relationships—and them actually being receptive—is the quality of the bond between you.One of the best ways to build a positive bond with your child is by being there for them. Ask your child about what's happening in their life, and really listen to their answers.
If you have several children, make a point to spend quality time with each of them one-on-one to talk or engage in hobbies.
 Parents have the ability to set the tone of their children’s experiences in relationships. Unfortunately, this means that positive experiences often result in positive expectations, and negative experiences are conveyed with a sense of hopelessness or bitterness.Don’t let your own experiences with love darken your child’s relationships. Send the message that relationships can be fulfilling when they consist of two healthy individuals who communicate, respect each other, and make each other feel good about oneself and the relationship., If you’re trying to talk to your children about relationships with no premise or solicitation, prepare for it to possibly be discarded or ignored. Let your child come to you or, at the very least, take advantage of contextual stimuli (i.e. a TV show or a friend’s breakup) before sparking a relationship talk.Children, particularly teens, often view their parents as being out of touch concerning matters of the heart—often because parents minimize kid’s feelings of love simply because it doesn’t match their own.That’s why it’s important to form a positive relationship with your child and set the stage according to their own personalities.
 Your children are watching your behavior, for signs of what to do and not to do. Whether you are single, dating, or married, modeling healthy relationships in your own life is essential to passing on positive relational patterns to your child.Foster healthy communication skills by active listening in all your relationships. Demonstrate trust by respecting your partner’s privacy (physically and on social media) and right to pursue their own interests. Emphasize an equal partnership by making decisions together with your partner. Avoid negative language about partners. And, resist emotional manipulation such as guilt-tripping.