 Fruit is a great source of dietary fiber and other nutrients that promote overall health. Some evidence suggests that including fruit in your diet may also reduce your risk for cognitive decline.Bananas, in particular, contain tryptophan, which some studies have linked to improved memory.Top your yogurt or oatmeal with fresh strawberries, cherries or raspberries.
Add blueberries, peaches, or mandarin oranges to your salads.
Have a snack of apple slices or grapes when you need a ‘pick me up’.;
, Some research indicates that eating two to three servings of vegetables daily can help your memory and cognitive functioning over time.The more you can remember and the better your brain is working, the easier it will be for you to focus.


Have a spinach and egg-white omelet for breakfast or add some kale or carrots to your morning smoothie.
Take a salad with mixed greens for lunch or snack on cauliflower and celery sticks.
Add sautéed or steamed vegetables like peppers or asparagus to your evening meals.
Beets have been found to help increase blood flow to the brain, which helps with concentration and memory.If your nose wrinkles at the thought, consider adding them to a smoothie.
 Both seafood and eggs (yolk and whites) are rich in omega-3 fatty acids. Studies have found that foods high in these fats help maintain memory and support overall brain health.Include both of these foods in your diet to help you focus.


Eggs also contain choline which some research suggests helps promote a healthy brain overall.Try adding variety to your egg dishes by having a frittata, quiche, an omelet, or deviled eggs.
Include seafood such as salmon, tuna, and shellfish in your diet at least three times a week.
For example, you might have tuna salad one day, oysters another, and salmon steaks another day.
 When you are using diet to help you focus it’s a good idea to get long lasting energy. You can do this by eating foods that are high in protein.Beans, eggs, white-meat poultry, and low-fat dairy are all a good source of protein.


For example, you could include some low-fat yogurt or cottage cheese with your breakfast or as a snack.
Have a cup of black bean soup and a half of a chicken breast salad for your midday meal.
 Because they are digested more slowly, complex carbohydrates provide your body with long-term energy.This can help maintain your focus throughout the day.


Choose unrefined whole grains when picking your cereals, rice, and bread.
For example, choose whole wheat bread rather than white bread for your toast and sandwiches.
Try to avoid simple carbohydrates because they are high in sugar which will only give you a short burst of energy.

