 Turtles enjoy swimming, basking in the sun, and being active. Turtles also grow. Therefore, providing lots of space for your turtle to enjoy these activities and giving room to grow is important in making your turtle happy. Research the potential mature size of your turtle and buy a tank that will reflect his growth. Turtles cannot be crammed into a small space or they will be unhappy.
Glass aquariums that provide about three to four times the length of the turtle are most desirable. Turtles need to be able to totally submerge themselves and they need an area to get out of the water and get completely dry.
Keep in mind that the bigger the tank is, the happier the turtle will be. Turtles are reptiles that, surprisingly, have a large territory in the wild. Try to reflect that with a large tank.;
, Turtles take pleasure from spending time on land and water, so creating an environment that allows them to do both will make them happy. Although turtle aquariums do not need much landscaping creating an appropriate habitat will maximize your turtle’s health and longevity. Designing the habitat can be a fun and creative project, but always remember to your turtle’s needs in mind. Try to keep the water portion deeper than the shell is wide so your turtle can completely submerge and swim freely.
Slope the land portion into the water so your turtle does not have trouble entering or exiting the water portion.
Turtles love to bask in the sun. Create a basking platform so your turtle can enjoy the UVA and UVB heat lamps you set up in the tank. Turtles can relax under the light for up to ten to twelve hours a day.
 Turtles are messy – they excrete, eat, and leave behind scraps of food in their water. If you do no clean their aquarium, both the turtle and its habitat will stink. Moreover, all this waste could potentially cause high ammonia and nitrate levels. Clean your turtle’s aquarium weekly or create a separate area outside the tank to feed and allow your turtle to excrete waste before reentering the aquarium.
An unclean tank or turtle could result in several different types of diseases that are difficult to treat.
Algae will build on your turtle’s shell and will need to be cleaned off with a soft toothbrush.
Turtles, like most reptiles, shed. The scutes on your turtle’s shell will become itchy and irritable if you do not keep the shell cleaned off.
Always wash your hands before and after handling your turtle so that you do not transfer germs or contaminates to your turtle and to prevent the transfer of salmonella.
 Turtles, like people, have very different personalities. If you have a social turtle, you might be able to pet or play with them, but a general rule would be to keep handling at a minimum. In general, turtles do not enjoy being lifted off of the ground, but sometimes it is necessary to remove them from their aquarium for cleaning, playing, or exercise. If so, handle your turtle gently and securely so they do not bite you or try to escape.
Remember never to put your turtle on its back, grab its tail, or force it out of its shell. Your turtle will not think that is funny and it will stress them out.
If your turtle enjoys affection, you can pet their head, chin, and shell as long as they allow you to do it.

