 Think of your date’s favorite books, movies, TV shows, bands, etc. when buying a gift. Choose something your date has been waiting for or which has a special sentimental or emotional value.


Try buying something to add to a collection if your date has a running collection of any item, like postcards, stamps, etc. Add a romantic element by making the collectible item have something to do with a place you’ve shared a kiss, had a date, or created an inside joke.
Try personalizing any gift with your date’s initials, yours together, or anything else that is personal to your date or your relationship. You could personalize a picture frame, a bookmark in a book your date will love, etc.
Think about what your date has told you they love or miss about a certain time period or place, either from earlier in your relationship, their childhood, or another special time. Try to recreate a piece of that sentimental place or time period for him or her.
 Write in a card to let your date know how you feel, set a romantic mood, or just make your date laugh. If you buy a card, make sure you write a personal message inside it.


Try making a card with folded paper, markers or pens, and any other decorative elements you want to make it personal and unique to your date.
You can make several cards, to leave for your date to find at different places and times throughout the day for a sweet and romantic way to communicate even when you’re apart.
 Your Valentine’s Day gift doesn’t have to be an object. Make your gift an experience that you share together, whether you travel somewhere new, see a show, or go on an adventure.


Try giving your date the gift of a class in something they’ve always wanted to learn, like cooking, dancing, or woodworking. Your date can do the class on his or her own, or you can attend it together.Try ending your date on a beautiful overlook, a quaint park or garden, or someplace that is unique and special to your date or your relationship.
Try a “coupon book” of fun activities or sweet things that you will do for your date whenever he or she redeems each one.
 Try the typical trifecta of Valentine’s Day gifts, which are available almost anywhere before and on the holiday, if your date enjoys those things.


Try getting a type of chocolate that your date particularly enjoys, or another type of candy or treat they love. Personalize it with a sweet note or arrange candies into sweet words or hearts.
You don’t need to stick with an arrangement of flowers from the floral department. Try picking your date’s favorite wildflowers (from a permitted area), buying a different kind of plant they can enjoy planting outside or keeping indoors, or even making origami or paper flowers.Consider that many people enjoy a more personalized gift than what’s available at every store on Valentine’s Day, but others really do enjoy stuffed animals, flowers, and candy. It’s worth asking your date ahead of time before the holiday what they like instead of trying to guess.

