, It might have nothing to do with you. Were they having a rough time that day, or that month? Perhaps they are shy and insecure deep down, and do not feel able to express themselves as they mean to.
 Showing the other person that you see their good intentions and empathize with their situation will make it easier for them to feel comfortable apologizing if necessary. They will feel greater freedom to experiment with changing their behavior if they know you are willing to be patient with, and ultimately forgive, their social sloppiness.


People with disabilities, such as autistic people, may have trouble understanding manners.
 Most likely it is something that can be resolved; it just needs to be aired out. You two may have had different expectations about what flatmates should do and not do.
 It could be an ongoing habit of yours - a little thing like not replacing their favorite mug in the place they keep it, or singing loudly in the shower - or it could have been a one-time incidence in which you said something that rubbed them the wrong way. There could have been a misunderstanding; perhaps something of theirs went missing and they assumed your dog ate it when in fact it was stolen. Who knows? Just be aware that there are many possible reasons as to why they apparently have beef with you. Airing those out will help clear up the misunderstanding, and/or, reach a compromise between both of your needs if that is needed.
 This helps you phrase things in a clear, non-accusatory manner. "I" language is a useful tool in fixing misunderstandings between people, and conflicts caused by accident.


An easy template is "When you _______, I feel/felt ______." For example, "When you commented about my wardrobe being strange, I felt hurt and embarrassed."
No one can argue with how you feel. If your flatmate tries to make excuses or ignore your feelings, then their nastiness probably is intentional.
 First making sure that they have time and aren't in the middle of something, catch them in the moment. Don't speak in an accusatory manner or assume that they meant to be rude; instead, gently and inquisitively say something like, "wait, what you just said - when you said (insert comment here), I felt (judged, blamed, alienated, whatever you felt) because I took it to mean (whatever you took it to mean). I'm not sure that's what you meant though. What did you mean?" This nonjudgmental, nonviolent format helps resolve conflicts. Find out what they really meant. This should begin to open the door to finding out what underlying problem - a personal issue in their own life, a psychological issue of theirs, a habit of yours they dislike, or an action of yours that they misinterpreted - is the cause of your poor interactions. See How to Practice Nonviolent Communication.

