 In the wild, cats are predators. When your cat is stalking you and attacking and/or biting you, she is seeing you as prey.You probably don’t see yourself as prey, since you, her owner, are bigger than she is. However, even if your cat attacks nothing more than your ankles, she is demonstrating her natural predator instincts.


Your cat may also be attacking you because she does not have enough toys or other environmental stimulation to keep her busy. She might be bored, and sees you as an easy target.An insufficient amount of interactive playtime can also cause her to attack.Kittens that are separated too early from their mother and littermates do not learn how to stop biting, so they are more prone to attacking and biting you as her owner.What you might see as cute behavior in a kitten can actually become a very problematic behavioral issue.
Medical issues, such as hyperthyroidism and central nervous system dysfunction, may also be causing the attacks. Your veterinarian can determine if medical issues are the root cause.Medical issues should be ruled out first before considering behavioral issues.
 When you are playing with your cat, it may not be easy to tell the difference between normal play behavior and attack behavior (playing too roughly).Your cat will give you subtle clues to let you know whether her intentions are playful or harmful. For example, if she is in a bright and playful mood, she will open her mouth halfway, pounce or hop sideways, and have an arched back; she likely won’t make much noise.When she is approaching attack mode, she will start hissing, growling, or spitting during playtime.She may also start trying to grab your hand to bite it.You may see her ears flatten, pupils dilate, and tail swish back and forth.If you are not playing with her, but notice that she is stalking you, you can be fairly confident that she’s about to try to attack you., Keeping a record of when your cat attacks you can help you get a better understanding of the situations and times when she is most likely to attack. For example, you may notice that she tends to bite your ankles in the morning to wake you up, or becomes aggressive each time that you play and interact with her. If you are able to anticipate when she is most likely to attack, you can do some pre-planning to try to redirect her attention from attacking you to maybe playing with a toy.