 The meat you use to make sausage should be cold so that it will hold its shape better. Pork sausage is most common, but you could also choose from chicken, turkey, bison or a combination of different meats. Place the meat in a large mixing bowl with your other ingredients close at hand.If you’re using frozen meat, be sure to defrost it ahead of time.Since you’ll be handling raw meat, you’ll want to wear gloves or wash your hands thoroughly before and after the process.Try a basic lean turkey sausage, or get more elaborate with flavor pairings like chicken and apple., To cut down on the amount of salt in the sausage, stick with pungent, flavorful spices like garlic, parsley, cloves and paprika. There’s no exact proportion of each spice that’s best—just season to taste. It will help to portion out your dry ingredients in advance so you’ll be able to dump them into the meat all at once.Make the flavor of your sausage pop by including more intense spices like mustard, sage or cayenne pepper.A traditional breakfast sausage seasoning can be made by blending salt, black pepper, sage, cloves, marjoram and a hint of brown sugar.For spicy Italian-style sausage, season with a dash of salt, black pepper, garlic powder, dried onion, parsley and dried red pepper flakes., Grab the meat with both hands and begin mixing it by folding it in on itself repeatedly. Once the spices have been evenly incorporated, separate the meat into golf-ball sized chunks, then smooth them flat into patties. You can also press the sausage into casings, if you have a grinder at home.Don’t pat the meat out too thick, or it will be difficult to cook it through without burning it.
Use a round cookie cutter to cut out patties of a uniform size., Now that you’ve made your sausage, you can either slap it on the griddle or stick it in the refrigerator until you’re ready to eat it. Fresh sausage should be consumed within a couple of days. If you don’t plan on using it right away, wrap it tightly in plastic wrap or a Ziploc gallon bag (vacuum-seal bags are ideal) and freeze.Another option is to cook all the sausage at once, then place it in the refrigerator and reheat as needed. Try to use up precooked sausage within 2-3 days.
When properly frozen, sausage will typically stay good for up to three months.