 When you're talking to someone, never pay them any compliments. Instead, find reasons to point out things they've done wrong. Point out little failures and big disappointments. Go off topic if necessary. Never let anyone else succeed.


Practice the back-handed compliment: "You're so good looking. I bet you wish you were smarter, though."
Practice the humble brag: "Oh you went to France, huh? I went there like five years ago. It's ok I guess. I was kind of bored. I guess you like it though."

, You should be like a black hole for other peoples' ability to communicate. Sit with a scowl on your face and never contribute anything to conversation. If a topic comes up that you're interested in, just sneer and scoff. People will steer clear of you eventually, but that's part of the gig, buddy.


Don’t keep up your end of talking. Don’t ask questions or act like a good listener. Just stay focused on yourself.
Play “Debbie Downer.” If someone brings up their recent vacation to the Philippines, talk about Ebola. If someone talks about the wonderful meal they just had at an upscale restaurant, talk about e. coli.
 When you do speak, it should be uncomfortably loud and intrude on other peoples' conversations. Pay no attention to personal space and the noise level appropriate for the occasion. Speak loudly, shouting at your friends even when you're sitting right next to them. Bonus points for bad breath.


Make your conversations drastically inappropriate for the place. If you're in church, talk about death metal and Call of Duty with your brother. If you're at a Young Liberals meeting, start talking about the "welfare state" and how much you like Ayn Rand.
 Good as adverbs, adjectives, and interjections, curse words are pretty useful for the bad kid. Befriend them and use them in as many different ways as possible. Watch Scorsese movies for creative suggestions.
 Don't forget the nonverbal methods of communicating badly. If you notice other people around you looking uncomfortable, as if you've offended them, of they're put off by something that you're talking about, that means you're on the right track. Keep talking about whatever it is. It's doing the bad trick.

