 A PSE, or payment settlement entity, is any third party company that handles payment transactions. Whether you're self-employed or you own a business, if you accept credit cards and other forms of electronic payment, you may be eligible to fill out a 1099-K form. If you don't receive any income via electronic payment, you should not have to fill out a 1099-K.Income received from credit cards, debit cards, and stored-value cards may need to be reported on a 1099-K form.
Income received through PayPal, Google Checkout or another payer may also be considered 1099-K income.
 If you conducted 200 or more transactions with one or more PSEs that garnered a total income of $20,000 or more, you should receive a 1099-K form in the mail with these totals reflected on the form. If you conducted fewer than 200 transactions or the total came to less than $20,000, you do not need a 1099-K form.Sometimes companies send out 1099-K forms even when the recipient may not be required to use them. It's a good idea to manually add up the number of transactions conducted with PSEs to determine whether you need to fill out the form.Not everyone who accepts credit card or third-party payments has over 200 transactions during a given tax period. For example, if you're self-employed and only received 30 credit card payments last year, you won't need a 1099-K. If your business does not accept credit cards or other forms of electronic payment, you should not receive this form.
The gross amount of a reportable payment does not include any adjustments for credits, cash equivalents, discount amounts, fees, or refunded amounts.
 Make sure that your business records accurately reflect the income reflected on the form you receive. Check your merchant statements and payment card receipt records to ensure accuracy and have backup in case you are audited. If you feel there is inaccurate information on your 1099-K, call the PSE that sent it to have a correction made. You should also contact the PSE if the following errors occur on your form:The form is a duplicate
The Taxpayer Identification Number is incorrect
The number of payment transactions is incorrect
The Merchant Category Code doesn't describe your business correctly

