


To do this, take a day or so to have everyone learn a mini choreographed dance. Try to put a variety of things in there so you can take more notice to see who's good at what and what not.
Then, try to notice those who are confident being in the front, not the type of person or people that watch someone out of the corner of their eye. By doing this, you will learn who the core people you want to be in the front a lot of the time of the dance.
But, do make sure that the person or people that you are thinking about letting them be in front are talented with a lot of the movements executed almost perfectly, or in other words, have them down. The others who are not as confident, put them towards the back so if they don't remember a move or chunk of the dance, they can look at the people or person who know what they are doing.
Also, the person or people you put in the front, be sure to apply more pressure on them and have higher standards for them than the other people who are less confident or just beginners.;
, To find the right music, you need an idea, or just the opposite way around. If you like thinking of ideas before getting the music, that's fine.


Think of all the people's strengths you tested earlier and think about them as you get ideas.
If you are very advanced and have beginners in your class, you may want to try slowing down your mind and thinking of movements they could actually execute or do.
Once you have done your thinking, find the music. Modern dance doesn't always have to have a steady beat, but for beginners, you may want to have a steady beat. Modern dance, intense modern dance uses sort of foreign music and music that almost makes you imagine animals swinging on vines or things crawling. Music that is generally weird to people. Not all people, but most.
If your group does not like that type of exotic music, try choreographing a dance to a slow and fast tempo love song. You can fit A LOT of emotion in there. Also, remember that modern dance is one of the most emotional styles of dance so you must get your group of people used to TONS of expression. That would be another thing to test the group of people on in your mini choreography session.
If you like finding the music first, the most important thing to think about when choosing your music is to question yourself: Does this have a steady tempo? Or, Would this song give out a lot of emotion? Those are the main things you want to ask yourself, especially if you have a beginning group of people.



To do this, again, look back on all your people's strengths and weaknesses.
If there was only 1-2 people who were confident and had more of a advanced level in modern dance in the group, you may want to consider making a diamond formation. That type of formation is the most common; with one or two people at the peak. you also could use a trapezoid formation, a circle formation, or a 1-4 line formation depending on how many people you have teaching. You could use a diagonal formation or have many diagonals criss-crossing each other.
Also, be sure to make your formation move to different formations so there's more activity going on during your performance.
 As a suggestion, you should probably not have all the people doing the same thing at once all the time. You could make a cannon, which are groups of people all doing the same thing, but doing the movements at different times, or, you could have two or three groups doing something completely different but blends smoothly with all the other movements other people are doing.


Try to keep to exotic or African type movements with hip hop, ballet, and jazz combined with a tint of animal movements in your dance. After all, this is modern dance. If you're stuck on ideas, try looking at YouTube videos that have those type of movements described above. You can also take ballet movements and turn them into a more flowing or low to the ground movements.

