 Between six to 12 months, you should start adding solid foods into your baby's diet, as breastmilk alone will no longer be sufficient to meet all of your baby's growth and nutrient needs after six months.Interestingly, despite medical recommendations, only 79% of women in the United States breastfeed initially, and this number drops to 46% of women who have continued breastfeeding through to six months.
Doctors are hoping to increase the percentage of women who are compelled to breastfeed by providing the latest evidence in support of its benefits, both to the baby and to you as a mother.
Physicians recommend breastfeeding except in rare cases, such as if the mother has an illness that is transmittable through breastmilk such as HIV, or if the mother has other problems with breastmilk or breastfeeding. If you worry this may apply to you, speak to your family doctor, your obstetrician (a specialist), or a lactation consultant (someone who specializes in breastfeeding) for further information.
Certain medications are not compatible with breastfeeding so women on regular medications should consult their doctor.;
,


As a result, breastfeeding diminishes your baby's likelihood of catching an infection, and also increases his or her capacity to fight off any bugs he or she may come in contact with early in life.
This means less of a chance of your baby getting respiratory infections, ear infections, or other illnesses.
 The breastmilk even naturally changes in composition as your baby grows, in order to be a perfect nutrient match — one that is so specifically tailored to your baby's growth that it cannot be fully matched by any store-bought formula.
 Breastfed babies experience fewer episodes of diarrhea, suffer less gastrointestinal problems, and have a reduced risk of food allergies.In addition, studies indicate that the benefits are carried over into adulthood by lowering the risk of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis.
 For instance, research shows that breastfed babies have a lower risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), although the reasons for this are not fully understood.


Breastfeeding has also been linked to reduced rates of certain childhood cancers (mainly leukemias), as well as to diminished rates of cardiovascular (heart) disease, diabetes, and obesity.In addition, breastfed babies suffer less from skin disorders than do formula fed babies.
Research has also shown that babies that are breastfed for at least 12 months have a higher IQ.



Breastfeeding also diminishes post-pregnancy bleeding. This is because it stimulates the release of a particular hormone, called oxytocin, which helps the uterus to contract more quickly and lessens bleeding after the birth.Oxytocin (known as the "love hormone") also promotes bonding with your baby, and helps to strengthen the relationship you share.
 Breastfeeding, if done continually, can sometimes serve as contraception (birth control) for up to six months. This is because the hormone balance created in your body while breastfeeding is not conducive to becoming pregnant with another child. This is not, however, the case for all women — some women will get pregnant while nursing, so don't consider it a fool-proof method of birth control.


If you don't want to get pregnant again while nursing, then you need to utilize another form of birth control.
Breastfeeding will also postpone the return of your period.
 Breastfeeding automatically burns calories every time you produce new milk, which equates to approximately 500 calories per day for the average nursing mother.



Infant feeding costs are estimated to cost around $1,000 USD for the first year.
Also, due to the increased immune system function of a baby who is breastfed, you will save yourself money from visits to the paediatrician for potential illnesses., It is always available without waiting for preparation. There is no need to get up to prepare a bottle or heat the formula before offering it to your baby.


Also, consider your breastfeeding as an environmentally friendly gesture. Think of all the trash you will not be contributing as waste.
 It has been proven medically that women who breastfeed have a lower risk of developing breast cancer, ovarian cancer, postpartum depression, and type 2 diabetes.