 Regardless of the bold-letter claims of weight-loss supplements, no pill is going to cause excess weight to start falling off like magic. Lifestyle changes are the best way to lose weight and keep it off.Any pills that do significantly enhance weight loss may have side effects that make them dangerous if taken long-term. And once you stop taking the supplement, you can expect the weight you lost to return – especially if you didn't make any major changes to your diet or lifestyle.
Weight loss in a research setting may be greater than in a real-life setting because other aspects of the participants' lives are monitored more closely. Typically, diet and exercise is strictly controlled so the researchers can measure the effect of the weight-loss supplement.
 A weight-loss supplement won't work if you do nothing to limit and control what you're eating. While a supplement may help you lose more weight than you would lose without it, to begin the process you must consume fewer calories.Build a diet centered around protein, healthy fats, and slow-digesting carbs. You also should include lots of fruit and vegetables. Research the right diet for you, or talk to your doctor or to a dietitian about the best diet strategy for you.
Keep in mind what the weight-loss supplement is designed to do. Many of them will claim to give you more energy, which might remedy the problem of feeling tired or lethargic when you start consuming fewer calories. Others are appetite suppressants, which may make it easier for you to stick to your diet. However, the diet has to come first.
 The food you eat is fuel for your body. The more active you are, the more calories you'll burn. If you burn more calories than you eat, you'll gradually lose weight.Start slow, especially if you haven't been in the habit of exercising before. Aim to do something active for at least 15 minutes a day, whether it's going out for a walk or just dancing around your house.
Exercise will become habitual if you try to do something at the same time every day, and include it as a necessary part of your routine.
 Many weight-loss supplements contain caffeine or other stimulants. If you're also a regular coffee drinker on top of that, you run the risk of overdosing on caffeine, which can cause you to fatigue faster and have difficulty recovering after exercise.Pay attention to the amount of caffeine or other stimulants that are included in your weight-loss supplement. This is especially important if you're taking a weight-loss supplement that claims it can give you more energy.
Keep in mind that you may have to alter your habits to decrease your intake of stimulants when you start taking a weight-loss supplement. Monitor your coffee or tea consumption, especially if you typically consume several cups a day.
 If you decide to start a weight-loss supplement, monitor and assess your progress over the course of several weeks to evaluate its effectiveness. If you don't have noticeable results, you may want to stop taking it.Don't expect to see instant results. Take photos of yourself or measure yourself so that you have an objective means of comparison so you can evaluate your progress. Typically it's better to evaluate the effectiveness of a supplement if you start your diet and exercise program first, do it for about a month, and then add a weight-loss supplement.
Make your first evaluations after you've taken the supplement regularly for at least two weeks. If you don't see any significant difference after a month of taking the supplement, stop taking the supplement.
 You shouldn't view any weight-loss or dietary supplement as a requirement if you want to meet your weight loss goals. As the name suggests, any weight-loss supplement should be taken in addition to a healthy lifestyle.Most weight-loss supplements are designed to help you overcome various hurdles you may encounter as you try to transform your lifestyle into something more healthy. Whatever help they provide, they are not designed to replace a healthy diet and exercise.
This can be difficult because many commercials for weight-loss supplements imply – or even outright state – that you can eat whatever you want and make no changes to your lifestyle and still lose weight. These sorts of claims are never accurate.

