 The easiest and most direct way to find out whether or not your ex misses you is to ask him. Unfortunately, for most people, this is also the most intimidating way; however, simply talking with him is likely the quickest way to figuring out what's going on.


Be aware that, depending on the person, some people may not be honest about their feelings, especially if they are afraid that you are trying to hurt them.
If you and your ex aren’t able to communicate without getting into a big fight, meeting up to try and have conversation about a topic like this may not be the best idea.
Asking your ex outright seems scary, but it can save you a lot of confusion in the long-term — instead of spending time trying to interpret his silence or what, exactly, his use of that smiley emoji meant, you'll know flat-out if he wants to get back together. If he doesn't then you can begin the work of letting go and moving on and not waste your time on someone who no longer wants to date you.
 You can contact her via text or email, but the fastest way is probably just to call her. Keep your conversation as light and friendly as possible. Ask her if they’d like to meet up for lunch or coffee because you want to talk about something with her.


Understand that she might refuse. If she does refuse to see you it’s a good sign that she doesn't miss you, or if she does, she isn't ready to see you yet. Try not to get angry. Instead, be respectful of her wishes.
 If this is the first time you are seeing each other since the break up the situation will probably feel a bit awkward. Take the initiative and try to keep the situation as light as possible. Ask him how things are going for him (e.g. with school or work), and let him know a few things that are going on in your life.Try to keep the conversation on light things and don’t just jump straight into talking about your relationship. This will help lighten the mood, and let him know that you aren’t trying to start a fight.
 If you are at a restaurant or cafe, and are ordering food and/or drinks, it might be a good idea to wait until you have gotten your order to bring up the reason you wanted to meet. This will ensure that you aren’t interrupted continually by the staff wanting to take your order, bring you your food, etc.If you are ordering drinks, avoid alcoholic beverages (if it is relevant for you). Though you might think having a few drinks would help you relax it may also lead you to saying things you didn’t want to say or you might get emotional.
 Although it might be scary, at some point, you will need to bring up the reason for meeting. Start by saying that you appreciate him meeting with you, and that you’d like to talk about some things that have been on your mind. If you still have feelings for him, then be honest about it.If you miss him, telling him the truth about your feelings may make you more vulnerable, but it may also mean he is more likely to open up about his feelings for you.
For example, you could say, “The truth is, I’ve been thinking about you a lot. I know we broke up, and I respect your feelings, but I’d like to find out how you’re feeling about me.”
You could potentially do this over the phone or over text, but having a conversation in person will allow you to observe his body language and facial expressions.
 If it turns out your ex misses you, and you miss her too, then it’s time to decide what to do about those feelings. Try to have an objective conversation about the reasons you broke up, and whether or not it’s worth giving it another try.If it turns out she doesn't miss you, then you know you can move on with your life. Don’t try to make her feel things that she doesn't.
Although it is very difficult, try to think rationally about whether giving it a second try is a good idea. You may discover you both miss each other, but getting back together still isn't a good idea. For example, if you fought constantly about basic values (e.g. religion or ideas about how you should live your life) giving it another go probably won’t end any differently.

