 If you've been making homemade soaps for awhile already, you've probably gotten some positive feedback from family, friends and others who have used your soaps. If it's a newer endeavor, make sure you are confident of your products' quality and marketability. Give them away to relatives, friends and neighbors to get feedback.;
, Call your county or town to find out what the fees are and how to sell homemade soaps. See if there are any special licenses or inspections required by your state.
 Give them away to local businesses, along with a basket or tray that includes your business card or brochure.
 Take some time weekly or monthly to plan out your attendance. Get an idea of the customer traffic and competition for each venue so you can choose the right one. Find out the theme of each one to make sure your products and booth decorations fit in. Have some products that are specially designed for the season or holiday.
 These markets often have early hours; plan to have some time for setting up your space and products before the morning rush.
 The colors, scents and type of soaps you sell will attract different customers. Determine the age, income level and other demographics of your target market to refine your marketing techniques. You'll need to know what they read and what websites they visit to find the right mix of advertising and what stores they shop in to make sure your soaps get placed there.
 You'll need stationery, business cards, a catalog and brochures. Your logo can be used on print items as well as your website and email. Give business cards and brochures to customers, and mail updated catalogs periodically to get repeat business and referrals.
 Put up a website. Sell on eBay, Etsy and other online boutiques and craft malls. Write about your products--or natural products or soap in general--in blogs and articles. Learn online marketing techniques to incorporate keywords so that searchers can find you. Advertise on sites that your prospective customers visit.
 Inquire with online retailers, like boutiques, favor stores and gift shops, to see if they accept new vendors.
 It can be daunting to try to get customers to buy more product or talking business owners into selling your soap. Remember to be confident in your product, friendly and pleasant. Think about hiring someone with proven sales skills and experience to get new business.

