 If you want a visit visa for Dubai, be aware that it’s a lot easier if you are a citizen of the United States or are from 32 other countries (including the European Union countries) whose citizens don’t need a pre-entry visa to enter Dubai. Citizens of the United States and all EU member states qualify for free visit visas at United Arab Emirates airports or other points of entry. They last for 30 days. That means you don’t need to get a visa in advance of arriving in Dubai.If you are a citizen of a Gulf Cooperation Council country, you don’t need a visa at all and could also qualify for a visa for domestic help. GCC countries are countries along the Arabian peninsula. These countries include: Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman and Saudi Arabia.
If you are from a country not on that list of 33 and aren't from a GCC country, you may still get a day tourist visa, depending on the country you are from, but it needs to be sponsored by a local entity, like a hotel or a tour operator, and you should get the visa before entering Dubai. Check with your embassy before traveling to Dubai because the list of countries not requiring a pre-visa or sponsor can change.;
, If you’re not from America, the EU or a few other countries, you will need to find the sponsor to apply for a visa for you.


Valid sponsors include hotel and tourist companies, airlines and airline handlers, organizations based in the United Arab Emirates, and some individuals who already live there.
You will need to choose the type of visa. Possibilities include a tourist visa that is valid for 30 days, a service visa valid for 14 days or a visit visa, which is valid for 30 days and can be extended for another 30.
Airlines and airline handlers can qualify for a 96-hour transit visa.
 If you are a U.S. citizen who carries a U.S. passport, you will qualify for a visa to United Arab Emirates.Your passport must be valid for more than six months, so make sure it's not about to expire. As noted, you do not need to obtain a visa prior to entry to the UAE if you will be staying in Dubai for less than one month. Proceed directly to customs check, and you will be instructed on how to get your visa. You will need your U.S. passport.
This includes U.S citizens who have visas or entry stamps from other countries in their passports. You will need a confirmed round trip airline ticket and an original passport signed by the bearer that should not expire within six months of the time you expect to arrive in Dubai.
The visas are available when you arrive at the airport. If you are going to stay longer than one month, you could just ask for an extension from the immigration office in the UAE.
 The rules are more complicated for people needing a U.S. diplomatic or official visa. You must submit two completed application forms that are typed and contain the particulars of the sponsor host in the UAE (such as the U.S. Embassy). You also must provide the residence address in the country.


You need the original passport signed by the bearer, and it should not expire within 6 months of your arrival.
You will need a copy of the passport and application, two original passport-sized photos, and an original letter from the U.S. Department you are representing that lists your position, purpose of your visit, name and phone number of your contact person in UAE and a confirmation of your sponsor. , Sometimes people on cruise ships need multiple-entry visas because they are going to enter the country more than one time during the trip. Frequent visitors to the country and those who are business visitors tied to a multinational or reputable Dubai company can also qualify for a multiple-entry visa.


You must enter the UAE first on a visit visa. Obtain the multiple-entry visa while in the country. The visa will be stamped in your passport.
Citizens of the United States and all EU member states qualify for free visit visas at United Arab Emirates airports or other points of entry.U.S. citizens can apply to the UAE embassy in the United States to obtain one to 10-year multiple entry visas. This requires a sponsor. The visa is free. Tourists and business people using this visa should not stay longer than six months for each visit. German citizens can apply to the UAE embassy in Germany but only qualify for 1 to 2 year multiple entry visas. They don’t need a sponsor. They can’t stay longer than three months per year and must pay a visa fee.
 If you’re just stopping at the Dubai International Airport but will be there for at least 8 hours, you could qualify for a 96-hour transit visa. You need to show a valid onward ticket.


You must present passport and travel documents. If you are from Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Niger, or Yemen, you don’t qualify for a transit visa.
Airlines often arrange these transit visas for their passengers.
 If you will be attending a licensed university or educational institution in the country, that institution could sponsor you for a student visa.


You will need to submit a clear passport copy of the sponsor, a copy of the establishment card, copy of the trade license, and travel insurance. There are fees associated with student visas
You will also need to provide a clear personal photo of the sponsored person and authorized signatures.
 In order to seek medical treatment in the country, you need to have a sponsorship from a medical establishment that is approved by the Ministry of Health or Health Authority.


Medical visas last 60 days and can be renewed twice for 60-day periods. You will need a clear passport copy of the sponsor, a copy of the establishment card, a medical certificate attested by the Health Authority or MOH, and travel insurance.
You will also need a clear personal photo of the sponsored person.
 You can get a special visa for these kinds of events by providing a clear photo of the sponsored person approved by the sponsors with proper signatures.


You will need a passport of the sponsor, copy of the establishment card, copy of the trade license, a letter from the concerned entity announcing the event, and travel insurance.
Such visas last for 30 or 60 days and can’t be renewed.

