 ...";
, But:


"You turn things upside down, as if the potter were thought to be like the clay! -- Can the pot say of the potter, 'He knows nothing'?"-- as if the servant or apprentice might say that. Are you already firmed or have you been "fired" under the plan of His Book to make you a good apprentice potter to receive and apply the fire of His Spirit yourself?

, I don't make up what you hear me say. What I say comes from the Father who sent me.", He is busy shaping, sculpting and filling new vessels with new wine that He can use in your shaping future as an apprentice potter.
 Your vessel of clay must be exposed to the high temperatures of a kiln of the fire of the infilling of the Holy Spirit hopefully without cracking and so to be completed so that one can be truly useful in the Way of the Potter (the Spirit of God or Spirit of Jesus Christ).
, in terms of how it contributes to a strong, vibrant, life-changing experience of preparation for everything that a real purpose has ahead for you.


F-Focus on the Master Potter's map: His Word and the Big Book. Let Him shape your short term goals like your youth activities and education as well as your long term goals like finding and moving into your career and family life and following a focus on topics such as:


Pray effectively,
Find God's plan for you and
Receive the Father’s love, God’s peace and love God,
Have "the mind of Christ."I-Identify yourself on His role of believers and followers:

Who are you in the scheme of things?
Be a person of the Book.


R-Reasons are important for your life:

Not just a plan, but why is it important?
Receiving and walking in your destiny.


E-Encounter with others so that even it only two or three may:

Play, pray, work and agree together in prayer when the Way is in it and then "there I am in your midst."
Agree also in the Truth at the middle of it all when you agree in His Way, if the Truth is in your midst.


Commentary: "The treasure of the knowledge of Christ and of the ministry of the gospel of life. Perhaps his enemies pointed to his sorrows as a proof that he was not so favored as a minister of Christ. A splendid treasure was placed in a fragile, cheap earthen vessel. Then it was manifest that the great work wrought was the power of God, and not from us, the apostles and evangelists."


So be tempered to the task of being a weak vessel of clay but blessing others -- to be for one and all and living in the plan "one for all in Christ."

,, (John 6:44)


"But I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to Myself."