 While your family, friends, and business associates may not share the same wishes, they can be valuable resources. Talk to them and share your dreams and your ideas on how to accomplish them. They may have helpful ideas of their own. You may even find like-minded individuals to collaborate with on your dream project.


When you open up to others, be prepared to listen honestly to what they have to say. It will not always be what you want to hear, but an alternate point of view can be invaluable.
If you need money to achieve your dream, other people are an important resource. Whether it's your parents helping with college application fees or investors giving you startup capital for your company, you'll need to learn how to ask for help.
 While some people may help make your wish come true, others will try to shoot you down. Still others may derail you with bad advice, whether on purpose or unintentionally. While your decisions may come down to instinct, there are a few things to keep in mind:


Think about where the advice is coming from. What is his or her background? Does the person giving it have experience in something related to your wish? Is this person happy and successful? Remember that even people who seem knowledgeable may be outdated or uniformed. Worse, an apparently helpful individual may want you to fail due to his or her own shortcomings.
Always check "facts" when you can, especially ones that seem outlandish. Listen to as many opinions about a topic as possible. If you can't verify a claim, it's unlikely to be true.Learn to tell the difference between naysayers and realists. A naysayer may tell you that wanting to direct a blockbuster movie is a ridiculous goal. In contrast, a realistic critic may tell you that you probably won't become a famous director but may offer tips on choosing a film school., For certain wishes, there may be very little you can personally do to make them happen. On the other hand, there are plenty of wealthy or well-connected people in the world who perform random acts of kindness. If you have an interesting wish and a story to tell, try posting about it on social media. Crowdsourcing for "impossible" wishes is also becoming more popular, connecting people to others who can grant them. You never know who may read your story and want to help you.