


Determine your goals and what issues you want to focus on.
Check on legal requirements, insurance coverage, and waiver forms for your organization.
Establish operating rules, including reimbursement procedures, status reports, sponsor support, storage locations for materials/donations, and committee member back-up.
Delegate responsibilities, including those related to obtaining clearances, security, transportation, parking, vendor recruitment, publicity and other printed materials, volunteer recruitment, refreshments, vendor lunches, display setup/breakdown/cleaning, contracts, donations, and insurance.
Establish milestones and timelines.;
,


Identify a guest speaker for opening remarks at the kick-off ceremony.
 Determine the number of vendors the location can accommodate.


Determine if you want vendors that represent business, non-profit, and/or government organizations. Vendors should all have a health mission.
 for print, internet, TV, radio, email), and a letter for vendors and product donors about the event.
 Send an initial letter announcing the event and its sponsors. Follow up with telephone calls and emails.


Contact donors, or purchase items to be given away at the health fair if appropriate.



Include directions to the event, vendor name tags, lunch options, and parking passes.
Confirm donations and material delivery options (i.e. where to unload on the day of the event or where to ship).
Confirm the guest speaker(s) and obtain speaker support, including a podium, microphone, and audio visual equipment.
Send a letter to the VIPs, such as directors and department heads.
,


Responsibilities should include meeting and escorting vendors, providing refreshments in the morning or afternoon, setting up, cleaning up, serving as host/hostess, distributing vendor lunches, working the reception desk, giving out event bags, and distributing and collecting evaluation forms.
Have an orientation meeting with volunteers a week before the event to make sure everyone knows their responsibilities.

