 Everyone has beliefs that are stronger than others. It's important to determine your core beliefs so you can prioritize them when you are out in the world. You can't fight for everything all the time, so you need to figure out what's most important to you. Clarify your core beliefs to yourself so that you'll be able to explain them to others.


Try to narrow down to five core beliefs. These beliefs are the ones that you absolutely cannot live without. If you're having trouble deciding, look at what you put first in your life. If you place friends and family above all else, then the importance of relationships is likely a core value for you. On the other hand, maybe you've chosen a more solitary life so you can see the world. In that case, maybe independence and boldness are two of your core values.
You might also look to your greatest accomplishments and the people you admire to figure out your core values., Once you figure out your five core values, put them in a single list. Stick them up where you can see them every day. Keep a list in your wallet, and refer to it. As you focus on these beliefs and values, think about how you can incorporate them into your life.
 Once you know your values, you start to realize which issues are most important to you, and you'll find it easier to take a side. Knowing precisely what you are asking for or trying to change will help you approach the situation confidently and help you maintain your composure in a challenging situation.For a community issue, it's important to research to learn more. Read articles and talk with those in your area to learn more about each issue.
 When you're researching an issue, you're most likely to look at articles that confirm what you already believe to be true, which can act like an echo-chamber that reinforces a certain set of beliefs. That's called confirmation bias. However, you can't really stand up for an issue until you really understand the other side. Understanding the other side will help you see where they're coming from, which can lead to discussion rather than just argument.That means it's important to look at information from both sides of the table. Of course, you still want that information to be legitimate. Don't go for spammy sites. Rather, stick to well-trusted sites, such as .gov or .edu sites that use facts and statistics to back up their claims.
Also, always think about who is sponsoring the information you're viewing. If they are on one side of the issue, the information could very well be skewed.
 Of course, you want to stand up for what you believe in, but sometimes the consequences may not be worth it to you. Before you wade into battle, you need to decide where your line is; once it is crossed, that is when you decide to enter the discussion.It's important to consider two things when deciding whether you should wade in. One, you should consider whether the situation is so disturbing to you that you feel like you must speak up. If it is, you likely want to take a stand.
Two, think about your relationship with the person. If the person has authority over you, such as a boss, teacher, or cop, you may decide that the battle isn't worth what it will cost you. Similarly, when you're considering entering an argument with someone you're close to, you should weigh whether the cost to the relationship is worth defending your beliefs.

