 Subtly let him know that you're not seeing anybody at the moment, but that you're open to the possibility. The one thing stronger than a guy's desire to ask a girl out is his fear of rejection. If you can relieve that fear then there will be nothing standing in his way. So make it clear that you'd say yes to him if he asked.
 Everyone knows that guys can be a little slow at reading the signs. So even if you feel like you've been sending out all the right signals, it might be time to up the ante a little. Smile at him, laugh at his jokes, touch his arm when you talk to him, sit close to him when possible - he should soon realize that he's the only one receiving such special attention.


Don't underestimate the power of body language! When you're around him, keep your body language open. Crossing your arms makes you seem unapproachable and closed off. If you don't know what to do with your hands, order a drink, or rest them on your lap. Try not to fidget.
Make lots of eye contact. If you're looking anywhere but at him while he's talking to you, you'll seem disinterested. Looking him straight in the eye and you'll appear confident and open.
 If you have plans to hang out with friends or to go to a party over the weekend, invite him to come along. With any luck, the two of you will spend the whole time together. It's not exactly a date, but it'll give you the opportunity to get to know one another a little better in a no-pressure environment.
 A trustworthy friend can be used to your advantage here. She can do some undercover digging and make comments or ask questions that you would feel uncomfortable with.


Ask her to talk to his friends and playfully inquire about when he's going to ask you on a date.
Get her to comment on what a good couple the two of you would make, in front of a group of people. It might be a little embarrassing at the time, but it will plant the idea in his brain.
Just make sure that you can count on her to be discreet. Otherwise, using a friend to do your dirty work can seem immature.
 Find out where he likes to hang out in the evenings, what his favorite coffee place is or where he goes to the gym. Then, if you happen to "accidentally" bump in to one another, you can strike up a conversation.


Remember, this tactic is to be used only once or twice. If you do it more often than that, he'll figure out that you're stalking him and you'll look like a creep.
 If he still hasn't worked up the courage to ask you out on a date, it might be time to take the initiative and give him a ready-made opportunity. Mention that there's a new bar in town that you'd be interested in checking out, or a new sci-fi film that you're dying to see. Hopefully he'll see his chance and offer to go with you. It's not the most romantic of proposals, but you'll still get your date!

, If you're tired of waiting around for this guy to summon up the nerve to ask you out, take matters into your own hands. This is the 21st Century after all. He'll be impressed by your confidence and won't be able to resist saying yes!

