 Not all forwards can play with the same style. The biggest variable is how many other strikers you're playing with, as this greatly changes how you handle yourself. If you're the only one up top, you're going to want to stay high up on the defense, spreading the field for your team. If there are three strikers, you're necessarily going to have to come back on defense at times.


The high forward, used to hold onto the middle of the field and create space, is often called a center forwards. They are big targets who hold up the ball and create offensive space for others.
Wing forwards, or wingers are basically offensive outside midfielders. They must be excellent one-on-one dribblers with great speed and crossing ability.

Strikers often hold underneath a center forward who controls the ball with his/her back to goal. Their goal is to get the ball to a striker in a dangerous position, making the striker your fastest trapper and shooter., You need to create space for the rest of the team, so hold the off-sides line as deep as the defense will let you. When you get the ball, try to turn to face the goal, but know that this isn't necessary -- you simply want to hold the ball as your teammates sprint up to support you. Your goal is to suck the defense in, forcing them to play you so that they open up oodles of space along the wings.If there are two center strikers, try staggering yourselves with one up higher and one sitting closer to the midfield. This opens up space for both of you to each sideline, as well as for dangerous combination play in the middle.
 Whether as part of a two man or three man systems, striking forwards want to get the ball facing the goal whenever possible. Strikers are trying to create just enough space to get a shot off, punishing the defense for lapses and laziness. Your bread and butter is going to be quick, one-touch passes and one-two combinations, or throwing a quick scissors and ripping a shot with space. Don't stand around with the ball -- keep it moving and always look for shots, making 10-20 yard sprints through the defense for quick, slotted passes and shots.


Shooting, even when you don't score, is useful. As defenses feel shots coming from further out, they will push up to prevent you from shooting more often. This often opens up space behind them for through passes and crosses., Attack the end line ruthlessly, driving down at defenders and forcing them to make tackles that lead to corners and deep throw-ins. Your goal is to get the ball down near the end line and then put it into the box, preferably as the defenders are running towards their own goal. Furthermore, keep your eye on the middle of the field. If the center defenders are getting lazy or seem to forget about you, a sharp diagonal run straight at goal will open you up for crosses, through balls, and shots.


As soon as your team wins the ball, get out as wide as possible. This will stretch the defense considerably, making tons of space for you and others.
Depending on the team formation, a winger may be expected to play a lot more defense than most forwards. Be sure to coordinate this with your coach and outside backs., Next time you watch a professional game, pay attention to where the forward is when they're not touching the ball. Note how good forwards are always moving, which makes the defense constantly look up and readjust. As you watch more, pay attention to how the two or three forwards work together, holding their space and crisscrossing to manipulate the defenders into creating space.


Watch both team's strikers. How does their movement differ?
What do the strikers do in different parts of the game? If a team is winning, they tend to sit back, whereas losing teams like to push strikers up further to create goal-scoring opportunities.