 In the very beginning of the series Amu was very shy and judged as a cool and spicy girl and she really wanted to change herself. Then there is Amulet Heart`s ego which is really happy upbeat and cheerful, also sporty. Amulet Spade is a very laid back personality and also mature, Miki is very into art and music. Then there is Amulet Clover who is most like a soft, gentle, kind,and bubbly type of person. She is very good at cooking and cleaning. The last three come from later in the series when Amu`s egg, Dia, hatched. Amulet Diamond is just more like a shining star and makes people happy around her.;
, Starting by changing the way you react to things is a good way to adjust. For example Amulet Heart would cheer a lot at a football game and Amulet Spade would cheer a little more quietly and maybe draw in a sketchbook.
 This is so you have the look. An Example is Amu Hinamori would have a half-up, half-down on-the-side ponytail (see Be a Pink Punk Girl). Amulet Heart would just have a side ponytail (see Be Sporty). Amulet Spade would have her hair bundled up in a hat (see Be Artsy Yet Sophisticated). Also Amulet Clover and Diamond would have double high ponytails (see Be a Girly Girl). One good way to reflect the characters ego you wish to imitate is to wear the colors they always have on. The Cool and Spicy look would have red, black, purple, deep/navy blue, and grey.
 This is a main and key point when trying to act like Amu Hinamori when ever she tries to help others out.
 The thing is it`s also good to keep a diary with you for this because it may be boring to lay on your bed for about 3-7 minutes.
 Put things like pictures of you and your friends in frames of on the wall.
 Amu also has a crush on a guy older than her by 5 years.
 Amu has tea parties in the royal garden with her friends and she's seen in several episodes going out shopping with her friends.
 Life is a lesson, don`t learn it trying to be someone you're not, because when it`s time to show who you really are you won`t know how. You won't know who to be. You will lose the person you were born as.

