 Find food and water bowls that are appropriately sized and will not hold bacteria. Generally, stainless steel bowls will be a little better than plastic, since plastic bowls can be chewed up and then hold onto bacteria.Ceramic bowls can be fine but are less durable than either plastic or steel.Plastic bowls contain chemicals that, if eaten, could influence your dog’s hormonal balance. Stay away from plastic bowls.If you decide to go for a ceramic bowl, make sure the glaze is lead-free.Stainless steel is durable, easy to clean and carry. It is the best material for a dog bowl.;
, Find a dog food that is appropriate for your new dog’s age and breed. You may want to consult with the breeder or your veterinarian about an appropriate food for your new dog. Since dogs can have some difficulty switching between different foods, try to be consistent in the food you feed them.If your new dog is a puppy, look for a dog food that has a modest amount of carbohydrates, a good ratio of fat to protein, and lots of meat-based protein. You should find a food that does not have chemical preservatives, artificial coloring, or generic animal fats.If your new dog is an old dog, you should look for a low-calorie dog food., You should get some treats so that you can reward your new dog when they show good behavior.When purchasing treats, read the list of ingredients on the dog treat package to figure out whether it is healthy or not. Look for whole food ingredients that are grown in close proximity to the producer. Avoid ingredients that you cannot recognize. Look for natural sweeteners. Above all else, avoid the following ingredients: artificial preservatives, artificial colors and chemical humectants., You will need a dog crate for your new dog to get some rest. Although some new dog owners do not like the look of dog crates, dogs actually love to have a place to call their own. You should get a crate that is an appropriate size for your dog. Your dog should be able to stand up and turn around comfortably in the crate. However, it should not be so big that they are able to have multiple rooms in one crate. You can find dog crates online or at your local pet store.Dogs like the feeling of a cave environment, so it can help if you put a blanket overtop of the crate.Dog crates come in a range of sizes.
Crates cost in the range of $15 to $150., Find a bed that will allow your new dog to sleep comfortably. When your new dog is introduced into your home, the bed will make them feel more at home.If your new dog is a puppy, you will want to find a bed that fits inside the crate. For the first period of puppy training, your new dog will sleep in the crate. When they get older, you can get a larger bed that goes outside the crate.If your new dog is a puppy, keep an eye on them to make sure they don’t chew the new bed. They could get sick by ingesting the contents of the bed. If you see them chewing the bed, replace it with a blanket.
If your new dog is an adult, you should find an appropriate bed for their size. Find one that allows them to curl up in a comfortable sleeping position., Your city or municipality may send you a numbered dog tag after you register your dog. In addition, you should purchase a dog tag that includes their name, phone number and address. If your new dog gets lost, this will make it easier to find it.


You should also consider microchipping your new dog. Ask your veterinarian about microchipping, which involves the insertion of a microchip in your dog’s back. The chip can be scanned to identify their personal information. If your dog gets lost, a shelter can scan your dog and hopefully get it back to you.