 It's important to track your weight on any diet or weight loss plan. Regular weight check-ins will show you your progress over time and may help keep you motivated. They can also give you insight into how effective or ineffective your lifestyle changes are.


It's ideal to weigh yourself about once or twice a week. Weighing yourself daily won't show you the big picture. Daily fluctuations in weight (either a gain or loss) are normal and might not be accurate compared to a weekly weigh in.Purchase a home scale so you have the right tools at home to keep yourself on track.
Regular weigh-ins have also been shown to help prevent weight-gain.Weigh yourself at the same time each week and in the same clothes (or nude).
Keep in mind that a number on a scale won't give you the full picture. The scale does not discriminate between fat and muscle, nor will it tell you about the health of your heart or your increased endurance. If you are burning fat while gaining muscle, your weight may not change. Instead of giving up, consider non-weight-related goals, such as how many laps you can swim in one go.
 Writing down goals can be helpful with any type of change, but is especially helpful with weight loss. Knowing your long-term goal can help keep you motivated and looking forward through your progress.


Be specific with your goal. Make sure it's timely, specific and realistic. Remember, large amounts of weight loss are not realistic and are most likely not safe or healthy.
Set smaller goals before your long-term goals. For example, if you want to lose 25 pounds in five months, a smaller goal would be to lose five pounds within the first month.
Set goals outside of your weight loss. Write goals down about things you'll be able to do or stop doing as you lose weight. For example, you may be able to walk a 5k without stopping.
 As you continue with your weight loss plan, it's always a good idea to check in and reevaluate your progress. Monthly or bi-monthly check-ins can help you modify your diet, exercise or other behaviors to help continue your progress.


If you notice your weight loss has slowed or stopped, take a step back and reevaluate your lifestyle. Maybe keep a food journal a couple of days or track how often you're exercising. If you see areas where you've slipped up or gotten a little lax, try to get back on track.

