 If you live in a rainy environment or frequently ride on wet, muddy trails, go for a wet chain lube. It's thicker, so heavy downpours and mud won't wash it away. If you live in a drier climate, choose a thinner chain lube marked for dry conditions.You can find wet and dry bicycle lubricants online or at a bike shop. Make sure to use only lubricants marked for bicycles.
If you frequently use your bike in both wet and dry conditions, buy one of each lube.;
, It’s best to thoroughly clean your bike’s chain before you lubricate it.Spray a clean rag with a bicycle degreaser or WD-40. With the bike in a work stand or propped up, grasp the chain with the soaked rag and use your hand to pedal the chain through the rag.Pedal the chain through the rag until each of the chain’s links have passed through the cleaning rag two or three times. Repeat the technique with another clean rag to wipe away excess residue and dry the chain.
Note that while some manufacturers advise using WD-40 as a cleaning solution, it’s not a proper lubricant on its own.
 Touch the lubricant container’s straw nozzle to one side (either the inside of the chain closest to the frame or the outside) of the top of the bike chain. Spin the pedals forward to move each of the chain’s links past the lubricating nozzle. Once you’ve spun the chain in two complete rotations, repeat the process on the other side of the chain’s top.Try not to apply too much lube as you pedal the chain. A little goes a long way, so just apply a thin stream. Wiping away excess will help make sure you cover the nooks and crannies.
 Use a similar procedure to lube both sides of the chain’s bottom. Touch the nozzle to the inner and outer sides of the chain, and rotate the chain twice for each side. Pedal backward when you lube the bottom of the chain, instead of pedaling forward as you did with the top side., You’ll need to get rid of excess lubricant after you’ve lubed the inner and outer edges of the chain’s top and bottom. Grasp the chain with a clean, dry rag and pedal forward to move the chain through the rag. Continue for two or three rotations, or until you’ve wiped away all the excess surface lube.Wiping away the excess surface lube will help reduce dirt and debris from caking up your chain.

