 Australian Shepherds are herding dogs, which means they will herd just about anything - small children, other pets, inanimate objects, and you. They may nuzzle you, bark at you, or nip at your lower half as you walk. This is not aggressive behavior but a herding instinct.Due to this, your Aussie may nip people’s calves, heels, or buttocks. Sometimes, this may be hard enough to bruise. Australian Shepherds are almost never aggressive dogs, so this is generally due to the herding instinct. This can happen with Australian Shepherds who come from a strong herding line.
If your dog demonstrates this herding instinct, make sure to keep them busy and give them plenty of exercise. Have them chase balls and frisbees. You may also be able to enroll them in a herding class.
 Australian Shepherds are sensitive to the stimuli around them. They are very attuned to light, sound, chaos, and even human emotions. They are very intelligent and perceptive, which means they will pick up on when you are angry and upset. Try not to overstimulate your Aussie so as not to make it scared or aggressive out of fear.If you have children, teach them to treat the Aussie with respect. Some Australian Shepherds have been considered aggressive because children were allowed to yell, shout, and scream at or around the dog and allowed to hit them.
Aussies are by nature not aggressive, so if your Australian Shepherd seems aggressive, they are more than likely scared due to the environment.
 Because the breed is a work dog, they need something to do. They are intelligent and love to be busy. This requires work and forethought on your part. Without the proper activity level, the Aussie can be destructive.Australian Shepherds may destroy your house, chew things, or bark a lot if they are bored.
He needs daily training and exercise. These dogs do well with competitive sports and agility training.
The Australian Shepherd may chase cars, people, or animals if they are bored and do not get enough activity.
 Australian Shepherds are fiercely loyal. They have a drive to be around their family nearly all the time and stay close by their side. This dog does best when socialized with the family. Don’t get an Australian Shepherd if you are not home a lot or want to put them in the yard for long periods of time.They will protect their family if need be.

