 Will you have one per subject? Or one for everything? You could have a few subjects per binder (e.g. French, Spanish and German in one, Biology, Physics and Chemistry in another etc).;
, If you often rip paper out of your binder and do not bother to put hand-outs in their appropriate place, buy a binder that can zip up. This prevents the papers from falling out.
 Always try to choose a binder that has pockets on the back of the front cover, and the front of the back cover. Also label your binder with printable labels or the strips of paper included.This is good for emergencies or small papers that are not hole-punched. Just stick them in the pocket and organize them when you get home. If not, the papers may fall out and you forget where you put them, or they might get lost.
 Keep your binder organized by having dividers so that you know where everything is. If you have dividers, finding a specific sheet of paper will be much easier, and will save you time when you need it to study or lend out some lined paper to a friend. You should have dividers for:


Handouts
Notes
Different subjects
Blank paper
Lined paper
Essays or Projects

, Try buying dividers with tabs that stick out of the sides. They may be numbered or have little blank labels. Write on the labels so you can easily figure out where something is.
 Always hole-punch sheets right away if they are not already hole-punched, and then put them in their proper place as soon as you get them. This will save you a lot of time, instead of stuffing the paper in and wasting time finding it later.
 Do not leave the class without putting all of your notes and handouts in their proper places.
 Once a week, sit on your bed, couch, or chair and flip through your binder. Take this time to organize anything that seems messy.
 Do not rip paper out of your binder, because the paper will not be able to stay in the rings and may fall out. If you do find yourself ripping out paper very often, have lots of re-enforcements on hand so you can repair the paper.
 It's great to have one plastic folder in every binder to put your homework in. That way, you can put your homework assignments from each class in there and know what you need to work on when you get home. You could also keep anything you have to study in a separate plastic folder.
,, Just in case the binders rings fall apart, write the date on every piece of paper you get to keep organized and know the order of everything you have studied. This will really help you when you need to study or review (or if your binder falls apart)

, A healthy binder leads to healthy studying and better grades!

