 Witch hazel is a plant that's often used as an astringent, meaning that is temporarily tones the skin. Yet witch hazel is also a common acne remedy for itching and redness relief. Although using witch hazel probably won't treat your acne, it definitely will soothe irritated skin and help minimize the appearance of the pimple.Witch hazel most often comes as an astringent. You can purchase witch hazel in a formula with or without alcohol (they usually come in solutions of about 14% alcohol), but it's recommended not to purchase witch hazel with alcohol. Alcohol has the ability to dry out and irritate skin.;
, This short-term method helps if your acne is red and or painful. Use an ice cube which has been out of the freezer for a few minutes, and then hold it over the pimple to slightly reduce the swelling. The cold helps contract the blood vessels underneath the skin, minimizing the appearance and redness of the pimple., Let a tea bag steep in warm water for a minute; black tea helps especially. (You can drink the tea afterwards if you like for a healthy treat.) Take the tea bag out and squeeze most of the liquid from the bag. Then wait for the tea bag to cool down a little bit and place it gently on top of the pimple.


Tea bags contain good amounts of tannins. These tannins help reduce swelling, and are often used topically to treat problems like puffy eyes., Serrapeptase is a natural chemical taken from silkworms and officially classified as a dietary supplement. Serrapeptase reduces inflammation by breaking down proteins quicker and more effectively., Aspirin is a popular home remedy used to fight redness and swelling.That's because aspirin contains salicylic acid, which is a chemical used for minor pain relief and inflammation.The aspirin is supposed to reduce swelling while drying out the pimple, giving you an extra bang for your buck.


Break the aspirin tablets up into a fine dust, and then mix with water, a few drops at a time. Add enough water to make it into a gritty paste.
With a cotton swab or Q-tip, apply the paste to the pimple, covering entirely.
Let the paste harden on the pimple and let stand for several hours. Many people choose to mix and apply the paste to the pimple right before bed, clearing the aspirin paste away in the morning when they wash their face.
 Toothpaste is a popular home remedy to reduce the size of the pimple. Although it's possible for toothpaste to dry out pimples because it contains specific ingredients — baking soda, hydrogen peroxide, triclosan, and more — toothpaste isn't inherently better at treating pimples than other options.There is some evidence that toothpaste can even irritate your skin, so be careful about this home remedy.


Use cream toothpaste instead of gel toothpaste. Toothpaste cream contains the ingredients that are supposed to dry out and reduce swelling in your pimple, while gel varieties don't always.
 Both these essential oils come from trees; they work to reduce swelling by fighting the bacteria that produce acne. While neem is sort of a cure-all for various diseases and maladies, tea tree oil is especially helpful in treating skin infections and disorders.








Because both essential oils can be irritating in their pure form (there is too much of a good thing), dilute the oils in half with water before applying. Then use a Q-tip to dab the oil onto the pimple, letting stay for 10 to 20 minutes. Wipe off afterward.
 A clay mask is helpful in drawing out moisture from the skin, helping treat inflammation and draw puss out from the pimple. Pores can look noticeably smaller and tighter for many patients after the application of a clay mask. For best results, mask the entire face once a week and then spot-treat as necessary in between on problem pimples.
 This trifecta of natural ingredients has helped reduce inflammation for many patients seeking help at home. Though they all work differently, they're believed to fight acne with the same tenacity. Still, there is no scientific evidence that these natural ingredients can cure acne or reduce inflammation, so use it at your discretion.


Cut off a slice of lemon and place it onto the top of the skin, over the site of the pimple. The citric acid in lemon juice is supposed to fight the bacteria of the acne and even help heal scars.Note that the application of lemon juice will sting.
Cucumber is a known anti-inflammatory.Cut a slice of cucumber and place it over the site of the pimple. The cucumber should soothe the skin as it helps reduce inflammation.
The mild acidity of tomatoes helps fight acne. In fact, many acne medications use vitamin A and vitamin C — sources of which are in tomatoes.Cut a slice of tomato and apply it over the site of the pimple, leaving for no longer than an hour.

