 There are many brands of conditioner, hair spray, shine spray, and heat protector that are designed to prevent your hair from frizzing. It also helps to try hair care products (shampoo, conditioner) that are as natural as possible and don't contain things like sulfates or mineral oil. Some of these products will only de-frizz your hair temporarily, but others will have gradual, permanent ant-frizz effects if you use them over time.


There are products like sprays or gels that you use while your hair is dry and after you have styled it. These types of products are temporary, and will not have any permanent effects on your hair.
The other type of hair product you can use are shampoos and conditioners/deep treatments. These products are applied to wet hair and will have permanent effects and great results on your hair. It won't happen all at once, but the results will be worth the wait.;
, Silicone is an artificial material added to many conditioners; it is added in an attempt to keep the hair moisturized by creating a shaft over the hair and protecting it from the air and heat around it. However, it also keeps out helpful oils and therefore creates frizzy hair.Don't worry if you put your sulfate-free shampoo in your hair and it doesn't foam or bubble up. This is because sulfates are what make your shampoo foam up when you apply it to your hair. However, if you scrub at your scalp with the shampoo, then run the shampoo through the rest of your hair (don't bundle it all up on top of your head), it will still clean your hair.
If you color your hair, use a product without ammonia. Ammonia damages your hair, and damaged hair is more likely to frizz.
Avoid any hair products that contain alcohol or citric acid, as these will only dry out your hair more.
 If you have extra frizzy hair and the sulfate- and silicone-free shampoos products aren't working for you, try using a shampoo and conditioner meant for people with curly hair. More than people with wavy or straight hair, people with curly hair are prone to extremely frizzy hair. Because of this, curly-hair shampoos and conditioners usually include more natural oils and frizz-fighting materials than regular shampoos.
 These are usually "leave-in" products that you don't rinse out of your hair. You will use some leave-in products while your hair is still damp, and others after your hair is dry. If you don't have a leave-in product on hand, you can use regular hand lotion on dry hair. Rub the hand lotion into your hands as usual, then run your hands over your hair while they are still slightly damp from the lotion. This should smooth down the frizzy areas.


This can be done several times, if needed, but always remember to rub the lotion into your hands until slightly damp first, and then run through your hair. Never have lotion in your hands that you can visibly see.
If you run hand lotion through your hair without rubbing it into your hands first, or overdo the process, you will have oily-looking hair. Getting it right may take some practice.
 Spread oils thoroughly onto your roots and tips for a gradual de-frizzing effect. Start by using a dime size amount on damp hair, from about the ear lobe down to the ends. Keeping oil off of your roots and scalp will prevent your hair from getting greasy. Oils that are good for de-frizzing include almond oil, argan oil, keratin oil, coconut oil, macadamia oil, olive oil, and Moroccan oil.


You can use oils as a hair treatment by thoroughly working the oil into your scalp and through the hair shaft, letting it soak over night and washing your hair in the morning.
You can also purchase products that have these oils in them.
 Apply this solution thickly onto your hair, concentrating on the frizzy strands. Leave the mixture in your hair for 15-20 minutes, then wash it out.
 It will definitely remove the frizzy factor, but keep in mind that flat iron use can cause damage your hair over time. The lower the heat setting that you use, the better it is for your hair.


Don't pull your hair when using the flat iron.
Find a product that is made especially for spraying on the hair to help protect it from the heat from the flat iron.
 This will allow your hair to slip and slide on the pillow while you sleep, which may reduce frizz. Consider sleeping in a silk scarf if your hair is super textured. To keep your cotton pillowcase from sucking up all the moisture in your hair, wrap it up at night in a bun, and then tie on a silk scarf, which will help retain moisture.
 Oils might include olive oil and coconut oil. Nuts might include cashews and almonds. The healthier you eat, the healthier your hair will be. You can find special vitamins that are designed especially for your hair. Take advantage of these products, but ask a doctor first before taking anything—even vitamins. These vitamins make your hair stronger, and stronger hair has less breakage. Less breakage means less frizz.
 When you don't cut your hair for a while, the ends can split. Over time, they continue to split all the way up the hair shaft, making your hair look gradually frizzier.
 Shampooing your hair every day can strip it of oils it needs to be smooth and healthy. The natural oils that accumulate are good frizz fighters. Instead, use shampoo once a week, and use conditioner whenever you wet your hair. If your hair feels uncomfortably oily, use a dry shampoo between washes.


Shampoo hair once or twice in a week, maximum, thrice.
 This is a key part of preventing frizz. To keep your hair properly moisturized, try using a deep conditioner that you can let sit on your hair for an extended period of time. Unless your hair is extremely fine, use a deep conditioner each time you wash, and be sure to leave it on for 15 to 30 minutes. Frizz happens when dry, porous hair sucks up moisture in the air, causing the shaft to swell. This heavy dose of conditioner coats the hair shaft, making it harder for moisture to sink in.
 If you have curly hair or plan on wearing your hair in a curly style (twist out, braid out, bantu knot out, etc.) try to avoid touching it while it's wet to prevent frizz. It also helps to seal your twists or braids with a natural oil such as coconut oil or olive oil. Everything like hair ties and head bands, can also pull and rip hair, causing more damage to the hair, and adding more frizziness. So be careful when choosing and using hair accessories.
 This tears up your roots, causing damage to the hair, which then can cause breakage or frizziness. Always use your fingertips to massage your scalp while washing hair.
 Avoid blow-drying your hair or wrapping in a towel. It's best to use a wide-tooth hair pick on wet hair to pick out any hair knots first, if needed, instead of using a brush or a fine-toothed comb, because this keeps the hair from breaking or frizzing. After it is completely dry then you may brush or comb your hair gently. Any pulling of the hair will cause it to frizz.


Don't wrap your hair up in a towel. Wrapping and twisting your hair to keep it up will cause the hair to frizz. Try just laying the towel over your head any way you like, standing straight or bent over, and gently patting your hair dry. Never rub quickly to towel-dry, because it causes your hair to frizz.
Regular towels can create friction and unnecessary frizz. Instead try using either a microfiber towel or a 100% cotton t-shirt.
Don't blow dry your hair. If you blow dry your hair every time you wash—or just too often—it may be suffering from heat damage. If you must blow-dry: let your hair dry 90 percent of the way before you blow-dry. Too much hot air focused directly on your strands dehydrates it, making it frizzy — especially during the winter months when the air is less humid.

