 There is not one agreed upon oil for the inversion method. Try olive oil, castor oil, coconut oil, grape seed oil, or Moroccan argon oil, if you want to use natural ingredients.


Choose an oil with an aroma that you find soothing. Since the inversion method incorporates massage, pick a scented oil that you find relaxing.;
, Warm up around 3–4 tablespoon (44–59 ml) oil. Take a cup of hot water and place your oil bottle in it. You can get this water from the sink. Let the oil sit for a minute or so until it is warm to the touch. Your goal is to increase blood flow to your scalp. Warmer oil will increase the blood retention in your scalp cells. Do not overheat the oil. You don’t want to burn your scalp.
 If you’ve experienced hair loss, make sure that you cover your problem areas first, then proceed to cover the remainder of your scalp. Make sure that you cover your entire scalp with a thin layer of oil. It doesn't take a lot of oil to achieve full coverage., If your hair tends to split or break, try to spread oil to all of your hair. Hair splits or breaks when it is short on moisture and nutrients. Natural oils will help replenish both.


If you have curly hair, be gentle or avoid this step altogether. You don’t want to pull out more hair in the process., With the tips of your fingers, knead your scalp. Move your fingers in little circles - clockwise and then counterclockwise. Don't be afraid to use your palms in addition to your fingers.Your palms can apply pressure to a greater area at one time.Focus on your problem areas, but don’t forget about the rest of your scalp. Do not massage too hard or you might unintentionally rip out hair or damage hair follicles. Massage for 4 minutes and then stop., You can do this over a sink or bathtub. Alternatively, you could choose to sit upside down in a chair with your legs over the back of the chair. No matter how you choose to do it, let your hair hang loosely and hold your head at a comfortable angle. Your goal is to find a comfortable position and to relax.
 This gives the oils enough time to seep into your scalp while letting gravity increase the blood flow to the scalp. Take deep breaths. Clear your mind. Relax. This step resembles meditation., Come up slowly, or else you may feel dizzy, faint, or weak.You don't want to remain upside down too long. It can cause an unhealthy decrease in blood pressure.Do not try the inversion method if you have low or high blood pressure, a detached retina, an ear infection, a spinal injury, heart problems, a hernia, or are pregnant. The inversion position itself could exacerbate your condition or cause further injury., If you have an incredibly dry scalp, this might be a good decision. Some suggest leaving it in your hair for a couple of hours or even overnight.Take a plastic bag and cover your hair so you don't get any oil on your clothes, furniture, or bed. You can use a normal grocery bad or purchase a plastic wrap meant for hair treatments. You can purchase these from any beauty shop.
If you decide to leave the oil in your hair for longer period of time, know that it could make your scalp and hair too oily. This could cause your follicles to clog up rather than grow new hair., Be sure to completely rinse out all the leftover oil. If you miss a spot, it will be far "greasier" than the other parts of your head. Make sure that you don’t use a harsh shampoo. Harsher shampoos (with a pH higher than 7) will strip your hair’s natural oils.Shampoos like L'Oreal EverCreme Intense Nourishing or Heads and Shoulders work well. Generally, any shampoo geared towards dry scalps have lower pH balances. , Depending on your personal condition, you might find it helpful to perform this treatment every 3 weeks. Repeated use at a higher frequency could make your hair too oily and may even clog your hair follicles, further reducing your hair growth potential.Results will vary based on the person. Some may see results after the first use while others with more chronic follicle problems may not see results for several months. Some people may not see results at all.

