 If you have anxiety about a medical procedure, ease your tension with some music. Patients exposed to music while in a surgical holding area reported lower anxiety and stress than those not exposed to music.Similar findings have shown that music eases pain and anxiety when listened to before and following surgery.Listen to music you enjoy, as the type of music listened to doesn’t seem to matter as much as whether or not you appreciate and enjoy your music.Have a playlist ready for any medical procedure you may have. If you are having outpatient procedures done, ask if you can wear headphones or have a small speaker with you.
Ask yourself how you find the music helpful. Did you feel less focused on pain? Do you feel more relaxed?;
, Chronic pain can cause many problems, not just within your body. You may worry about pains or feel limited by mobility. Listening to music can help you cope with chronic pain. Music can help with sensations as well as distress related to chronic pain.It’s more important to enjoy the music than to choose a specific type of music.When you feel intense pain, allow yourself to listen to music and see how you feel during and after listening. Is there a difference than how you felt before you put on the music?

, When calming music is used during cognitive therapy for anxiety, therapy is more effective than when music is not included.If you see a therapist, talk with him or her about including calming and relaxing music during sessions, and see how you feel during and after session.
 Music can act as a slight distraction while still eliciting emotions. For this reason, it can be beneficial for use in a meditation practice.If you struggle with a wandering mind during meditation, add some music.


Use music that is soothing and not too distracting.
After meditation, ask yourself if you found the music helpful. Did your mind wander less? If not, try a different style of music.
 Slow, quiet Classical music can help reduce stress and relax your mind.Classical music can be beneficial for your body as well: studies have shown that it helps slow your heart rate, ease stress, and lower blood pressure.When your mind and body feel stressed and anxious, have a Classical music playlist you can listen to on the ready.
Reflect on your emotional state after listening to music. Do you feel less stressed overall? How does your body and mind feel?

, Binaural beats are tones delivered through headphones that help induce a certain brainwave state. Calming music can also be included when listening to binaural beats. Using beats that induce delta/theta states prove to be helpful in reducing anxiety.You can find binaural beats to listen to online or purchase an application for your phone or device.
 If you have problems falling asleep, have a bedtime playlist that induces feelings of calm and peace. Listening to relaxing music before falling bedtime can help induce restful sleep.Choose music that relaxes your body and your mind. If you feel to alert, it may hinder your ability to fall asleep.
 Playing an instrument engages more parts of the brain than any other known activity; you engage mental, emotional, and physical processes with each note.If you don’t play an instrument, don’t be shy to pick one up and start playing. Think of what music interests you and what instrument you would enjoy playing.


Remember that learning to play an instrument should be fun. If it’s causing you more anxiety or stress, slow down. You should enjoy playing music and allow it to enhance your day.
There are lots of ways to learn an instrument. You can take formal lessons, learn from a friend, or teach yourself. Think about what option is best suited for you, especially because you are using the instrument to cope with stress and anxiety. Think about what you want to accomplish (playing an instrument for fun and stress relief or playing to a certain skill level) and let that guide your decision.
 Whether you’re terrible or gifted at singing, singing can boost your mood and promote relaxation.Singing can help release tension and anxiety and overall make you feel good.There are lots of places you can sing. Sing in the shower or on your morning or evening commute. Sing a lullaby to your children before bedtime.
Sing songs that bring you joy and happiness. Have a sing-along playlist to listen to you when you feel anxious and feel the tensions easing.
 If you want to listen to music throughout the day, carry a small pair of travel headphones with you. That way, if you find yourself waiting for a bus, stuck in a waiting room, or killing time, you can calm any nerves or stress by listening to music. Especially if you find yourself waiting for something or someone, you can keep your stress or anxiety at bay and relax by listening to music.
 Listening to music while you work can improve productivity and enjoyment. For some, music can increase focus. Listening to music at work can boost your mood, which means you are in a better space to make decisions and approach problems more creatively.When you listen to music at work, ask yourself if your productivity, attention, and concentration are affected. Do you notice a difference on days you listen to music versus days you do not?
For better concentration and less distraction, listen to music without lyrics.
Make sure the music you listen to is enjoyable. If your workplace plays music over speakers that you don’t find enjoyable, consider bringing some headphones and listening to your own playlist.

