 A crisis can be many things, and may vary from person to person. Some people may be more able to cope with crises on their own while others may want specific resources and support. A crisis situation can include feeling suicidal or homicidal, experiencing a sudden death of a loved one, unplanned pregnancy, the departure of a spouse or significant other, drug abuse or relapse, severe illness or injury, homelessness, or a loss of contact with reality/seeing hallucinations or having delusions.A crisis situation can be any situation that makes you feel helpless or hopeless that you feel you cannot handle on your own.;
, Some clinics reserve appointments for crisis intervention throughout the day. You may need to call your insurance or have someone call a local clinic for you to find out if you can be seen right away. Many college campuses offer crisis counseling throughout the day, night, and weekends.You may see an on-call therapist that day or talk to someone over the phone.
 If there is an emergency that needs immediate attention or is life-threatening, call emergency services.You will speak to someone who can tell you what to do or what steps to take next. If you feel that the emergency needs assistance immediately or you are unsure, make the call.


You can also call an ambulance or go directly to your local hospital to the emergency department.
 The crisis counseling session will likely last 60 minutes. The focus of the session is to simply and briefly de-escalate the situation and to help you find useful coping skills and resources., Depending on your crisis, you may see a variety of people. For instance, if your emergency is drug-related, you may see a drug counselor or therapist. A medical doctor may be involved to ensure your safety. You may encounter one person or a group of people. You also may have visits from several providers over a period of time.Be prepared to meet with one or several experts. They may also meet together to discuss your care and ensure your safety.
 If you feel like your life or someone else’s life is in danger, bring this up immediately.This includes any suicidal or homicidal thoughts, or if you feel like someone may endanger your life or the life of your child. If you are in danger, proper authorities will be notified and your safety will be prioritized.
 While the actual situation is important to discuss, it’s also important for you to share your thoughts and feelings about the situation, how you’re handling it, and what feelings are associated with what is going on. However you're coping, a counselor can help you cope with the situation in a healthy way.Acknowledge how you feel and how the situation is affecting you.
 A crisis intervention counseling session is based on the counselor expressing acceptance and support and providing education. Specific skills-oriented approaches may be used, such as practicing coping skills and learning healthy coping mechanisms.Pay attention to your counselor and engage in any activities he or she initiates in session.


Your counselor may have you practice specific coping skills, such as deep breathing or other relaxation techniques, challenging negative thoughts, or detaching from negative emotions.
 It’s common to leave a crisis counseling session with specific plans set in place agreed upon by you and the counselor. This can include what next steps to take, where to go to find safety, seeking support from family and friends, preventing harm to yourself, or engaging in more healthy coping strategies. The action plan will vary largely based on what crisis you are dealing with.For example, if you feel suicidal, your action plan may include removing any means, such as pills, guns, or knives from your home.
Your action plan may include having social and emotional support available to you and decreasing isolation.
 Sometimes people reach out for crisis support then do not receive follow-up or do not follow up on recommendations. Especially in suicide prevention, some crisis counselors continue to stay in touch with individuals following a crisis phone call in the next few days.It’s important to feel supported when you are in crisis.


If needed, make a phone call or follow up on your own.
 Often, crisis counselors will write a specific plan of action for you once your session is complete. This may include how to respond to similar stressors in the near future, or ways to cope with the current stressor. These are tools for you to start using immediately, and it’s important to follow any recommendations you’ve been given.


For example, your counselor may encourage you to start a relaxation practice, or to take any medications out of the house that may pose a danger to you. Whatever the recommendations, follow through on them.
 Following a crisis intervention counseling session, you will likely be referred to a therapist, residential treatment center, or hospital for care. Follow up on any referrals given to you by your crisis counselor.If you were recommended therapy, schedule an appointment right away and engage in regular therapy.


While enduring a crisis can be difficult, it’s important to follow through with professionals to continue dealing with the stressor healthfully.
 While it can be helpful to receive support from a trained professional, you may consider clueing family and close friends in on your crisis. Especially if you are struggling on a daily basis, you may want the emotional or physical help of others to get you through the difficult time.


Open up to trusted family and friends that are willing to listen and help out.Don’t be afraid to say what you need. You may need someone to watch the kids or to cook for you. Reach out to people who are willing to help.

