 Before you change the diaper, wash your hands with soapy water. If you don't have access to a sink, you can rub hand sanitizer on your hands. If you don't have hand sanitizer, you can rub a clean baby wipe on your hands., Place the baby on the changing surface and get out a new diaper. If you're using a disposable diaper, unfold it. If you're using a cloth diaper, fold it or stuff it with an absorbent insert depending on the style of diaper you have. Set the diaper to the side so it's ready once you've removed the dirty diaper.While you can place the clean diaper directly under the dirty diaper before you remove it, the clean diaper can get dirty.
 Pull away the tabs, snaps, or velcro from the dirty diaper to unfasten it. Pull down the front part of the dirty diaper and gently lift your baby's legs up a little. If the diaper is wet, slide the back of the dirty diaper out from under the baby's bottom. If there is poop, use the front half of the dirty diaper to scoop as much of it off your baby as you can. Set the dirty diaper aside until you can fold it.Ensure that you put the dirty diaper out of the baby's reach.
If you have a baby boy who pees during diaper changes, consider laying a clean cloth over his penis while you change him.
 Take a baby wipe or damp cloth and wipe the baby's genitals from front to back (towards the bottom). Cleaning is important to prevent bacterial infections. To clean poop, you'll probably need another wipe or two. Gently lift your baby's legs by the ankles and wipe in between the baby's bottom.Ensure that there's no poop around the baby's genitals or along the creases of their thighs.
 You can prevent diaper rashes by keeping your baby's bottom clean and dry. Give the baby's bottom a few seconds to dry out before you put on the clean diaper. If your baby has a rash, apply diaper cream or petroleum jelly before you put the new diaper on.If you're using cloth diapers, you'll need to lay a disposable insert in the center of the diaper. The insert will keep the diaper cream from touching the cloth diaper which could damage it.

