 If so, you have done an excellent job of training your horse so far! Now it's time to get it ready for saddle work.


Chances are, the only thing that's been harnessed to your horse's head was a halter so far, so now we have to decide what we'll be using to ride the horse. Some people prefer hackamores and bitless bridles for their horses, but most shows require a bitted bridle in order to enter.
Because of this, the horse needs to be taught to accept the bit, and to respond to the bit. We start with this, because the horse already knows how to be lead around, and we're coming fresh out of the groundwork stage into the conditioning stage. This is a perfect time to bridge that gap, with a little bit of both.
Even if the horse has had a bit in its mouth before, it's always good to start from the bottom and work our way to the top. So, for this, we'll take a good snaffle - preferably egg butt  or D-ring, but a loose-ring will work as well. Just make sure to get the right size, as one too small is very prone ot pinching the horse's mouth, and will ruin what we're trying to accomplish.
 We're not going to ask too much of it, as this is more than likely a new thing to it.


Take the bridle (a piece of twine tied to the bit as a headstall will work just fine for this stage) and put the bit in your hand as you normally would to bridle a horse.
Proceed with your normal bridling routine, and press the bit to the horse's lips. If the horse is face- sensitive, work on rubbing your hands all over its face for a while, even if that's all you do today.
Get it to accept it's head being touched, and then move on to bridling. The horse most likely will not open its mouth for the bit, as it doesn't know to yet. If the bit has touched its teeth, and it still won't open (be gentle if this happens), take your thumb, push it in the corner of its mouth, and shove it in as far as you can, until the horse opens its mouth.
Take this opportunity to place the bit behind the teeth, and pull the headstall up and over the ears. Give it a good pat if it accepted this, and then carefully take the bit out and do it again.
Do this 3-5 times at first, and then go back to your normal ground work routine.

After a while, the horse should accept the bridle, and you can start using that in place of a halter. Depending on your horse, this could be the next day, or in five days.
 After you do your normal join-up (at this point, catching your horse should be a lot easier) switch out the halter for a bridle, or bridle over the halter altogether and give it praise when it accepts it.


Continue your groundwork routine as normal, but remember that the horse has a bit in its mouth, so if you have to make any corrections that involve the reins, do them lightly, as the mouth is more sensitive and doesn't need a lot of pressure to get your point across.
Work on pivoting, turning, backing, halting, walking, and trotting while the horse is bridled, and do any patterns you have found, or do new ones. (heck, make up your own!) After a while of this routine, you should be able to bridle the horse straight from the paddock, though it's still recommended to get them out normally beforehand.
 Back when you were desensitizing it, one thing you could've done (if you didn't) was to take a saddle pad and gently throw it onto its back. If not, we can do that now.


Take a saddle pad, or even saddle blanket and let the horse sniff it. Rub it over the horse's neck and side, as well as back, and really all over the horse's body.
Take it and place it on the horse's back as it would be under a saddle. Praise the horse for standing and accepting it, then drag the pad off it's back, and do it again.
Do this on both sides, exaggerating the movement more and more, letting the saddle pad fly over the back to land on it, and yanking it off. Aside from a few twitches in the skin, the horse should stand quietly after about five to ten minutes of this. Praise them for accepting it.
 However, it won't hurt to to the same thing with the saddle soon after. Let the horse sniff it, and then rub it over its body, before setting it on its back.


Expect the horse to fidget with the weight, and tell it to "woah" if it moves, but move with it, just like when you were desensitizing it. let the saddle sit on its back, but don't fasten the girth/cinch.
Pat the horse when it stands, and then remove the saddle, walk over to th other side, and do it again. It won't hurt to let it sniff it again, and to let it rub over that side as well, before setting it on its back.
Praise it once it stands still, and then repeat on both sides until it stands still, and then give it praise. Leave it at that for the day, and come back to it tomorrow.
Once you get back through your routine join-up and get to the saddling part, you'll do something different once the horse accepts the saddle the first time. Praise it as usual, but now, reach for the girth.
 This is where the desensitizing with the whip comes in. If you desensitized every day after your join-up, the horse should be okay with being touched everywhere by now.


If it fidgets too much, wait until it stands still, praise it, unfasten the girth, remove the saddle and pad, and work on it letting you touch it everywhere. Come back to saddling it later.
 Work on both sides so as to give even pressure. Work only as far as the horse is comfortable.


As soon as it puts up too much of a fuss, wait until it settles down, praise it, and unfasten the girth. Then, do it again, but only fasten it as far as it allowed last time. Remember to pat it each time it stands quietly when the girth is fastened.
Eventually, be it today or over the span of a few days, you should be able to get it cinched all the way up with no problems.
 You can do this with or without a lunge line if you're in a round pen, but regardless, you're going to want to pay extra attention to your horse. As soon as you let it go, it will gallop around and buck. I recommend you wear a helmet for this, just in case its hoof were to get you.


Keep on it, and let it buck. This is the equivalent of a bronco buster, only without the rider. Since there's no rider, as long as the saddle is fastened and you make sure the horse doesn't fall, the saddle will always win.
Crack the whip whenever it tries to stop or lay down, and keep it going in one direction until it's calmed down to an easy canter and you can order a trot. Just like the join-up, switch hands and order it to go the other direction.
Remember, it may start bucking again, so keep it moving forward until it stops bucking. Then, change directions two more times (about 5 laps each) and halt the horse. It's gotten this out of its system today, but you may need to do this for a few more days until it no longer bucks with the saddle on.
 Start doing your ground work routines with it completely tacked up.


Do the showmanship or trail-in-hand patterns with the bridle and saddle on for a few days, and then you can move on to getting it used to weight. You want it to think of the saddle and bridle as nothing, and by doing this routine, you'll get it to focus on you while working under the equipment it'll be wearing when you're on its back.
 Grab a buddy to either hold the horse for you, or to be the guinea pig for this part - whoever's lighter or more capable.


Step or have them step onto a mounting block so that they'll be taller than the horse's back (if a horse - a pony may not need either if the rider is tall enough. Just remember that they can carry up to 20% of their bodyweight when deciding who should "get on")
Put your foot in the stirrup, and grab the pommel and cantle of the horn.
Stand like this for a moment until you know the horse has calm down. This part might not bother the horse. Now, put weight in the stirrup, and be prepared for the horse to step away. if it steps too far, release the saddle and place your foot back down until your helper can get the horse situated back at the block. You may need to step down at first, depending on the horse.
Try again, until you can successfully step into the stirrup and hold your weight there. Stay there for 5-10 seconds and do it again for the other side. Then, step up and lay across the saddle.
After a while the horse should be calm enough to let your helper lead you two around like this. It may not be flattering, but it is needed as you can easily dismount should the horse decide to act up. If at all the horse does act up and you end up on your feet again, go back to stepping up and laying over the saddle, and then leave it at that for the day.
Keep doing this until you can successfully be lead around from both sides. Remember to wear a helmet for these stages, and give the horse praise an time it does something good.
 Warm up your horse as usual, and this time, mount the horse, still with your helper holding the horse (or however you did it last time). Just sit there, and dismount the other side.


Mount that side and sit there for a while, and dismount the opposite side. This gets the horse used to not only you sitting on its back, but having action happen on both sides. Once the horse accepts being ridden at a stop, have them lead you around/lead them around until they can trot in-hand. Then, move on to lunging.
You will need to have a line for this, as the horse isn't being actively ridden. The rider is there simply to train the horse to carry a person, but it still needs to be worked out. At this stage, it may be best to lunge it in only a halter, and to provide a grab strap for the rider if they are riding english.
The horse may buck this time, but not as severely as with the saddle as it is already used to the weight being on its back. So, whoever rides the horse has to be good at staying on.
An experienced jumper may be best if no one experienced in this stage of training is available, as they have good seats from jumping their horses. Otherwise, just try to center yourself (or tell the rider to center themselves) and hang on.
Make sure the rider especially is wearing a helmet. Lunge the horse as normal in both directions. The rider shouldn't do anything but sit there, and you or whoever is lunging should be giving the horse commands.
After a successful session, leave it at that for the day, and repeat the next day. Eventually you will be able to lunge with the bridle, and progressively introduce cues (nudging with the heel/squeezing for example) until the rider can take over completely.

