 If your water was turned off for the winter, you'll need to turn the water back on. This should be a fairly simple procedure, unless your home is very old.


The inside valve may be located under the kitchen sink, in a cupboard, or underneath a removable floorboard.The outside valve, also called a stopcock, is usually located with the water meter or near the edge of your property, under a cover.Turn the valve counterclockwise to open the valve and return water flow to your home., After a harsh winter, it's possible your pipes might have frozen and cracked. Cracked pipes can cause leaks that could damage your home and will lose a lot of water if left untreated..


Find your home's water meter. It is located outside the house, usually near a gate or fence if you have one.Turn off all the taps in your home, except for the stop taps at the toilet and next to the water meter.Make sure no one in your home uses any water while you test the pipes.Record the numbers on your water meter dial.Wait two hours, then record the number on the water meter again. If any of the numbers are different, there may be a leak. Call a qualified plumber to assess any damage and make repairs as necessary., After a harsh winter, it's important to check your foundation for any cracks or separations. Walk around the perimeter of the house. If there are any cracks, or if the foundation and wall are disjointed, it should be readily apparent. Call a qualified contractor for any damage to the house's foundation., After the fall and winter, many gutters become clogged with leaves and branches. Cleaning out the gutters will help reduce the chances of your home incurring water damage due to clogged gutters and drains.


Secure a ladder in front of your gutters. If possible, have someone with you to hold the ladder in place.
Wear yard gloves to protect your hands.Use a small hand trowel to scoop out leaves and mud. Scoop debris into a garbage bag.Use a hose to clean the downspout., While you are on a ladder, you may want to examine your roof to look for damage. Roofs frequently lose shingles during bad weather, and may be susceptible to holes or water damage. Use caution when examining the roof. If there is any risk of damage to the roof, do not walk, sit, or climb onto the roof at all.


Visually examine the roof, looking for any shingles that are missing or damaged. If possible, check for loose nails.Visually scan the roof, looking for any dents or dips, as these could indicate a leak.Call a qualified roofer if you believe there is any structural damage to your roof.
 It's important to thoroughly clean out your garage floor and your driveway to ensure that any sidewalk salt is properly rinsed away. Sidewalk salt can cause cracks and etches in the concrete, and the problem gets worse the longer salt sits on the concrete.Sweep the garage and the length of the driveway with a push broom. Then rinse the garage floor and driveway thoroughly using a hose.