 When you get started, you may find it hard to find a job immediately. Strengthen your portfolio and gain experience by working on small projects such doing makeup for haunted houses, amateur theatre productions or student film projects.Even if these projects don’t pay, they are a great way to get your work out there and to learn how to work with others.
Add pictures from these projects into your portfolio.
 Because special effect makeup is such a small field, it will be harder to find people to network with than it is for your average job field. If you have a degree through a makeup school, keep in touch with your professors and go to alumni meetings. You can also go to film industry events like screenings and openings and meet people in the industry who can help you get your foot in the door.


If you have learned by yourself, join Facebook groups centered around special effects makeup artists. Even if the people you talk to aren’t in your area, they may have contacts that could help connect you to professionals near you.
If you are networking at an event, bring business cards with your name, contact information, and the title “Special Effects Makeup Artist” on them.
 Get your cover letter and resume up to date with all of the skills and experience you now have. Write a basic draft of your cover letter and change it to include personalized details for every job you apply to., An internship at a film studio is a good intermediate step to finding a job. Because of the competition of the makeup industry, you may have to do a couple unpaid or low-paying positions before getting paid work.An internship in an established studio will give you a good understanding of how the industry works and the etiquette and expectations that come with the job.
 If you are living in an area that has a lot of film studios or companies, call or email them directly and ask if there are any open opportunities for special effects makeup artists. They may be hiring makeup artists freelance to help with a project, or they may have a more permanent assistant position open.Be sure to research the studio or organization beforehand so that you are knowledgeable about it.
In a few sentences, tell them about your skills and experience. If they seem interested, ask if you can set up a meeting or send them copies of your portfolio, resume and cover letter.
 Look on sites like Craigslist as well as specialized film industry job boards for special effects makeup opportunities. Once you have a couple of gigs under your belt, it will be easier to find work. Many makeup artists work freelance, so figuring out the best online resources for finding gigs will be a vital step in your progress toward achieving your dream., If becoming a horror makeup artist is your dream job, you may have to make major changes in your life. If you are living in a small town or somewhere without a big film industry presence, you may realize that you’d have a much easier time if you were living in a city like New York or Los Angeles. Think about whether this is a change you’d be willing to make to follow your dream!

