 Sometimes, when a dog has been injured, you'll be able to see it right away. Other times, the injury will be harder to detect. Make sure to take note of the following signs of injury:Limping or other changes in walking or movement
Swelling
Avoidance of touch in certain areas, or barking or whining when touched in a certain spot
Unexplained and unusual warmth in a certain area;
, Even a dog which is normally kind and docile is more likely to behave in a hostile way if injured. If you suspect a dog is injured, always take care not to be bitten or otherwise injured.To the extent that you are able, avoid the dog's face and mouth.
While your first impulse may be to comfort the animal, do not hug or squeeze it.
Approach the dog slowly and calmly, to avoid frightening it any more than it may be already.
Covering the dog's head gently with a towel or other piece of fabric can sometimes lessen its anxiety during examination., If an injured dog attempts to bite you or shows signs of hostility, you may need to cover its mouth to avoid bites.If you already have a muzzle for your dog, carefully put it on him or her.
If not, you can wrap the dog's mouth using a towel, stockings, a roll of gauze, or any similar strip of fabric. Wrap it over the dog's snout and under its chin, being careful not to cover its nose or obstruct its breathing.
Never muzzle a dog that is vomiting. This can cause it to choke. Never muzzle a dog with chest injuries or a short-snouted dog such as a pug or bulldog., Look the dog over to determine where and how it is injured, being as careful as you can not to startle or further hurt it.Speak gently and calmly to the dog as you examine to help it stay calm.Stop the examination if the dog becomes obviously agitated.
If the dog has a cut or similar wound, you may need to clip away some of the dog's fur to get a clear look at how bad it is. Spreading a little petroleum jelly over the wound can prevent hair clippings from getting stuck in it. , Some injuries are minor and can, if necessary, wait to be treated by your regular vet. Life threatening injuries, however, require immediate care, and if your vet isn't available, you'll need to contact an emergency veterinary clinic. Get emergency care for the following:Profuse or unstoppable bleeding
Loss of consciousness
Inability to stand
Difficulty breathing or rapid breathing
Paralysis
Note that if the injured dog is not yours, and you bring it to a vet, you may be responsible for any costs related to its care.