 This will help you choose which diet and exercise route is right for you.


Ask yourself the following questions: Do I want to lose weight? How much weight do I want to lose? Do I want to gain muscle? Am I happy with my weight, but want to tone up?;
, This will help you track your progress.


Remember that muscle weighs more than fat, so if your goal is to add bulk or tone up your muscles, then you might gain some overall weight. If this is the case, then focus on your measurements rather than the number on the scale.
 This will help keep you motivated, and will make you feel incredibly satisfied when you finally take that "after" picture.
 This will serve as a constant reminder about why you started, especially on those difficult days when you just want to give up.
 This is extremely important if you are trying to lose weight. Remember that exercise alone will not make you lose weight; you will absolutely have to change your diet. , These foods are full of vitamins and minerals, and will help keep you full and energized throughout the day. Leafy green vegetables and non-starchy vegetables are the best for you; keep fruit to just a few pieces a day.
 Turkey, chicken and fish are low in fat but rich in protein. If you are a vegetarian, try tofu, tempeh, veggie burgers, and eggs.
 It is very important to stay hydrated.
 Read food labels and beware of hidden sugars in dressings, sauces, and breads.


Try to stay away from alcohol. If you do drink, opt for wine rather than sugary cocktails or carb-heavy beers.
 Examples include walking, running, jogging, biking, swimming, and/or hiking. Exercises like these improve your cardiovascular health and increase your metabolism, even after you have finished exercising.
 This way you are more likely to stick with it.
 If you are having trouble staying motivated on your own, being around other people might help. Plus, if you are paying for a gym membership, you will likely feel obligated more to exercise.
 If you can't find the time to do a formal exercise, then make simple changes to make your daily routine more active.


Park further away from your destination and walk.
Walk around the local mall or park for a few hours.
Clean the house or do other errands that require you to be on your feet.
 This type of exercise, instead of building muscle size, can build muscle tone. It can also improve flexibility, posture and mood.,


Lift weights. Higher reps such as 3 sets of 15-20 will tighten and tone the muscle and build endurance. Alternatively 3-5 sets of 6-12 reps each will build muscle size, as will lifting until failure.
Do push ups. For a modified version, keep your knees on the ground.



Do Crunches.
Hold a plank for as long as you can. Be sure you keep your body straight; don't let your hips sag. (Perform in front of a mirror to check form)

,


Do squats. These will also help tone up your butt!
Do lunges. Hold a dumbbell in each hand for extra weight.
Use a stationary bike or elliptical on high resistance.
Work in some plyometric exercises, such as jumping jacks, box jumps, side to side jumps, or skipping.
 People who keep track of what they eat tend to lose more weight than those who don't. Be sure to read food labels and include toppings, dressings, and sauces when calculating your caloric intake.
 This will keep you both entertained and motivated during your workout.


Find a friend or family member to run, jog, or hike with you.
Join an exercise class at your gym if you are a member.
Get a personal trainer.
 You can help keep each other motivated when motivation levels are low, and even compete with one another as an extra incentive.

