 It's a common misconception that Vaseline can and should be used as an analgesic or antiseptic, but the truth is that Vaseline has no properties that make it an effective treatment of burns. In fact, the moisture-barrier component of petroleum jelly make it a poor choice to apply to fresh burns, cuts, and abrasions.Vaseline does make a variety of different Intensive Care lotions which would be appropriate to use on burns.Lubriderm and other varieties of lotion would be more appropriate.
 It's never appropriate to use Vaseline in tandem with latex condoms, because petroleum jelly actively dissolves latex, increasing the chances of a condom breaking. Always use water-soluble lubricants with latex condoms.


Petroleum jelly is commonly used as a sexual lubricant, and isn’t strictly-speaking “harmful.” Some enjoy the difference in texture and the feel of Vaseline. It is extremely difficult to clean, however, making it less desirable in many ways than water-based lubricants or other natural oils, like coconut.
 It's another very common misconception that tattoo artists will use and recommend that new tattoos be treated with Vaseline. This is false. Vaseline draws ink from fresh tattoos, clogs the pores, increasing the chances of a breakout that can ruin the new ink, and will not work to promote the healing of the tattoo. Instead, use A&D, Bacitracin, or specialty products like TattooGoo, which help to moisturize the area and promote healing. Always ask your tattoo artist for directions regarding aftercare.
 Vaseline is not water-soluble, making it inadvisable to use as a treatment for acne, or other skin conditions that are the result of oily skin. Vaseline actually seals the skin and dries it out, locking in dirt and suffocating the pores, but creates the appearance of moisturizing because it softens and reduces chaffing.
 If you’ve been recommended to use a moisturizer by a dermatologist, use a moisturizing lotion, not Vaseline. If your skin is cleaned thoroughly before applying some Vaseline, it can be effective at locking in moisture, but it will not moisturize your skin. In fact, Vaseline creates a moisture barrier that keeps your skin from being able to breathe, which can exacerbate your skin problems.
 Vaseline locks in moisture, making it extremely ineffective at battling fungus. Instead, use something that has actual anti-fungal properties, like coconut oil.

