 The first thing that needs to be done when planning a class trip is to determine how the trip will support the educational curriculum of the course. Ask yourself “How will this trip enhance the classroom program?” For example, you will not get approval if you want to take a science class to a historic monument, despite the fact that a monument is educational. Consider the following:


Learning outcomes of the trip.
Key vocabulary that will be used and taught during the trip.
Major concepts that will be taught.;
, When selecting a destination for a field trip it is important to keep the class curriculum and learning objectives in mind. You should also consider the age and learning abilities of the students in your class.For instance, an overnight ropes course to learn cooperation is not suitable for students in the second grade.
Young children will not be able to physically complete a ropes course and they are too young to attend an overnight trip.
 Once you have clearly determined the learning objectives of the trip and assessed the age and learning abilities of the students in your class, make a list of potential field trip destinations. For example, if you are teaching an 8th grade health class you could consider the following sites:


Grocery store: Perform a nutritional scavenger hunt. Ask students to read food labels and create a weekly meal plan that would adequately meet their nutritional needs.
Local restaurant: Learn to cook a nutritional and well balanced meal at a local restaurant.
Farm in the area: Visit a farm and learn how livestock are raised, fed, and distributed to customers.
 Once you have created a list of potential sites for your field trip, you should contact them and learn more details about the programs and educational activities they offer. Some places will have pre-trip information packages that they can provide. It is also important to find out the available dates and times, and admission costs associated with each siteYou should also ask the site how many students they can accommodate. You want to make sure that they can handle the size of your group.
This additional information will help you to narrow down your list and ultimately select a site.
 When deciding on a location for a class trip, you should take into consideration the cost of the trip. You want to make sure that it is not too expensive so that most students in your class will be able to attend. You do not want your students to miss out on an important learning activity because they can’t afford to attend a class trip. Here are a few suggestions to cut down costs:


Choose a local site to cut down transportation costs.
Find a site that allows students to bring their own food and snacks so they don’t need to spend money on lunch or food.
 Choose a location that meets all of the criteria you have outlined throughout your selection process. The site should meet all learning objectives, provide appropriate activities for the age and learning abilities of your students, be able to accommodate the number of students in your class, and be reasonably priced.


Once you have officially selected a destination, you should get the name, phone number, and email address for a contact person at the site. This will make it easier to book the trip, once you have received the necessary approval.

