 Doctors used to take a proactive approach to treating fibroids with unnecessary, invasive procedures. Now, however, most doctors advise "watchful waiting" when small fibroids don't cause significant problems such as abnormal bleeding, infertility, or painful periods. Over time, many fibroids start shrinking on their own.Fibroids tend to form at reproductive age, grow larger with pregnancy, and shrink after menopause. Waiting several years is often preferable to taking drugs which have bad side effects or having a surgical procedure done.
Most fibroids almost never become cancerous, so it's fine to leave them in the body as long as they aren't causing other issues. Even if you have a fibroid in your abdominal area that you can actually feel when you press it - or even see when you look closely - you might not want to have it removed unless it's absolutely necessary.
If you want to try the watch and wait method, see a doctor first and make sure that what you have is definitely fibroids. Other types of growths need immediate medical intervention.;
, In clinical trials, green tea extract (epigallocatechin gallate, or EGCG) reduced the severity of fibroid symptoms. Women who took green tea extract experienced fewer severe symptoms, and fibroid size shrank by an average of 32.6%.It is important to note that these studies were quite small and there are no randomized trials studying the efficacy of the treatment.
Women who took green tea extract for fibroids did not experience any severe side effects. However, if you are sensitive to caffeine, monitor your green tea consumption. Green tea contains caffeine which can cause irritability, nervousness, and nausea.Studies have shown that green tea reduces the growth of fibroids in rats. Green tea may prevent the growth of new fibroids, although the research is still inconclusive., A few studies have suggested that Chinese herbal medicine may shrink fibroids and relieve fibroid symptoms. Because some herbs may interact with medication or other medical conditions, consult your doctor before taking any herbal remedies.Beware that Chinese medicinal approaches are not subjected to the randomized controlled trials that FDA-approved medications go through. There may also be inconsistency with dosing, which can alter efficacy and risks significantly.
One study found that the herbal remedy Kuei-chih-fu-ling-wan reduced fibroid size in about 60% of the study participants.Several clinical trials have shown that Tripterygium wilfordii extract, or léi gōng téng 雷公藤,can shrink fibroids as well as or better than the drug mifepristone.Guizhi Fuling formula 桂枝茯苓丸 (Ramulus Cinnamomi, Poria, Semen Persicae, Radix Paeoniae Rubra or Radix Paeoniae Alba, and Cortex Moutan) and mifepristone together are also effective at reducing fibroid size.Guizhi Fulin and mifepristone together are more effective than either separately., One study found that physical therapy may be effective at shrinking fibroids and relieving fibroid symptoms for some women. Speak with your physician to determine whether physical therapy may work for you.Be aware that physical therapy may address the pain or symptoms but not the underlying problem of the fibroids themselves.
 One study suggests that acupuncture may be effective in improving fibroid symptoms for some women. Because acupuncture usually has few side effects, it may be worth considering if you find other treatments have not worked.Make sure you work with a licensed acupuncturist. Ask your physician for a referral. Keep your primary doctor informed of any complementary treatments you’re using.

