 If you find a natural product or service that you think may be beneficial to you, spend some time researching it on the internet. Look for websites that discuss the specific product you are thinking about purchasing and read what other people are saying about it.


Try searching the name of the product followed by the word “scam” to bring up results that may discuss any complaints previous customers have had with a product.
Read product reviews on independent sites that can tell you if the product didn’t work or caused negative side effects.
 It’s important that you learn to differentiate between marketing materials and credible sources, as some websites go out of their way to present themselves as something they’re not. Use these tips to help differentiate between reputable medical websites and sites designed to help sell a product:Look at the way the page is designed and how the content is written. Does it look professional? Be wary of sites with spelling or grammatical errors.
Look for an author of the content and do an internet search to see if they have credentials.
 There are a few web pages that offer information provided by experts in the medical field. These sites require a level of credibility in the field in order to provide content, so you can be confident the information you find on them is accurate. Search the databases of these two sites as a start:


Look for information on https://www.NIH.gov to see if the product or service has been discussed by that National Institutes of Health.
Go to http://www.mayoclinic.org to see the medical professionals at the Mayo Clinic have provided a review or research on the product or service you are interested in.
 When medical treatments are studied, the two measured outcomes of the testing are the efficacy of the treatment and its effectiveness in treating the illness in real world applications. In order to be an effective treatment for a medical issue you have, a treatment must prove to have both high efficacy as well as effectiveness.Efficacy measures the treatment’s ability to produce a change in biological or psychosocial functions in a controlled, laboratory setting.
Effectiveness is the measure of a treatment’s ability to actually produce a beneficial outcome in real world applications.
Some treatments may have a high efficacy rating with a low level of effectiveness. If a treatment does not demonstrate high levels of effectiveness, it likely will not help you.
 If you have a doctor that you trust, you should discuss any natural medicines you are considering taking with him or her. Your doctor can help by explaining the way treatments may affect you and share their own experiences with other patients seeking natural treatment options.


It’s important your doctor knows what natural medicines you take in order to ensure they don’t prescribe a medication that may react negatively to the natural treatment.
Your doctor may be able to offer suggestions for alternate or natural medicines that can benefit you.

