 A variety of companies offer at-home hair testing kits for drug use. Since many have different services, you may want to consider which company and test best suits your need.Groups such as Quest Diagnostics and HairConfirm offer lab results for sample collected at home.These tests offer the same privacy and security as tests one has done in a laboratory.Some companies offer different types of tests that analyze your sample for a host of drugs from illicit substances to prescription medication. Choose the one best suited to your needs.You can order at-home hair drug testing online at lab sites and even from some pharmacies., You’ll need to cut a small amount of your hair to send in to the laboratory associated with your at-home kit. Make sure to ensure the integrity of your test by clipping and sending a sample of your own hair, which may help prevent any uncomfortable situations in the event of later random drug tests.


Clip as close to your scalp as you are able without tearing out any of your strands.Collect approximately 100-200 strands of hair for the most accurate sample.Some tests may require few strands of hair, so follow packaging directions.Make sure your hair is clean when you collect the sample.
 You’ll need to mail your sample to the company associated with the at-home test you’ve chosen. Properly preparing can help minimize the risk of any cross contamination or losing the sample’s integrity.Place your hair sample inside of foil, a plastic bag, or other container provided by the kit.Once the sample is secure, put it in the envelope or box that accompanies the kit.Fill out any necessary documentation required by the at-home test. In some cases, this will require you to provide information online and along with your sample., Once you’ve sealed the sample and filled out any required documentation, ship the package to the respective testing lab. You can usually use regular mail or express services to obtain your results.Depending on what kind of testing you choose, you may only be able to use express shipping services.You may want to opt for delivery confirmation to ensure that your sample arrives and is tested in a timely manner.
 Most at-home hair drug testing kits report results online using a secure system. If this is the case, register your sample identification number and passcode with the proper company to ensure that you get your results as quickly as possible.Make sure to note the sample ID number and passcode so that you can access your results without difficulty.You can track the results of your test using this online system., Once the lab receives your sample, it will commence testing it. Labs may employ e a two step process to determine possible drug use.The screening often includes:


Determining drug use through an Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), a reliable test to confirm longer-term consumption.
Any sample that may test positive usually undergoes additional testing through gas chromatography or mass spectrometry, which can confirm use of specific substances., Once the lab receives your sample, it takes about 24-48 hours to receive your results. Accessing the lab report site on a regular basis can help ensure you get your results as soon as possible.Log in to the company's website using the sample ID number and passcode provided in your kit.Evaluate the test results to see if you had positive or negative results, and, if positive, for which drug class(es).With a positive test result, the lab will include an assessment of the hair dose response. This can identify whether the donor is an occasional, weekend, daily or constant user.
You can download the test result report, print it and provide the hard copy to any party that may need it.

