 This gets rid of any bacteria you might have on your hands that could end up being transferred onto the skin around your eye.Rinse the soap off completely so that the soap does not irritate your eye.Avoid using soaps that are oily or contain lotion, as these will interfere with your contacts., Even the smallest particle can be irritating if you get it on your contact.
 Open your clean lens case and fill it with fresh solution. This allows you to transfer your contacts directly to your lens case, which will help to prevent contaminating your contacts after you remove them.Never re-use your contact solution., This will help you to see what you are doing, which will make removing your contacts easier. It is also helpful to stand over a plugged sink while removing your contacts. That way, if you accidentally drop a contact, it will land in the sink and will be easier to find than if you dropped it onto the floor., Doing so will help you to avoid mixing up your two contacts., This will help you to catch the contact lens when it comes out of your eye. You do not want to drop your contact onto the sink, counter, or floor if you can avoid it because doing so may introduce lint, irritating particles, or bacteria onto your contact., On the eye you have chosen, place the tip of the index finger of your dominant hand on the center of the upper eyelid, near your eyelashes. Place the tip of either your middle finger or your thumb — whichever is most comfortable — on the center of your lower eyelid. Gently pull the eyelids back, away from the eye, and push in.


This will pull your upper and lower eyelids back a little bit, exposing your waterline on each eyelid.The waterline is the inner rim of your eyelid, between your eyelashes and your eye.Do not pull your eyelids back too far. You just want to expose your waterline, not the inside of your eyelid.
Keep your hand steady, and do not dig your fingernails into your eyelid as you press down to avoid injuring yourself.
 While holding your eyelids back and gently pushing down with your two fingers, blink your eye forcefully. When you blink, you should move your two waterlines together by moving the bottom lash line up and the top lash line down. This will squeeze the top and bottom edges of your contact lens. Your lens should fall right out onto your hand or towel. If your lens does not fall out the first time you blink, repeat this step.
 Remove your other contact lens the exact same way you removed the first one.
 Always follow the instructions of your eye doctor and those that come on your box of contacts. Daily contacts are not meant to be worn more than once, so immediately throw them away after you remove them., Improper handling and cleaning of contacts is a major cause of eye infections.Cleaning your multi-use contacts removes any film, dirt, and germs that may have accumulated on your lenses while you were wearing them. Cleaning and disinfecting them is important part of contacts care that you should do every day. Follow the care instructions that came with your contacts and your eye doctor's instructions.Place your lens in your palm and squirt fresh cleansing solution into it.Rub the lens with your finger for 30 seconds.Turn your lens over, and repeat.Squirt contact lens solution onto each side of the contact to rinse thoroughly.
Repeat with your other contact.
 Put your contacts into your contact case. Be sure to put your right contact into the side of the case labeled with an "R," so you don't mix up your contacts. Put your left contact into the unlabeled side of the case. Make sure your contact case is clean, and have fresh solution in the case. Tightly cap your contact case, and put it somewhere you will access easily the next time you want to wear your contacts.