 All cities have a set of requirements to drive a taxi, and you should check them to be sure you qualify. Typical requirements for drivers include:A driver’s license
Minimum Age – In most cities taxi drivers must be at least 21, though in some they can be as young as 18.
Good Health – Drivers often have to pass a health exam to assure they have no conditions that would endanger passengers.
No Convictions – Drivers must typically have no felony convictions and not be serving parole.
No Tickets – Drivers must typically have no unpaid tickets in order to get certified.;
, There is typically no formal educational requirement to be a taxi driver – i.e. you don’t need a high school diploma – but many cities require some brief training. The specifics will vary from city to city. This training usually lasts from a day to several weeks, and covers local traffic laws, driver safety, street layout, communication equipment, and taxi meter operation. Taxi companies will usually train new hires for free, or you can seek training at a local community college or specialized taxi school.Some municipalities that require training by law include:


New York – Taxi drivers must take a 6 hour defensive driving course and complete either a 24 or 80 hour taxi school course.The longer course might well be worth it, as only 53% of test takers pass the license test.Chicago – You must attend a 3 week course at the Public Chauffeur Training Institute.San Francisco – You must attend an accredited taxi school and obtain a Taxi Training Certificate and Sensitivity Training Certificate.
Paris – You must have obtained a level 1 first aid certificate, or Diplôme PSC1 (prévention et secours civiques de niveau 1)., Most municipalities, even if they do not have required training, do have a required test. Applicants are often charged a fee to take these tests. They vary in difficulty from “The Knowledge,” the London cab driver test that typically requires 2-4 years of study,to less daunting exams like the Washington, DC taxi driver test. If there is no training course, then the city will typically provide a study guide to help applicants prepare for the test. Tests cover topics such as:


Routes
Landmarks
Boundaries
Cab requirements
Business practices
Non-discrimination
Customer service

, In addition to knowledge tests, most cities will require you to submit an application, furnish documents and undergo background checks to ensure that you have the right to work, a clean driving record and no criminal background. Typical requirements include:A valid driver’s license
A social security card
Immigrant documentation if applicable
Driving record
A criminal background check (for which you may need to supply fingerprints)
A medical examination
Drug test

, The fees for licensing typically range from $40 in less lucrative markets to upwards of $300 in big cities. Fees are sometimes waived if a city is experiencing a shortage of cab drivers.

