 Typically, you won’t need to see a doctor, and your body will be able to fend off a sinus infection on its own within 7-10 days. But if you have lingering sinus trouble (more than 10 days of sinus congestion or pain), or if your symptoms are exceedingly severe, you should contact your doctor.Your doctor might be able to offer an antibiotic or prescription-strength pain reliever.
If you have lingering sinus trouble more than three times per year, you might have chronic sinusitis. Ask your doctor for a referral to a nose, ear, and throat specialist., Your sinus trouble might cause painful headaches or pain behind your cheeks.In this case, it might be hard to get to sleep. Purchase one of several pain-relieving medications over the counter to relieve your sinus headaches.Aspirin or ibuprofen (for instance, Advil or Motrin IB) or acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) are effective for mild pain.
More intense pain is best treated with drugs that combine acetaminophen, aspirin, and/or caffeine (such as Excedrin Migraine)
Watch for side effects — including nausea, vomiting, light-headedness, sweating, or general fatigue — and negative drug interactions. Always read the directions provided with your medicine to avoid potential negative interactions with other prescription and over-the-counter medications.
 Another way to relieve pain is to use a warm compress on your face. Simply heat the compress and place it on your face where the sinus pressure is greatest. You could also apply a hand towel rinsed with hot water, then wrung out until damp.Some sinus troubles are relieved by the application of cold compresses — that is, hand towels drenched in cold water, wrung out slightly, and applied to the area causing sinus pain.
 Nasal decongestants may help you treat congestion and sinus headaches. You can get nasal decongestants in a variety of forms, including as tablets, liquids, or chewable capsules. Consult the instructions that accompany your particular decongestant for more information regarding use.Popular decongestants include Alka-Seltzer Plus Cold and Sinus and Mapap Sinus Congestion and Pain.Avoid using nasal decongestants for more than a day or two. You risk a rebound effect, which causes increased swelling and congestion as the medication wears off.If you have high blood pressure, check with a doctor before using oral decongestants. They can increase blood pressure by narrowing blood vessels in other areas of the body. , Steroid nasal sprays can reduce inflammation caused by sinusitis, thereby reducing the size and number of nasal polyps that cause sleep apnea. They are also commonly prescribed for people suffering from allergies that affect the sinuses. Talk to your doctor about getting steroid sprays.To use the steroid spray, remove the cap and shake the bottle vigorously several times.
Squeeze the steroid spray bottle a few times to prime it.
Insert the uncapped end into one nostril using the hand on the corresponding side. For instance, if you spray the steroid into your right nostril first, use your right hand to do it.
Use your other hand — the one not holding the spray bottle — to close the nostril on the other side.
Squeeze the spray bottle by placing your thumb beneath it and pulling the “fins” on either side of the uncapped tube using your index and middle fingers. Breathe in while you squeeze.
Repeat on the other side. You may need to spray once, twice, or three times. Consult your prescription directions for more information.
 Antihistamines are a class of drug that blocks the production of histamine, a chemical that causes inflammation when you’re exposed to allergens. By blocking histamine production, you will prevent sneezing, itchy or watery eyes, a runny nose, and sinus troubles.Unfortunately, they work by making your mucus thicker and more difficult to drain.


Antihistamines are appropriate for people whose sinus troubles are triggered by allergies.Common over-the-counter antihistamines include Claritin (loratadine) and Zyrtec (cetirizine). Common prescription antihistamines include Clarinex (desloratadine), Allegra (fexofenadine), and Xyzal (levocetirizine).Talk to your doctor about obtaining these drugs.
 If you have chronic sinusitis, you probably have nasal polyps — a series of extremely inflamed sacs on the nasal tissue. Steroid pills can shrink the sinus polyps that cause sleep apnea. This will improve the depth and quality of your sleep. To take steroid pills, consult your doctor. Only your doctor is qualified to provide a prescription for steroid pills.Steroid pills tend to be temporary in effect, and your polyps will likely return even if you do not stop taking the steroid. Your doctor will probably recommend a supplementary treatment to eliminate the polyps completely.

