 A streamlined silhouette will make you look taller overall, lengthening the appearance of your legs. Clothes that fit poorly can bulk up your silhouette, making you look shorter. Meanwhile, well-fitted clothes will look sleeker. If you can't find clothes that fit perfectly off the rack, bring your garments to a tailor or learn how to alter hems at home., Try creating outfits made up mostly or entirely out of a single color. When your clothing is all one color, it can be harder for someone to tell where your legs start and end.


While all colors work for the leg-lengthening monochromatic look, very dark colors like black will have the greatest effect., Black has a slimming effect, making your legs look longer. You don't have to go monochrome to benefit from black's leg-lengthening power. A pair of black tights or skinny jeans will go with anything., Vertical details draw the eye up and down, creating the illusion of additional length. This is why vertical stripes are well-known as a "slimming" pattern. Use this to your advantage by wearing pants, stockings, and skirts that feature vertical stripes.Piping, sharp creases, and vertical rows of buttons can create the same effect.
 A cropped jacket will have an overall lengthening effect when worn on a shorter frame. They will also balance out a longer torso, making the legs look longer.


While cropped jackets will make your legs appear longer, stay away from midriff-baring shirts if you have a long torso. A crop top will further elongate your trunk.Jackets with only slight taper instead of a full crop can also give the illusion of longer legs., If you're trying to balance out a longer torso, A-line skirts will make your waist appear higher and your legs longer.

Empire waists are also good for this body type, as they create the illusion of a raised waist by shifting focus up. This cut also works well for those with overall petite figures, as an empire waist can also elongate one's frame., The eye naturally assumes that your leg starts where your waist starts. By wearing high-waisted bottoms, your legs will appear to start higher on your torso. Consequently, they will look much longer than they actually are., Just like a high waist makes your legs appear longer and your torso shorter, a long shirt will do the opposite. To keep a loose blouse from making your legs look shorter, be sure to tuck it in. Pair a tucked-in shirt with a high-waisted bottom for extra leg-lengthening power., As you may guess, low-rise pants have the opposite effect of high-waisted ones: They make your legs look shorter. If you're trying to make your legs look longer, you should ditch the hip-huggers. If you don't like the high-waisted look, don't go to the opposite extreme. Instead, simply wear pants that rest at your natural waist.