 "RG6QS" for longer runs) coaxial (coax) cable for installation between the dish and each tuner.
 In the case of the DTV High Definition DVR or DTV High Definition TiVO, consider three cables if you wish to connect an "off air" antenna to receive local channels that are not available from DTV. If DVRs are not planned, installing one cable will supply a simple DTV receiver. More on this below.
 It is permissible to locate the ground block inside the home, but it should be as close to the point of entry as possible. If unable to purchase a ground block to accept all inputs and outputs, it will be required to add additional ground blocks as needed to accommodate all the connections.
 and the grounding terminal screw of the new ground block. These two points must be connected together. Use a clamp designed for the purpose to connect the #10 wire to the house's ground point. Do not under any circumstances disconnect or loosen existing ground connections to install the new #10 wire. Leave enough ground wire to "thread" through each ground block(s) ground terminal. Route the cable and secure with staples to the mounting surface. Securely tighten the ground terminal screw to the ground wire.
,, A utility closet, a point near the telephone distribution block or electrical panel area is ideal. Label the coax cables "dish" or other meaningful manner. Be sure to label the coax from a roof top antenna if extended from the ground block.
 Affix labels to each of the cables - if two cables are connected to a single set top box, such as the case for a TiVO or DVR in a living room, label the cables "LR1" and the other "LR2" or some other meaningful term.
 The number of inputs equals the number of LNBs on the dish plus one. A dual LNB dish would require a three input multiswitch. The extra input is to mix in an "off air" antenna or CATV signal. The number of outputs of the multiswitch equals the number of tuners (not the number of receivers or set top boxes) in your system. A system of three set top boxes consisting of two DTV receivers and a DTV DVR or TiVO with two tuners would require a four output multiswitch. Of course, if you add another receiver later, you'll need a multiswitch that has additional outputs. Try to buy a multiswitch with enough extra outputs to allow your system to "grow". Cascadable multiswitches can be installed "down line" from other multiswitches, but must be identified for that use.
 DTV will install as many as needed free of charge when they add or change equipment such as receivers or antennas. It's best to let DTV do this, but there is no reason why you can't if the cost is not an issue.
 Connect the coax cables from the receivers to the the multiswitch output connectors. Snug the connectors to "finger tight" for now.
 The satellite cables connect to the satellite inputs - it does not matter which one. If you ran only one satellite cable, connect it to satellite input 1. If this is a location that will need an off air antenna input as well, instead of connecting a cable directly into the tuner, connect it to a "diplexer" input instead. The diplexer will have a diagram indicating satellite and UHF/VHF connections. The diplexer "satellite out" connects to the DTV receiver tuner, and the UHF/VHF can connect to the "antenna" or "CATV" input of the DTV set top box OR even an FM Stereo receiver.
 Change channels to test both tuners for TiVOs and DVRs. Alternatively,use the receiver's set up pages to view signal strengths of each satellite and tuner. Check connections and hardware until satisfied.
 Do not over-tighten.

