 If you just don't like first name, you can simply use a middle name instead. Many people have one or more name in addition to their given and surnames. It is also quite common for some to use one of those names in place of their first.
 Although this route is taken more often by men, women can also use their last name as a nickname. Sometimes this kind of nickname happens organically when too many people in a class, office, or social circle have the same given name. It also works well if your first name is long or difficult to pronounce, while your surname is short and simple.
 Use your first two initials (or both initials if you don't have a middle name) to make a nickname. For example, someone named "Thomas James" could be "TJ" or someone named "Mary Katharine" could go by "MK." Not all initials work as nicknames. Make sure yours rolls off the tongue. In general, the best initial nicknames are two syllables and end in either an "ay" sound like K or an "ee" sound like D. Some people even go by just the first initial of their given name.
 An anagram is when you rearrange the letters of a word to create a new one. A famous fictional example of this is the villain Lord Voldemort from J.K. Rowling’s Harry Potter series: "I am Lord Voldemort" is an anagram of his original name, "Tom Marvolo Riddle.", You might turn "Mandy" into "Mandible," "Sal" into "Salamander," or "Ryan" into "Rhinoceros."You can use alliteration, where your nickname is the first consonant of one of your legal names. You can also pick a word that rhymes with one of your names.


You can also draw from either the original meaning of your name or something that sounds similar to it. For example, "Ursula" comes from the diminutive of the Latin word for "bear." If your name is Ursula, you could pick a nickname that relates to bears like "Honey". The name "Herbert" derives from words roughly meaning "bright army,"but sounds like the Latin-derived English word for flavorful plants.A subtle pun for someone with that name could be something like "Sage," "Thyme," or even "Basil."

