, Follow a unified colour scheme.


For example, choose bottoms in black or khaki, with a matching sweater or jacket if appropriate. This will allow you to take a smaller number of clothes.






Choose tops that will match all bottoms. As tops are generally lighter than pants, you will be able to pack a few more without adding extra weight.






Generally, three bottoms (black or khaki cotton pants, dress pants, and jeans) should be sufficient, with three long sleeved shirts, one to two sweaters, a jacket, and a few t-shirts to layer under clothing.
 You may surprise yourself considerably!

, One for walking, one for business/formal wear and one for the weather you'll be encountering.


Consider hiring or buying boots if you encounter snow or wet environments. These can be too heavy to cart around on a long trip. All sports boots or shoes should be hired.






Flip flops cost nothing. Buy them when you're in the country or area rather than dragging them along with you. Then leave them behind when you're done.
 If you're doing a round-the-world trip, you are likely to encounter all sorts of weather, including cold, wet, hot and dry. This makes carrying clothing a bit of a logistical nightmare. What can make it easier is to either send home clothing mid-way, especially after cold country visits, or decide to give it away to people before leaving the country.


Choose clothing you don't mind giving up if you're going to give it away. Perhaps select a wardrobe of items you're never going to wear again, but are close to being donated anyway. Or, do a deliberate shop at the thrift store to purchase gear only for the trip and to be given away as you go. You won't be so invested in it that way but do be sure to choose stuff that looks fabulous on you, or you'll regret taking it with you.
 Don't travel with valuable jewelry unless you want to advertise the theft opportunity. Leave that stuff at home. Take only what is useful, such as a watch, a money holder, a scarf, a hat, etc.


Consider buying accessories as light, easily carried mementos of your trip. You can wear them and bring them home that way.







