 Generally, Employment Authorization Documents (EADs) are valid for one to two years. You can check the expiration date on the front of your card. It is listed to the right of the words “Card Expires.”, You may apply to extend your employment authorization card up to 120 days prior to your current card's expiration date.


Ideally, you should submit your application at least 90 days before the expiration date, since it may take that long for you to receive your new card.You can begin the application process by downloading the EAD renewal form (Form I-765) and the instructions at http://www.uscis.gov/i-765.
 In order to submit a completed EAD renewal application, you must attach the following documents:


A copy of the front and back of your current or previously issued EAD.
A copy of the front and back of your non-immigrant arrival/departure record (Form I-94).
Two identical passport sized photos taken within 30 days of filing your application. You should also lightly write your name and alien number on the back of the photos., The EAD renewal form is a one-page document that requests a variety of identifying information. If you complete the document on a computer, you can type your answers directly into the fillable form and then print it out or save it as a PDF document. If you complete a paper copy of the form, be sure to print legibly and use a pen with black ink.


You must answer all of the questions, even if your response if “none” or “N/A” for not applicable.
Make sure you mark the box that specifies that you are applying for a renewal of your EAD.
Questions 1 through 8 request basic identifying information, such as your name and mailing address
Question 9 asks you to identify all of the social security numbers that you previously used, even if that number did not belong to you.
For question 10, if you do not have Alien Registration Number (A-Number) use your I-94 number. If you are unsure whether you have A-1 number, check all correspondence and paperwork that you may have received from the U.S. Immigration Agency. This may contain your A-Number.
For question 11, enter the address from the office that previously received your EAD application. The address is listed on the notice (Form I-797) you received from USCIS when you submitted your previous EAD application.
For questions 12 through 13, your entry location if you arrived by plane, is the city where your plane landed and where you were inspected by a U.S. border official. Similarly, if you crossed the border by plane or on foot, you will list the area where you were inspected by a U.S. border official.
For questions 14 through 15, provide either your visa category, i.e. student or visitor, or if you did not enter legally, you should write “no legal status.”
Question 16 requires you to enter a specific alphanumeric code that is associated with you eligibility status. You must read through the form’s instructions and identify your specific category.
Be sure to sign and date the form., In order for your application to be processed, you must be the application-filing fee.


The fee must be paid by personal check or money order, made payable to the “US. Department of Homeland Security.”
Checks must be signed and correctly dated. The checks must be dated within six months of the date that you submit the application.
The check must be placed on top of the paper application and secured in the upper left corner.
Once the check is cashed, your case number will be on the back of the cancelled check.The filing fee is $410.Some individuals may be exempt from paying fees for a renewal EAD, including: citizens of Micronesia, Marshall Island, or Palau; those granted Withholding of Deportation status; those with Deferred Enforced Departure status; and dependents of certain foreign governments, international organizations or NATO personnel., You must send your paper application to the filing address that is associated with your eligibility category. You can view the filing address that corresponds to each eligibility category at: http://www.uscis.gov/i-765-addresses.


Be sure to make a complete copy of your application and filing fee before sending in your paperwork.
If you want to receive a text message and/or email notification that USCIS accepted your renewal form, complete Form G-1145 and attach it to the front of your application. You can download the form at: http://www.uscis.gov/g-1145.
 Generally, it takes less than 90 days for the government to process your application and send you a new card.You will receive a notice that your application was approved before your EAD is sent to you.
 If the USCIS fails to make a decision on your EAD renewal within 90 days (or 30 days if you are an asylum applicant), you may request an interim EAD. This document can be granted for up to 240 days.


You can request an interim card, in-person, at a local USCIS office.
Make an appointment at your local office at http://www.uscis.gov/news/fact-sheets/your-guide-infopass.
You must bring with you a document verifying your identity and the Receipt Notice showing that your application has been pending for more than 90 days., Once your application is approved and your card is printed, the USCIS will mail your card to you via the U.S. Postal Service. Your card is supposed to have a tracking number assigned to it so that you can track the shipment via the USPS website: https://www.usps.com.


If you received a notice of approval from USCIS, you can call USCIS’s Customer Service Center at 800-375-5283 to request tracking information for your documents.