 When setting a completion time, it’s good to be realistic about how long it could potentially take you to complete the project. Consider what you’re expected to deliver, how much time you can dedicate to it, how large the project is. Another way to get a good estimate is to compare it to projects you’ve done in the past.If you don’t think that it’s possible to finish on time, talk to the person who originally assigned the deadline and see if you can get it pushed back.


Determine an estimate of time that it takes for each smaller task. Once you're done, add a time cushion on the end of it to get a realistic time for the entire project.Make sure that you get complete clarification on the specifics of a project before you agree to a deadline.Don’t compromise and agree to a deadline that you know is unattainable. This will dissatisfy whoever assigned the deadline and hurt your reputation.;
, Instead of feeling overwhelmed with the idea of completing a large project, break it down into smaller, easily attainable tasks.Cross out the tasks on your list as you complete them.


If you have to write a paper, doing the research could be your first task. Additional tasks could include writing the first 500 words, completing the introduction, or getting a certain amount of pages written.
If your deadline is for work, make sure you are allotting time effectively. If one of your smaller tasks is taking much longer than usual, it may be a good idea to switch to another portion of the project.
 Though many of us are forced to multitask in our day to day lives, it’s important that you dedicate enough time to each individual project you are working on. Dedicating your attention to a single project makes you more efficient.If you are forced to work on a parallel timeline for two or more projects, complete a chunk of tasks for one project before switching gears and working on a different one.
 When you have to juggle multiple projects or tasks, it’s important that you can determine which tasks are more critical to the overall success of the project, or which steps need to be completed before you move forward with it.


It may be a good idea to start with the most difficult tasks or projects first, when your mind is the most fresh., It’s important that you factor in unintended circumstances that may delay your project. For some things, this may mean not having the required materials in time, someone getting sick, or a personal emergency.


If there is an emergency that comes up and you’re unable to make the deadline, let the person who issued the deadline know as soon as possible.
 Constantly working with out taking any breaks makes you less efficient. Instead of burning yourself out, take 10-15 minute breaks in your day so that you don’t lose focus.Consider how long it usually takes you to lose focus and adjust the amount of time you work at once based on it.Small scheduled breaks throughout the day also let you evaluate complex problems that may be stumping you., If a deadline is arbitrary or artificial, you should consider removing it all together. Some projects and tasks take time, patience, and high levels of accuracy, and the completion time has no weight on the overall project or organization.


Projects that require a high level of accuracy and testing like in IT or programming should rely less on deadlines, and more about creating a quality product.While setting fake-deadlines may work for some, studies have shown that they typically don't increase productivity. What matters more is our work ethic, and other behavioral aspects we can aim to improve, like getting more organized.