 Before you can get your hair cut into a mullet, you need to have some length. It is up to you how long you want your mullet to be.Try to grow your hair between 2-6 inches long. The longer your hair, the more defined your mullet will be.A good guideline for a mullet is to try and keep the back about 4 inches longer than the front.;
, Using clips, divide the top of your hair into three parts. Create a section on the top of your head that runs from the front hairline to about the middle of the crown, where your head starts to curve. Section off the sides at the front hairline on both the right and left of the top section and down to the ears.Pull back any hair you want to keep long with a clip., Starting with the top middle section first, comb your hair over your forehead. Cut your bangs to the desired length. You can cut your bangs as short or as long as you prefer. Cut them straight across or cut them at an angle. There are many ways to style your bangs.


When you cut your bangs, work in sections. Even if you plan on cutting them all the same length, don't try to cut all your hair at once.Pick a side to start on, and grab a section of bangs. Hold the hair between your fingers, and work from the center towards the outer edge of your hair. Take care when you cut. You can always cut more if you want them shorter.For side swept bangs, hold the scissors at an angle when you cut., Pick a side and comb your hair forward. Using your bang length as a guide, cut the sides of your hair at an upwards angle. The hair should be longest at the top and taper down to a shorter length over the ears. Comb your hair down to trim the area over your ears.When working with the hair near the ears, take a little off at a time. Comb the hair back and forth taking about a 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) off at a time. Use vertical cuts to help create a tapered look., Comb the top of your hair up from both sides. Hold the hair in the center. Use your bangs as a guide and cut the top of your hair to match this length.Take your time and make sure you get nice, even cuts. Work from front to back until you reach the crown., Comb out small sections of your hair where the top and sides meet. Pull the hair up and out, and cut any corners or sharp angles you see.Your goal is to blend the sides of your hair to the top. Avoid making any sharp lines where the top and sides meet. The cuts should be smooth and tapered.Comb through your hair and make sure it's to your liking. If it is too long, go back through and take a little more off the top.
 Remove your hair from the clip and comb it straight down. Comb it smooth to make cutting easier., Working in thin sections, comb the back of your hair up and at an angle away from your head. Use the hair in the top section as a guide to trim the back.Hold the hair at the back of your head with some of the hair in the rear top section to make this part easier.Continue cutting until you have cut all the hair in the back. This cut will give you some layered length in the back.Comb out the back of your hair and make sure the length is to your liking.
 Check for any corners or sharp cuts by combing where the sides of your hair join the back. If you see any sharp edges cut them away until you have a smooth tapered look., For an updated version of the classic mullet, shave the sides of your head. Keep the top of your hair long and grow the back of your hair out longer than you would for a classic mullet.


When you shave the sides of your head, leave a strip of hair on the top of your head. Blend the strip on top into the long hair in the back, shaving the sides of the back of your head as well, so that the strip extends down and into the back. This mullet should resemble a mohawk, with the top strip blending into the long hair in the back. You can style the top of the hair in a traditional mohawk if you like, or slick it back.
 This requires some length on top, as you'll need plenty of hair to get the pompadour style right. Start near the crown of your head, and start slicking your hair back. Let the hair on the top of your head blend into the long hair in the back.Work your way to the front, keeping everything nice and slicked back. When you get to the front of your hair, use your comb to pull your hair up. Roll the comb back and over, creating a wave in your hair. This should be the tallest section in your hair.The back of your hair can be as long as you like for this style.
 Get a buzz cut on the top of your hair, but leave the back of your hair long. This works especially well with curly hair.


You can keep the back of your hair just a little longer, so that it is nice and tight, or you can grow it out long. Play around and find a length you like.

