 Start by holding onto a chair or table with one hand. While holding onto the chair, stand straight. Then, begin to gradually raise one knee to your chest. Do not bend your waist or hips. When your knee reaches the height of your hips, hold for 5 to 10 seconds. Lower your leg and repeat the process with your other leg.Repeat this twice for each leg and twice a day. Do this exercise three to five times a week.
Increase the difficulty of the exercise each week by balancing yourself with your fingertip instead of your hand. Then try no hands and no hands with your eyes closed.
 Stand 12 to 16 inches (.3 to .4 meters) away from a piece of furniture, like table or chair. Hold the chair with your hand. Slightly bend at the hips and gradually lift one leg backwards. The other leg should be straight. Hold for 5 to 10 seconds. Lower your leg and repeat the process with your other leg.Do two repetitions for each leg twice per day, three to five times per week.
Increase the difficulty of the exercise each week by balancing yourself with your fingertip instead of your hand, then no hands, finally, no hands with your eyes closed.
 With your feet slightly apart, stand straight behind a table or chair. Place your hand on the chair for balance. Gradually lift one leg 6 to 12 inches (.15 to .3 meters) to the side. Hold for 5 to 10 seconds. Your back and knees should be straight throughout the exercise. Gradually lower your leg and repeat the process with your other leg.Repeat this twice for each leg, two times a day. Do this exercise three to five times a week.
Increase the difficulty of the exercise each week by balancing yourself with your fingertip instead of your hand. Then try no hands and, finally, no hands with your eyes closed.
 Walking heel to toe is also known as the tandem stance walk and it is a good way to improve your balance. Start by standing and then take a step forward with one foot. Then, take the other foot and place the heel right up against the toe of your other foot. Then, take the back foot and step forward in the same way, ending with the heel of your front foot against the toe of your back foot. Continue to step forward in this way slowly and carefully to keep your balance.Try walking back and forth across a room a few times. Repeat this exercise three to five times per week.

