 You will almost certainly travel by air to reach Fiji. Your flight will likely be one of the major expenses of your trip, and it will also likely be a rather lengthy flight. Take some time to compare prices and distances and find the flight that is right for you.If you are flying from the U.S., there is a direct flight from Los Angeles to Fiji, which is about 10 hours long. Traveling to LA might be a good way to start your trip.
Unless you live near LA, you will likely have to fly there from somewhere else to reach Fiji.
Nadi International Airport is your destination in Fiji. Many people connect through New Zealand, which is a 3 hour flight away, or Australia, 4 hours away.
The airport code for Nadi International Airport is NAD. Airlines that have regular flights to NAD are Air New Zealand, Air Pacific, and Qantas Airways.
Use a travel website to compare flight distances and prices. Many sites such as kayak and trivago will allow you to easily compare.;
, You might have experienced jet lag when traveling before. This often occurs when you travel in different time zones. When traveling to Fiji, it is even more important than usual to be aware of the differences between your home time zone and Fijian time.When you travel to Fiji from the U.S., you will be crossing the international date line. This means that you will literally be arriving on a different date than when you left home.
Take this into account when planning your arrival and departure dates. You might also want to schedule a day or two to readjust to "real time" when you return home.
 You will likely arrive in Fiji by traveling to NAD, which is located on the main island of Vitu Levu. If you wish to explore any of Fiji's outer islands, you will need to arrange for additional travel. Sea plane is the most popular way to travel between islands.You should book your sea plane tickets prior to your arrival in Fiji. These planes are very small and tickets tend to sell out.
Some of the airlines that provide inter island travel are Turtle Airways, Air Fiji, and Pacific Sun. You can contact these airlines to learn about pricing and schedules.
It is possible to hire a private helicopter to travel between islands. This will be much more expensive than traveling via sea plane.
 If Fiji is your sole destination, it is most efficient to travel by plane. However, if you are interested in exploring more of the region, a boat trip might be perfect for your trip. Many cruise lines offer stops in Fiji.Consider taking a cruise through the South Pacific. There are many cruise lines the debark from Sydney, Australia. Check out South Sea Cruises and Blue Lagoon Cruises.
Check with the cruise line to verify the itinerary before booking. You'll want to make sure that the ship actually docks in Fiji and that you will have the opportunity to get off the ship and explore.
If you have a large travel budget, consider chartering a yacht. Sailing from Australia to Fiji is a popular vacation option. Make sure to book through a reputable company.
 When you begin dreaming of taking a vacation to Fiji, one of your first steps is to figure out why you want to go there. Fiji offers something for everyone, so there are a lot of options to think about. For example, maybe you want to plan a luxurious, romantic getaway.Figuring out why you want to go to Fiji will make it easier to plan the rest of your trip. For instance, if you want to travel for an adventure in nature, you will want to make a plan to visit some of the more remote islands.
Maybe you are looking to take your family on a fabulous tropical trip. Fiji offers great options for families, but you'll want to make sure to take children into account when booking travel. Usually the shortest flights are best for children.

