 This event takes place on the second Saturday of November. Sinterklaas usually arrives from Spain on a steamship. If the town is not situated near a canal or river, he may choose another form of transportation. On his arrival, the children will sing “Zie ginds komt de stoomboot”.“Zie ginds komt de stoomboot uit Spanje weer aan
Hij brengt ons Sint Nicholas, ik zie hem al staan
Hoe huppelt zijn paardje het dek op en neer
Hoe waaien de wimpels al heen en al weer
Zijn knecht staat te lachen en roept ons reeds toe
“Wie zoet is krijgt lekkers, wie stout is de roe!”
Your child will learn the song in daycare or school. If he or she attends neither, you can buy a CD of Sinterklaas songs at any CD store.
Sinterklaas will be greeted by the mayor, and sometimes he will be presented with the keys of the town. Next, Sinterklaas will mount a white stallion and take a trip through the city center, towards his temporary home in the city. The Zwarte Pieten - or Black Pete's, the helpers of Sinterklaas - will hand generous amounts of gingerbread nuts or "kruidnoten" to any child they meet on the way. Your child can hand over drawings or presents they have made for Sinterklaas.;
,


The home of Sinterklaas is open to visitors. Check the local media for opening hours.
Attend the meet and greet (or “zittingsmiddag”) at the mall. Your child may receive a small present and/or – again – a handful of gingerbread nuts. Information on when the meet and greet will be held will be displayed on billboards or can be found in the local media.
 Let them sing a Sinterklaas song.
This is called "schoentje zetten" (or setting the shoe) and it is done between the arrival of Sinterklaas and December 5th. Now is the time for children to receive some small presents.
Euro stores sometimes sell large bags of goodies that can be wrapped up separately to make nice gifts. Surprise eggs and chocolate letters make nice gifts as well.


Supermarkets and other stores usually offer the opportunity for setting the shoe. Children can obtain a coloring sheet from the store which (when decorated, cut out and glued together) forms a shoe. Leave the shoe at the store, and don't forget to write your child's name on it! Ask an employee at the store when the shoe can be collected. At the given day take home the shoe filled with candy.
 If your child participates in a sport or hobby, they will likely receive an invitation to celebrate Sinterklaas at the club. These parties take place before December 5th, because the actual celebration is considered a family night. The gift(s) your child will receive are donated by sponsors.
Older children (age 10 and up) may engage in a party that resembles Secret Santa. They will draw a name from a hat and buy a present for the person whose name they drew. The leader of the club will inform you how much you can spend on the gift.

