 If you're making a pureed soup, such as tomato soup, you can use oats rather than the slice of white bread that many recipes call for. You may have to experiment to find the right amount of oats for the type of soup you're making.One slice of bread is roughly the equivalent of a half-cup (45 grams) of oats.For tomato-based soups, use only half the amount of oats you would use in other soups. Otherwise the oats will dull the flavor of the tomatoes and the consistency won't be right.
 A single bowl of oatmeal will make about five fritters, which you can eat for a quick lunch, or as a side dish with dinner. Many recipes online call for cheese and sesame seeds, but you can experiment with many different seeds, nuts, dried fruit, and spices.You'll want to make meatball-sized balls of the oatmeal, which you can then roll in any spices or roasted seeds that you like. Use a splash of water and an egg white to help get your fritters wet and hold them together.
Cook your fritters in the oven at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) for 10 to 15 minutes, or until golden brown.
Once your fritters are done, you can drizzle them with your favorite sauce, sprinkle sea salt or spices on them, or top them with a poached egg.
 You can use either quick or old-fashioned oats to make oatmeal bread. Since it typically also includes all-purpose flour, oatmeal bread is not necessarily gluten-free. If you're sensitive to gluten, you may want to look for gluten-free recipes.Oatmeal bread typically is light and tender, and works well both for sandwiches as well as toast.
If you don't want to bake your own bread, you may be able to find oatmeal bread at the supermarket or at specialty bakeries.
 Most poultry stuffings include bread, but oatmeal can be readily substituted to make a moist, thick stuffing. This version of stuffing originates in Scotland, where it's also called Skirlie.In Scotland, Skirlie is not only used as a poultry stuffing but also as a regular side dish, or mixed in with meat stews or mashed potatoes. You can also simply top it with a poached egg and enjoy it as a savory meal unto itself.
Oats also can be used instead of breadcrumbs to coat meat before frying., Make the dish even healthier by using a lean meat such as lean ground beef, ground turkey, or even bison.