 There are many ways to find a job. Regularly checking postings on sites like Craigslist and in your local newspaper is a good place to start. It's also a good idea to look for help wanted signs as you go about your daily business.


Many people get jobs through their social networks, so it's a good idea to make sure your friends and family know you are looking for opportunities.There are numerous websites that exist to connect employers with potential employees that are worth exploring. The US government also provides resources for job seekers at this website.
 Apply for any job for which you are qualified, and as many jobs as possible.


Carefully read the description and application requirements for any job you apply for. Then, make sure that your application is complete and responds to every major requirement in the job description.
For example, your resume and cover letter should feature key words and ideas found in the job description. Neither the letter or resume should be generic, but instead should make it clear why you are a good fit for the job and the job is a good fit for you.Make sure your application materials are easy to read and free of spelling and grammatical errors. If possible, have someone else check your work.
As you start applying for jobs, make sure there is nothing to embarrass you on social network profiles such as your Facebook page. Any pictures of you drinking, dressed provocatively, or otherwise suggesting you are unprofessional should be removed, or your privacy settings should make these images unavailable to potential employers. Checking applicants' social networking profiles has become a very common practice among employers., If you are called for an interview, showing up on time, looking professional, and speaking articulately are all important for your job prospects.


At the start of the interview, shake hands with the interviewer.
Smile and try to relax, no matter how nervous you may be.
Listen carefully to the questions you are asked, and answer them in a direct way and with a positive attitude. Try to emphasize why you would be a good candidate for the job using concrete examples., Once you get a job, or if you already have one, keep your eyes peeled for better opportunities. If your job doesn't pay enough to raise you out of poverty, stick with it, but keep looking. It's easier to get a job once you already have one.