 A final walk-through allows the landlord and tenant to make sure they are in agreement about the scope of the property, property conditions, proposed improvements, and the extent of repairs. A tenant should not rely only on blueprints or photos regarding the condition of the property.


The tenant should photograph areas with pre-existing damage, such as stains from water leaks, so he won't be charged for repairing them when he moves out.
 Blank lease agreement forms can be found online or at office supply stores. You can cross out and initial any sections that do not apply to your negotiated agreements. The parties can also consult a local attorney to draw up an agreement.
 At a minimum, the lease agreement must include the physical address of the rental property. If the lease is for a specific portion of the property, then it must be detailed out, "The first floor only of 123 Main Street, Anytown," or "At the Johnson Industrial Park, the north half of warehouse B measuring 200 X 400 feet including loading dock #7 for a total of 8,000 square feet."

, Commercial leases are often between companies. Not only must the name, mailing address, and phone number of the companies be included, but the agreement should also identify a point of contact. The lease agreement should also identify the agent for service of process. This is the person designated to receive legal papers. , This can be as simple as "a two-year lease, effective January 1st, at $500 per month payable on the 1st of each calendar month," or a complicated square footage calculation with common area maintenance factored in. If there isn't enough room on the form, add the calculations as an appendix. This section can include if payments will be made by mail, in person, electronically, or by bank transfer.
 These are the negotiated terms including improvements, rent credits, common areas, maintenance, repairs, utilities, smoking, subleases, and exclusivity. If there are very specific terms, especially relating to repairs, this section can include photographs. For example, a special term may be, "Tenant will repair the damaged floor in the bathroom in exchange for a $300 rent credit" and include a "before" photo of the damaged floor. This will commonly be added as an appendix.
 This includes what happens if the tenant defaults by not paying the rent or by violating other terms of the lease. This should also include how the tenant can terminate the lease if the landlord violates the lease or if business conditions change. This is where you would include penalties for late payment and the kind of notices the parties will give each other in case of a default or lease termination. , Hopefully, the lease works out so well that both parties want to continue. The agreement should detail whether the lease renews automatically, if there is a renewal option, or if there needs to be a new written agreement negotiated from scratch. , This is a legal document that must be signed by someone on both sides who has the legal authorization to bind the company to a contract. Each party should receive a copy with original signatures. It is best to use blue ink to differentiate an original from a copy.

