 A common theme for those who befriend egotists is being unable to stand up for themselves. But, if you want to maintain this friendship, you will have to stop letting your self-centered friend walk all over you. Learn to be clear and brief when you state your needs.When your friend asks your advice, actually give your opinion.
Practice saying “no.” If you don’t agree with something or don’t want to do something, say so.
Don’t feel guilty. Everyone has the right to speak up for themselves.;
, If you’re friends with an egotist, you are probably no stranger to being the butt of mean, sarcastic jokes. Your friend may laugh it off like they’re just teasing, but these comments are rude. One way to set boundaries is to speak out when your friend does this and let them know you refuse to be treated this way.You might say, “Hey, that’s not cool, Frankie. I’m going to leave if you don’t stop.”

, Egotists really like being the center of attention. However, just because others in your social group eat up their every word doesn’t mean you have to. Stop giving them special treatment. Instead, treat them the same way you treat all your other friends.Let’s say someone asks what you’re doing for the summer and the egotist interrupts and starts telling about their summer plans. Politely say, “Actually, Donna, I think Judy was asking me that question.” Then, go ahead with your answer.
 People who are self-conceited are often described as “energy vampires” because it drains you to be around them. If this characterizes your friendship with this person, start getting some distance.For example, if you’re having a tough day and don’t have the energy to deal with them, back out of your plans.
It may seem rude, but you need to do what’s best for your emotional health and your sanity.
 If you want to continue being friends with this self-centered person, you may have to lower the bar. Take advantage of the feel-good vibes you often get from hanging out with this person, but know your limits. Don’t expect the egotist to ever support you emotionally or show any concern for your needs.

Also, limit what you confide in this person. Unlike non-egotistical friends, they may not understand the importance of a secret, which means they just might share it with others or throw it back in your face later.