 If you don’t really like or believe in yourself, it may be hard to get others to. Confidence is the key to attracting attention, as people flock to those who love themselves. Having low confidence causes you to have a poor mood and outlook, and probably repels people from you as opposed to attracting them. Build self-confidence by doing the following:Write a list of your best traits, and read over it when your self-esteem is low.
Think back to situations in which you have performed well.
Try new things and challenge yourself.
Participate in activities you enjoy.
Don’t allow others to dictate the value you place in yourself.

Walk with a straight posture, your shoulders back, and your chin raised.
 Although it may be difficult to completely avoid negative moods, do your best to appear positive. By having an optimistic view of life, you will be able to appreciate its small blessings and beautiful aspects. In a world of negativity, people are often drawn to those who send out positive vibes. Showing your happiness despite bad situations will prove to people that you are fun to hang out with. Build a better mindset using the following strategies:


Pay attention to your language. When you constantly complain or make negative comments, your mood aligns with your words. Make positive statements, such as “I can figure out this problem” or “I am a good person”.
Plan to be happy. Schedule in activities you love into your weekly routine. This automatically provides a buffer against negative mood states.

Be grateful for what you have. When you notice all the things you do have, rather than focusing on what you don’t, you have more reasons to smile and be appreciative.
Refrain from gossiping. Participating in negatively-oriented conversations can cause the tone to rub off on you. When you notice people talking about others in mean ways, excuse yourself from the conversation.
 Although it may be tempting to change yourself in an effort to gain the attention of others, it will hurt you in the long run. Eventually, you will grow tired of pretending to be a person you are not. You will not only damage your reputation but also possibly destroy relationships, as people will dislike you for lying to them about yourself.


Instead of forming a new personality for yourself, be proud of the one that you have. Embrace your qualities and aspects, such as your sense of humor or scientific knowledge. Don't be afraid to voice your thoughts, wear what you want, or do what you want to do. You'll be glad that you're an individual, and nobody can change who you are. By showing that you are proud of who you are, you will capture people's interest., While you should not hesitate to forge relationships with people all around you, be sure that you keep your trusted friends closest to you. You shouldn't be afraid to expand your social circles, but be sure that you only befriend people that have a positive influence on you. Being around people who like and value you will put you in a positive mood and help you to like yourself., You can meet more people through different classes and events, and possibly expand your social circle. Looking for groups or clubs gives you the advantage of finding people with common interests, which allows you to easily approach and befriend them. You may not only find a new hobby but also new friends to try it with.Research local groups in your area who gather regularly, or you can join a group or create your own on Meetup.com.

