 Thaw one sheet of frozen puff pastry (1/2 pound or 245 g) according to the manufacturer's instructions. Wash and peel 2 large, tart apples (like Granny Smith apples). Core the apples and carefully slice them as thin as you can (about 1/4" thick). Place the apples in a mixing bowl.The puff pastry should still be cold when you work with it, so avoid thawing it to room temperature.;
, Turn the oven on to 375 degrees F (190 C). Add 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 tablespoon of the flour, and 1/4 teaspoon of ground cinnamon to the bowl with the apples. Use a large spoon to toss the ingredients together until they're combined.Ensure that all of the apple slices are completely covered with the flour, sugar, and cinnamon. This will help the apples cook evenly as they release juice.
 Many strudel recipes add a few tablespoons of raisins to the filling mixture. For a festive flavor, you could also use a few tablespoons of dried cranberries to the apple filling. Or if you want a slight crunch in the strudel, add 1/4 cup of sliced almonds or chopped walnuts.For a shortcut strudel that's great to serve during fall, replace the apples with Bosc pears and use dried cranberries.
 Sprinkle the last 2 tablespoons of the flour over your work surface or counter. Unfold the thawed sheet of puff pastry on the space and use a rolling pin to roll the puff pastry into a rectangle. The rectangle should measure 12x16 inches (30.5x40.5 cm).Turn the pastry frequently while you're rolling it out. This will keep it from sticking to your work surface.
 Turn the puff pastry rectangle so that the short side is closest to you. Spread the apple filling onto the pastry so that it's only the bottom half that's facing you. Leave a 1-inch edge at the bottom. Use both of your hands to pick up that edge and fold it over the filling. Roll the pastry with filling onto itself like you're rolling a jelly roll. Set the strudel on a baking sheet and tuck the ends under the strudel.The seam where you folded the pastry should be on the bottom of the strudel. This will keep any filling from leaking out as it bakes on the sheet.
 Crack one egg into a small bowl and add 1 tablespoon of water. Whisk the mixture until it's completely combined. Dip a pastry brush in the egg wash and brush it over the strudel. Use a knife to carefully cut 4 slits in the top of the strudel. Bake the strudel for 35 minutes. It should be golden brown and the filling will bubble when it's cooked.Let the strudel cool for 20 minutes before you serve it. You can dust it with 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar when it's cool or drizzle it with glaze while it's still hot.
 To add a slightly sweet finishing touch, you can mix up a quick icing. You'll need to place the ingredients in a small bowl and whisk them until they're combined. The glaze should be thin enough to drizzle on the hot strudel. Mix together:1 cup (125 g) of powdered sugar
2 tablespoons of milk or cream
1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract

