 Holding one cleat in each hand, clap the shoes together in the locker room, on the field or at home to remove chunks of dirt.Be careful when you clap your cleats together not to get dirt on clothes or furniture. Check the area for pieces of mud that you need to put in the trash.
Clap your cleats together to clear sand from the inside of the shoe.;
, Use lukewarm water, not hot, to avoid damaging the leather or plastic in your cleats. Fully immerse your cleats in the warm water for 5-7 minutes.Keep an eye on the time. A lot of mud on your cleats will take longer to dissolve. Do not leave your cleats in the water for longer than 7 minutes, as you may damage the plastic or leather fabric of the shoe.
 Rub with the brush to remove mud and dirt that has been softened by the water., Dunking your cleats after using the brush will rinse off softened dirt left behind by the scrubbing brush., This will allow you to clean underneath the laces, and the laces themselves. It is useful to remove laces so that you don't miss small pockets of dirt., Most laces will be clean after being soaked and scrubbed. If your laces are not clean, wash them in the sink. You can lay the laces aside to dry with your cleats later., Pieces of dirt, mud, and rocks can get stuck between cleat spikes. Use a cloth to rub each spike clean, and get your fingers and the cloth into the small spaces between the spikes.Use a toothbrush to scrub between cleats on small-size shoes.
 Bad grass stains and scuff marks may not come off in warm water. Put a small amount of stain remover on the stain and rub it off with a damp cloth., Work a small amount of dish soap into a cloth and wipe down the shoe, including the outer material over the foot and the laces.Dish soap dissolves bacteria that causes shoes to smell. Your shoe will smell better if you use dish soap to clean it.
Try not to soak your shoe in dish soap. It will soak into the lining of your shoe and be hard to rinse out. This can cause uncomfortable suds to form in your shoe when you sweat in it.
 Going over the shoe multiple times will keep it looking new and smelling good for longer after you clean it.
 Hold them under a tap, shower or hosepipe to wash off dirt, sand and soap.Clean up dirt and soap from the sink, tub, or backyard after you are finished.
 Pour water into your shoe and shake it out to clean sand from inside your shoe., Use a dry cloth to wipe your cleats and remove excess moisture from the outside of the shoe., Push kitchen towel, newspaper or a dry cloth into your shoe and count to ten before removing it to soak up moisture inside the shoe., Direct sunlight will dry your shoes fast, but can damage some shoes so leave your shoes in a shady, warm outdoor area. You can also dry them indoors in a warm area such as a laundry room or drying cupboard.Try not to leave your shoes outdoors to dry overnight. Local animals may chew them, and overnight dew will make them damp.
 Thread the laces back through the lace holes in your cleats when dry. Start lacing at the bottom of the shoe and move upwards.