 Make sure she is clever, pretty, and has great leadership skills. She should be able to make great decisions and come up with fool-proof plans in a short amount of time. She should be smart and witty and have the same sense of humor as you. You won't want to fake-laugh your way through a friendship, and you won't want to have an incredibly clever moment and receive little or no credit for it. In short, don't pick somebody whose head you'll soon want to rip off.;
, They should be just as pretty. Pick at least two people to be in your clique. They should also have the same sense of humor and witty comebacks as you and your alpha. They should not be competitive in the sense of friendship. Meaning, they shouldn't try to become the new beta.
 The members of your group should range from being dumb but good-hearted to sarcastic and sassy. This puts chemistry in your clique and gives you more scandal to work from! It makes it easier to get along with everyone, when you don't have every little thing in common. It is nice if the followers are smart, but they don't have to - and shouldn't - be super-intelligent kid geniuses. We're going for a couple of lasting friendships and a few intelligent conversations here, not a blue ribbon. In "Mean Girls", you have Regina, the leader, Gretchen, the gossip, and Karen, the honest idiot. In "The Clique" series, there's Massie, the fearless alpha, Alicia, the beautiful gossip, Dylan, the diet-obsessed comic, and Kristen, the grades-concerned athlete. (Later, you enter Claire, the sweet and trustworthy outsider.) Consider this diversity when you choose your new group of friends, but make sure that everybody still meshes well. An airhead will quickly get on the nerves of your quick-witted leader, and the perpetual conscience of a goody-two-shoes will soon annoy those up to a revenge plot.
 Failure to do so can get you demoted to follower-status. It's fine if you feel extremely uncomfortable doing something - stick to your conscience! Also, it's good if you're your own person and do what you prefer. But if you constantly refuse to do what your alpha asks you to do, it is annoying and pointless to have a lazy beta in the mix, particularly if your reason for not doing something has to do with pride. Danger or extreme terms (such as expulsion) - fine, don't follow orders. But you wanted a leader, and now that she's giving you orders, you shouldn't just back down.
 When your leader tells you do something do it immediately. Don't wait until after you've bought and sipped at a fat-free vanilla latte - do it now! Prioritize - if school is important to you, then do your homework before following orders. But if you feel like you might want to watch "Dirty Dancing" then you can forget about this clique you've created. The alpha thinks of the plans and you go through with them. In return, she trusts you the most, takes your advice over the advice of others, and gives you the most lenience of everyone. Not to mention that you have the second highest hall cred, along with the fact that when the alpha wants to throw out her True Religions? You're the first person she thinks of. Dibs, anyone?

, Well, try to. Make sure your leader is slightly prettier than you. That way you guys can be closer and she might let you one day be the leader. Or she will be closer with you.
 She will automatically either kick you out or make someone else her beta. These people are completely OL (Off Limits) and you should never even consider it.
 Your alpha thinks up the schemes. She's the one who weasels you out of the big hole that you've just dug for yourself. She's the one who is constantly coming up with new ideas to entertain you, the third-in-command, and the delta when you go to her house for sleepovers or during carpool. She works her butt off for you. Give her space. Don't be the annoying kid in the back of the car who asks the same question every five minutes: "Are we there yet?" In this case, however, the repetitive question would be: "Are you done yet?" Are you done thinking of my plan yet? Are you done finding something suitable to wear because we went shopping while you planned a party for us yet? Are you done? Are you done? Are you done? She will get sick of this very quickly. She will snap. You will not want to be the source of her anger.
 You don't have to change your personality just because you're a beta. Sure, you may admire your alpha a lot - that's fine. But don't turn into her. She won't think that's flattering - she'll think that's a rip-off. Instead, tell her that you like her new boots and refrain from buying an exact pair, even if it is in a different color. Don't copy her new phrase. Don't do your hair the same way she did it yesterday. Don't buy a crimper like the one she just bought. Don't buy that bedspread, tee shirt, or even accessory of hers, even if it is to die for. When the alpha makes a day to match, like say, pink shirts, cut offs, or juicy purses one day, that's different. In short, Don't. Copy. Her. Period.
 Be quick-witted when your alpha falls. Make her laugh. Amaze her with your style and beauty. Don't pretend to be someone you're not - she'll see right through it. Don't back stab her. Don't talk back. Joke around with her - she's your friend. Be yourself.

