 How often will you feed your dog? Vets often recommend once or twice a day but some people feed outdoor/competing dogs as much as three times a day. Ask your vet how much food a day your dog should be given and simply divide these between the number of meals.

Do not overfeed as these will seriously harm your dog's health. Always feed to A set routine as this will keep your dog healthy - and also make it much easier for you to predict when your dog will need a bathroom break.



 

;
, When and how much your dog eats also effects what comes out The following times are a MUST for every dog: let your dog out after finishing every meal, after walks, after excessive play, when you wake up, and when you go to bed. When your dog just needs to let a little extra out, he or she will bend his/her back legs, raise the tail straight in the air, and will curve his/her bottom.
 Your dog, no matter what breed, needs to be bathed once every four months. Regular baths depend on the breed, skin characteristics, fur length, fur coarseness, and sometimes age. You can get special shampoo for your dog at a vet or dog breed club.

After each bath, brush your dog thoroughly, and do not rush. If your dog is an indoor dog with fine hair, a brushing once every day, in the morning, is recommended. Otherwise, occasional brushing won't hurt anybody.
 Dogs need to play and exercise every day - no matter what the weather. Play with your pet by running around, chasing it, tossing a small ball (not small enough to choke on!) to it, or getting a short thick length of rope and playing tug of war. Be friendly while playing. If your dog gets a bit too playful and nips at you, say in a low-pitched tone, "Fido, no!". Sound firm but not angry as you don't want to scare your dog, simply to correct the dog's behavior.

If you don't have a back yard then you definitely need to walk your dog for at least an hour a day, every day. Without sufficient exercise dogs tend to be restless and unhappy and far more inclined towards discipline problems.
 If you invite friends over, and they are comfortable with dogs, all of you should play! If you happen to see another dog with his owner on a walk, introduce your self and let the dogs sniff each other, and friendly greetings will be a sure sign that your dog is not in a canine depression.
 Never put your dog in an area with small objects on the floor, a low trash can, or nails coming out of the floor/walls. Even small dogs can knock trashcans over and sniff out some left over food. Nails can be bitten and will damage the teeth and perhaps rip tissue. Small objects can be eaten, without a very promising outcome. Always keep an open area for your dog to enjoy. A small sample carpet on hard wood floors will seem like a special seat just for your dog.

Put a blanket beside your favorite couch, if you don't allow him/her on the furniture. For a bed, you can get a small blanket, rip out the seams, and stuff the inside of the blanket with old clothes or stained pillows. This will make a cozy, inexpensive bed for your pet.
 Get a piece of letter stationery paper and write down your routine. Put it in you wallet, on your refrigerator, or blow it up and put it in a frame in your bedroom. You can also get it monogrammed into a blanket for your dog to sleep on. Get creative!

