 The deductible is the amount you have to pay towards any necessary repairs to your vehicle before your insurance kicks in.The lower of a deductible you want to pay, the larger your insurance premiums will be. If you want to reduce your auto insurance costs, consider opting for larger deductibles.Increasing your deductible from $300 to $500 may reduce your premium by as much as 30 percent.
Increasing your deductible to $1,000 may reduce your premium by as much as 40 percent.
 Your insurance policy may offer coverage for personal injury protection and medical expenses. However, if you have health insurance, you may not need to purchase this coverage. Paying for the coverage in your auto insurance may be an unnecessary duplication of expenses. Check with your health insurance company and find out if they pay for injuries from an auto accident. If they do, then you don’t need to purchase this coverage with your auto insurance.Some states require that you carry a certain personal injury amount in your auto insurance policy.
 Some vehicles are more likely to either be in an accident or be stolen. If you own such a vehicle, you can expect to pay higher insurance premiums. Your insurance agent will ask you for the make, model, year, body style and engine size of your car. If it falls into the sports car category, expect to pay higher premiums than you would for a sedan.Cars with two seats, high-performance engines, and racing tires generally fall into the sports car category.
Insurance companies charge higher premiums to insure these cars because they have a higher risk for accidents due to unsafe driving, and they are more expensive to maintain and repair.
 Many insurance providers offer discounts for bundling, or combining, your auto insurance with other policies. For example, if you purchase your homeowners or life insurance policies from the same provider as your auto insurance, you may qualify for a multi-line discount on your premiums. Also, some providers combine deductibles, which can save you money if you make more than one claim in a year. It is usually more expensive to insure your house and car separately with different companies than it would be to bundle the coverages with the same company., Safety features not only make your car safer to drive, but they also reduce the potential for theft. Most cars come equipped with safety features like anti-lock brakes, automatic seat belts, and airbags. However, you may qualify for discounts on your auto insurance if you install other optional safety features. These include alarm systems, anti-theft devices, daytime lights and passenger seat airbags., Maintaining a clean driving record is one of the best ways to keep your insurance premiums low. Drivers who get tickets for traffic violations, such as speeding or reckless driving, usually face increases in their insurance premiums. This is because insurance companies view these drivers as a higher risk for getting into an accident. Also, if you do get into an accident that is your fault, your premiums will increase as a result. Avoid accidents in order to keep your auto insurance expenses down., You may qualify for discounts of which you may not be aware. For example, if you are over 50 or 55 years of age and have a clean driving record, you may qualify for a discount. Similarly, some companies offer discounts to students with good grades. Teens who have completed a defensive driving course or an approved driver education program also may qualify for discounts. Also, if your college-age children do not take their cars to college with them, your premiums may be reduced. Ask your provider about these discounts., You may not need to purchase full collision and/or comprehensive coverage. Depending on the age of your car and its market value, it may not be worth it to pay for the most expensive, comprehensive coverage. You may be paying for more than the car is worth. Some banks require you to purchase full collision coverage if you are still making payments on the car. Before you opt out of this coverage, check with your auto loan provider.