 Stress fractures aren't always as obvious as acute fractures. A stress fracture will likely not have the external symptoms, such as bleeding, bruising, or disfiguring. However, a stress fracture does have the following symptoms that can help you identify if you have one:Most stress fractures occur in athletes or people beginning a new exercise program. The most commonly afflicted areas of the body are the foot and lower leg.Pain and tenderness in the area will be the main identifier of a stress fracture.
Many stress fractures will not be noticeable at their onset.If you notice pain during activity, over a large area where you suspect the fracture, it could be a stress fracture. This pain should fade when you stop the activity that caused it.
If left untreated, the pain will intensify and become constant. The pain will also become more localized at the site of the fracture.
 There are a few lifestyle choices you can make in order to help reduce the chances of sustaining a stress fracture. Try implementing some of the following practices in your life:If you are starting a new exercise regime, or increasing an existing one, make your changes slowly. Don't overdo or overwork your body as you work towards your athletic goals.
Try mixing up your training routines. Training one type of action or body part will increase the chances of a stress fracture occurring. By mixing in low-impact exercise in your routine, you allow stressed areas to heal properly.
Make sure you are getting enough calcium in your diet to help build strong and healthy bones.
Check that your shoes are helping, rather than hurting your feet. Most stress fractures occur in the foot, and proper shoes that support and fit the foot can help prevent them.
 If you play a sport or participate in some other physical activity, and have recovered from a stress fracture, you will want to slowly work back up to your normal level of intensity. Jumping back in too quickly can cause you to re-injure the area and wait once again for it to heal.Pay careful attention to any activities that are high-impact, such as running. Start easy and slowly add more intensity and time to your exercise.
Monitor the area as you increase activity. If you notice pain or discomfort returning, rest the area and lower the intensity.

