 If you don’t like to negotiate, you can hire a debt settlement company to help you settle debts. You’ll make monthly payments to the debt settlement company, which will save the money in an account. After a large enough lump sum has accumulated, they will approach your creditors to negotiate a settlement.There are many companies out there. Some advertise on television, in the phone book, or online.
 Before hiring a company, you should thoroughly research it to uncover whether it is a legitimate company. Unfortunately, there are many scammers or inexperienced companies working in the field. Check the following:Search the Better Business Bureau. Look at the city where the company has its headquarters and read up on any complaints.
Ask your state’s Attorney General whether any lawsuits have been filed against the company.
Check with a local consumer protection agency for complaints. Of course, any company might have complaints. But look for patterns. Are several people complaining of being ripped off?

, Legitimate debt settlement companies should send you certain disclosures before asking you to sign a contract. You should read these disclosures closely so that you understand them. For example, the disclosures should cover the following:Your fee and how it is calculated. Typically, debt settlement companies charge either a percentage of your total debt or a percentage of the amount they saved you.
Any terms and conditions.
The length of time that will pass before the company approaches your creditors for settlement.
How much they intend to offer each creditor.
The negative consequences of stopping payments to your creditors (lowered credit score, potential lawsuits, more fees, etc.)

, Avoid any company that engages in shady practices. Look for the following red flags, and run away if you can:advertises a new government program that will help you with credit card debt (there is no program)
charges fees before settling your debt
guarantees they can make your debt disappear
doesn’t tell you the consequences of stopping payment to creditors
claims it can halt all lawsuits and debt collection
promises to settle your debt for pennies on the dollar

, You should get a written contract from the debt settlement company. Read it carefully with a lawyer’s assistance before signing. If you don’t agree with something in the contract, reach out to the company before signing.
 Although you will pay money to the debt settlement company, it is still your money. You have the right to remove the money from the savings account. You are also entitled to any interest that the money earned.