 One option for selling your product in person is to buy space at local craft fairs. Most craft fairs are 1 to 3 days long, and you rent your booth space for that period of time. Craft fairs can be lucrative, if the shows are well advertised and the community supports them.It's important to make your setup as professional as possible. Tablecloths, decorations, lights, and a professional sign can all add flair to your booth to draw customers in. Also, don't forget to bring your business cards to hand out.
If you want to take credit cards, many booths now use card readers that can attach to your smartphone, such as Square or PayPal.
Some craft fairs limit direct sales to one person per company or none at all. Therefore, if you're selling for a company, make sure to call or email as early as possible to reserve a space, so you can get in ahead of other sellers in your company.
 One easy option for selling your products is to try a local store where you can rent a booth. You pay a monthly fee for your booth, and in return, the store sells your product for you. The only problem with this setup is you must pay whether you sell anything or not.


One upside of this approach is that you can get into these stores more easily than other stores.
Also, you may able to use this approach for direct sales, depending on the store.
 Another option is to sell in a local store. Many stores that are not connected to a big chain will take local products to sell. Check your local listings or even drive around in areas with boutique stores to figure out which ones may be right for you. Then, do your research online and in person before approaching the store.Stores generally sell in two ways. In some craft shops, the shops will display your goods, then take a commission when the item sells. Others will buy your goods outright to sell in your stores, though they will likely want them at a discounted rate.
However, stores will not sell for you if you're doing direct sales.
Check online to see if the store lists how they prefer someone to approach them about selling. Many places would prefer you not come during business hours to show your products.
Make sure to have pictures of your products, along with a variety of samples for the store owner to try.

