 Treat your credit cards the same as you would cash, and make sure you know where they are at all times.


You might also try carrying your cards separately from your wallet. That way if your wallet is stolen the thief doesn't have everything.;
, After you report your card lost or stolen, federal law states you no longer have any liability for further charges you didn't make.


Typically the company will cancel your card as soon as you report it; however, the credit card company legally can only hold you responsible for a maximum of $50 for each card that's lost or stolen, regardless of when you report it.
Most credit card companies have automated lines that are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week for reporting a lost or stolen card.If you're notified of a data security breach at a store where you've used your card, contact your credit card company and demand a replacement card be issued immediately.If your wallet is stolen, you should also contact local law enforcement and any other related companies or agencies. For example, if you had your health insurance card in your wallet, you should notify your health insurance company that your card was stolen so it can be replaced., Especially if you're going on an extended trip, leaving cards you don't need at home substantially decreases the odds of them being lost or stolen.


Don't take anything with you that you don't need. For example, if you're going to the grocery store, bring along whatever method of payment you intend to use to buy your groceries. There's no need to bring your store card for a clothing retailer., Many credit card companies automatically block cards if suspicious activity occurs, which could include transactions in a place you didn't frequent before.
 Checking ID allows the clerk to compare your signature on the receipt to your signature on your driver's license, as well as checking the name and photo., Don't walk away or turn your back on a clerk or other employee who has your card in her hand.


If a clerk has a problem with the transaction, make sure she returns your card to you before she walks away.Never sign a blank receipt, and mark through any blank lines or spaces before you sign so nothing else can be added to your total after you've signed.