 If you've noticed your dog constantly scratching his ears, get him examined. The vet will use a tool (otoscope) to examine deep inside the ear canal and check if the eardrum (tympanum) is intact. The vet will also look for other causes of itchy ears. For example, the vet may swab your dog's ears to diagnose an infection.


If your dog is in so much pain that an examination is difficult, the vet may choose to sedate him and clean out the ear. This allows the vet to see the eardrum and helps topical treatments be absorbed by the skin.
Don't attempt giving topical ear treatments to your dog without seeing the vet first. If the eardrum is damaged, medication could cross into the middle or inner ear, causing permanent balance and hearing problems (possibly even deafness).;
, While some may recommend using this essential oil to calm inflamed or infected skin, know that it contains terpenes, which are toxic to dogs.Animals can tolerate tea tree oil that has been diluted to 0.1 to 1.0%, but most shampoos, disinfectants, and skin treatments sold by pet shops contain stronger amounts which could harm your dog. If you do use a tea tree oil product, make sure it's very diluted.


Watch for signs of terpene toxicity if you choose to use tea tree oil. Toxic signs include nausea, vomiting, and, commonly in both cats and dogs, paralysis. Serious cases of paralysis, seizures, and even death have also been associated with tea tree oil., If you're unsure what's causing your dog's itchy ears, you'll want to get him some relief until you can determine the problem. Contact your vet to confirm that the antihistamine is safe for your dog, especially if they are on other medication. Then you can give your dog 2 mg of a common antihistamine, like diphenhydramine, for every kilogram of body weight. Usually these are tablets given orally, three times a day.Antihistamines work by histamine release to prevent inflammation.


Note that even once you've started treatment, your dog will probably continue to scratch. Also, antihistamines are not widely effective in treating canine itchiness. You can try it to see if it brings your dog any relief, but know that only 10 to 15% of dogs benefit from them., The veterinarian may prescribe a short course of corticosteroids to provide temporary itch relief until a course of medication kicks in. Corticosteroids are potent anti-inflammatories which are excellent at relieving itchiness. Or, ask your vet about using over-the-counter (OTC) creams that contain 0.5 to 1% hydrocortisone. Applying these creams to the skin of the ear flap and around the base of the ear could soothe inflamed skin.


Be aware that steroids should not be used with certain medications, like if your dog is taking NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatories) which are typically prescribed for arthritis. Taking the two drugs together can result in catastrophic gastric ulceration leading to hemorrhage and death.