 Using a drawing paper pad, or even some xerox paper taped to a sturdy board, a conte crayon or piece of vine charcoal (a soft pencil will do, too) and a mirror, sit in front of the mirror and study your features. Set up your working area so that there is a light coming from one side. If you are right handed, the light should be on your left side and slightly above you.;
, Hold your head steady while drawing. Use your eyes, not your head, to look down at your paper. Don't move your head from side to side. There are several approaches artists use. I will start with my favorite portrait artist's, Richard Schmid's: look at one of your eyes. Study it carefully. You will draw the eye first and work gradually out from there, comparing proportions and measuring carefully.
 Is there a prominent fold above the eyeball or not? Are the eyebrows bushy or thin, arched or straight or sloped? Very lightly draw an oval on your paper that is approximately the proportion and shape of your left eye.
 It's easier to draw a face the first time if you are looking straight-on to the mirror. Most faces are fairly symmetrical but not perfectly so. Notice the distance from the right eye to the left. Using the width of the eye as a basic measuring unit, gauge the width of that space between the eyes and carefully draw the outline, lid and iris of the left eye, then mark the space between the eyes; then draw the outline and some detail of the right eye. Indicate the direction and width of the eyebrows.
 This will help keep your drawing symmetrical.
 Make a light, short line at the bottom of the nose. Compare the width of the eye to the width of the nose. Make a mark on either side of your plumb line indicating the width of the nose. Then compare the distance between the bottom of the nose and the separation of the lips. Keep checking those proportions! Getting those proportions right is what makes a good portrait or likeness.
 The ear is a very complex thing to draw, and quite unique to each person. The top of the ear is usually somewhere around the level of the eyebrows, but again, look carefully before you draw. Each person's face is unique!

,, Don't worry about details! When you look at someone's hair, you notice the color and shape, not the individual hairs. It should be the same in your drawing.
 Gently shade some of the darker areas to get a sense of dimension. Work on the darkest areas first -usually the iris. Leave white for the curved highlight on the iris. Notice that the eyeball is curved and that one side of the eyeball is slightly in shadow. Look carefully at the proportion and location of the highlights.
 Don't worry about lashes - they can be gently indicated by a darker line later on.
, That is another characteristic point of the face.
, The lower lip casts a shadow but don't make too much of it. Finally, indicate the shadow side of the jaw, indicate the neck and collar, with some shading on the neck to make it believable and pick out a few lights in the hair with the corner of your eraser. You're finished! But don't stop there! Keep at it! You will only get better!

, Keep doing self-portraits until it comes easily to you, then ask a friend to sit for you for an hour or so. They can watch tv, which you can set up behind you, perhaps? Or have them read a book. Their eyes will be looking down and not towards you, however. Working from life is always better than working from photography, especially at the beginning. Photography doesn't show all the detail or the subtle changes in value that are essential to a good portrait.

