 Before you pick a single color, you should have a clear idea where you intend to use the paint. In which room(s) do you intend to use the color? Do you intend to use it on multiple walls in the room or just on one accent wall? Are you using it as a trim on your baseboards or on crown molding?


Consider the natural lighting of the room. How many windows exist in the room? Do you want the room to feel light and airy or dark and cozy? For a breezy feel, consider bright white, yellow or light blue. For darker colors, consider navy, gray, or incorporate touches or rich wood shades and mahogany.
Analyze the dimensions of the room. Is this a room with tall windows and ceilings or is space with low ceilings and little natural lighting (like a basement)?;
, If you have no idea which colors to embrace, consider looking at a range of shades available on the color wheel. The color wheel will also let help you find colors that complement each other.


Color theory is a broad term for how colors are organized and work together. It is largely based on the system of the color wheel, which organizes colors around the three primary colors -- red, yellow and blue.Traditionally, colors that are directly across from each other on the color wheel have been considered complementary. You can also use colors that exist in the same area on the color wheel. You can search for color wheels on-line and try out different combinations. Colors that are directly across each other on the color wheel tend to be compatible. For example, sky blue and peach orange are complementary colors. Yellow and purple are also across from each other on the wheel and together they a bold, bright combination.
 You might feel less overwhelmed by all the available paint colors in your local store if you find some similar shades on-line beforehand.


You can generally look at the web sites for all the major paint brands -- like Sherwin Williams or Behr. If you search sites like Pinterest, you will be able to see pictures of how other people have used these colors in their homes.
If you find inspiring images on-line you can collect them on an on-line forum, like a Pinterest board, or you could print them out and compile them in a book.
Keep in mind that all colors on-line might not look exactly the same in person.
 Once you have a rough idea of which colors you want to use, it's time to visit your local paint store. Select 3-4 swatches of colors that you would like to use.


Get samples of the swatches you want to use. This will generally be a smarter idea that buying entire gallons of colors you're not sure you want to use. Most paint stores will give you small samples for around $3.00-$4.00.
If the shade you are using is a very different color from the material of the walls, you might need to apply a primer before the paint. Talk to your consultant at the paint store about whether you should use a primer.
 Nothing will compare to actually seeing the colors of the paint on your physical walls. You can plan to paint squares of the different colors directly on the wall or you can buy sample boards and hang them on your walls to get a sense of what the will look like.
 Depending on the size of your painting project, your needs for other supplies will vary. You will generally need the following items:


Paint rollers and trays
Paint buckets
Primer
Brushes in different sizes
Paint thinner
Painter's tape
Dropcloth or plastic sheeting

, You put this directly on your wall or on a sample canvas. A swatch directly on the wall might be preferable since the color might change slightly based on the material of the canvas.


You can also try out different patterns or stencil sets on the canvas set if you're not certain you want to paint the wall in one solid block.
 If you have used a sample canvas board to paint your swatches, let them dry and then move them around the room. How do they look from different angles?


Pay special attention to changes in lighting. How does the sample look in natural light? How does it change when you turn on a lamp next to it? How does it look when it is cloudy outside or when it is very sunny?

, Unless you are under a quick deadline to paint, you should spend at least a few days judging the samples and figuring out which ones work best for your needs.


Try to keep your furniture arranged normally while you test out the samples. This way, you will be able to genuinely live around the colors and gauge your emotional response to them.
 This might seem like a silly step, but really consider how the color makes you feel. If you are using a bright, bold color, like a red or an orange, does the color make your feel energized or anxious? Do cooler colors like blues and greens make you feel relaxed or sleepy?


Marketers and brand strategists have long used color psychology to attract customers to their brands and maximize profits., How long do you intend to keep the room this color? Who else will spend time in the room aside from you? Is it inviting to guests, children, or overnight visitors?


While it is easy to change the color of a room, it is a time-intensive process to repaint a room. It will be more convenient if you can pick something you know you will want for at least a year and perhaps even longer.
 Once you have weighed all of the different aspects of each sample board, go ahead an pick a color. This is the color you will need to buy at least one gallon of (perhaps two or three depending on the size of the room) in order to complete your project.


Be sure it is a color that the other people sharing the space with you also enjoy.
 You will generally need to set aside a block of a few hours to paint the room. Depending on the size of the room, it could take 2-3 days before you can apply multiple coats. The following steps will help you get your dream color on your walls:


Move all furniture out from the room. You don't want to risk damaging them with paint. Roll up any rugs and remove them, too.
Lay down a drop cloth or plastic sheet to protect your floors from paint damage.
Tape off any sections you don't want to paint. This might include a baseboard in a different color or crown molding that will work as an accent trim.
Wear old clothes and shoes. It is likely you will spill paint on yourself at some point. Wearing old sweatpants, T-shirts, or gym shorts will be best because it can be very difficult (if not impossible) to remove paint stains from clothing.
Prime the room. If your consultant has suggested you use primer on your room before applying paint, you should apply this first. You might need to budget a day or so for it to dry. Use paint rollers and trays for your primer.
Apply the first coat of paint. If you are using a paint roller to cover a large wall, dip it in the paint tray. Don't oversaturate it with paint -- just roll it once or twice in the tray. Apply it upward with a light but even pressure. Allow it to completely dry before applying a second or third coat. Follow the instructions on your paint can.Dispose of paint properly. Never pour it down the drain as this can damage your plumbing. Instead, consider donating any leftover paint to organizations like Habitat for Humanity or other housing-based non-profits. Store it in an airtight container to make sure it it doesn't dry out.

