 In some cases, you may feel possessive because things have happened in the relationship that make you question the relationship’s stability. If this is the case, you should address the issues with your partner. This way you can resolve the issues, you will know where your relationship stands, and you can start being less possessive of your partner.


Tell your partner you’d like to talk about some of the issues you all have been having in the relationship. You might say, “Can we talk about the problems we’ve been having lately?”
Have an open and honest conversation about the things that have been bothering you.
Remember that resolving some issues, such as past betrayal, may take more than one conversation and a bit of time to resolve.
 One of the keys to a successful relationship is trust.You have to trust that your partner cares about you and is honest with you, just as they trust the same things about you. Part of the problem with being too possessive is that it sends your partner the message that you don’t trust them. Be less possessive with your partner by having faith in their feelings and their actions.


Trust your partner when they say they are going somewhere or doing something. You don’t need to check up on them to see if they are being faithful.
Believe what your partner tells you. Unless you know for a fact that your partner is dishonest, you should trust what they say.
Have faith in your partner’s feelings for you. Trust that your partner cares about you as much as they say they do.
 One issue with being possessive of your partner is that it may cause you to act in ways that are disrespectful to your partner, yourself, or others. You may say or do things that are humiliating, patronizing, or hurtful. You can be less possessive of your partner and build a stronger relationship if you make an effort to show them the respect they deserve.Talk respectfully to and about your partner. Don’t yell or scream at them or intentionally say things to make them feel bad.
Respect your partner’s privacy. Avoid going through your partner’s things or reading your partner’s texts and messages without permission.
 Once you realize and admit to yourself that you need to be less possessive of your partner then you should talk to your partner about what has been going on. Talking about it with your partner can help you stop acting on your jealous and possessive thoughts.Tell your partner that you realize that you have been acting possessively lately. For instance, you might say, “Can we talk? I know I’ve been acting pretty possessive lately.”
Explain to your partner how you have been feeling and why you are feeling that way. You could try saying, “I’ve been feeling jealous because of some past relationship issues I have.”
Listen to your partner, as well. This should be a conversation between the two of you.

