 Bases arms should be in front of them making a cupping position with their hands while elbows are bent and by the sides. The flyer will position herself behind the bases with her arms on their shoulders. The backspot will then be behind the flyer with her hands on the flyer's waist.;
, The bases should bend their knees so they can use their legs to absorb weight. The backspot will communicate that they are loading in by calling out ready, 1, 2 or tic toc, 1, 2. After the two is called the flyer will jump with the assistance of the backspot. The bases will keep eyes on the flyer and catch her feet.
 The flyer will extend both legs and lock out. Backspot will help the bases lift the weight by holding onto the ankles and pulling up. Weight should be divided equally from the flyer.
 The backspot will then will call out switch two and the base that has the left foot will switch her hands over to the right foot with the other base. The backspot will move both hands onto the right ankle of the flyer and continue to pull up the weight.
, The bases and the backspot will all dip their arms down to shoulder level. The flyer should stay tight for this step and keep locked out.
 The backspot will release the right ankle while throwing the flyer back up. The flyer will switch legs that the bases will be holding. The flyer will place her left foot right into the spot that her left foot was at and should hit a lib once again. The bases will catch the foot and the stunt should be at extended arms.
 The bases and the backspot will all dip their arms down to shoulder level. The flyer should stay tight for this step and keep locked out.
 The backspot will release the right ankle while throwing the flyer back up. The flyer will switch legs that the bases will be holding. The flyer will place her left foot right into the spot that her left foot was at. The bases will catch the foot and the stunt should be at extended arms.
, On the Two the bases will dip using their legs. The bases will flick their hands throwing the flyer into the air. The backspot will dip with the bases and also release the flyer. The flyer will ride the cradle up keeping straight. Once the flyer starts to come down she will hit a pike position. The bases and backspot will put their arms up and absorb her landing in their arms. The bases will have an arm on the legs and the back. The backspot will have her arms underneath the flyers armpits.
