 Although your position as a mayor is not paid, there are still many ways to make a profit in New Leaf. One of the easiest ways to make money is by selling fish and bugs to Reese at the Re-Tail Shop, which can be found by locating the pink recycling icon on the map at the bottom screen.


To catch fish, get a fishing rod at the Nookling Junction on Main Street. Open your inventory while standing in front of a body of water (either a river or ocean), and equip the fishing rod by dragging it over to your character. When you see a shadow moving below the water’s surface, hit the “A” button to cast your bait. Wait until the fish approaches your bait, and you hear a dripping sound. Upon hearing the sound, hold down the “A” button to reel in the fish
Bugs can be found in the air, on the ground, on trees, and around flowers. To catch bugs, first get a bug net at the Nookling Junction. If you find a bug, sneak up on them by gently pressing the analog stick forward. Equip the net by opening your inventory and dragging it to your character, then hit the “A” button when you are 3-4 steps away from the bug to capture it.
The most valuable fish and bugs can be found on the island at night, from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. If you have not already unlocked the island, you must pay 10,000 bells to Tom Nook to transform your tent into a home. Afterwards, talk to Tortimer on the docks and wait a day for Kapp’n to appear with the boat.
While some fish and bugs are only worth about 500 bells each, others can be worth up to 32,000 bells.
If you have already caught some things for Reese, enter the shop, and hit the “A” button to talk with her. Select the “I want to sell” option, and select items from your inventory (you can select multiple items by tapping them with the stylus), then hit the “Done” button at the bottom of the screen to finish your selection.;
, You can also make bells by selling your town’s fruit (each piece sells for about 100 bells) to Reese in bulk. Go from fruit tree to fruit tree, and hit “A” to shake them.


Collect the fruit and group them into bushels by opening your inventory and dragging matching fruit into piles. Up to 9 fruits can be stored under one inventory space.
 You can get bells from a certain rock in New Leaf. These rocks look like ordinary rocks, but if you hit it with a shovel, bells will come out. To learn more on how to get bells from rocks, check out this article.
 There is a machine that functions like an electronic bank located on the left side of the Post Office (which can be found on the left side of Main Street).


Although the Post Office is open 24/7, to pay off a loan, you must use the machine while Nook’s home is open, which is from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.
 To check how much you still owe Tom Nook, face the machine, press “A,” and select “Pay Off Loan” option. The machine will displays exactly how much you still owe.
 Using the bottom touchscreen, enter the numerical value you wish to deposit, and hit the “Enter” button to finalize the transaction.


A loan can be paid off in as many transactions as you need.
Once a loan has successfully been paid off, you will be able to purchase further expansions for your home; however, the prices of these expansions will continue to increase.

