 Sometimes you might need to hide a quick bottle or two from some judgmental person, but sometimes it might be you who needs to open your eyes and look around. If you're taking steps to hide alcohol in your own home, this can be a sign of a serious drinking problem. If you're struggling with alcohol dependence, stop hiding it, admit you have a problem, and seek help immediately. Hiding alcohol won't help in the long run.
 A cool and out of the way hiding spot for a bottle or two of booze? Try the toilet tank. The water that comes into the back of the tank is clean, meaning you won't have to worry about germs, and as long as your toilet is running properly, most people are unlikely to open up the tank to take a look.


You can tie the neck of the bottle to the ball joint in the toilet, to keep it from rattling around much. Make sure the toilet still functions properly, or you'll get caught more quickly.
 If you've got a lot of books or DVDs lined up, slip a few bottles behind them, and pull the books to the front of the shelf to create enough space. It's good feng shui anyway.
 Winter boots, Uggs, and cowboy boots are perfectly shaped for slotting illicit bottles into. If you've got a lot of shoes, you can sneak a bottle or two into them and keep them at the back of your closet for safe-keeping. Just remember where you put them, so you won't jam your foot in accidentally.
 Most RAs will be unlikely to dig through your dirty laundry to look for contraband. If you need a good place to slip a bottle, try the bottom of the dirty clothes hamper. As long as your'e the one who does your laundry, it's a solid hiding place.
 If you need to hide booze in your house, try to get a read on the person doing the searching. If an RA comes knocking every Wednesday, don't worry about finding a hiding place, just get the booze out of there before Wednesday. Problem solved. If your mom cleans your room, start cleaning it yourself so you won't have to worry about being straightened up on.

