 With almost every sport comes equipment or clothes associated with that sport. Things you'll need will be listed below.;
, Start from a standing position. Then, separate your feet slightly so you can fit an average sized pillow in between them. Then, bend your knees and arch your back. Lastly, put your hands in front of you.
 Widening your legs will help with this. You want to make it very difficult for someone to topple you over. Keep your weight spread between both of your feet. Stay on the balls of your feet.
 First, get into your stance. Second, lower your level and take a step with your lead foot. Third, fall to your dominant leg's knee and drag your non-dominant leg through and come to a knee with your non-dominant leg. If you are a right handed, you should end up on your right knee. Although, once you've been wrestling for awhile you may develop a neutral stance and not necessarily have a lead foot, but you don't worry about it. Just make sure your comfortable and balanced in your stance.
 If you don't understand a move get help from someone who does, and watch it being done slowly and attempt it slowly to perfect technique, then speed it up.
 Start from your stance, then shoot into your partner with a drop-step. Your "power leg" or leading leg should be on the inside of your partners legs and your non-dominant leg should be on outside. Your right hand should be grasped onto your opponents left gastrocnemius muscle (the back of their thigh) and your left hand should be on the right one. If you are strong enough to lift your opponent, then do so and dig your head into your opponents hip and drive him that way. If you are not strong enough, then still drive your opponent with your head on his hip, he will eventually fall if performed correctly.
 Sprawling is simply falling to your hip from your stance. It moves your legs out of range from someone shooting on you. Simply drop from your stance and land on your partner with your hip on his back. Like everything else in wrestling, practice this over and over again. This is the best way to defend an opponents, and opens the best options to counter-attack.
 Your coach should have a weight class chart.
 Find articles on wrestling such as this and read through them. There are many videos online. Watch and study them. Most of the best wrestlers have studied hours of film (videos). Practice what they tell you.
 Unless your coach tells you not to do this, working hard in practice (sweating) will lose your fat. Next, you have to be "hitting" the weight room as often as possible so you get stronger. How strong you are can make you or break you. Contact your doctor or coach for a safe lifting schedule and lifting techniques.
 Wrestling is a physically demanding sport. You don't understand that until you've entered the mat. Cardio and strength workouts are the best way to prepare. The best man in shape will usually win the match. Contact your coach or doctor for a safe workout schedule.
 A pin is the worst feeling in the world.
 Wrestling is a tough sport, and it can hurt a lot. You must fight through the pain. Let that intensity inside you to allow you to never fail and never give up.

