 Frogs can make a lot of noise at night, especially when they're breeding. Frogs eat insects and bright lights can attract insects near your home. This may also cause frogs to gather in your backyard.Keep things like your porch light off at night.
You can also use curtains at night to keep light from inside your house from attracting bugs.
 Some frogs and toads may be toxic to dogs. If a dog picks up a toad in its mouth, toxins could be released that are poisonous to your dog. If you see your dog carrying a toad, take your dog to a vet immediately. This is a medical emergency.Symptoms of toxins from a toad include excessive drooling, pawing at the mouth or eyes, seizures, difficulty breathing, and unsteady moving.
If your pet has any of these symptoms, it needs immediate treatment.
 In general, refrain from handling wildlife. However, if you touched a frog or toad, wash your hands afterwards.If a young child picked up a frog or toad, make sure to have them wash their hands.
 It's never a good idea to take in a wild animal as a pet. Frogs and toads in the wild are not raised in captivity, and will not take well to being captured. They may also carry diseases. If you want a pet frog or toad, get one from your local pet store.
 Pet stores do sell frogs and toads as pets. If you want a pet frog or toad, make sure you care for it properly. Provide the right environment and shelter for your pet.You will have to clean your frog or toad's tank every day. Dirty tanks can pose a major health risk for a frog or toad.
Frogs and toads need a varied diet. You can buy food from a pet store, composed of crickets and mealworms, but you will also need to give your frog or toad plenty of other insects to survive. You will need to feed a frog or toad things like grasshoppers, snails, and silkworms as well.
Limit touching a reptile pet. Even one from a pet story can carry diseases. Wash your hands after handling your pet, do not clean their cage in your bathroom or kitchen, and do not kiss or cuddle a pet frog or toad.