 Some things are your responsibility whether you are aware of them or not. Being aware of them therefore allows you to actually take responsibility and look after yourself very well., Allowing others to cook for you or buying ready-to-eat meals leads to a dependence on others that compromises your self-reliance.Cooking your own meals allows you to save moneyand eat more healthfully, as well as a sense of accomplishment.


Take a class or learn to cook online or from television. If you are very uncomfortable in the kitchen, consider taking a class for beginners at a local community college or follow a chef on one of the food network channels. Several celebrity chefs host shows demonstrating easy recipes that can be replicated by even the most apprehensive chef.
Ask a relative to teach you to cook. This is a great way to learn cooking basics. Additionally, you can bond with the relative or even learn to cook special family recipes handed down from generation to generation.
 A fun way to harbor independence is to grow your own food.A garden provides an inexpensive and interactive way to produce fruits and vegetables on a seasonal basis, which may also provide higher satisfaction when it comes to eating.


If you live in an urban area, you may not be able to grow a full-sized garden, but you might be able to keep a tomato plant on a balcony or grow a box of herbs to flavor your food. Some urban areas even have community garden spaces or rooftop gardens that you may be able to use or contribute to.
Some communities offer gardening tools for rent or host beginner gardening classes at the library. These types of resources can help you if you are a beginner.
 Knowing what to do in an emergency health situation can help you possibly save a life and lend you the confidence of feeling independent, even in the face of an emergency.


Take a CPR class. In addition to the Red Cross, community colleges and hospitals offer courses in CPR and first aid, which can help you know what to do in the event of an emergency that involves choking or unconsciousness.
Learn what is necessary during an emergency situation. Would you know what to do if you were camping in the wilderness and a snake bit a friend? Knowing how to tackle the “what if” scenario will help you be the go-to person in an emergency. The Red Cross has a free application for portable devices that offers instructions on what to do in a wide range of situations.Practice using medical equipment. If you or your partner require ongoing medical treatment, depending on a health care professional to give an injection or an IV on an ongoing basis may not be very convenient. Ask a nurse to teach you how to use certain at-home devices in order to be in control of the situation and provide you (or your loved one) with greater independence.
 Don’t be that damsel in distress on the side of the road if your tire blows. Waiting for automotive assistance can put you in a vulnerable position, leaving you open to danger. For the following basic repairs, YouTube is a valuable resource for seeing how these repairs are done. For basic repairs, it may be possible to find a video for your exact make and model car, which can be helpful in case your car requires a non-standard method of repair.


Learn how to change a tire. Basic tire changes can be performed by anyone with the knowledge and skill. The basic formula is to loosen the lug nuts, raise the vehicle with a jack, remove the lug nuts, remove the tire, place the spare tire on the bolts, replace the lug nuts, lower the car, and tighten the lug nuts. Consult your vehicle manual and ask a trained professional for a demonstration.
Discover how an engine and belts work. Being able to examine and know when a belt is about to blow or if you could be experiencing engine trouble can save you not only time but money. Furthermore, changing belts are simple tasks where the labor charge for the mechanic will generally far exceed the cost of the belt itself. Taking the time to do it yourself can offer real financial savings.
Practice performing a basic oil and fluid change. Vehicle oil and fluids must be changed and topped off on a rotating basis. A simple oil change can be performed at home with the right materials and knowledge. Each system has different recommendations and your owner’s manual can tell you at what mileages you should perform certain maintenance tasks.
 Declare your independence from prescription medication and seeing the doctor for every ache and pain by staying as healthy as possible on your own.


Exercise regularly. The American Heart Association recommends exercising 3 to 4 times a week to reduce cholesterol and blood pressure.Keep the blood flowing and tissues healthy by indulging in a little cardio or anaerobic exercise on a regular basis.
Eat a clean, healthy diet.Respecting your body means that you fill it with wholesome food that is grown from the earth and in its original state. Ditch processed, greasy fast food, packaged chips and sugary foods and drinks in order to nourish and preserve your body.
 It can be tempting to decide to take control of your health by simply never going to the doctor again. However, this is not always the best approach, as there are cases in which medical assistance may be necessary.


If you are a “regular” at your physician’s office due to a chronic condition, you may see those visits wane if you stick to a healthy diet and exercise routine. However, you should continue to maintain a regular schedule of healthy check-ups and routine tests based on your age and risk factors for early detection.
Know whether you are at risk for specific diseases due to your health, family history, and lifestyle.
Learn the warning signs for life-threatening conditionssuch as heart disease, stroke, COPD, chronic lower respiratory disease, cancer (specifically, lung cancer), HIV/AIDs, diarrheal disease, and diabetes.
Consider learning additional conditions that are common causes of death in the US: Alzheimer’s disease, influenza and pneumonia, kidney disease, and suicideor those that can cause significant disability, such as arthritis,depressive disorders, and substance use disorder., If you really want to assert your independence, try living off the grid. Save money on energy expenses by living off the land and demonstrate you really can live without assistance.


Consider growing all your food. From a garden to foraging for berries and mushrooms, learn about the different types of food you can grow and eat in the wild. Be extremely cautious about eating anything growing in the wild as some plants are poisonous.You may also be able to hunt for your own meat, but be sure to follow local hunting regulations.
Explore alternative energy. Join the “green” initiative and investigate various alternative energy resources available today.You’ll save money and reduce your carbon footprint by taking a few simple steps. Just make sure that you do not end up taking on debt or agreeing to a lease that eliminates the financial benefits.
Try before you buy. If you are not sure if you can live off the grid, considering looking for a vacation rental home that is off the grid (eg, in a secluded area such as an island or an isolated forest) and turn your next vacation into a fact-finding mission.

