 If your hair is shorter than your shoulder you will definitely need to add length to your hair to create this hairstyle. Even if your hair is past your shoulders, you still might want to make your hair longer to truly achieve Elsa’s look.;
, You can make your hair as long as Elsa’s by adding hair extensions to your hair.


Choose your quality. Hair extensions come in a variety of qualities. You can get human hair or synthetic hair extensions. Human hair extensions can be cut and styled how you want and last a long time, but are more expensive than synthetic hair. Synthetic hair can be worn with little or no styling. It does not last as long as human hair, but is less expensive. Choose your method. There are many ways to apply hair extensions and they come in a range of quality and price. There are clip-in, glue-in, and tape-in extensions. These are simple to apply, are inexpensive, and come out easily. Sew-in extensions, also known as a weave, take longer to apply and last longer. There are also cold fusion and hot fusion extensions. These methods are pricier but they last much longer than other methods. Apply the extensions. Depending on your price range, skill, and method of choice you can either apply extensions yourself or have it done professionally.
 An alternative to extensions is getting a wig. You can get a wig in any color you want but if you really want to look like Elsa get a light blonde wig.
 Make sure your hair is clean, dry, and tangle free. If you have very curly hair it might be easier to work with if you blow dry or straighten your hair before starting.
 Spray texturizing spray throughout your hair and scrunch with your finger. This will pump up your hair’s volume and wave. , Take the section of your hair at the top of your head and separate it from the rest of your hair. Then add volumizing product and put it along your root line. Take smaller sections at the top of your hair and repeat. , Take the section of hair at the top of your head and separate from the hair underneath. Back come with a teasing comb at the roots under the section. Repeat with many various sections at the top of your head, making sure to back comb at the root. Then take a smoothing brush and lightly brush your hair back to smooth out the teased pieces that are out of place. , To create super volume like Elsa’s hair, you can create a hair bump at the top of your head. Take a small section at the center of your head and slightly twist it to give it a lift. Repeat with two small chunks of hair on the right side and two small chunks of hair on the left side. Twist these section toward the middle of your head to get rid of any hair part. Have all the twists come together in the middle and slightly push up for volume. Bobby pin the twists together. You should have a “bump” at the front of your hair now. , Take a chunk of hair from the middle, the right, and the left sides of you head. Cross the right section between the middle and left section then cross the left section between the middle and right section. Make sure to cover the bobby pins. Keep taking small sections of hair and continue crossing them over each other to create a French braid. Make sure the braid is loose. , When you reach the end of your head where your neck starts, plait braid down to the end of your hair. Make sure to not do it too tight. Secure with an elastic hair band that is preferably clear. , This will spread the braid out and make it look fuller. Keep tugging and loosening the braid until you reach the very top where the bobby pins from the bump are. , Pull out your natural baby hairs, shorter front hair, or bangs. Take a large 3-inch barrel curling iron and curl the front hairs backward. This will lift the hair at the root to create more volume. , Have the braid pulled around so it is resting on your left shoulder to look like Elsa’s hair. , Spray your hair with a strong texturizing hairspray to set the look. Using a texturizing hairspray will make it more perfectly undone the way Elsa’s hair looks. , Put small pins of snowflakes to complete the braid and make it look just like Elsa’s hair.

