 This rule applies to everyone: there are no exceptions to who does and does not have the right to give or withhold consent for physical contact. That said, girls' bodies are more notoriously objectified. Show her respect by acknowledging her right to decide who touches her body, and when and how they do it.Note that this does not extend to allowing anyone to decide that you have to touch them. You also have the right to say no if you are not comfortable with the contact.
 Society often seems disconnected from the concept of consent. Most people understand that if consent is not given, then you should not touch, or continue to touch, a girl. Somehow, though, many of these same people also believe that the validity of a girl’s objection to being touched is dependent on a host of other factors (e.g. how she is dressed, how much she likes you, etc.). This is not true. “No,” means no, period.This is not limited to romantic situations. The rule extends to any physical contact.
 You should not compare a girl’s body to other girls' bodies. This can be seen as a direct insult to either, or both, of the girls you are comparing. Even if you are not talking about the girl who’s listening, saying things about other girls’ bodies can imply that you are talking about her body as well.It is okay to compliment a girl on her looks, but be sure to do this in a respectful manner. Saying something like “I think you are beautiful,” is much more respectful than saying “You’re super hot.” Only give these compliments if you know her well enough to know that she is comfortable with it.
Avoid giving compliments or commenting on a girl’s body. Never say anything about her size, shape, movement, etc.
 Sometimes, a girl might not want your attention. In these cases, you should respect her wishes and leave her alone. If she tells you that she would rather be left alone, it is disrespectful to continue to talk to her, compliment her, or otherwise pursue her attention.


If a girl indicates that she wants to be left alone, then you can just say something like, "Sorry. I'll leave," and then walk away. Or you can say, "Ok, have a good day," and then leave.

