 If you tend to get upset or fight often with your wife, you may want to learn how to channel your temper into other outlets. This could mean doing a relaxing or calming activity when you feel your temper starting to get out of control. Maybe you enjoy retreating into your garage to work on your car or spending time doing woodworking. Find an activity that you can use to de-stress and focus on rather than yell or get upset at your wife.You may also want to consider taking up a relaxing habit, like deep breathing or meditation. This way, when you feel your temper starting to rise, you can use a relaxation technique to calm down. Doing this can prevent an argument with your wife and allow you to get some perspective so you can approach the issue nicely and calmly.
 Many married couples have disagreements, sometimes on a day to day basis. But it is important that when you do argue with your wife, you focus on listening respectfully and thoughtfully to her, even if you do not agree. This will foster healthy, positive discussions, rather than out of control, shouting matches.Maintain eye contact with your wife during a disagreement and do not interrupt when she is speaking. Try to let her finish speaking before you speak and show her you are listening by acknowledging what she has said.
Avoid belittling or talking down to your wife during a disagreement, as this will only lead to more conflict. Instead, focus on how you can reach a compromise and how you can support your wife, even if you do not agree with her. Use “I” statements when you speak so you are taking accountability for your thoughts and feelings. For example, “I feel that you are late often and this makes me upset,” or “I think you may have a spending issue.”

, Whenever you feel you are reaching a breaking point during a disagreement, you should walk away and take a time out. Go to another room and take a breather by doing a calming activity or tell your wife that you need a moment to collect your thoughts and go for a walk. Taking a time out will allow you to think about the disagreement and process your emotions so you do not say things to your wife that are unkind.


During your time out, you should also brainstorm possible solutions for the argument and ways that you can reach a compromise with your wife. This way, when you talk to your wife again, you can present several possible solutions to her and move towards a resolution to the argument.
 If you struggle to be nice to your wife on a constant basis and feel as though your disagreements with her are putting the relationship at risk, you may want to consider getting professional counseling. You may see a therapist for anger management on your own or ask your wife if she would be willing to see a couples therapist together. Getting professional help can get better at being kind and appreciative to your wife and at expressing your emotions to her in an honest and productive way.