 Many beauty salons, supermarkets, and cosmetic stores sell back scratchers. These are devices designed to help scratch hard-to-reach places on your back. They are usually long wooden rods with somewhat sharpened edges designed to alleviate itch.


Depending on your type of back scratcher, you may want to avoid using it on bare skin. If your back scratcher has very sharp edges, for example, it may be harsh on bare skin.
As with regular itching, avoid overusing your back scratcher. This can result in an itch worsening. If your itch is due to a rash, scratching it too much can actually make the itch worse.
 If you're having trouble reaching your back, you can make a back scratcher with a coarse cloth and a spatula. Simply wrap a coarse cloth or rag around a spatula. If necessary, tie a rubber band around the rag to secure. You can use this device to scratch the middle of your back.One advantage of using a rag is that it may be gentler on your back than your fingernails or a conventional back scratcher.
You can also apply anti-itch cream or moisturizer to the middle of your back by dabbing some on the rag before use., If you have a removable nozzle in your shower, you can use this to scratch your back. Turn the water on a high pressure setting and spray the itchy area on your back. This may alleviate some of the itch.


Cold water can actually help alleviate itch, so consider turning the water down to a cooler setting before spraying down your back., If a handheld backscratcher isn't cutting it, you can scratch your back against a rough surface. For example, scratch your back against a bumpy wall, a tree, the carpet, the corner of a wall, and so on. This should help alleviate some of your back itch.


Be careful when using this method. If you're scratching your back outside, keep your clothing on to avoid exposing yourself to any bacteria or toxins. A brick wall of a building, for example, can be incredibly dirty.
 You can also use a hairbrush to scratch your back. A paddle brush may work best as its design is somewhat similar to a back scratcher. Simply grab the handle of a brush, place the brush behind your back, and maneuver the hairbrush until you scratch your itch.


If your back is sweaty, you may want to rinse out the hairbrush if you used it on bare skin.
If you're using someone else's hairbrush, make sure to ask them first.

