 If you have experience, make sure your resume is current and addresses the skills and responsibilities posted in the job advertisement. Your resume is the single most important reflection of who you are and what abilities you possess. Search for examples on the internet of how to design your resume. Basic guidelines are: use white paper, one inch margins, consistent font, and make it look aesthetically pleasing. This means keep your resume tightly organized, no spelling mistakes, and adequately-sized font.
Remember that places of employment receive hundreds of applications and will look for small errors, spelling mistakes, or any other grammatical oversights. Therefore, make sure you proofread your resume several times or ask a friend to read it over for you.
If you have very little or no work experience, focus your resume on school activities, clubs, and volunteer work. You can also create a functional resume that focuses more on your skills and abilities than on your work experience. In this case, highlight evidence that demonstrates empathy and respect, detail oriented, good communication, interpersonal skills, organization, and multitasking.
 Because dental assisting is a highly competitive profession, it is important to make contacts and establish relationships with professionals already in the field. Human Resources and managers prefer to hire somebody who comes highly recommended because of trust and the tremendous cost to hire a new employee who does not work out. Sometimes the old fashioned way is the best way. Print several copies of your resume and submit them to the local dentist offices. A smiling face with an introduction can make a lasting first impression.
It has also become fashionable to create online professional profiles of your career that showcases your skills and abilities. Try to make connections through these sites as they grow in popularity and influence.
Touch base with friends, teachers, and family members. Since many of these people go to the dentist, one of them might have a personal relationship that could initiate your first step into the world of dentistry.
 The interview is the final step to gaining employment and should be taken very seriously. This means wear the appropriate business attire, be well-groomed, and do not be late. There may be some unpredictable questions asked during the interview, but extensive preparation should be enough to help you answer even the most surprising questions. Research online for possible questions and answers, but do not overwhelm yourself trying to memorize answers to these questions.
If you have friends or acquaintances who are already dental assistants, ask them to spend some time giving you a mock interview. Responding to questions in real time will reveal how prepared you truly are for the interview.
Remember to keep your answers related to the position. If the interviewer asks, “tell me about yourself,” this is not carte blanche to talk about your life from childhood to the present day. Instead, keep it career-oriented and keep in mind the company’s profile so that you can strategically answer questions that align with the company’s mission and outlook.

