 For example, if your student loves cars, you could...


Use toy cars to demonstrate basic math facts—from counting to arrays
Drive a toy car around a globe to demonstrate geography and distance
Get a car-themed workbook
Focus physics lessons on car mechanics
Have them build a miniature vehicle using ordinary objects for a science/engineering project

, For example, an autistic person who loves robots might be interested in computer programming or engineering. Focus on these fields to see if the autistic person is interested. It may lead to a fun and fulfilling job someday.
 If you're looking for building blocks to build fine motor skills, pick a set that comes with toy cats so they can build a home for them. If you want to increase strength, turn "animal walks" into pretending to be a cat. This will make it especially fun for them.
 Listen well, ask questions, and always be polite. Behave well, and encourage the autistic person to do the same. The following are all important skills:


Nonjudgmental listening
Asking questions
Setting boundaries (e.g. "I need some alone time")
Noticing when someone isn't actively engaging with you

, Many autistic people don't automatically pick up this difference. They may talk at people, or may be afraid to talk about their interests at all for fear of being rude.


Say what to watch for (lack of verbal responses, examples of impatient body language, appearing distracted)
Explain how to turn a conversation if the person seems bored ("So how was your weekend?")
Talk about how to tell when someone is interested, and that it's okay to monologue if their conversation partner wants them to
Explain that it is never bad or wrong to want to share their passions with others.
 These skills will serve them well at school/work and in social situations. They may lay the foundation for a wonderful career!


A teen who scours autism blogs is gaining great research skills and learning to look at multiple sides of an issue.
A boy who goes to theater club is learning how to express himself and make friends.
A girl who plays video games may someday design them.
 Learning and improvement are great, but it should never be at the expense of stability or downtime. Keep things balanced, and make sure there's plenty of time for undirected fun!

