 You may be reluctant to identify what is happening as bullying, especially if you are an adult — bullying is something that only happens in the schoolyard, right? Unfortunately, this is not so, and bullying can occur at any age and in any setting. Bullying may be physical, or it may be verbal, emotional, or social. It can include (but is not limited to) stealing or destroying your property, exclusion, name-calling, threatening, spreading rumors, intimidation, and cyber attacks., If the bully is a student, take some time to look at why the bully behaves the way they do. Determine if the bully has a bad home life, if they were not taught the skills to cope with anger or aggression, or have a behavior disorder that causes them to do so. If the bully is an adult, attempt to talk to them with the help of a moderator to possibly determine the underlying cause of the bullying. Perhaps by knowing why the bullying occurs, it can come to an end.


If the bullying occurs at your place of employment, ask your supervisor to set up a meeting with the bully to talk about what has taken place. If your child is the victim of bullying, request a meeting with the guidance counselor or principal to attempt to investigate why the bullying is happening., Although this may sound counterintuitive, showing empathy to the bully may help you heal. For instance, a teenager may have been told by his abusive parents that being gay is wrong when he tried to come out to them, and as a result, he may take out his anger and frustrations on other homosexuals.Showing compassion may not necessarily end the abuse, but it prevents you from developing hatred and instead sends out positivity. Whenever you encounter the bully, try to send love and light to this person with your thoughts.
Also, keep in mind that many bullies are also bullied. If you notice people talking about or spreading rumors about the bully, try to discourage this behavior by saying something like, “I’m sure there’s more to their story than meets the eye. Let’s try to have sympathy for him.”

, Bullies often seek out those they are threatened by, and prejudicial bullying is no exception. Although it is not your responsibility to make your bully feel more comfortable around you, doing so may stop the abuse. In some cases, education can go a long way towards helping another person understand individual differences and stop being fearful of the unknown.Explaining that you are not a threat may stop the bullying. For instance, ask the person, “What is it about me that you don’t like?” Then, try to give them more information about your views or preferences.
Be mindful that this approach will only work with relatively mature bullies who are capable of seeing the perspective of another. Consider doing this only with a bully who has to be in your life, such as a family member or coworker.

