 Consider purchasing a professional kit if the scuff is more than just superficial or if you’re dealing with scratched vinyl. The kit will include a glue to fill in the deep scuff or scratch, an activator to dry the glue, and a dye that matches your vinyl color.You can order a scratch removal kit online for about 50 US dollars. Your kit will come with a factory-matched dye to blend in with your vinyl color. When you order your kit, you can search for your car’s make and model to identify the correct vinyl color., Use a piece of 220 grit sandpaper to smooth over the scratch or deep scuff. Try to remove any roughness around the scratch so its edges are flush with the vinyl surface.Some scratch removal kits provide sandpaper. If you don’t have any fine grain sandpaper on hand, you can check kits’ contents before ordering and purchase one that supplies sandpaper.
 Wipe down the area with a damp cloth. If the area is greasy or grimy, clean it with a homemade vinegar solution or store-bought auto interior cleaner. Use a clean microfiber towel to dry the area., If the area is still at all damp after wiping it down with microfiber, wait for it to dry completely before applying glue. Dab a small amount of the superglue that came in the scratch removal kit. Smooth the glue over the scratch using a narrow palette knife.If your kit provided a glue activator, apply it over the glue to instantly harden it.
 If you haven’t used an activator, wait for the glue to dry completely. Use your 220 grit sandpaper to smooth over the glued surface. Then wipe down the area with a damp cloth, and dry it with a microfiber towel., The dye will come in an aerosol sprayer. Spray a light, even coat over the patched area, and hold a piece of cardboard under the area to help protect surrounding surfaces. Wait for the dye to dry, and reapply until you’ve achieved even coverage.If you have a heat gun handy, you can use it to dry the dye faster. Hold it about 12 inches (about 30 cm) away from the dyed surface.

