 Real estate licensing happens at the state level.


Some smaller states do not accept licensing courses from online schools. If this is the case, you may have to enroll at a local college or university instead. It’s possible that you can complete some or all of your coursework online through these institutions.
The real estate commission website for your state will likely have a list of approved schools.;
, You can usually find this information on a school's website. If an online real estate school is not accredited by a qualified accrediting agency such as The Association of Real Estate License Law Officials (ARELLO), find another school. Why? Accreditation is your assurance that the course you're taking will lead to a viable certificate or diploma. It tells future employers that your courses were legitimate. Accreditation means that the school


operates on a sound financial basis,
has an approved study program,
employs qualified instructors,
follows approved recruitment and admissions policies, and
advertises its courses factually. , Schools that have been in business for longer will likely run more smoothly. They may be more familiar with state and federal regulations. At the same time, older schools may be more likely to use outdated instructional platforms, so be sure that your school is using the latest technology., If the school’s prices are much higher or much lower than others, this should be a red flag. If you cannot pay for the entire course upfront, look into the school’s options for paying in installments. Some schools that offer payment plans charge an extra fee for this service. Narrow your search down to schools whose prices and payment plans work for you.
 What do former students have to say about the course? Check to see if anyone has complained about the school to the Better Business Bureau., Check exam pass rates. Ultimately, the real test of how effective your school is will be whether you pass your licensing exam or not. The percentage of students who pass their exams will give you a good idea of how good a school is. Also check on course completion rates. Low completion rates may indicate that the school does not offer adequate student support. , You did your research, but how do you know if the course you purchased is really worth it? Some online real estate schools have a money-back guarantee that allows you to return the course materials within a specific timeframe. Take the time to understand how these guarantees work and take careful note of deadlines.
 Make a list of questions about the course, and call the number provided on the school's website. If you reach a computerized answering service, try to select an option to speak to an actual human. If there is no option to reach someone who works there, consider that you may not get the support that you need from this school.
 There are dozens of online real estate schools out there. A spreadsheet will help you keep track of which ones meet your personal criteria. Use your spreadsheet to help you eliminate schools that won’t work for you as a learner. You may want to include categories for


Your finances. How much can you afford to pay for real estate school right now? Will you need to seek out a program that offers a payment plan?
Your schedule. If you have a lot of work and family obligations that fluctuate from week to week, you may need to select a school that has flexible due dates.
Your learning style. Consider how you have learned best in the past. Do you need visuals? Do you require a lot of contact with your instructors?

, A student support department should help your online experience run smoothly. Make sure your online school's support department is staffed by more than one person. Ideally, they should have multiple contact options including email, phone, and fax.
 Educational support staff ensure that you're never left floundering because you don’t understand the material. The school should employ experts who know the ins and outs of real estate laws and procedures. If you’re struggling with the escrow process discussed in chapter six, an online school's educational support department will walk you through the steps.


If the school offers no educational support or does not staff experts, you may want to reconsider the school.
 You don’t want to miss a deadline because of a glitchy website. Your online school should offer a tech support department that quickly answers your questions and remedies your computer frustrations via phone, email, or fax. Check to see whether this department has limited hours or is available 24/7. A school where the tech support is slow to respond or unhelpful when they do respond is probably not the best choice for distance learning.
 Many online real estate schools have videos or “quick tours” that show you how their courses work. This can be a great way to weed out the schools that aren’t right for you. If there isn't a demo class, call or email the school and ask if there is another way to preview a course before you sign on.
 Compare your findings to the priorities you listed on your spreadsheet. Try to find out


To what extent will the courses feel like in-person courses? Are there instructional videos?
Can you interact with professionals who lead the courses? Are they available by email and phone? Do they hold office hours?
Can you access the course from a tablet or phone, or is it restricted to computers?
Can you work at your own pace, or are there strict deadlines?
Are there student study groups that you can join?
Are there quizzes throughout the course to ensure that you are staying up to speed?
Will you need to purchase a textbook? If so, is the format an ebook or a physical textbook?
Can you take practice exams?

, Does the school offer both general real estate courses and state-specific content? Be sure to the school offers everything that your state-based licensure will require.
 Pick the one that best meets your personal criteria as a student (affordable, works with your schedule, delivers content in a way that makes sense to you) and offers the content you need for your licensure.

