 Because dial-up internet has fallen out of use in favor of broadband internet, it's not common to see instructions for connecting to dial-up internet anymore. However, dial-up is still commonplace in a few rural areas, which means that you may find yourself needing to connect to it.
 Dial-up internet requires the use of a phone line, and can only connect one person per phone at a time. If somebody else is already connected, and/or the phone line is being used to make a call, you will be unable to connect until the other person disconnects or hangs up. Additionally, most new computers do not have the components to connect to dial-up; you may have to purchase an external USB modem so your computer can connect.
 Oftentimes, places with dial-up internet will have two phone lines - one for the phone, and one for the modem. However, if the modem isn't often used, it may be unplugged, or there may only be one phone line. Make sure that the phone cable is plugged into both the phone jack on the wall, and the plug on the modem.
 Using another phone line, insert one end of the second phone cable into the modem and the other end into the computer's modem jack (or the converter).


Make sure that you don't accidentally plug the phone cable into the ethernet plug by mistake. The phone jack on the computer should be noted by a small phone next to it.
 You'll need to manually set up the dial-up connection on the computer. From there, configure the modem settings. If this is your first time connecting to the dial-up source, you'll most likely need to configure the modem's network settings. While the process is slightly different for every OS, you'll need to enter the same information: the dial-up phone number, a username, and a password. The settings paths that you'll need to follow in order to configure the network are:



On Windows XP: Network and Internet Connections –> Set up or change your Internet connection –> Setup

On Windows Vista: Network and Sharing Center –> Set up a connection or network –> Set up a dial-up connection

On Windows 7 and 8: Network and Internet –> Network and Sharing Center –> Set up a new connection or network –> Connect to the Internet –> Dial-up

On Windows 10: Network –> Dial-up Connection

On Mac OS X: Network –> Internal/External Modem –> Configuration

On Ubuntu or Fedora: Network Manager –> Connections –> Modem Connections –> Properties

, If the dial-up settings are already configured, it may just be as simple as opening up the network settings and connecting to the modem, rather than searching for wireless connections. You will have to enter the number, username, and password, however.
 To ensure that your internet connection is working, open up a webpage and wait for it to load. Dial-up internet is much slower than typical broadband speeds, so don't be surprised if it takes some time. You may want to try and load a solely text-based webpage to increase the loading speed and tell if your internet is working.
 While dial-up is no longer widely supported, it's still possible to have issues with it. Ensure that the phone line is properly plugged in and that your system can connect to dial-up internet.


Windows 10 has been known to have some trouble with dial-up connections sometimes. You may have to use a computer with an older operating system, if available.
Ensure that you haven't accidentally plugged the phone cable into the ethernet jack by mistake. The phone cable's jack is smaller and is often denoted by a phone symbol.

