 Your first trimester is not the best time to do HIIT workouts. Instead, the second trimester is a good time because you start to regain energy and feel less sick. You can continue into the third trimester as long as you monitor how your body feels. If you get more fatigued during the last six weeks of your pregnancy, you may want to decrease the intensity.If you didn’t work out during your first trimester, don’t jump into HIIT workouts. Instead, do strength training for about a month before adding more intense workouts.
During the first trimester, there is a greater risk for birth defects if you get overheated. This section of your pregnancy also has a greater risk of nausea, fatigue, and sickness. You may be eating less too because of food sensitivities.;
, Though HIIT workouts are safe during pregnancy, some exercises should be avoided. Any exercise that puts pressure on your pelvic floor should be avoided. Some high intensity exercises that will put downward pressure on your pelvic floor shouldn’t be done, especially during the third trimester.For example, running, jump squats, and burpees put additional pressure on your pelvic floor from the impact. You should skip these during your HIIT workouts.
 You shouldn’t spend hours in the gym every day doing HIIT workouts. A good start is one to three days each week of HIIT workouts. They can last between five and thirty minutes. The duration and number of days you workout each week depends on your previous level of physical activity.Shoot for 10 to 15 reps of the exercises. Intervals should be 15 to 30 seconds.
Make sure to rest between exercises. Try 30 seconds, but rest more if you need. Rest at least the same amount of time you workout between sets. So, if you exercise for a minute, rest at least a minute.
 When building a HIIT routine, choose two to four exercises for your sets. The more exercises you include, the fewer sets you will do. For two exercises, shoot for four to eight sets, three to six sets for three exercises, and three to five sets for four exercises.Choose exercises that give you a balanced workout. For example, try pairing lower body with upper body workouts.

