 Before you do start a kidney cleanse, you should consult your physician in order to make sure that a cleanse will be alright for you. Cleanses are not necessarily right for all people at all times, so you need to clear this with a professional.


Juice cleanses can be very difficult to do and the body may go into variety of stages during the process. Headaches and fatigue may be noted initially as the toxins are being flushed out. Towards the end of the cleanse, increased energy is noted.
This time should be used to think about goals. Limit stressful exercise — try going for walks or doing gentle yoga. Avoid anything that exerts a lot of energy, like running.
 Before starting the detox, you need to determine how many calories and what sort of nutrition you will need. Consult your doctor about your minimum needs during your cleanse.


Calorie needs vary based on your lifestyle, age, level of activity, weight loss goals, and other individual factors.Most adult men need between 2,400–2,600 calories per day to maintain their weight.
Most adult women need 2,000–2,200 calories per day to maintain their weight.
 Kidney cleansing can be done safely anywhere from three days to seven days about once or twice a year. Keep in mind that it's unwise to cleanse for any longer. Kidney cleanses depart from the idea of a balanced diet and are meant only to be temporary. If you've never done it before, it's advised to begin with three days.
 Foods and liquids with caffeine increase calcium oxalate or uric acid in the kidneys and could lead to the development of kidney stones in some cases. The caffeine puts your kidneys on overdrive and leads to more work, with less effective waste removal overall. This is why sticking to water is your best bet.


Don't forget that some teas and chocolate have caffeine, too.
Rhubarb is also a source of caffeine.
Before you consume anything, make sure it's caffeine-free; it may contain the stuff and you don't even know it., While an increase in liquid intake is advised, alcohol should be avoided. Alcohol is a toxin that poisons the blood. It messes with your system and, in abundance, can wreak havoc on your body (and mind). Stick to water and tea to give your kidneys the vacation they need.
 Certain supplements will increase the efficiently of your kidneys and help purge unwanted chemicals and nutrients. While supplements can help your cleanse, they are not required, and you should consult your doctor before taking them.Vitamin C
Vitamin B12
Curcumin
Silymarin
l-Taurine

