 The first step in bouncing back from disappointment is acknowledging your feelings. Avoiding your feelings or pushing them to the back of your mind will only prolong your recovery.Spend an evening during which you allow yourself to think about the disappointment and feel all the feelings associated with it.
Try writing down your feelings in a journal or diary.
Talk to a trusted friend, family member, or co-worker about your feelings. Try saying, “Mom, I’m feeling really sad about not making the soccer team this year. Can we talk about it?”;
, It’s important to take the time to mourn your loss, whether it is an unachieved goal, the end of a relationship, or a rejected job application. Take the time to deliberately confront your feelings about the situation and grieve .Realize that your feelings are legitimate and it’s okay to spend time mourning.
Seek out people who might understand. For example, if you just lost your job try reaching out to a friend who has struggled with unemployment.
Express your grief or sorrow in a way that works for you. For example, if crying helps you work through emotions allow yourself to cry about not getting that job promotion.
 Slow down and work on taking care of yourself. Trying a new (or favorite) relaxation method will help you unwind and cope with disappointment. Read a new book.
Take a long, hot bath.
Move your body. Try taking a walk in a quiet place like a nearby trail.
 Disappointment is a shared universal human experience. At any given moment there is bound to be someone somewhere in the world who is also feeling disappointed, and most of these people will eventually find ways to get back up and move forward.Make a list of people who have faced disappointment but gone on to achieve happiness and success.
Try asking a friend about a time they were disappointed. You could say, “Mary, I’m feeling really disappointed about not accepted at Yale. What did you do when you were disappointed about not getting into Harvard last year?”

, Don’t bottle up your feelings! Talking or writing about disappointment will help you process emotions and move forward.Be specific about your feelings. Try saying, “I am disappointed because I didn’t make the basketball team. This makes me really sad.”
Write about your experience and feelings in a journal or diary.
Discuss your disappointment and associated feelings with a friend, co-worker, or family member.
 Sometimes we get disappointed because we have unreasonable expectations of a person or situation, yet other times our expectations are completely within reason. Checking in with yourself to see if your expectations are realistic will help you put the situation in perspective.If you didn’t get the job you applied for, take another look at the job qualifications and compare it to your experience. Do the two match up?
Maybe you weren’t cast in the leading role in the school musical. Look over the role and compare it to your skills. Maybe the director was looking for a soprano and your vocal range in much lower.
 We may not get what we want, but sometimes we get what we need. A door closing may truly lead to a new door opening if we look at the situation with optimism. Make a list of all the positive things that now exist because of the disappointment, like having more time to pursue something important to you.If you were passed over for a promotion, try making a list of all the things you can spend time doing on weekends this fall since you won’t have to attend trainings and staff retreats.
 Focusing on what we have helps us see what we are grateful for even though a certain situation didn’t work out.Make a list of three things you are grateful for, no matter how small. It can be a simple as be grateful for a short line at the post office earlier this morning when you were in a rush.
 While disappointment can make you want to curl up in a ball, it’s important to maintain social connections. Reaching out to friends and family can help you find consolation and move forward.Call a friend you haven’t caught up with in a while.
Ask a co-worker to go on a walk at lunchtime.
Take a weekend trip to visit a friend or family member in a nearby city or state.
 Keep yourself occupied with activities that bring you fulfillment and offer connections with others. This can help take your mind off the disappointment and boost your confidence.Cook dinner together with your family.
Attend a yoga class after work one day.
Take your daughter to a movie.
 Doing something nice for others makes us feel good. Putting the focus on others instead of yourself can help you put your own experience in perspective, take your mind off your problems, and make somebody else’s day better.


Offer to mow your parents’ lawn.
Volunteer for a local organization.
Ask your sister if she needs help cleaning her house.
 Just because things didn’t work out as planned doesn’t mean you still can’t shoot for the moon. Giving yourself something to strive for is an important part of recovering from disappointment.


If you tried out for the cheerleading squad and did not make it, your new goal could be to try to make the squad next year or it could be to try to make the school dance team instead.
If your short story wasn’t accepted for publication, set a goal of writing a new story within the next month.

