 Not all gene combinations are as simple as the basic monohybrid (one-gene) cross from the section above. Some phenotypes are determined by more than one gene. In these cases, you must account for every possible combination, which means drawing a bigger grid.


The basic rule for Punnett squares when it comes to more than one gene is this: double each side of the grid for each gene beyond the first. In other words, since a one-gene grid is 2x2, a two-gene grid is 4x4, a three-gene grid is 8x8, and so on.
To make these concepts easier to understand, let's follow along with a two-gene example problem. This means we should draw a 4x4 grid. The concepts in this section hold true for three or more genes as well — these problems just require larger grids and more work.
 Next, find the genes that both parents have for the characteristic you're examining. Since you're dealing with multiple genes, each parent's genotype will have an additional two letters for each gene beyond the first — in other words, four letters for two genes, six letters for three genes, and so on. It can be helpful to write the mother's genotype above the top of the grid and the father's to the left (or vice versa) as a visual reminder.


Let's use a classic example problem to illustrate these conflicts. A pea plant can have peas that are either smooth or wrinkled and yellow or green. Smooth and yellow are the dominant traits.In this case, use S and s to represent dominant and recessive genes for smoothness and Y and y for yellowness. Let's say that the mother in this case has an SsYy genotype and the father has an SsYY genotype.
 Now, above the top row of squares in the grid and to the left of the leftmost column, write the different alleles that can potentially be contributed by each parent. As when dealing with one gene, each allele is equally likely to be passed on. However, since you are looking at multiple genes, each row and column will get multiple letters: two letters for two genes, three letters for three genes, and so on.


In our example, we need to write down the different combinations of genes that each parent can contribute from their SsYy genotypes. If we have the mother's SsYy genes across the top and the father's SsYY genes on the left, the alleles for each gene are:
Across the top: SY, Sy, sY, sy

Down the left side: SY, SY, sY, sY


, Fill in the spaces in the grid just as you would when dealing with a single gene. However, this time, each space will have two extra additional letters for each gene beyond the first: four letters for two genes, six letters for three genes. As a general rule, the number of letters in each space should match the number of letters in each parent's genotype.


In our example, we would fill in our spaces like this:
Top row: SSYY, SSYy, SsYY, SsYy

Second row: SSYY, SSYy, SsYY, SsYy

Third row: SsYY, SsYy, ssYY, ssYy

Bottom row: SsYY, SsYy, ssYY, ssYy


, When dealing with multiple genes, each space in the Punnett square still represents the genotype for each potential offspring — there are just a greater number of choices than there are with one gene. The phenotypes for each square are, once again, dependent on the exact genes being dealt with. However, as a general rule, dominant traits need only one dominant allele to be expressed, while recessive traits need all recessive alleles.In our example, since smoothness and yellowness are dominant traits for our peas, any square with at least one capital S represents a plant with a smooth phenotype and any square with at least one capital Y represents a plant with a yellow phenotype. Wrinkled plants need two lowercase s alleles and green plants need two lowercase ys. From these conditions, we get:
Top row: Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow

Second row: Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow

Third row: Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, wrinkled/yellow, wrinkled/yellow

Bottom row: Smooth/yellow, Smooth/yellow, wrinkled/yellow, wrinkled/yellow


, Use the same techniques as when dealing with one gene to find the likelihood that any offspring from the two parents can have each different phenotype. In other words, the number of squares with the phenotype divided by the total number of squares equals the probability for each phenotype.


In our example, the probabilities for each phenotype are:
Offspring is smooth and yellow: 12/16 = 3/4 = 0.75 = 75%

Offspring is wrinkled and yellow: 4/16 = 1/4 = 0.25 = 25%

Offspring is smooth and green: 0/16 = 0%

Offspring is wrinkled and green: 0/16 = 0%

Notice that since it is impossible for any offspring to get two recessive y alleles, none of the offspring will be green.

