 Season as desired. You can also use potato, rice starch or tapioca.Mix about 2 teaspoons of any of these ingredients with a little water or milk, and then add these into the boiling stew, slowly while stirring. Potato starch gives a different kind of elasticity, more of the dessert kind.If none of the above options is available to you, try to add thickness by being creative. For example, you could try adding instant mashed potato powder, instant sauce mix, or even crushed crackers, although they are not ideal.
 Take some of the stew broth and pour it into a medium mixing bowl. Let the broth cool if hot. Hot broth will cook the cornstarch before you have had time to mix it, and it will be a lumpy mess.


Add a small amount (1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon) of cornstarch to the broth. Mix it in until there are no lumps. A mixer works great here. When mixing is finished, pour back into the stew, and mix thoroughly. This is called a slurry. You could also use wine to create this.Turn up the heat, and keep stirring. This will help to prevent the mixture from clumping together. Cornstarch is similar to flour in its use as a thickening agent. Guar gum is another thickening agent that is used in industrial food processing to thicken sauces and such. If you can get your hands on it, use very little because it has 8 times the thickening effect that cornstarch has.
 Combine the contents of the packet with a little water until smooth. Stir it in a bowl.


A typical packet will thicken two cups of liquid to a gravy consistency and add a little more beefy flavor.
Most packet gravies are cornstarch based, and mimic the effects of a slurry (cornstarch mixed with a little water until smooth).
 Arrowroot is a good gluten free option. If the stew is already prepared and is too thin, gradually stir in your arrowroot thickener, starting with about 1/2 teaspoon of thickener, and adding more to taste as the stew thickens.


Remember, you must stir slowly and constantly at medium heat to thicken, so do not get impatient and add too much thickener at once.
Arrowroot has more of a neutral flavor than cornstarch. It can also be used at varying temperatures without losing its ability to thicken foods. It tolerates acidic ingredients better than cornstarch and it can be cooked for a longer length of time.