 If you're trying to flirt with a guy who you're not romantic with yet, try to give him an opening to something romantic. That way, he'll get the idea, and if he's interested, try to steer the conversation that way.For instance, opening with "I had a dream about you last night!" is a subtle way to be flirtatious. It implies you maybe had a flirty or sexual dream about him, and if he takes it that way, you can get a more flirty conversation going.
If he ignores the subtext, you'll know he's probably not that interested.;
, Everyone likes to hear nice things about themselves, and compliments are a great way to flirt. If you're trying to start a flirty conversation, try including a flirty comment to help get the ball rolling.


For instance, if you're going out with someone on the basketball team, you could write, "The gym sure heated up when you came on the court today!"
Be genuine and specific. You don't have to stick to looks, but make it something specific. For instance, instead of saying, "You're cute," you could say, "You have a beautiful smile."

, Now, you probably don't want to start sending texts at 2 in the morning unless you know he's already up. Texting at night, though, can be more intimate and invite flirting.Something about the nighttime will invite you both to let loose a little. Try waiting until gets dark before you send a text.
You could write, "I'm all snuggled up in my bed. What are you doing?"

, In a text, you may be tempted to present yourself as sillier, poutier, or more sexualized than you are in person. You really don't need to do that, especially since, if that's all he knows about you, he's going to expect a different person if you do meet.For example, you don't need to use a million exclamation marks to show how excited you are if you really aren't that excitable in real life.
 While you don't want to make yourself out to be something you're not, it is okay to play up your fun side in texts. Texting lends itself to shorter, lighter conversations, so bringing that side out will make him want to get to know you more.For instance, say you're spending the night home in your pajamas. Instead of texting about that, tell him about the fun night you had out last night, such as "Went out and had fun with the girls last night, but I kept wishing you were there."

, Teasing can help create intimacy, as long as the guy has a sense of humor. One thing you can tease him about is a mistake he let through on one of his texts, such as a goofy autocorrect.For instance, if he sends a text that says, "I think your nets are sexy" when he probably meant "eyes," you can tease him about it. You could say, "Oh, so you think my nets are sexy huh? What part of body is my nets?"

, Giving him a nickname may seem silly, but it does let him know that you like him. You stick to something more manly or go over the top with something cutesy and silly. Either way, try dropping it in a text to help him know how you feel.For instance, you could use "hunk" or "Thor" as more manly reference.
For something more cutesy, you could use "sugar pie" or "babe."

, Sending the same text every day at about the same time can get boring. Try breaking up your routine by sending texts at different times of day or by changing up the message so he'll stay interested.For instance, a friendly, "Good morning, babe!" is a nice way to say hello in the morning, but you wouldn't want to send that text every morning.
Change it up little with texts like, "Wake up, sunshine!" or "Can't wait to see you at school!"

, If you see something that reminds you of him, snap a picture. Send it his way with a side note, telling him that the pic made you think about him, which will make him smile.Stick to pics of things he's interested in or inside you jokes you have.
Skip anything to serious, such as wedding rings or cakes.
 If you're texting back and forth, you need to hold up your end of the conversation. Just giving him one-word replies doesn't help out the conversation. Instead, contribute to what's being said, ask a question, or introduce a new topic if you have nothing to say.For instance, if he says, "So, do you like movies?" don't just say, "yes." Instead, give him room to keep going, by saying something like, "Yes, especially when I'm seeing them with cuties like you! When are we going?"
Alternatively, ask him a question about himself, such as "So what's your favorite type of food?"

, You may be tempted to start out with sexualized texts, but it's a good idea to wait a little while. In fact, it's probably a good idea to be in a relationship before you start sending sexy texts.Flirting is obviously fine, such as telling him you like his eyes.
What you may want to avoid is overtly sexual texts where you start talking about genitalia and trying to engage him in sexual chat. Of course, how you text is up to you, but you may catch him off guard by sending these kinds of texts up front.
 Even when you're in a relationship, consider skipping the sexy pics. Once those pictures are out in the world, you can't take them back, and you have no guarantee that the other person won't release them.While sending flirtatious pictures is fine, such as you blowing him a kiss, avoid anything that you wouldn't want your grandma to see if it got out on the internet--because it can get out and she could see it.

