 All teens want a degree of privacy, but be aware if your teen is especially secretive. As their parent, you should know who they hang out with and where they go, and make sure they are back by curfew. If your teen hides what they’re doing or get caught in lies, take these things seriously. Don’t let these behaviors slide. Teens may not be able or willing to express their problems in words, so they might turn to external things to deal with their pain or confusion.Sometimes, acting out can indicate inner turmoil that needs attention.
Take any drug use or alcohol use seriously. Not only is it illegal, it is more dangerous because their brain is still developing.
 While an angry, bitter, or hostile teen can be difficult to deal with, do your best to listen to and understand them. All teens need to feel loved. If they are angry or upset, hear them out without interrupting. Let them have their space if they’re not in the mood to talk and let them know you can talk about it once they’ve cooled down.Validate their feelings by saying, “I can see that you’re upset” or, “Wow, that must have really hurt you.”
Help your teen find ways to cool down or control their anger and emotions. Have them write in a journal, listen to music, go on a run, or punch a pillow.
 If your teen is showing signs of anxiety, depression, or other mental or emotional problems, or is especially destructive or rebellious, a therapist can help. Teens can be especially sensitive to emotional events such as a recent move, divorce, loss, bullying, romantic breakup, or other stressors.Set up an appointment with their school counselor or psychologist. You can also see a private therapist to help your teen adjust and deal with their problems by calling your insurance provider or local mental health clinic.
Take your teenager's issues seriously. Do not brush them off as normal teen angst. Many lifelong psychological problems begin during the teenage years. It's best to seek treatment early to prevent problems from getting worse.
 If you think your teen is in danger, don’t think twice about taking action. Take talk or threats of suicide and doing harm to others seriously. Seek help immediately by calling emergency services, taking them to the emergency department, and alerting their therapist immediately.If you’re unsure what to do, call emergency services and they can help direct you to get the care you need. They may advise you to take them to the emergency department or to watch your teen closely.

