 You may also determine your CPU type and speed by removing the system unit cover and taking a good long look at the chip. Look at the label on the chip to determine its model, speed,and the manufacturer.


Note: If a Heat Sink or a Fan is installed on top of the chip, you will have to remove these components to view the CPU label.;
,,,,,, The chip will be mounted onto the motherboard in a socket and depending on the type of computer you have, the socket may be shaped in various forms.


Note: Some CPU chips are soldered onto the motherboard and can only be upgraded by removing and installing a new motherboard. This type of chip is referred to as the Proprietary CPU Chip.
 If the manual tells you to consult will the manufacturer if you want to upgrade the processor, it's mostly likely a propriety Central Processing Unit.
 Newer Tower units allow easy access by removing a couple screws and sliding the panel with the motherboard down.
 This lever is normally located on the side of the chip. Some chips may contain a clamp that must be removed as well. Check your owner's manual to see the components of your CPU.


Note: Some chips are covered by a Heat Sink and/or a Cooling Fan. These components will have to be removed and set aside.
 This was designed so that the chip can be installed in only one direction.
 Be sure that the upgrade will perform what you want it to do. Your computer's performance will improve with a CPU upgrade but you may need to add more ram if you want to improve your Windows programs.


Check to see if all connections are seated firmly and properly in their sockets. This is a must as these connections do tend to work themselves loose over time and cause problems you may blame on software.
Note: If you have been working in your system unit recently and you noticed a fault manifesting itself, you want to go back and take a look at all connections you were near. Look to be sure your fingers did not press against other connections and causing then to work loose.
Perform preventive maintenance on your computer and keep it clean regularly. It's a good idea to open up the system unit and remove all dust that have accumulated on the motherboard as well as all other boards from time to time.

