 One of the best ways to pass the time is to explore your interests at school, joining groups with similar interests and trying out new things. If there is nothing at your school that really interests you, or if you're already in the groups you enjoy, there is a variety of other places that offer classes and groups that you can join weekly. Ask for a schedule of events, classes, and groups at your local:


YMCA.
Parks & Rec Department.
Public library.
Town Hall.
 You can volunteer with animals, after school programs, libraries, or local food pantries. Volunteering is not only a great way to pass some time, it is a fulfilling and enjoyable way to meet people and help fill out your college resume. You can find it online by searching for "Volunteer Opportunities," asking at your church or school, or visiting organizations you admire and want to join. Some options include:


Help local animals.
Manage a youth sports team.
Become a tutor.
Help out at a nearby nursing home.
 Having a sport, or playing in a band gives you weekly events to look forward to and plan your schedule around. They also give you a great way to pass the time even when you're not at practice, as you can always work on your skills in your free time to become the best you can be.


If you're serious about the new hobby, find a trainer or teacher to help you improve. This also gives you weekly practice sessions to look forward to.
If your school doesn't have band or sporting options for you, visit the YMCA or search online for groups in your area. Taking private lessons can also open up opportunities for teams or bands.
Ask a friend to learn an instrument with you. Having a partner to play with helps you both learn faster, and playing in a band is much more fun than playing alone.
 Regular exercise, at least 30 minutes a day, will help you stay healthy, fit, and energetic. And exercise comes in a variety of forms, whether it is running or riding the bike with friends, playing a game of pickup basketball, swimming in the pool, or even a tough game of capture the flag. Just getting outside and moving around each day will help you pass the time and feel great.Find the exercise you enjoy, or find ways to make it enjoyable. Listen to a new album each walk you go on, do push-ups and sit-ups during commercial breaks, join a local disc golf league, etc.
 Not only will this help you pass the time, it will put a little money in your pocket, making other hobbies and events more accessible. Many jobs exist for teens, from part-time jobs throughout the year to full-time summer jobs when you're not in school. You can find them by looking in the paper, on Craigslist, or talking to your parents and parents' friends about potential opportunities. Businesses that frequently hire teens include:


Movie theaters.
Painting and landscaping companies.
Restaurants and coffee shops.
Grocery Stores.
Neighbors and parents who need babysitters, lawn cutters, gardeners, etc.