 It is important to spend time with your hamster every day so that you know her normal behavior. A change in your hamster's behavior is an important indicator that she is sick. If you don’t spend time with your hamster regularly, you might not recognize important changes in your hamster’s behavior.Get into a routine, so that you spend the same part of the day with your hamster. This will help you get accustomed to how the hamster is acting during the same period of time every day.;
, A healthy hamster will eat regularly throughout the day. Although hamsters will sleep during the day, they will wake up frequently to eat.Be careful to note if your hamster is eating and how much he is eating.
If your hamster is eating less, but still eating, keep very close watch over his eating over the next day or two.
If your hamster stops eating altogether, you should take your hamster to the veterinarian right away.
 Hamsters are normally very active, especially during the night. Your hamster will likely sleep during much of the day, so do not worry if your hamster sleeps a lot when the sun is out. If your hamster appears lethargic all the time and does not want to play, then she might be sick.


If your hamster begins to act much less active and playful than in the past, pay close attention over the next couple of days.
If the hamster’s activity levels do not return to normal, take your hamster to the veterinarian.
Hamsters will naturally hibernate when the temperature stays cold for a long time. If you think your hamster is hibernating, indicated by what appears to be a very deep sleep and extremely shallow breath, warm up the area and make sure there is food and water on hand for when the hamster awakens., A common illness in hamsters is called “wet tail” and is accompanied by diarrhea. It can be evidence of a very serious infection.Check the base of your hamster’s tail for a wet, mucus-like substance.
If your hamster has diarrhea, accompanied by changes to eating and activity levels, it may be wet tail. Wet tail can be fatal within 48 hours. Therefore, you need to take action immediately and see the veterinarian.
If the veterinarian finds a case of wet tail, he might prescribe antibiotics, anti-diarrheal, or give fluids.