 You don't always have to write out every melody or drum line by yourself. Find a portion of another song that stands out to you and incorporate it into your own music. It is usually difficult to sample a song with drums, so this part of the beat will be added later. Once you’ve loaded the sample into your hard drive, heighten or lower it until it’s unrecognizable from the original song. The goal is to create something totally new. From here you can chop and loop the beat however you’d like.


Look up your favorite beats on WhoSampled.com. You'll be surprised how often samples are used.
Heighten and lower the pitch, or slow down and quicken the speed of your favorite songs to create your own sample to be added to a new song.
Check out all of 3 Feet High and Rising or Paul's Boutique for golden-age examples of sampling prowess.
 The best way to grow quickly is to try and imitate the pros, learning the skills that will give you your own voice and creative freedom down the line. You can listen to anyone you want as long as you stop and think about why you like it so much, and what ideas you can borrow or change. For example:


Listen to famous DJ Premier’s samples from his music project called “Re:Generation.” DJ Premier is known for his signature scratching sound and flawless song constructions.Skrillex is notable for using samples of his own vocals. By using autotune, he is able to change the tone and speed of his voice so that it becomes almost unrecognizable. His song “Father Said” features samples of his own voice auto-tuned, as does “Turmoil.”Pete Rock uses samples for the entirety of his songs. He’s known to chop and layer several various samples within the same song. He’s an avid user of horns and drums, as is evident in his sample: “They Reminisce Over You (T.R.O.Y.)." , The more you know about music, the easier it will be to create it. From the tuba to the turntable, the same ideas and skills are needed no matter what music you're making. So push yourself musically as much as you can -- you can always reject the ideas if they don't work.Learn how to play an instrument. Since many beats are made with a keyboard, the piano is a great place to start.
Listen to as varied a selection of music as you can -- great producers pull from great music no matter what the genre.
 Make 30-second beats just to try out a new drum pack. Watch a tutorial on how to get a vocal sample to sound just like Kanye's in "School Spirit." Make a song with no drums. Like all creative endeavors, you only learn to be more creative by trying new things. The basics of beat making may be obvious, but you need to push yourself to make new and unique songs.


Trying to remake sounds and beats you love is a great way to teach yourself from the masters.
There are thousands of free tutorials online and on YouTube. When in doubt, look it up.