 Resistance bands are not expensive and are easy to buy online or in stores. However, it’s important that you find a resistance band that is made of high-quality materials that will not break or snap when you use it. There are two common types of resistance bands:


Basic resistance bands: These resistance bands are made of one long wide piece of rubber. They come in different lengths and have different resistance levels.
Tube resistance bands: These resistance bands are made of rubber or cord and vary in length. Most of these bands come with attachments or cuffs on each end for different workouts, with foam or plastic handles. Foam handles are ideal as the foam will act as cushioning against soreness or blisters after an intense workout.
You should purchase a resistance band with comfortable, padded handles if you are planning to do exercises that require a firm grip. Bands without handles are useful if you want to wrap the band or double it up for greater control over the resistance level.;
, Most resistance bands will be color coded to correspond with different resistance levels. However, not all manufacturers follow a color coded system so check the specifications on the resistance band before you buy it. The resistance levels are usually organized into four main categories: light, medium, heavy, and extra-heavy. Each level has a different amount of tension that can be accessed by the user while using the band during an exercise. Over time, you can move up to a higher level of resistance as you build muscle tone and body strength.


Light resistance bands are ideal for people who are just starting to work out, as well as elderly users or users who have suffered an injury and need light resistance as they recover. Light resistance bands allow the user to access three to six pounds of resistance. These bands are often color coded yellow or pink.
Medium resistance are good for users who have an established workout and want to integrate resistance band training into an existing exercise routine. These bands offer eight to ten pounds of resistance and are color coded green or red.
Heavy resistance bands work well for users who work out regularly and have a relatively strong muscle mass. These bands offer users 12 pounds or more of resistance and are color coded purple or blue.
Extra heavy resistance bands are ideal for experienced users who have used resistance bands before and are doing intense training. These bands can supply over 16 pounds of resistance and are color coded grey or black.
 If you are buying a resistance band in stores, you should try out several levels of resistance before purchasing one. Ask the salesperson for a recommendation on resistance level, based on your exercise routine and your fitness level. Often, recognizable sports brands will be a good indicator of high quality, though you should always try out the resistance band to make sure it is comfortable for you.


If you are buying a resistance band online, read the reviews of the product before you purchase it. Note how the product is rated for quality, durability, and comfort. You should also make sure that buyers are satisfied that the product is as advertised and comes in a resistance level that is suitable for their fitness goals.

