 If you’re heading out into the cold, you don’t want the wind to cut right through the material of your pants. Cropped pants are available in a variety of fabrics perfect for crisp fall and winter weather. Go with materials that keep heat trapped inside, which will warm up your legs.Wool, in particular, is a great fall and winter fabric. These pants may be available in stylish tweed materials or plaid prints.
 These short boots will come up to right below the hemline of your cropped pant, leaving a small sliver of skin exposed. This can be an attractive and flattering look, although it might not be best for windy or snowy days. Your feet will probably stay warm, but your ankles might not.If you’re worried about your ankles getting cold, wear a pair of nude tights underneath your pants.
 High boots are almost everyone’s go-to footwear when the weather starts to turn cold. If you have a pair of wide-leg cropped pants, these boots can be worn underneath the pants to provide full leg coverage.This may not be a flattering option for shorter women. Leaving no break between the shoe and your pant may make your legs look unusually stubby. You may be able to combat this problem with a high-heeled knee boot., Instead of hiding your odd sock patterns, show them off! Adding polka-dotted or printed socks to your outfit can provide a bit of creative flair. These pops of color will also interrupt the winter drear for you and anyone who sees your outfit.This goes for fun tights as well! The more thick and colorful, the better.
 If you’re wearing cropped pants with heels or short boots to a fancy or business event, bright socks or tights may not be your best bet. To keep it classy, go with your standard nude stocking. This option will keep you warm without revealing that you’re wearing anything under your shoes.
 Wearing a coat that covers you from top to bottom will provide a nice counterpoint to your exposed ankles. This cold-weather gear is also sure to keep you toasty enough to brave the elements.If it’s not quite cold enough for a jacket, go with a full-length sweater for the same effect.

