 Feed your cat at the same times every day. Change the litter box every day or every other day consistently. Designated a few times during the day as ‘play periods,’ such as from 1-2 in the afternoon. Your cat is less likely to give in to their fears if they know what to expect from you and your movements., Many cats like to play with small items in the house, but your cat may see these items as blocking their exit from the room or as triggers for their anxiety. Picking up children’s toys off the ground and keeping them in a designated area will make it less likely that you will run into them and then scare your cat.

Keeping the floors of your rooms more bare will also make it possible for your cat to see what, or who, is actually making a sudden movement or causing a noise. Having this knowledge may lessen your cat’s anxieties.
 This gives your cat the option to exit a situation that they are not comfortable with. Then, they can reenter a room when they are calm and ready. When a cat is trapped in a room, their anxiety levels skyrocket and it is hard to determine whether they are simply scared of movement or fearful due to the inability to exit., Choose one spot in your household that belongs to your cat and your cat alone. Place your cat’s bedding and food and water bowls in this area. Keep a few toys in this space as well. Try to limit visitors into this room.If you place a kitty cave or other hiding options in this area, your cat will likely go here if they are afraid or anxious, making it easier to check on them.
 You can purchase a product that emits a pheromone that promotes relaxation in cats when used as a diffuser or spray. Or, you can incorporate the scents of relaxing natural oils into a room, such as lavender.While certain pheromone sprays can go directly onto your cat’s skin, make sure to read the packages carefully and consult with your vet before use. Do not place an essential oil on your cat’s skin without talking to your vet, as certain oils, like lavender, can cause irritation and burning.

