 Gather as much lichen as possible. The best kind of lichen are ones that are, for lack of better word, "spongy"

, The best kind of Moss to get are likewise "spongy" and appear green-white or light yellow -green/brown in color and generally hang off of tree branches in long hair-like looking clumps.


Make sure it's DRY, if not set it somewhere air-tight and warm ("room-temperature")

,, Unravel it so it's a tangled mess of fibers, then add it to the lichen/moss lump.


Thoroughly scramble/mix/toss/combine them with each other.
 It's your choice but it works better as one large mass.
,

, Loop it around and through the ball multiple times finishing with both ends next to each other.



This is optional but for added measure you could spray or "mist" the tied up LMTF (lichen/moss/twine fiber) with bug spray or an aerosol deodorant as both of these are equally flammable.
 Make a small opening in the LMTF ball that goes straight to the center of it, light a matchstick it into the opening, and drop it inside it. Now step back and wait a little, as it takes the moss and the lichen a little bit to ignite.


If it works properly it should start sending up huge thick gusts of white smoke. There exists a chance however that the twine will actually catch fire eventually turning the whole thing into a fireball.
This one is much less noxious then the ping-pong ball one because moss and lichen do NOT burn naturally, it just smolders and makes nothing but minimal heat and LOTS of smoke. (They can burn if drenched in lighter fluid or if the fire is ridiculously hot.) Therefore the smoke it makes smells just like that; smoke. Not a nasty smelling smoke or a pleasant campfire smoke. Just smoke-smoke it's completely neutral smelling, but that does NOT mean you can just stand there and smell it all day! Smoke is still bad for you lungs regardless of smell.

The twine also doesn't burn but it still smolders and generates more heat then moss or lichen does, plus it goes up in minute flames in a matter of seconds.

