 While you sleep, your body repairs itself and the brain restores its energy supply so that you can wake up in the morning feeling ready for the day. Depriving yourself of sleep can drain your body because sleep acts like a charger that charges your brain cells and replenishes your energy levels. The amount of sleep you should get depends on your personal lifestyle, but rough outlines include:


Less than 2 months of age: 12-18 hours.
Between 3 and 11 months of age: 14-15 hours.
Between 1 and 3 years: 12-14 hours.
Between 3 and 5 years: 11-13 hours.
Between 5 and 10 years: 10-11 hours.
Between 11 and 17 years: 8-9 hours.
Above 17 years: 7-9 hours.
 Stress, worry, and anxiety can all lead to both mental and physical fatigue. A lot of energy is used dealing with these emotions, so if you lower your stress levels, you can put that energy towards other activities. To lower your stress levels:


Confront the thing that is making you stress and try your hardest to change it.
Practice breathing exercises that you can do when you feel stressed. A common breathing exercise is to slowly breathe in for 10 seconds, hold your breath for a moment, and then slowly release your breath for another 10 seconds.
Try meditating and practicing yoga (See Method Four).
Exercise. Exercising releases endorphins that can combat stress.
 To boost energy, exercising is a must. Exercising or any physical activity releases ‘happy hormones’ called endorphins. These help in strengthening the immune system, in elevating the mood and regulation of your appetite. All of these things can help to boost your energy levels.


Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes each day.You should try to do both cardiovascular exercises and strengthening exercises. Cardio exercises include walking, running, biking, and swimming. Strength exercises include weightlifting, resistance training, stretching, and yoga (see Method Four for more on yoga).
 Early morning sun exposure can boost your energy levels. Sunlight helps your body to produce vitamin D, which the body needs to help keep your bones healthy. Sun exposure also helps your body to release certain essential enzymes in your body that act as mood elevators, which in turn can increase your energy levels., It need not be always ‘All work and no play’. When you get stuck in the same routine, you can start to get burnt out. Take a break from your routine and switch it up once in a while. Travel somewhere or spend the day on the beach—you may find that your energy levels have been restored when you do get back to your routine.
 Meditation decreases the activity of the part of your brain that becomes highly active when you are stressed. Meditating regularly limits your stress level and makes you more calm and but energetic. Meditation relaxes your brain and improves your ability to handle your emotions well.
 Sex actually has a wide variety of health benefits. It stimulates the performance of your brain, oxygenates your body, relieves you of stress, boosts your immune power and naturally energizes you. If you have a partner, try to incorporate more sex into your relationship to help your boost your energy levels.Always practice safe sex by using proper birth control.

