 Explain the nature of your business. For example, if you are a flooring company, describe the products you sell. Identify your typical customers. The typical customer of a flooring company might be retailers of carpet, linoleum, tile and hardwood. Describe the primary focus of your business, such as service and delivery of flooring products to retail businesses for resale.Include a narrative discussion of the development of your products or services since the inception of your business. Detail the volume of business each product generates. Describe significant changes in your products or services.Briefly state your tentative goals for the next five years. Describe your work force, including the size and their critical skills. Briefly describe your supplies and name your major suppliers. , List the company owners and the legal structure of your business. Provide profiles of senior management summarizing their key experience, qualifications and credentials. Briefly explain the organizational structure. If there is a board of directors, list their qualifications. Name their positions on the board and how they contribute to the company’s success., Explain how you create customers. Outline your strategy for growth. State how you communicate with customers. Describe your sales activities. Explain your competitive advantage. For example, you may offer customers added value with lower prices or additional benefits and services., Explain your manufacturing process. Quantify the total amount of output your manufacturing department generates in a given period. Describe how you allocate resources, such as employees and materials. Explain how you meet promised delivery dates and avoid overloading or under loading your production facility. Assure your lender that you have the operational capacity to meet your production goals., Explain how you recruit qualified employees. Describe your training process. Specify how you orient new hires. Note any continuing education and advanced training you provide. Mention your employee retention statistics. State how you retain qualified employees who project your business further.