 If you have a child or teen who is regularly online, you want to make sure that they follow basic safety guidelines. Set clear rules for your child's online activities. Then, clearly communicate these boundaries to your teen.Make a "no delete" rule. Tell your child not to clear their search history or cache. From time to time, check to see what they've been looking at.
Set a time limit. For example, allow your child to be online in the evening, but make sure they disconnect by 9 p.m.
Be aware of who their "friends" are. Make sure your teen can clearly explain who they are interacting with.
 Sometimes boundaries aren't enough. You can use technology to help keep your family members safe. Consider purchasing security software to install on all family computers.These programs can send alerts when someone tries to access questionable sites.
Safety software can also record all online activity, so you can tell with certainty which sites your child has visited.
Some programs can also prevent new windows from opening. This can help keep you and your family from accidentally stumbling into dangerous territory.
 Make certain that everyone in your household knows how to protect personal information. Hold a family meeting and talk about specific information that should never be shared online. Caution family members against sharing:Your home address
Phone numbers
Personal e-mail addresses
Locations of schools
Any details about physical appearance

, One of the best ways to stay safe is to avoid going into a private chat room. If someone asks you (or your child) to leave the group chat, consider this a warning sign. Inappropriate comments are most often made in private rooms.Leave a chat immediately if you feel uncomfortable. Teach your family members to do the same.
If asked to go in a private chat room, you can say, "No, thanks. I'm cool hanging here with the group."

, Go with your gut. If something feels "off", you need to do something or say something. If your instincts tell you that you are dealing with a predator, cut off contact immediately. Tell your parents or a friend about your suspicions.


This is good advice for parents, too. If your instincts tell you that your child is dealing with a predator, don't ignore the feeling.
Talk to your child immediately, and investigate your suspicions.

