 You can go to the fabric store to find a comfortable flannel, fleece, muslin, denim or cotton print; however, you can also use socks, old shirts, washcloth or towels. Whatever you choose to use, be sure that it contains no sparkly or metallic threads, wires, bead, etc, as these will catch fire when microwaved later on.


A large, thick sock is the easiest cloth to use, since it is already round and you do not need to sew all the sides. You can also use an old hand towel and fold it in half lengthwise, for another easy option.
If you choose a loose weave on your fabric, also find or buy a flannel or muslin cloth to use as your inner lining, so your filling does not leak out.;
, If you do not want to measure, a length of about 20 inches (51 cm) width of 5 inches (13 cm) will work for most necks.


If you want to use the wrap for other parts of your body, like your back, be sure to extend the wrap a few extra inches or cm to make the wrap more versatile.
 People use long grained white rice, flax seed, buckwheat, barley, oatmeal, feed corn, cherry pits, beans or millet seed. If you are making a rice neck wrap, make sure you do not use instant rice, which may cook when heated.
 Although this is not necessary, a relaxing scent can help to relax and remove tension from your body. Choose an essential oil or spice and mix it with your filling of choice in a large bowl. Let the filling sit with the scent for a day or so and stir often to make sure the scent is distributed throughout the grain.


For example, you can use approximately 5 drops of an essential oil like lavender, peppermint or rose. You can also use 5 pinches of spices like cinnamon, cloves or rosemary. You can also mix with rose or other flower petals.
 If you are using a towel or a sock, this will not be necessary. If you plan to have an inner and outer fabric, cut rectangles out of both the lining and cover material, making the lining slightly smaller - about 1/2 inch (1.3 cm).
 Pin it in place across the open length and both ends so the seams stay together while you sew.
 Make sure your stitches are very close together so small grains of rice do not poke out of the seams.



If you are sewing an inner and outer bag, leave 1 end all the way open on the outer bag. You will need to open the outer bag regularly while you heat the inner bag.
, Experiment with the amount. Most neck wraps are 1/2 to 3/4 full. Do not fill it all the way, as the less full it is, the more it will conform to your body.
 Although this 1 inch (2.54 cm) of the seam will face out, it is important to be able to rip this seam out and replace the grain if the bag loses its scent or gets wet.


If you are making an outer bag, hem the 2 sides of the outer bag in and adhere Velcro to each side so that you can open and close it easily.
 If you do not feel it is warm enough, heat in 30 second intervals. Place around your neck and over your shoulders until the neck wrap cools, approximately 20 minutes.
 If you really want to get fancy, make the pillow, and then make a cover for it that can be easily washed, yet removed during the microwaving process. Just remember to make the cover measurements slightly larger in order to accommodate the inner pillow. This makes an excellent gift. Good Luck!

