 People who have financial stress often have a harder time talking about their frustrations or have a tendency to let things slide rather than confront the issues head on. Not talking about the issues that come up once a month regardless of whether you want to or not is unhealthy and leads to problems down the road.;
, Instead of playing the blame game and putting stress on one person because you feel the stress yourself, make a plan of action. Engage your partner and ask them to support the plan or to work on a more workable plan together.
 Once your plan is in place, put up reminders where you will both see them. Sticky notes, dry erase boards and other visual reminders can help. Wrap a sticky note around your credit cards. Write a helpful 2-3 word phrase, like: "Stick to it." This will help you remember not to spend blindly. Put another one in your car and the car of your sweetie.
 Save your loose dollars and coins in a separate jar. Put a note on the outside of the jar with your goal. Use your extra coins and dollars saved to help pay down the excess debt.
 While it is possible to become a millionaire for some by simply saving, not many have the intestinal fortitude (or lack of bills) to do so. You would have to save $33,333.34 USD a year for 30 years which means that on a per diem basis requires $128.21 USD. (Estimating based on a 52 week year). If this is something you can do, start. The average person has to budget though because for every dollar gained, at least 3/4 of the money flies right back out of their pockets to the light company, the phone company, the water company, etc. Budgeting helps show you where you have spent your money and where you could be saving. Budget in your savings as part of your plan and leave your checking account down to $0.01 when you are done. Your savings should be factored in to the whole.
 No one likes to feel left out, but if you want to reach your goals, you have to cut back on a whole lot of it. Allow each partner 1 food fun item (like a Starbucks specialty drink), 1 clothing item (not a whole outfit, but 1 piece), and 1 outing together per 30 days. Exceeding this may make you feel more popular, but being debt free would feel better. Then you could do as many date nights as you want. Until then, limit the frivolity.
 There are many things that we need and there are many things we want. They are not the same thing. $5 muffins as opposed to $1 bread loaf slice (each slice being .05 each) is an example of where you can cut back. While the sweet muffin is tasty, the single slice of bread can cost you a whole lot less. Try to rework your own dietary habits so that you are not consuming so many calories in a given day. Don't starve yourself, but cut back so that you aren't overdoing it either.
 Couches are good places for loose change but so is the laundry. Put it in that jar and enjoy the benefits. DO NOT peek in the jar to see how much you have. This leads to counting and thinking you might spend just a little of it. Have the strength to say no.
 Adjust for the size of the paycheck. Divide the amount of the paycheck by the amount saved and you should come out even. The spirit of competition will keep the fun in funding your goals.
 It's possible the bank may have a holiday savings plan which will allow you to maximize the profits in a short amount of time.

