 Begin by pouring olive oil in a large pot and warming it over medium heat. Add the onion, carrot, and pancetta to the pot. Season the ingredients with salt, minced garlic, and pepper., Keep the heat on medium as it cooks. The ingredients are done cooking when the onion turns golden brown and the pancetta gets crispy., Pour the tomato paste into the pot. Stir the paste in with the ingredients. Then, add the diced tomatoes and stir. Scrape the bottom of the pan as you stir to release the brown bits., Put spinach, beans, stock, herbs, bay leaf, and parmesan rind to the pot. Stir in the newly added ingredients. Stir until they mix evenly with the onion, carrot, and pancetta., Turn the heat setting to high heat for the soup to boil. Reduce the heat after 30 minutes. Allow the soup to simmer until the bread has been prepared., Drizzle olive oil on all of the halves of ciabatta bread. Leftover stale bread is often used for this recipe. You can choose to use the ciabatta bread, or substitute it for whole wheat or leftover bread., Put the bread in the oven on a baking tray. Leave the bread in the oven until it turns golden brown. This should take about five minutes., Wait for the bread to cool down for a few minutes, but it should still be warm. Rub the whole garlic clove over every piece of the bread. The garlic should noticeably add flavor to each piece of bread., Ladle the soup into each bowl. Put the pieces of toast into each bowl of soup. This recipe produces 6 servings, so you can put one piece of bread into each bowl. If you are serving less than six bowls, you can add additional pieces of bread to each bowl until it’s used up., Sprinkle parmesan and olive oil over each bowl of soup. Serve while the soup is still hot, but not hot enough to burn your mouth. Because the bread is added to the soup, the soup should be enough for a complete meal., As mentioned, ribollita is Italian for reboiled. Ribollita is often left out on the stovetop overnight and served the next day. If you do this, reheat the soup on the stove over low heat.Cover the soup when you leave it out overnight.
 If you have soup leftover, pour it into in a covered container. Then, store the soup in the refrigerator. Leave it in the refrigerator for no more than a week., Since ribollita was originally made from leftover ingredients and whatever was found around the garden, you can alter the ingredients to fit whatever vegetables you have around. For example, you can add potatoes to the soup. Or, you could add kale or cabbage.