 When hanging pictures, it can be tempting to do one of two things: choose way too many pictures, or not choose enough. Make a careful selection of the images you want to hang, and group them together by location.


If you’re not choosing pictures that come together in a series, choose a selection of pictures that have a similar color scheme.






The eye is attracted visually to odd numbers, so try to select an odd number of pictures to hang.





;
, There are two general techniques you can use when choosing frames for your pictures: select frames for each image that are all the same, or select a variety of mis-matched frames in a similar color scheme/style. Frames are an important aspect of highlighting the pictures you are hanging, so be sure to choose ones that match both the style of your house and the style of your images.


Try not to use too many large, ornate frames as these can become overwhelming in groups.
If you’re using mis-matched frames, use one or two colorful or detailed frames to make your arrangement pop.
 When you start to arrange your pictures, it can be difficult to see where you want them without hanging them all up in a test-run. To make this easier, cut parchment paper to be the same size as your picture frames. You can then tape these to the walls in test positions, and rearrange them as you please with little work and no extra holes in the walls.
 As it goes, some people have very specific locations in mind for arranging their pictures, whereas others have only a foggy idea of where they might hang their artwork up. Look at all the bare walls in your home, and decide which are begging to be adorned with pictures. The key is filling up enough space to make it look interesting, without adding so much to the walls that they become distracting and disorienting.
 The simplest arrangement of pictures is to line them up all in an even row. Determine the height of your pictures, keeping in mind that anything below the average eye level will seem out of place. Don’t space out your images too much, as more than 6-inches between each frame will remove the appearance of a grouping.


This arrangement works best with portrait-arranged photos.
 This arrangement works particularly well for an odd, narrow wall or to fill up space next to a tall piece of furniture. Arrange your photos by stacking them on top of each other, with a few inches of space in between each frame. Typically, this arrangement will be most appealing when placed closer to the ceiling than to the floor.


This arrangement works best with landscape-arranged photos.
 Best for a small space, you can hang a small group of pictures as if there were a circle around them, giving them shape. If you have a group of three pictures, for instance, you can hang one of the photos on the left, and the other two to the right of it staggered on top of each other.


This works particularly well if you have one picture that is significantly larger than two smaller pictures.
This arrangement will only work with an odd number of pictures.
 Perfect for over a table or couch pushed against a wall, select a group pictures, preferably in the same sizes, to be hung together in a square or rectangle. Arrange the pictures so that they are evenly spaced in the classic square/rectangle shape.
 If you have an even number of pictures greater than 6, you have the opportunity to create a large square/rectangle arrangement. Line up all your frames in even rows/columns to create a symmetrical shape. This looks particularly good with three rows of 3 pictures, to create a large square.
 This works best for photos that are all the same size; lay out your pictures so that you have two long, symmetrical rows. You will have created a long rectangular space that is traditional in appearance. This layout is great for a hallway or another long wall, or above a very wide piece of furniture.
 The sister style to the aforementioned arrangement, if your pictures are all different sizes, create two staggered rows with them. Find a center line that will be the meeting point for the two rows. For the top row, line up the bottoms of all the pictures so that they are just above the center line. On the bottom row, line up the tops of all the pictures so they are just below the center line.Put the largest pictures in the center of the rows, and have the smallest pictures on the ends.
 If you have a very large wall you are trying to fill up, arranging your pictures in a pyramid may be the best option for you. Using either 6 or 10 pictures in the same size and layout, stack them up to create a large triangle on the wall. You can choose to flip the shape upside down so that you have more pictures on the top than on the bottom, if you like. Make sure that there is even spacing between each row of pictures.
 The ultimate in picture arranging, you can create a gallery wall by arranging a large number of pictures in an orderly fashion like puzzle pieces, without using rows or columns. Gallery walls are best when using many images of different sizes and formats. To make yours successful, just be sure that there is an equal amount of space between each picture frame so that it gives the appearance of organization to your pictures., Whether you have floating shelves on your wall or a bookcase with spare room, you can arrange pictures on them to add interest. Keep the number of pictures you use to 5 or less and supplement the design with objects (like vases and figurines) or books. Group pictures on the shelves together so that they overlap slightly; for example, stagger two pictures near each other and a third picture on the opposite end of the shelf.
 The mantle over your fireplace is a prime picture-arranging location. Try hanging a large, framed image over the mantle, and then adding a few smaller framed pictures to the shelf below it. This will instantly add appeal to the wall and fireplace, and show off some more of your photography or artwork.
 Placing pictures on a table, desk, or nightstand can be tricky because it can be easy to overwhelm these spaces. Don’t try to fill up your tabletops with framed pictures, instead choose only 1-3 total (depending on the size of your table) to display standing upright. Stagger/layer these pictures slightly as well, so that the display looks natural rather than a tri-fold poster board presentation.