 Canker sores are ulcers in the mouth that can cause persistent pain or pain when eating. Canker sores in the mouth can cause gum pain if they are located on the gums. These mouth ulcers are easily identified. They are usually oval with red or white centers.Doctors don't know exactly what causes canker sores. They are sometimes caused by injury in the mouth or by acidic foods. They can also appear when your immune system drops and can be the first sign of a lower immunity.
Canker sores generally heal on their own in a week or two.;
, If you are brushing or flossing the wrong way, you can cause gum pain. Brushing too vigorously or flossing with too much force may cause gum irritation, pain, and bleeding.Choose soft bristle toothbrushes instead of harder ones.
Use a circular motion instead of back and forth. Back and forth brushing can irritate your gums. It also retracts your gums, exposing the root, which leads to a high tooth sensitivity.
 Gum pain may be due to teething, especially in small children. Adults may feel gum pain due to teething if a tooth has not properly broken through the gum. The appearance of wisdom teeth also can cause gum pain in adults.Impacted teeth are another reason teeth can cause gum pain. Impacted teeth are teeth that have not not fully come in. They are either just under the gum or have only come through the gum partially. They most commonly occur with wisdom teeth or upper canines., Gum disease is one of the most common causes for gum pain. Gum disease starts as gingivitis and can be treated with proper oral care. Periodontal disease is the more serious form, which can lead to the loss of teeth. Symptoms of gum disease include:Red, swollen, or painful gums
Bad breath
Unpleasant taste in the mouth
Receding gums, which make your teeth look bigger
Bleeding gums during and after brushing
Pockets between teeth and gums
Teeth that feel weak or unstable — you may be able to wiggle them with your tongue

, Sometimes, sharp objects, rough food, or hot food may cause a minor gum injury. This can lead to gum pain.These minor injuries generally heal on their own within a few days to a week.
 Oral cancer is another reason why you may experience gum pain. Oral cancer can lead to sores in the mouth that won’t heal and change in color and volume, along with pain in the mouth.Other symptoms of oral cancer include lumps in the cheek, neck, or under your jaw; difficulty swallowing or chewing; difficulty moving the jaw or tongue; numbness in the tongue and mouth; voice changes; and a persistent sore throat or feeling that something is stuck in your throat.
 If you experience any gum pain that won’t go away, sores that won’t heal, or any other abnormal symptoms, visit your dentist. Even if you believe you just have gingivitis, a dental check up once or twice a year can help reduce your risk of gum disease.


If you have any of the symptoms of oral cancer or severe gum disease, or other symptoms like a fever or signs of an infection, visit your dentist immediately.

