 One way to improve your self-confidence is to make a list of the strengths you have. Even though you may want to become a stronger woman, you already have some core strengths you can draw on.


Be aware that people are often wildly inaccurate about their own strengths and weaknesses.It may be helpful for you to ask others to help you determine your strengths.
 You may find it helpful, especially if you had a hard time listing your strengths on your own. It may also be good practice in getting accustomed to hearing positive feedback about yourself, which many women are trained to dismiss or view with suspicion.


Identify people to help you and ask for their feedback. Ask 10-20 people you know well to write about a time they saw you “at your best.” Ask them to provide specific examples.
Look for patterns in these stories. Make a list of things that stand out or repeat.
Put these patterns together. Using the list, create a profile of your “best you.”
Use this “best you” to drive your progress. Focus on bolstering existing skills and developing new ones to handle any aspect of your life, whether it's improving the way you handle your emotions, stress, or even little things about your daily life.
 Society has very strong traditional gender roles that teach women to appease, keep the peace, and serve others.Women are often socialized to “be nice” and consider others’ feelings, often at the detriment of their own.Learning to say “no” can be hard, but it’s a crucial part of becoming a stronger woman.Be aware that setting boundaries and enforcing them, especially at work, can be met with backlash. Because women are typically considered to be “helpers,” behavior that appears to go against this perception may be interpreted negatively.
One way to say “no” productively in work situations can be to remind the person making the request what else you’re working on. For example, you could ask to sit down with your boss: “That does sound important. I have a lot on my plate right now, so let’s sit down together for a few minutes so you can help me find a way to prioritize my projects. I want to make sure I focus on the most important things.”Take 24 hours to decide before agreeing to something. You can always say, “Let me think about that and get back with you.” This will give you the time to consider whether this request is a good opportunity, and whether you can really afford the time it will take.It’s also okay to say no to friends. You can say something like, “I really wish I could help you move this weekend, but I’ve already committed to such-and-such” or “I would usually love to go to your party, but I’ve had a rough week and need some time to unwind on my own this weekend.” There’s no need to feel guilty for taking care of yourself, and your loved ones will understand this. (And if they don’t, they need to rethink things.), Journaling can have excellent benefits. It can promote a sense of gratitude and well-being.It can help you develop self-compassion.Journaling doesn’t work for everyone, but it is recommended as it’s often a great way to reflect on yourself with kindness.Focus on people and experiences you are grateful for. Write down even the little things they do that make you happy. Cultivating an “attitude of gratitude” has been shown to reduce stress, increase happiness, and promote feelings of well-being.Psychologist Dr. Kristin Neff recommends keeping a “self-compassion” journal. Write down any times when you feel upset, when you judge yourself, or when you experienced pain. Then, use mindfulness, common humanity, and self-kindness to process these feelings.
For example, imagine that someone said something hurtful about your appearance. Write how you felt, how you reacted, and what you did. Try not to judge yourself or your experience: “A person on the bus made a comment about my body. I felt hurt and embarrassed.” Next, acknowledge that this experience is part of being human: “It’s natural to feel hurt when someone is unkind.” Finally, give yourself some words of comfort: “That person did not know me, and they judged me for something I cannot control. That’s their loss. I am beautiful, and I can be kind to others.”

, Negative self-talk can be very damaging. Unfortunately, many of us seem to play negative thoughts on a loop at the back of our minds without even thinking. Take the time to challenge negative thoughts about yourself with positive statements. You may find that speaking these statements out loud helps, too.For example, imagine that you are at the grocery store and your child is misbehaving. You snap at her, and immediately regret your behavior. A negative thought could appear such as, “I’m a terrible mother.” This is an unfair generalization about you from one specific event.
Instead, remind yourself that you are human as you acknowledge your mistake. “I snapped at my daughter, which was wrong. I can do better next time.”
Challenging negative thoughts does not mean you don’t take responsibility for when you do something wrong. For example, you would still apologize to your daughter for snapping at her even if you rejected your negative self-talk about the incident. The difference is that in one case you generalize yourself as “a failure,” and in the other, you recognize and acknowledge a mistake. This latter way of thinking promotes growth and real strength.
 Personalization is a common distortion of perception in which we automatically blame ourselves for anything that goes wrong. Because social and cultural pressures often encourage women to view themselves as responsible for everyone else’s well-being, personalization could be a difficult challenge for you to overcome. Realizing that you are not responsible for others can help you feel stronger.For example, if your romantic partner has been less interested in sex recently, a personalizing approach would be to blame yourself: “My partner doesn’t want to have sex with me because of something I did.”
A way to challenge this distortion is to recognize that the other person has his/her own life and thoughts that you’re not always aware of. Your partner could be under a lot of stress at work, fighting off a cold, not feeling attractive themselves, or a host of other things that are not your fault.
Communicating directly can be a good way to challenge personalization. For example, you could talk with your partner about why s/he has had a lower sex drive recently. Approach the issue without judgment, just ask the other person what’s going on and invite him/her to share with you: “I noticed that we haven’t had sex in a while. I miss that experience with you. Would you like to talk about what’s going on?”

, Women are often under a lot of pressure to do everything and be everything. We’re taught to strive for perfection because perfection is often mistakenly equated with excellence. We are also taught that not achieving perfection means failure. However, many research studies demonstrate that perfectionism actually holds you back, and that the most successful people are often those who embrace mistakes as learning experiences for the future.Remind yourself that excellence is not a result of perfection. Excellence is the product of setting meaningful goals and working hard to attain them. A productive way to be excellent is to treat yourself as a mentor would treat you: with respect, trust, understanding, compassion, empathy, and kindness.


Try approaching yourself as you would a loved friend or family member. You likely do not judge your friends harshly for their flaws. Show yourself that same compassion.
Many studies have shown that perfectionism can actually hurt your performance and achievement.Perfectionism can also lead to procrastination, where you never start working on your goals because you believe you won’t be able to achieve them the way you want., Research has shown that humans can “catch” emotions, much like you catch a cold, if we spend time around others experiencing them. This phenomenon is known as “emotional contagion.” For example, spending time around happy people is likely to make you feel happy as well.Surround yourself with people who respect and care for you. Spend time with people who validate you and love you for the strong woman you are.


Spending time with positive people can help other areas of your life too. For example, one study showed that a group of business students who “caught” positive emotion from an actor planted in their group were more likely to cooperate, have less conflict, and feel better about their achievements., Being alone can be an uncomfortable experience for many women. Social and cultural pressures often tell women that they “need” someone -- a male partner, a child, a boss -- to feel fulfilled. Spending some positive, pleasant time on your own can be a good way to strengthen your sense of yourself.Take a walk on your own. Try not to focus on what you have on your to-do list or what others need from you. Use your senses to consciously notice the beauty around you, such as flowers growing on the side of the road or the sound of rainfall. Honing your appreciation of small moments will help you feel more calm, relaxed, and grounded.Go out to dinner or see a movie by yourself. Sometimes, events and experiences can become so culturally ingrained as being “for two” that it’s hard to imagine doing them on your own. There’s no reason you shouldn’t do nice things just for yourself. Take yourself out to a nice dinner. Go to see a movie and order a drink and popcorn just for you. Bring a book to your favorite bar and have a few drinks. Taking yourself on a “date” every now and then will help remind you that you are worth spending time with and caring for.