 Every card and program will be different, but knowing the kind of travel you wish to redeem your points or miles for will help you decide on a point earning strategy. An international flight will require a different strategy than one that's domestic.


It helps to be specific when thinking about this. You'll want to at least know the class you'd like to fly in, preferred airlines, and whether your flight will be domestic or international.
It may help to write out exactly the kind of trip you want to spend your points on. This way you have a clear idea of what you want to get from your points or miles.;
, Most programs award you points or miles based on how much you spend. Cards that pay back a percentage of what you spend will allow you to earn points less expensively.


When signing up for a card like this, be sure to check that you'll also be earning points or miles. Some cards may only offer a percentage of cash back on your purchases., Cards that allow you to spend points or miles many different places will give you more freedom when it comes time to redeem those points or miles. Additionally, these kinds of cards frequently allow you to transfer points to loyalty programs or other airline programs.Some cards like this offer point or mile bonuses for using your card more frequently. Check the terms and conditions of your credit card to determine if this is the case for you.
 When selecting your card, think about your daily and weekly expenses. If you choose a point card that offers bonuses for things you buy frequently, like groceries or gas, you can earn points very quickly.
 Just because a bank representative or creditor has informed you that you can earn points or miles with a card does not mean you've been signed up for a point or mile program. Be sure to inquire with the agent handling your credit card application, saying something to the effect of:"I just want to verify that I'm signed up for the point or mile rewards program. Is there anything else I should know about the card and these points or miles?"

, Dining programs that allow you to earn points or miles are very common among hotels and airlines. These often require you to enroll in the program and register the credit cards you use. After that, you'll earn points or miles for using your card when dining.


These programs frequently include tax and tip when awarding points. Company dinners or expensive meals can be very profitable for your point or mile earning., Your credit card or an airline may have a special shopping portal that awards you points or miles for any purchase you make through the portal. Especially if you already shop frequently online, you should look into whether or not these online shopping points are available to you.


Some portals or sites may offer more points than others. This will be different for each site and card, so you'll have to do some investigation to find the best one for you., Many creditors partner with certain hotels and offer points or miles for money you spend on purchases from them. But you can also boost your point or mile earnings by using online shopping portals to gain even more points on top of what you would from a partner purchase.


Many hotels offer extra points for several nights' stay. This is usually on an ascending scale, with the point value for each night increasing for each night spent at the hotel up to a certain limit., You may have to pay initially for business travel and expenses with the understanding that you'll be reimbursed by your company later. Build your points with a suitable credit card while traveling, then use the reimbursement to pay off those expenses.


This is also a useful way of improving your credit. If your credit score is low or not where you want it to be, paying off these short term credits should slightly improve your score.
Even if your company has paid for your flight ahead of time, points or miles generally revert to the flyer. Be sure to have your frequent flyer information to snag extra points or miles., Many companies offer special promotions or social media campaigns. These are often offered through mainstream platforms, like Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube. In many cases, simply by watching a video and providing your point or mile account information, you can earn points.


These kinds of promotions are also a great way to stay abreast on deals, new routes, and other point or mile programs., Generally, you can expect your points to stay good for 18 months, though some programs' points may expire sooner or later.To prevent forgetting about a point or mile expiration date, you may want to set a reminder in your cell phone or mark your calendar.
 Account inactivity is one of the most frequent ways that points go bad. Even small purchases on your point or mile earning credit card, like buying a song on iTunes or Amazon, will keep the account active and your points safe., In most cases, redeeming points will also count as account activity. This means that you can use a small number of points on something, like a magazine or clock, to keep your account active and your points usable.Some programs may also allow you to donate your points to charity. This should also register as account activity and keep your points from expiring., If you've lost track of time and your points or miles have expired, you may still be able to get them back. Often, this involves paying a fee, which can be quite expensive depending on how many miles you have.


Reinstate your points or miles as soon as possible if you intend to do so. Most companies only allow your account to be reinstated for a period of time following expiration., International flights often offer excellent deals for point or mile redemption. However, don't let the possibility of a freebie cloud your judgement. Flight upgrades are sometimes worth even more than a free flight.


Though not always the case, domestic flights under $300 often cost as many points or miles as a significantly better upgrade or longer distance flight., Many point or mile programs restrict the redemption of points or miles during peak travel season. But even if yours does not, flights during these times often cost more points or miles than usual, which will devalue what you have earned.


You should also attempt to book flights paid with points or miles well in advance. This will help prevent getting stuck with a multiple layover flight.