 Ask yourself, which of your friends is currently texting you? Which of your friends is currently calling you? Which of your friends is trying to keep steady conversation and progress a relationship with you? Who is learning about you?


If this sounds like the person you are asking about, it's because there is potential interest in you, and they want to keep exploring the possibility that you are the one.
If you see them infrequently and always with a group (and they don’t seem to be pushing for more frequent or individual contact), that’s a sign they like you as a friend.
 They will probably give away the friend or lover vibe when there are other people around.If being rude is in your friend’s personality, they may not hide that because they feel comfortable that you accept them for who they are no matter what they act like. They don’t go overboard trying to impress you. A lover may suddenly become nicer when you're around.
Some girls bite or twirl their hair, blush, giggle, and usually just try to get your attention. Boys are not that different. Guys usually try to act cool and do stuff like laugh harder, try to be the center of attention, and kind of act like jocks – if they are trying to impress you.
 He (or she) sees you several times a week, including weekends. You have met most or all his friends and coworkers. Everyone has heard about you. He makes plans for the future about you two, everything from buying a house, bed sheets, fried chicken, a ring, the brake job on the car. He talks as if you two will be together forever. He takes photos of you two and they are all around his house. He is very interested in what you do, think and where you go. He’s a lover.


How often do you think about this person? Can you ignore them or do you have to text back ASAP? Are they the first person you go to with big news (and are you)?
A lover is someone who puts you as their number one priority, and you are more likely to spend more time together and share the same lifestyle. Lovers spend most of their time with you. They are always making plans to see you.
 Don’t fall for the trap of assuming sex means you’re in the lover role. Guys who don't love you and have sex with you, do not bond with you. Women have a tendency to bond more with guys when they have sex. However, sexuality is a component of most relationships that move from friend to lover.


Another piece of this puzzle is the lumping together of love and sex- historically, this was not always the case. If you had one-time, unplanned, casual sex with a friend, just be friends. If you date and have repeated good, exciting, and emotional sex with someone, they are a lover.
Sexual chemistry is a strong hint that he likes you for more. A friend is someone with whom we have fun and can share our deepest secrets with if we're really close with them; they are someone we go to the movies with or watch a sports game together. A lover is often just the same, only with an added sexual layer to the relationship, and an overall greater intensity. You think about them more, you feel excited and nervous in their presence etc., Jealousy can mean that a person cares in a way a friend doesn’t. Friends aren’t jealous if they are real friends because they want you to be happy. However, if you are jealous it could also be a sign that the love is unrequited or not returned.When your friend acts rude to a new friend whom you like, or always seems to put down the person you like, it's possible that they like you. They might be jealous and worried that person is going to take you away from them.
Do you get annoyed or feel irritated when he/she checks another person out or says anything good about their attractiveness in front of you? If you do, he or she is probably a lover.
 Does this certain someone try to spend time with you alone? They may be a potential crush. But if they only speak to you with a bigger group of mutual friends, or are already taken, chances are, they're just a really good friend.


With a friend, they won't ever really act flustered around you. If you've ever been to a pool party and have that one friend who always sees you and gets flustered, that's one way to tell.
Consider whether he or she chases you. If you don't have to do anything to chase this person because they’re always around or trying to get you to hang out, they’re probably interested. If you have to make any effort, they are probably not that interested.
Consider whether your mood changes when you see this person. The feelings you get near a lover are not the same as a friend; they are closer and deeper. For example, you may feel happy around a certain friend, but with the person you love you feel as if your day has gone better by just having seen them.
When you are around them, do you get butterflies or do you just wave and chat? When you sit near or next to them at the lunch table do you think about holding hands or do you think about lunch? When you see them out of school do you blush and smile or do you calmly walk over to them and start a conversation? Do you find yourself dreaming about them when in or out of school? If so, you are in love with that person.
 True love is all about a continuous sacrifice. It never ends. Your friends may not always be around, especially when your tough times start to become their tough times. But your lover will, and you may have to sacrifice a job, your health, money, time, and other things for them.


A lover knows you more than you know yourself. A lover would argue with you but wouldn’t stay mad at you because they just care too much. A lover would know your past...all the wrongs you’ve done but he/she would look past it, and they wouldn’t use it against you.
A lover would care for you when you’re down. That means that they bring you pizza and they would always imagine their future with you. If they want to travel to live in another country or find a new place to live in, they would always picture you with them. A lover would love you for who you are, even with your flaws.
 This is the bottom line. Someone who considers you a lover will be more invested in you, more available to you, and they will make you a priority in their life.


How do they talk to you? Friends will start talking to someone else even though they were just talking to you and yell a 'hi' or 'hey' to someone they are friends with while talking to you. A lover is completely focused on you. Even if someone else says hi to them or tries to talk to them, they might not even notice unless you point it out or the other person does something like snap in their face to get their attention.
When your friend always seems to care more than they should, or they always tend to be worried if you’re okay, they most likely like you as more than a friend (or wish you liked them as more).

