 Start keeping track of your emotions in feelings journal, which can be a small notebook or on your mobile device. Try this next time you are watching a tearjerker movie to keep track of sadness. Write down how you physically respond to sadness. Is it difficult for you to cry? What does your chest feel like when you feel sad?


Try to stay out of your thoughts as your create your feelings journal and stay focused on your body's response. This will help you start to become more connected to how you really feel instead of just brushing emotions aside., You may be in the habit of telling yourself that you’re just being silly for feeling a certain way. You may also tell yourself not to feel a certain way. As you become more accustomed to recognizing your body’s response to emotions, it will be more difficult to just shrug off emotions. Your body is responding for a reason, and it is important to validate that. Get out your journal and start keeping a log of all the different feelings you had that day.


For example, write things like, "Today at work my boss made me really angry." Validate that anger and write about why you were angry. Do this for all the emotions you feel each day. You may be surprised at the rich emotional landscape you actually have inside of you once you start paying attention.
Humans are naturally emotional beings, and it is easy in a fast paced world to become disconnected from how you really feel., To better express yourself emotionally every day, write down how you want to handle each situation. Then you can do practice runs of how you would like to act in certain situations. Using a boss or authority figure as an example again, start writing out exactly what you would like to say to then. Don't edit yourself and make it as raw and as graphic as you like.


If you saw something that day that made you sad, such as someone in distress or a lost animal, write out your uncensored sadness in your journal. Also continue to notice how your body physically responds.