 If the reason you want to close the account is because you are unable to access your account, you can go through the steps to recover your username and password instead of closing the account. Generally, under the login fields of the sign in page, there is a smaller link that asks if you have forgotten your password. Answer any security questions or use a temporary password that is sent to you in a message to an alternate email access to unlock your account.


If you are still unable to access your email account after going through the password recovery steps, call the customer support for your service. They will assist you in accessing your account., If you are closing your account because it has been hacked, you can recover your email without having to close the account. Follow the steps below to set your email account straight:


Send emails to your contact list informing them that your email was hacked and that they should not click on any links in emails from you.
If your computer is infected with malware, update any security software, install software to remove the malware, or take the computer to a professional to have the malware removed.Change your password by going to the settings in your email and resetting your password.
Finally, contact your email provider and complete any steps so they can help you secure your email. , If you do not like the name you chose for your email address and want to create a more professional email address, this may be a good option for you. You can create a new email address through your old email account and the two email addresses will share the same inbox. However, you can send and receive emails with this new email address. You will have the best of both worlds, you will still be able to correspond with contacts who have your old email address, but you can give your new contacts a new email address. If you have Yahoo, for example, sign in to your account, and mouse over the Settings gear icon in your account. Click on “Accounts”, then “Create Address”, and then check the availability of email addresses you want. When you find one you like, click “Choose”. Last, answer the CAPTCHA code to confirm that you are a human making this account, and go to your new inbox. 