 It will take time to update yourself with emerging trends in online media as well as the new opinions and technologies and changes in the offline world, especially if you have patience to hear what new members have to say, they are a valuable source of what's happening around the world. However, it is this very process of gradual conversation with others around the world, with opening your mind to other viewpoints and understandings that will result in change according to Professor Clay Shirky.A large part of what you should be aiming to do is to create space for dialog, discussion, conversation, and brainstorming. Some changes will come faster than others, but the process of getting there is very important. Clay Shirky says that protest often comes at the end of all this careful groundwork, not as a replacement for it.Be reassured that a large part of what you're doing is creating that public space in which people can feel comfortable to interact and express their concerns and visions for a preferred future.


Understand that "If You Write It, They Will Come"; especially if "it" is an idea who's time has come.
 The internet is incredible in its potential and its ability to sustain relationships; who would have thought of using social media for protest 10 years ago? We're at the beginning of using social networking as a means for reorienting our world and these are exciting times. So much so, that Professor of Philosophy Anthony Weston believes that our online social networking presence can create "an alternative to the UN" in which ongoing direct contact between people solves issues as citizens and civil society rather than through governments alone.He even envisions representative virtual districts, in which we our online presence is as persuasive as, if not more so, our geographical presence. If you think that's exciting, grasp that potential and be a part of helping to ensure that all voices are heard, no matter where our fellow human beings live.


Maintain virtual dialog with people all around the world; show interest and care about issues that impact people elsewhere. Ultimately, the global market, communications, transportation, environment, shared atmosphere, and shared values of humanity ensure that we're all interlinked anyway, so this is both altruistic and self-serving at once.
Given that a few revolutions and changes are already been attributed to social media, this means hope to people in other places in need of massive societal change. They are watching, listening, learning, and waiting their turn. For example, while Africans have huge issues of poverty to contend with, the mobile web has penetrated deeply throughout Africa, to the point where Kenyan blogger Brian Mungeli believes that 2011 is "the year of the social media... will make more leaders aware of the power of social media and the highly unpredictable youth who dominate the platforms".Rather than simply "watching this space", social media participants are influencing it too.

