 Some tree species can produce root suckers, growing whole new trunks some distance from the stump. Removing the trunk will not kill the roots, and can even trigger new growth. Avoid this method with these species (not a comprehensive list):


Elms, cherries, plums, and lilac trees can regenerate from roots after the trunk is damaged.Use herbicides instead.
Aspens, poplars, sumac, and black locust form "clonal colonies" of many trunks during normal growth.Their roots are very difficult to control even with herbicides.A local agricultural extension can recommend an effective herbicide treatment for your species.
 If the tree still needs to be cut down, cut it so about 3–4 feet (0.9–1.2 m) of the trunk is still left above ground. This ensures that you have enough wood to grab onto to pull the trunk out of the ground.
Warning: Felling a tree is very dangerous. If you do not have experience and the proper tools, the tree may fall in an unexpected direction.Hire a professional if you have not done this before.
 Dig around the stump using a shovel, mattock, digging bar, or backhoe. Cut through the largest roots with an axe or saw as you reveal them. Clear a radius of about 4 feet (1.2 m) around the tree, or as much as you need to detach the main roots.









Before taking a chainsaw to a root, place a board underneath it. This protects the chainsaw from dirt and rocks.
Once you've made some progress on the hole, spray the area with a hose or pressure washer to reveal more roots., Most stumps are much too secure to remove manually, especially when freshly cut. Secure the stump to a hand winch anchored to a strong tree instead, or chain to a truck.
 Even a hand winch can send a stump flying with lethal force when it bursts out of the ground. Pull in short, slow bursts to avoid this risk. If you are in a truck, alternate forward and reverse movement. Ideally, the stump should pull loose from the ground gradually, and fall gently on its side.
 Some large stumps may not budge even with a winch. For these, you'll need to rent a stump grinder (or hire a professional). These are dangerous machines, so wear protective glasses and ask the rental agency to train you. Here's the basic process:








Clear away any rocks near the stump that could damage the grinding wheel.
Position the wheel a few inches above the stump's front edge.
Start spinning the wheel, then lower it slowly about 3 inches (7.5 cm) into the stump.
Slowly move the wheel from side to side to cut away wood to a 4 inch (10 cm) depth. Repeat with the next section of stump until it is level.
Repeat the process until the whole stump is ground at least 8–10 inches (20–25 cm) below the ground, or deeper if you want to plant a new tree., Pull out any remaining tree roots and fill in the hole where the tree was with soil. Plant grass seed on the top, water it, and you’re set to have a tree-free area that blends in with the rest of your yard.The tree's roots should stop growing and eventually decompose.








