 Why do you want to convert this person to Islam? Do you want to prove to others something? Are you feeling obligated to do it? Has Allah put this desire in your heart? Or do you just really love this person and care for this person and you want him/her to go with you to heaven?;
, Are you a devoted Muslim? Do you put Allah first in your life? Are you a good example of how a Muslim should be? Make sure to have a close relationship with Allah. Attend a mosque every Friday, read your Koran, have quiet times.
 Prayer is the number one factor here. If you want to convert your Christian friend to Islam, you have to tell Allah first! Tell him how you feel, really open your heart to him so that he can see how devoted you are and so that he can help you overcome this victory. Remember to pray daily.
 This knowledge may come in handy especially when it comes to discussions.
 If your friend won't then introduce that person to some of your Muslim friends so that he/she can feel the warmth and love that we share towards each other.
 Showing a good example is also a big key. Be kind, not only to him/her, but to everyone! Always have a smile on your face and always be happy, for Allah always wants our light to shine. Our actions can create a GREAT impact to others, remember talk is cheap, actions are worth so much more.
 Be there whenever you can. If your friend is in a bad situation, don't just sit there and say your sorry, do something for them! That way they can see how extraordinary you are.
 Your friend may not ever want to become a Muslim, but if you just always remember that Allah is on your side, and that anything is worth possible, don't ever give up on your dream...keep pressing forward.
 Having them see and discuss with people who were once Christian will help get your point across.
 You have to be really smart and delicate with how you present the topic. If you're throwing information in their face and drowning them it'll only discourage them.
 Jesus said, "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God" (Matthew 5:9). Point out that Jesus/Isa is the Prince of Peace in the Bible. He calls his followers to bring peace to conflict, perhaps after a war, or peace might have little meaning if it is not applied. We may intervene or interfere in warlike situations. Jesus indicated that we are to bring goodness, peace, joy, love,... with us.

"Finally, brethren, farewell. Be perfect, be of good comfort, be of one mind, live in peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you." (2 Corinthians 13:11)

