 Many places all over the world hold light festivals during the winter months. These festivals feature light displays of all kinds, including art installations, stringed lights and lantern displays, to name a few. These festivals are open to the public and are often held in parks, but the locations can vary wildly. Find out what opportunities you have near you and take in the beautiful illuminated displays with your family.Typically, you will need to pay a fee to attend a light festival, so make sure you’re prepared for that before arriving with your family.
 If you have small children, look into local events that will allow them to celebrate the holidays. These events often provide a wide range of activities, like craft-making, giveaways, caroling and the chance to make/decorate gingerbread houses. Unique and elaborate light displays are often part of these events, as well.Find out if professional photography is an option and get a photo of your child with holiday figures or standing beneath a towering light display.
You may want to arrive to these sorts of events early, since they tend to get crowded fast.
 There are probably several different events like this during the winter season that your family can enjoy together. At these events, vendors set up and sell unique gifts, home décor, clothing, accessories, holiday décor, food, jewelry, stationary and a lot more. Sometimes they are hosted by the city and held in convention centers, but they may also take place at malls and shopping centers near you.Look into your local options and explore the wares and displays together.
 Many areas will put on holiday plays featuring a local theater troupe, or offer some other type of theatrical entertainment that your family can enjoy. Musical performances are often held, as well, ranging from orchestras to sing-a-longs.Check the local movie theaters for special showings of classic holiday films like “It’s a Beautiful Life” and “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.”


Large fireworks displays are often planned in the winter months, especially around New Years’ Eve, so check out what’s available near you.

