 It might be easier to memorize your lines if you first spend some time reading the script closely and thinking about your character. Tapping into your character’s motivations and emotions can help you to see your character’s lines as reactions to other characters and situations rather than just memorizing words on a page. Read through the script and ask yourself some questions about your character, such as:


What is he/she like?
What emotions is he/she experiencing at different points in the script?
What does your character want?;
, Unless you're in a solo show, you won't need to memorize the entire script from cover to cover. Before you begin memorizing the lines you will need to know, it's a good idea to visually identify your lines so you can quickly scan the script and find your parts.


Use a highlighter to highlight your lines throughout the script.
Select a different colored highlighter to mark the lines right before yours, called the cue lines.Consider having a different color for each character's cue lines, if you'll be speaking after more than one other actor.
When you study your lines from the script, you'll now be able to quickly glance at the page and recognize the line that leads into yours (which you may need to respond to), and your own line.
 Depending on the length of the script and the number of lines you have, this may not be as feasible as with a poem or verse. However, writing continues to be recognized as one of the best ways to commit something to memory.Write your lines out by hand. It's more effective for memorization than typing.
Try writing all of your lines in one huge paragraph. Then rehearse the scene from your notes, and practice breaking the paragraph into your individual lines by memory.Use chunking. Don't write out all the lines from the entire play; break it into acts or scenes to make it more manageable., Just as poetry is easier if you focus on the rhythm, memorizing script lines can be easier if you pair your lines with a physical action. Bringing muscle memory into your practice while you do something distracting can help your brain concentrate on the lines and commit them to memory.Try cooking, cleaning, or walking/jogging while you rehearse your lines.
 The best way to learn your lines for a play is to rehearse the lines with another person. That way you'll learn your own lines and you'll learn the cue for when you come in on each line.


Take the time to really listen to the words in your cue lines. This should start when you're rehearsing at home with a friend, but it becomes particularly important to learn the other actors' inflections and tonal shifts during on-stage rehearsal.
Consider why your character says the things he or she says after each cue line. This may help you memorize the words, and it will almost certainly help you develop some type of emotional component to bring the words to life.Remember to breathe while you practice your lines. Your breathing pattern will need to be fine tuned when you step on stage, so practice learning your lines with the proper breathing from the start.