 Age restrictions apply to video games and it is illegal to supply video games to players younger than the advertised minimum age. The Grand Theft Auto series (one of the most famous game series) was meant for adults and is highly unsuitable for children, while the Disney Cars series will be suitable for them.;
, What platform are you using? The Forza series is exclusive to the Xbox, the Gran Turismo series is exclusive to the PlayStation and the Mario Kart series is exclusive to Nintendo platforms. The Ridge Racer series is a cross-platform.
 The SSX series enables you to race in snowboards. The Xtreme Xpress enables you to race in trains. Karting games enable you to race in karts. MotoGP enables you to race on motorbikes. Tour de France enables you to race on bicycles. Need for Speed enables you to race in real cars. Racing games which enable you to drive in trucks are available too.
 Where do you want to race? Do you want to race off the road, on the track or on the street? WRC and the Colin McRae series are played off-road, the F-Zero series is played on the track and the Burnout series is played on the street.
 Do you want open world gameplay? Sometimes in racing games, this is referred to as free roam. The Need for Speed series has this in Underground 2, Most Wanted (2005), Carbon, Undercover and Most Wanted (2012). The Midnight Club series and the Burnout series always had this. The Test Drive series introduced this in Unlimited, while the Disney Cars series has open world gameplay.
 The Forza series and the Gran Turismo series are realistic-simulations. The F1 series is arcade-style, but F1 All-Stars isn't. Some games offer both arcade-style and realistic-simulation as options.
 Is online multiplayer important? While most racing games feature multiplayer, most karting games focus on multiplayer with the split-screen option on a single console (ideal for parties). An unpopular racing game won't find many users keen to play against each other online.
 Not all games support steering wheels, especially street racing games such as the Need for Speed series. Track racing games with realistic-simulation are likely to support steering wheels.

