 If you are focused on money when looking for a job, you are unlikely to find work that really satisfies you. But the value of engaging in work that is mentally and spiritually rewarding goes beyond any kind of monetary value. For instance, if you are a lawyer, you might make a great deal of money. But if your real passion is fixing motorcycles, you might want to change careers to one more related to your love of motorcycles.A job that provides meaning, enjoyment, and purpose is superior to a job that only provides a paycheck. Identify your passions and find ways to make money at them.
For instance, if you love painting, start painting pictures and sell them at local galleries, cafes, and online.;
, Instead of viewing your salary as insufficient, view it as adequate. For instance, instead of saying, “I need more money to obtain a larger television,” say to yourself, “I’ve used my current television for a long while and there are no significant problems with it. I am thankful for the television my current salary has enabled me to buy.”When you stop focusing on money you earn at work, you will begin feeling more appreciative of the money you already earn.
Focus instead on the quality of your work. Money comes from the perceived value you provide to your employer, so by focusing on the quality of the work you do, you are more likely to get others to notice you, leading to increased opportunities such as promotions.
 Instead of focusing on the money you’re making every hour that goes by, you can focus on doing the task at hand to the best of your ability. Even if it’s not your dream job, you can still do good work and be proud of it. Focusing on money can lead directly to wasted time, stress, and anxiety at work.Plus, you might burn yourself out by working too long or too hard., If you’re constantly focusing on money, you will view your coworkers as competition rather than teammates. This could hurt your work relationships and cause you to miss out on opportunities to make friends. For instance, you might be less inclined to share ideas or helpful information with your coworkers in an effort to make yourself appear as the best employee.Paradoxically, focusing on money at work might hurt your chances of earning more money because you will be considered someone who does not work well with others.
Alternately, you might suffer financially if you are focused on money for yourself rather than on how to best empower your coworkers. After all, if your coworkers are not meeting their full potential, the whole business will suffer, and you might not earn bonuses or raises that you otherwise would.

