 Depending on the application conventions in the industry you’re applying in, it may be inappropriate to include your hobbies on your resume at all. The potential employer may find it irrelevant and you don’t want that feeling to be attached to your application.Research the corporate culture of the company you’re applying to. Some companies encourage employees to bring their interests into the creative workplace, for example, Google explicitly cultivates an “open culture” workplace where hobbies are welcomed.A hobbies section would be very appropriate for a Google application.
However, if you’re applying for a position at an accounting firm, the corporate culture may not be as welcoming of your hobbies. Leave them off that resume.
 Whereas a college admissions officer is looking to get a sense of how you might develop over the course of your undergraduate career, a potential employer wants to know, as concisely as possible, whether you would fit into the workplace or not. Don’t dwell on how you feel at one with nature when you go biking every morning if you're applying for a job with a consulting firm. Simply say that you bike regularly and participate in races.



Choose interests that not only mean a lot to you, but also demonstrate the kind of person you are.
For example, “reading” is a fairly generic activity that doesn’t reveal that much about you. However, running marathons suggests that you possess a high level of dedication and that you can overcome obstacles.
"Listening to music" doesn't tell your employee anything about you, but "I have practiced classical piano for 17 years" tells them a lot.
"Volunteering" tells the employer something about you, but it's not as detailed as it could be. Say, instead, that you've volunteered weekly at the same soup kitchen for three years, or that you bring your expertise from your state champion high school football team to bear when volunteering as a coach for community football league.
 For example, a consulting firm may not care about what how biking up a mountain brings you closer to nature, but they will want to know that you have participated in several large-scale races that required dedication and grit in training, or that you suffered a serious injury that at some point threatened to derail your hobby, but that you are not fazed by obstacles, and you worked through it.

