 You can make more intense fog by using dry ice. This process is a little trickier, and there is some potential danger when handling dry ice. Before you start, make sure to gather your supplies.


You'll need a plastic bottle. Any bottle, like an empty soda or water bottle, will work. Avoid using a jar when using dry ice, as you'll need a smaller opening for the experiment to be effective.You will need dry ice. Dry ice can be purchased in large bags at most supermarkets or drug stores. However, you need to be at least 18 to legally purchase dry ice. You do not need a lot of dry ice, so go for the smallest bag you can find. If you're younger than 18, you'll have to have an adult purchase dry ice for you. In general, it's a good idea to have adult supervision when using dry ice as the substance can be dangerous when handled improperly.You will need thick gloves and tongs. Dry ice is very cold and can cause severe burns if handled by bare hands.You will need a hammer to break the dry ice into chunks.
 Fill a plastic bottle about 1/4 of the way full with warm water. Once again, you do not need to use boiling water. Just run tap water as warm as it gets for the project to be effective., Use your hammer to break the dry ice into small chunks. Make sure you wear gloves and a long-sleeved shirt to avoid coming into direct contact with your dry ice. If you're younger, it's a good idea to have an adult break up the dry ice for you., Once you've broken the dry ice into chunks, use your tongs to add a few chunks of dry ice to the bottle. You should not need to add more than one or two pieces of dry ice before a thick fog begins to form in your bottle., Once your fog has formed, you can play with your fog in a bottle. Squeeze the bottle gently, causing small circles of fog to puff out of the bottle. If the fog starts to die down, add another chunk of dry ice.Be careful when playing with your bottle. You do not want to accidentally spill or drop it. It's a good idea to keep protective gloves on when squeezing the bottle.
If the water gets too cold, you can pour the bottle's contents down the sink. Then, add warm water and repeat the process.Never cover your bottle. If dry ice is put in a sealed container, gas will build up until the container explodes.