 Upon notification of a failure and the potential for a crash landing, remain calm and listen to all commands given by the pilot.;
, To fasten your seat-belt pull down on the end of the tether.
 If your aircraft is equipped with a shoulder belt, secure it beside your hip and confirm that the belt runs from your hip across to your opposite shoulder.
, Is there anything that could present a potential hazard? Stow or jettison any articles that could cause harm to either you or the aircraft. If you are wearing eyeglasses take them off and stow them in a pocket.
 In a C172 there are two main doors, one located on each side of the aircraft.
 There is a cargo door located on the left side (if seated in a forward facing seat) of the aircraft that can be kicked out if needed. Both the front and back windows in a C172 are made out of Plexiglas, both these windows can be kicked out.
 This item will be folded into a square and placed in front of your face for cushion just prior to touchdown.
 If you are sitting in the co-pilot seat, the pilot will request at 200 feet (61.0 m). above the ground that you open your door and lock it open. Do not be worried you will not be sucked out and the door will just bang against the cabin.
 On the final approach (or approximately 100 ft .above the ground), clasp your hands together and hold your head in between your knees with your elbows pointing towards the floor of the aircraft.


Note: This position if for seats without shoulder belts. For positions with shoulder belts simply cross your arms across your chest as if making an “X” and hold each shoulder with a hand.
 Hold the position until the aircraft comes to a complete stop.
 You have already noted your closest exit, but confirm there are no hazards outside before exiting. It is extremely important that you get out of the aircraft quickly but you do not want to step out of the aircraft into fire or oil.
 If you are able, bring them with you.
 This is the meeting spot where everyone will go to confirm who’s made it out and co-ordinate the rescue effort.
,, Simply flick the switch to the on position.

