 In each game you play you will need to expand from your base and capture strategic points. These are vital as they will supply your army with Manpower, Munitions and Fuel. Not only do these points supply you with resources, they also increase your population cap for every sector secured by your forces.

Note. All sectors on the map must be secured within your own territory, otherwise you will not receive supply.



 

;
, Before each single player and multiplayer skirmish, you will be asked to select one out of three different doctrines. Whichever one you choose will ultimately decide how the game is played, as each is different to their own. To be able to utilise the assets available, you build up experience overtime, by building and killing enemies. For example purposes, as the Americans you can choose one of the following three:

Infantry Company - Ideal for defensive styled strategies, the infantry doctrine supplies the player with access to off map artillery and Ranger squads. Both of these unlockable assets excel at defeating enemy armor as well as being effective against infantry.






Armor Company - Although sporting the most powerful assets available to the Americans, it is also the slowest. Assets such as being able to instantly replace tanks lost on the battlefield over a period of time give a huge bonus to your army. Reinforcements are also available in the form of an M26 Pershing Heavy Tank, the perfect tank killer for the Allies.






Airborne Company - Perfect for raiding operations behind enemy lines, the Airborne doctrine relinquishes assets such as Paratroopers, who can be dropped behind enemy lines for sneak attacks. Or if that wasn't enough, a P-47 Recon aircraft can be outfitted to perform strafing or bombing runs at the players discretion.
 Like in real life, if an enemy machine gun is set up in an ideal spot to ambush infantry on a clear road, the chances of the infantry pulling through without losses are slim. Therefore when advancing it is important to utilise cover for exposed troops. The cover system works in a colour code, Green meaning the squad is in excellent cover, Yellow being moderately good cover and Red meaning not in cover.


If a squad is caught in a firefight without cover, their icon will flash yellow meaning they are being 'Suppressed' which also means they are trying to engage, but not effectively. If they continue to be suppressed the yellow flash will turn red, and a notice will appear above the squad saying 'Pinned!' which means they are not engaging and will likely die soon. Fortunately you can give the order to retreat to the selected squad. When they are retreating they become uncontrollable, and run back to your HQ with a speed and defense bonus.
 As you play the game you will most likely notice that certain units can be upgraded to maximise their effectiveness. American engineers for example can be given minesweepers and flamethrowers, the latter being deadly to infantry and occupied structures. Some Upgrades are timed, such as AP Shells for the US M1 57mm AT Gun, which fires armor piercing rounds for a short duration, which is lethal to enemy tanks.
 Literally everything you command will rely in some way on your resource pool. Which is why it is important to hold strategic points to allow a constant stream of resource to gather for your army.

