 Try to take routes that have long stretches with few stops with speed limits of at least 30–35 mph (48–56 km/h).


At speeds less than 45 mph (72 km/h), when you reach speed, remove your foot from the accelerator pedal, this turns off the gasoline engine. Slowly depress the accelerator pedal to maintain your speed while keeping the indicator below the ECO line.;
, The Prius is streamlined for head-on gusts and tail-winds.
, A Prius will get its poorest gas mileage until it has warmed up several minutes after starting it.,, The air is less dense and will produce less air resistance.
 It's torturous with any car, and with the Prius, all the stops and starts to waste gas.
, Try to maintain this pressure, plus 2 PSI at all times. Never use the pressure stated on the tire sidewall, as this is a maximum inflation pressure for the tire, without consideration to what type of car it is mounted on!

, For the 2014 Prius you should use 87 octane rating or higher.
 Take your foot off the accelerator as soon as you know you'll need to to slow down or stop. Put your car into "Glide" mode under these circumstances.


Create space between your car and the car in front of you, to give yourself time to stop and coast.
 This alone will show you the direction of what part of your car's system is powering the other. Monitor it.


Drivers get the best mileage when they are able to read changes in the display. By pressing on the accelerator and brakes to move energy from the gasoline engine to the wheels and/or batteries-or to get all the arrows to disappear. This form is called glide mode.
 In other conditions, accelerate quickly until at speed then maintain your desired speed.


Lift your foot slightly and reapply your foot after a few seconds until the Energy display shows energy going to the wheels and battery. This is an especially critical tool to use when you find you need energy (such as at night with the battery at a low charge).
 The battery power will assist the engine, thereby reducing your gas use.



For every mph over 55 mph (89 km/h), you loose approximately one mpg.
,, Use the vent system along with the fan's temperature to properly control the vehicle's temperature. Try not to use the "Max" setting, at all costs. Turn off the heating, cooling, lights and all other electric accessories, as much as possible.


On hot days, set the air conditioning two degrees lower than the outside temperature, or to 85 (whichever is lower).
On cold days, once the cabin is at a comfortable temperature, turn off the climate control. At highway speeds it will maintain that temperature purely by the air rushing into the car's interior.
 It works well on flat roads, and is excellent on non-congested higher-speed highways.


Cruise control is not good in hilly terrain, or where uphills produce aggressive driving and too much regenerative braking on downhills. Give the car a little push on the accelerator when you disengage regenerative braking.
 The Prius does a good job stopping quickly, coast more than stop whenever possible, thereby decreasing the amount of gas you use. Follow road signs, but hold off on braking until the last few moments.


Just like you learned when you first learned to drive an automatic car: Never, under any circumstances, keep your foot on the brake and accelerator pedal at the same time.
,,,,, Don't put the "pedal-to-the-metal" the second the light changes from red to green, or when entering the freeway and/or passing that slow car in your lane.
, Keep your car tuned, engine and transmission fluids at the proper level, and all other areas cleaned (inside and out).

