 Try to drink at least eight ounces of water every 2 hours. 2 litres of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. Your body can quickly lose moisture and get dehydrated by sweating or sneezing caused by a cold or fever. Dehydration can cause your temperature to rise and often leads to aggravating symptoms such as headaches, dizziness, muscle cramps, low blood pressure and seizures. You can also drink non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes, but don't give them to children under 5 years old.If you drink caffeinated beverages, drink an extra cup of water for every cup of caffeinated beverage you drink.
Children and infants should also drink lots of non-caffeinated fluids during a fever.
 Drinking a cup of warm herbal tea, up to 3 times a day, helps promote mucus drainage while reducing inflammation in the nasal passages. Studies show that drinking warm fluids can help relieve cold symptoms such as a runny nose, cough, sneezing, sore throat, and even fatigue. Stick with an herbal tea like chamomile or peppermint to rehydrate yourself. Chamomile is good for reducing stress and fatigue, while peppermint relieves congestion in the nasal passages.You can also try adding a teaspoon of honey or lemon juice to your tea. These have an antiviral effect and help soothe your throat.
 Certain foods can slow down your body’s healing process, impair the immune system, increase body weight and cause inflammation. Try to reduce your intake or avoid these foods which can cause chronic inflammation:Refined carbohydrates such as white bread, pastries and donuts
Fried foods
Sugar-sweetened beverages such as soda or energy drinks
Red meat such as veal, ham or steak and processed meats such as hot dogs
Margarine, shortening and lard

, Certain foods can help reduce inflammation which eases nasal congestion and promotes healing. Limit your intake to green vegetables, whole grains, nuts and oil if you have acid reflux, since fruits with citric acid may trigger gastroesophageal acid reflux, causing nausea, irritation and occasional vomiting. A Mediterranean diet mostly consists of foods that help reduce inflammation, such as:Fruits like strawberries, cherries and oranges
Nuts like almonds and walnuts
Green leafy vegetables such as spinach or kale which are high in antioxidants
Fatty fish like salmon, mackerel, tuna and sardines
Whole grains such as brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal and flax seed
Olive or canola oil

, Drinking warm soup produces an anti-inflammatory effect, promotes sweating and increases movement of nasal fluids. This clears the nasal passages and eases congestion. It is important to drink the soup while it is still warm to get the most benefits. Make your own nutritious soup and eat it 1 to 3 times a day until your symptoms improve or clear up. Here are some ways you can prepare your own soup broth:For a natural low-sodium chicken broth: Remove any visible skin or fat from chicken legs and measure 2 to 3 cups of water. Add the chicken and water to a large pot along with 1 chopped onion, 1 tomato, 2 to 3 celery stalks, 2 to 3 carrots or other flavoring and do not add salt. You can also add herbs like parsley or thyme to flavor the soup. If you're using a slow cooker, cover and cook the soup on low-medium heat for 6-8 hours, or on high for 4 hours. If you are using a stove or burner, bring it to a boil, then reduce the heat and let it simmer on low for 1 hour.
For a natural vegetable broth: Use a variety of vegetables such as onions, parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, mushrooms and tomatoes. Lightly brown them in olive oil or canola oil, then add 2 to 3 cups of water. Bring the broth close to boiling, then reduce the heat to medium-low and let it simmer for 1 and a half hours.
If you like, you can add lentils or brown rice to add texture and a thicker consistency. If you like spicy meals, add a ½ chopped cayenne pepper or 1–2 teaspoon of cayenne pepper powder to the broth.
 Eat 2 slices of pineapple or 2 glasses of pineapple juice. Pineapples are rich in an enzyme called bromelain, which reduces the swelling and inflammation of the nose and sinuses that causes congestion. Don't eat pineapples along with potatoes or soy products, since these contain substances that may slow down bromelain’s healing properties in the body.Some people may be allergic to pineapples, and eating it can make allergy symptoms worse.
 If you experience a sore throat or cough during a cold, drinking tea or warm lemon water with honey can help soothe your throat. Take 2 teaspoons of honey once in the morning and once before bedtime to help reduce coughing. Honey is widely available at most supermarkets and health food stores.Never give honey to a child younger than 1 year of age because of the risk of infant botulism, a serious form of food poisoning.

