 As obvious as it may seem, it's worth mentioning that one of the most important things you can do to reduce the impact of a flu pandemic is to not catch the flu yourself, or at least not spread it to others. A first step in being able to make this small but important contribution is to prepare in advance.


One thing you can do to prepare yourself is to get vaccinated every flu season. While any pandemic that might occur would likely involve a new strain of influenza,staying up to date on flu vaccinations will reduce your chances of contracting the disease.Another way to be prepared is to ensure that you have medications on hand for dealing with the flu if you or someone in your household does contract it. Make sure to have medications on hand for easing the symptoms and reducing a fever.These medications may be more difficult to obtain once a pandemic has begun.
One supply you may not think to stock up on ahead of time is face masks. These items sell out quickly during a disease outbreak, so make sure you have a supply before this happens. Wear a mask when going out and provide one to any family members that are sick or immunocompromised.
It's also a good idea to keep two week's worth of food and water on hand, as these things may also be harder to obtain.Preparing for your own needs means emergency supplies will be available to someone else who needs them.;
, The flu is most often transmitted via tiny droplets of water that are released when people cough or sneeze. During a pandemic (or any flu season) avoid exposure to the virus.Stay away from anyone coughing or sneezing.
Avoid unnecessary handshaking.
Avoid kissing or any other activities that might expose you to other people's saliva.
Spend as little time as possible in crowded places.
 Because people touch so many things throughout the day, your hands are the part of your body most likely to come into contact with the influenza virus.Wash your hands regularly with hot water and soap.


Similarly, try to keep your hands away from your face, especially your nose and mouth.This reduces the risk of accidentally infecting yourself, and also reduces the risk of passing the flu on to others if you become infected.
If you can, wash your hands right away after coughing or sneezing.
 Clean and disinfect surfaces in your home and workplace that many people touch and could easily be contaminated with germs such as the flu.This kills germs that could infect you or others.


Examples of areas to disinfect include doorknobs, microwaves, refrigerator handles, toilet flushers, and computer keyboards.You can use a commercially available disinfectant (or disinfecting wipes), or make your own by mixing one cup of bleach with a gallon of water.You can put this mixture in a spray bottle or use a clean cloth or paper towels to disinfect surfaces.
 If you feel ill, stay home to avoid infecting others. Do not go to work or school.You should also try to avoid going to a clinic unless absolutely necessary, as you risk infecting others. Many clinics have a phone triage process so that if you have typical symptoms of the flu, they will prescribe medication over the phone. If, however, you have other or more serious symptoms, you should be seen by a medical professional.


If possible, work from home. In a true pandemic situation, your employer will likely be understanding about your decision not to come to work
If your symptoms become severe, contact your doctor and ask whether you should seek medical attention., Just as it is important to stay away from other people who are coughing and sneezing, you should also reduce the risk of infecting others by covering your own coughs and sneezes.Cough or sneeze into a single-use tissue, or into the sleeve of your shirt or jacket rather than your hand to reduce the risk of spreading infection by touching things.Wash your hands immediately afterwards if possible.

