 If you're looking to avoid a particular food or food group like dairy, you'll need to learn how to read the food label on packaged goods. This will give you the information on whether or not a food contains dairy and is appropriate for you to eat.


Look at the allergen list underneath the ingredient label. If it says contains milk or dairy or made in a facility that also processes milk or dairy, this product most likely has dairy included in it or may have been contaminated with dairy products it was produced with.
Note that "lactose-free" doesn't mean dairy-free. Only eat a product if it specifically doesn't have dairy listed in the ingredients and says "dairy-free."
Look at the front-of-pack labeling for wording like "dairy-free" or "made without milk." Many vegan, vegetarian or allergy-friendly foods will have these call-outs on their foods to help consumers find dairy-free items.
Also review the ingredient list. This is important when looking for very specific ingredients. It's typically found on the back or side of an item near the nutrition fact panel. If you see any of the following ingredients, your item does contain dairy: milk (and foods made with milk like butter, cheese or yogurt), casein or caseinates, galactose, hydrolysates, lactose, lactate solids, whey, nougat, pudding and lactalbumin.;
, Whenever you're looking to avoid foods with a certain ingredient, making them from scratch at home is a great idea. You control exactly what goes into the foods and you can be confident that your homemade snacks do not contain dairy foods.To start, make a list of your favorite snacks — include foods you get from a vending machine, cafeteria, coffee shop or gas station. This will help you figure out what items you may want to consider making at home.
If you're unsure on how to make a dairy-free version of some of your favorite snacks, consider looking up vegan or "dairy-free" recipes of those items. There are many cookbooks and recipes online that you use to make tasty dairy-free versions of your favorite foods.
Some examples of foods you can make from scratch that are dairy-free include: pudding, snack cakes or quick breads or chocolates or candy.
 An easy way to cut out a big source of dairy from snack foods is to avoid snacking on items typically associated with the dairy food group — like cheese or milk.


The dairy food group isn't as wide or diverse as some others (like the vegetable food group). Stay away from foods that obviously contain dairy, like: milk, yogurt, cheese, cottage cheese and butter.
You can choose to avoid these foods all together and not find a substitute for them, or you can look for dairy-free cheeses, milks, or yogurts so you can enjoy these foods without worrying about consuming any form of dairy or milk.
 You might find some snacks that seem to have no identifiable sources of dairy. However, be careful as many snack foods do contain some more processed ingredients that contain dairy or other compounds found in dairy.


Some uncommon sources of dairy products include: Natural flavoring, artificial flavoring, high protein flour, lactic acid, “non-dairy” products (may contain casein), rice cheese and soy cheese.These types of additives are usually found in more processed foods and snack foods. For example, items like cookies or candy may have artificial flavorings.
Even if you're looking at vegetarian or vegan cheese, you may be surprised to find that soy and rice cheeses may actually contain some dairy components.
Be very thorough in your reading of the food label to ensure that you're not consuming dairy in the form of these uncommon additives and foods.
 If you need to avoid a particular food or food group, it's a good idea to speak to a Registered Dietitian. They will be able to teach you how to avoid the food or ingredient and make safe replacements in your diet.


Whenever you're avoiding an entire food group like dairy, it's important to find out what nutrients are common in dairy and how to replace them in your diet. A dietitian will help you find other foods that are high in calcium or Vitamin D so that you can be sure you're getting adequate amounts of these essential nutrients in your diet.
Your dietitian will also review with you how to read a food label and ingredient list so that you feel comfortable shopping for the appropriate type of snack foods.
You may also want to ask your dietitian if he or she could help you come up with a dairy-free meal plan and recipes so that you can enjoy a well-balanced and nutritious diet.
 Many dairy-based snacks are sweet — like ice cream or yogurt. Swap in a dairy alternative for a satisfying and enjoyable sweet treat. Whether its chocolate, candy, ice cream or even a yogurt, dairy is found in many sweetened treats and snacks. Try to avoid these items as they all contain dairy and dairy products.


Easy dairy-free swaps include: vegan chocolate and candies, soy or coconut based yogurts, dairy-free sorbets or sherbets or coconut or soy based ice creams.
Make dairy-free sweet treats from home as well. You can try: trail mix with dried fruit, a smoothie made with almond or soy milk and fruit, dairy-free yogurts topped with dried or fresh fruit, homemade peanut butter cups with vegan chocolate and peanut butter or chocolate pudding made with avocados and vegan chocolate.
 Outside the sweet arena, there are those salty, crunchy snacks that you may crave in the afternoon or late at night. Although many of these items (like popcorn or nuts) are naturally dairy-free, its important to be mindful of what you purchase and consume.


Some easy snacks that are naturally dairy-free include: raw veggies and hummus, celery and peanut or almond butter, roasted nuts and dried fruit, roasted soybeans or chickpeas, kale chips, and homemade granola.
If you need to purchase some quick snacks to have that are dairy-free try: fruit and nut bars, dairy-free cheese slices for deli meat and cheese roll ups, fruit and cheese or cheese and crackers and dairy-free yogurts.
 One of the nutrients most commonly found in dairy foods and snacks is calcium. If you're choosing dairy-free snack foods, make sure your diet is still providing adequate calcium.


Calcium is an essential mineral in your body. It plays an important role in muscle contraction and the formation and maintenance of your bones.If you're unable to get enough calcium in your diet, your body starts to take the stored calcium found in your bones and puts it into your bloodstream for proper muscle function.
If you're not going to consume dairy-based snack foods, find other foods that can provide adequate calcium like: fortified orange juice or soy milk, dark greens (like spinach or kale), chia seeds, almonds and broccoli.For snacks, try having a glass of orange juice fortified with calcium, making a smoothie with soy milk, dark greens, and fruit, having a handful of almonds or a nut and seed trail mix or even having a small salad made from dark greens.
 Vitamin D is another important nutrient that's found in fairly high quantities in dairy foods (especially milk). This nutrient is hard to find in other foods, so be on the lookout for Vitamin-D rich foods.


Vitamin D is an essential vitamin in your diet. It plays an important role in the function of your immune system, the health of your bones, and the function of your muscles.If you're avoiding dairy containing snacks, find Vitamin D in other foods like: fortified juices (like orange juice), fatty fish like salmon or tuna, eggs, and fortified cereals.
To make a vitamin D rich snack, try: 1/2 cup of tuna salad with whole grain crackers, a handful of fortified cereal or 1-2 hard boiled eggs.
 Besides vitamins and minerals, dairy foods are also a big source of protein in many people's diets. Although it's typically not difficult to consume adequate protein, make sure you're eating other sources of protein-rich foods.


Protein is an essential macronutrient in your diet. Your body needs relatively large amounts of it everyday. It plays an important role in the formation of enzymes, hormones and messenger chemicals, provides structure and support of all cells, supports your lean muscle mass and provides your body with a source of energy.While there are many other foods that can provide adequate protein, try to stick to leaner sources of protein. These are naturally lower in calories and fat and will support a well-balanced and nutritious diet.Other foods high in protein include: lean beef, pork, poultry, eggs, seafood, beans, lentils, nuts and tofu.
Some of these foods like eggs and fatty fish also contain other important nutrients (like Vitamin D) that are found in dairy foods. These are great to use as the basis of your snacks.
 If you're avoiding dairy-containing snack foods, but are having difficulty meeting your recommended nutritional guidelines (like your calcium or Vitamin D intake), you may want to consider taking some vitamins.


Discuss this diet with your doctor and determine if and how often you should have your nutritional laboratory values tested. For example, Vitamin D because it is common for people to be deficient in Vitamin D.
Although vitamins do not necessarily improve your health, they're a great back up if your diet doesn't provide adequate amounts of vitamins or minerals.Consider taking a calcium plus Vitamin D supplement. Depending on your age or gender, you may need about 1000-1200 mg of calcium daily.Vitamin D is often paired with your calcium supplements. However, aim to get about 800 IU of Vitamin D daily.Another great option is a multivitamin. It contains calcium, vitamin D and many other essential nutrients. Taking one daily is generally safe for most healthy adults.