 Since you are just beginning, you might want to go for a longboard. It paddles and catches waves easier.


You might want to try the Greco 2.0. It is perfect for beginners as it's made of foam, so those nasty wipeouts won`t hurt as much as a fiberglass, it is very long, but not too long and it's also fairly cheap at only $250.;
, If you live in places like Hawaii, you can go to a different beach every day and never catch a wave nearly the same. If you live in a place like that, do your research or ask an adult who might know the best location, like a lifeguard. You don`t want barrels or powerful waves. You want a normal looking wave that slows down as you catch it and turns into a wavy foam that can only bring you so far. If you live in a place like Alabama, where you can go miles down the coast and see the exact looking waves, you'll just have to settle for a spot. Probably the closest to you so you will be home in time for dinner. Location, location, location!

, There are all kinds of surfboard waxes. You can find them anywhere near the beach. Wax is an easy-to-apply, well...wax that you put on your board. Any wax works on any board, but if you feel yours is not cooperating, research a little and find the wax for your board. Applying wax is easy. Different people do it different ways. Some rub theirs in circles on their board. Others go East to West and North to South. You do it how you think works best for you.
 Most beaches don't just drop straight down to the deep so try running while holding your board until you get about between waist and knee deep in water. Then just hop on your stomach and start paddling.
 Keep in mind the saying: "Brave the wave". Go straight through it! You won't need to learn duck diving yet because you are in small waves. If you're about past the break, but not yet, what usually happens is you're paddling to an upcoming wave about to break and it breaks right on your head or back! That will surely bring you down and back. Try to wait it out or charge through just in time if you are close enough to the wave because going under could hurt you badly. From coral to your own board, always stick your hand up out of the water first so you can know what's above you.
 Like any sport, this takes time to master and perfect. One way is to place your hands level with the chest and ready to pop up. Then you lift your body up till everything is off the board except your knee and below and your hands. You then push up into a position that little kids use as a dog. Your back should be arched, and maybe even pop a little. Next, bring a foot to where it is "standing" on the board. Your knee should touch your chin. Always be looking straight forward. Then use all your power to push up your other knee and stand. Your back foot should then be facing the side and your front foot straight ahead. Never take all of one whole foot off your board. So just keep the ball of your foot on the board and twist your foot to where you're in the perfect position. Don't rush it, though. The perfect, professional pop-up that is one swift blink of an eye takes months of practice.
 Since you're a beginner, you should not attempt turning. Stay straight, legs bent, arms out, and be always looking forward. When your wave dies down and loses its vibe, it's time to hop off and paddle back out for the next wave. But if you're so thrilled that you want to ride all the way to the shore, knock yourself out!

