 Give beautiful and meaningful name to your child. Holy Prophet (pbuh) suggested two names, Abdullah and Abdul Rahman.;
, On 7th day,aqiqah is performed. Shave off the hair on head and offer sacrifice. Sacrifice goats or sheep. Besides being a sadaqah or charity, it has other social benefits. Narrated Umm Kurz: The Prophet of Allah (peace be upon him) said: Two sheep which resemble each other are to be sacrificed for a boy and one for a girl. (Sunan Abu Dawood Book 15, No. 2830). Circumcise male child.
 When the child begins to speak, teach them Kalimah Tayyibah. It is La ilaha illalLah, Muhammad-ur-Rasool-Ullah" which means,There is no God except Allah, and Muhammad is Allah's Prophet.
 Remember, kids learn what they see more than what they hear. So be a role model for them. Offer Salah (prayers) before them, recite the Holy Quran. This way they will realize you are doing something important and they will try to follow you.
 You can narrate to them the stories of Prophets and saints. These are not only interesting but have a very strong moral messages. These stories go a long way in nurturing the subconscious minds of kids.
 Get them admitted in good schools. Ask them about their day at school. If they have any problem, encourage them to share everything with you.
 The atmosphere in your house must be encouraging for kids to express their ideas, views and thoughts without any fear or pressure.
 If your kids have creative inclination, encourage them to express themselves. For example, your kid has written a poem. Don't laugh.Instead,pat on his/her back. Show that you value their work.
 Friends have great effects on kids' personality so see who they befriend.
 This phase of life is very tricky and needs special attention. Parents should guide them about the physical, psychological, social changes attached with teen age.
 With puberty prayers, fasting during Ramadan becomes obligatory. You won't have any problem as most of the kids readily do fasting and prayers. If they don't, don't force but convince them in a logical manner.
 Sending your child to Mosque for teaching the Holy Quran doesn't suffice, you must spend time with them to make them understand the meaning of the Holy Quran. For this is the best gift any parents can give their children.

