 Note that fulfilling these requirements does not guarantee selection as a finalist, however.


You must be a legal resident of the United States. This means that you can either be a citizen or an alien with a valid passport and permission to work for any United States employer.
You must be at least 15 years old by the program's annual due date. For instance, to participate in the 2013 season, applicants must be 15 by June 17, 2013. Anyone under the age of 18 must also complete a Parental Consent form.
You must be in good physical and mental health. This does not exclude persons with disabilities, though.
You cannot be a candidate for public office. You must also agree to not become a candidate until six months pass after any episodes in which you may appear.
You must voluntarily submit to a background check.
You must be willing to accept full travel costs. This includes the cost of traveling to an audition. (The cost of traveling to Los Angeles for the final selection and the cost of traveling to the location you will be staying at during the program if you are selected as a participant will be paid for by the producers)
You may not participate if such participation will create the appearance of impropriety.;
, Go to the program's official casting website and click on the link that states, "Create your Artist Account now!" Follow the on-screen steps to fill in your name and contact information.Check your e-mail for your registration confirmation. Once you confirm your e-mail address, you will receive an Artist Account number that will allow you to log in and customize your profile.



The audition cities can vary from year to year. For 2013, the cities include Chicago, Atlanta, Los Angeles, Houston, and New York.
Only attend the audition on the day and time you chose. Do not attempt to audition at an earlier or later appointment.
 Your Artist Audition Pass will arrive in your e-mail one week prior to your audition date.


You may also download your pass by signing into your Artist Account.
 Bring your printed Artist Audition Pass and a photo ID. Without these two items, you will not be permitted to audition.
 Only make and send in a video if you are absolutely certain that you are unable to attend an open casting call.


Complete the application form.Your application form will also need to be signed, along with a release form permitting the show to use your video as necessary.
Perform two songs. Do not sing a Capella. You must sign along to a track or other musical accompaniment, but yours should be the only voice that is featured on the video. Choose songs that suit your vocal range and personal style as an artist.
Record an "about me" portion. Be informative yet creative. You must deliver this portion within five minutes.
Burn the video to a DVD. The DVD must be a standard size disc. Label it with your name, phone number, and Artist Account number.
Include a photo of yourself in the envelop. The photo should clearly show your face.
Mail the application to: The Voice Casting, 5914 Smiley Drive, Culver City, CA 90232

, There is no dress code, but you should select clothes that demonstrate your individuality and seriousness as an artist.Wear comfortable clothes. Tight pants that make it hard to breath or shoes that hurt your feet are not recommended, simply due to the fact that these items may make it harder for you to sing at your best.
Do not come in costume. This includes chicken costumes, superhero costumes, mascot costumes, and so on. There is plenty of room for creative flair, but costumes give casting team an impression that you are not serious about your audition.
 Even if you have an audition time for the early morning, there is a good chance that you will be at the audition all day. To prevent yourself from getting fatigued, dehydrated, or hungry, it is recommended that you bring snacks and water.
 You will not be permitted to enter without these two items.


Show your pass and ID to the man at the door. You may need to show your entry materials to several casting officials along the way, but the first will likely be at the door of the theater or arena that the auditions are held at.
Come alone. Friends, family, and vocal instructors can remain outside the doors, but they will not be permitted to enter the audition with you. The only exception is in the case of minors. If you are under the age of 18, you may have one parent or guardian with you at the audition.
 Regardless of the location and time you choose, there will be many other aspiring stars waiting to audition, as well. You can expect to wait for quite some time.
 You should prepare two songs, but you may end up performing only one.


Songs can by from any artist and genre, but they should not be original songs.
Select songs that suit your vocal range. You have one chance to impress the casting judges, so you need to make it count.
Do not include any accompaniment. For open auditions, the casting judges only want to hear your voice. Do no include background tracks or instruments.
Begin and end your singing when you are prompted to do so.
 Everyone within a certain auditioning group will wait in a room together until the casting judges determine whether or not to pass anyone along. Once everyone has sung, an official will state who, if anyone, has made it to the call-back round.
 Even if you are rejected during this round of auditions, you are still permitted to audition again next year.


Practice until you perfect your voice. You can take classes or practice on your own, but either way, practicing is the only way to improve your singing and your odds of impressing the judges next time around.
Keep your Artist Profile information handy. You can log into the same account from year to year and register for new auditions from there.
Consider attending another open call at a later date. If you had a bad audition because you were nervous or sick, you can audition again for the same year by selecting a new open call audition from your online Artist Account.
 If the casting judges liked what they heard, they may ask you to return for a callback audition a few days later.


Come at the scheduled time and date. Be prompt to avoid causing unnecessary delays.
Prepare three current or popular songs for the callback. Do not select an original piece.
Prepare accompaniment. You can sing to a backing track, your own accompaniment, or a one-person accompaniment provided by someone else. If you play your own instrument while singing, one song must also be performed without your own playing.
Wait for the judges' response. By the end of your callback group's auditions, you will be notified if anyone from the group was selected as a finalist for the show.
 This package will be issued to you by the show's producer.


Sign the Participant Release Agreement and review all the forms and waivers that come with it.
Submit the package in a timely manner. You may or may not be given an official deadline by the producer.
Submit to a medical examination. The producer has pre-selected professionals who will perform by physical and psychological exams.
 As a finalist, you have the opportunity to go through the show's different levels of performance and elimination.


At the blind auditions, the celebrity coaches listen to your voice without looking at you as you sing.
During the battles, teams of selected finalists are formed and trained by the various coaches.
During the knockout rounds, only the strongest members of each coach's team will remain in the competition.
The top artists from each team will compete each week during a live broadcast. The television audience votes on their favorite performers.

