 Some states, including Texas and Pennsylvania, allow you to pick your own power provider. When doing so, go to the official state power website for a comprehensive list of providers and rates. Beware, there will be imitations that provide biased information. When reviewing plans you should watch out for hidden fees.


Typically you will need to wait for your contract to expire before signing up for a new provider. Contact your power provider to see how long your contract lasts.
Beware of the difference between fixed and variable rate plans. Variable rate plans allow for hikes in your power price over the term of your contract. They often advertise low introductory rates that will only go up over time. Your state website might have a record of the company’s historic rates that will give you a sense of their average price.
Read the contract closely to see if the company charges if you, for example, talk to a service professional. It is also common to charge minimum usage fees. These can stick you with additional fees if you reduce your energy usage., Sometimes your utility company might make mistakes when reading your meter. Check the meter readings at the end of the month and compare it to what you see on your energy bill. Call if you believe there is a discrepancy.When reading a meter you will see several dials. Read these dials from right to left to get a full measure of your kWh usage. When the dial is between two numbers, you should always estimate down to the lower number. Even if the dial is directly on a number, you should estimate down one.
Even if you find that your energy bill is correct, reading your meter can be a useful way to keep track of whether you have been able to manage your electricity usage.
 Some power companies charge more for power used during specific times. Contact your service provider to see if this applies. If so, you will typically be charged less for power used during the evening. Try to perform energy intensive chores during this period.

