 Quick thirst fixes aside, ultimately your first line of defense against feeling thirsty is to maintain normal fluid levels in your body, or by staying well-hydrated. One of the best ways to do this is by consuming at least 64 ounces of fluids per day. You should consume more if you feel excessively thirsty or if your urine is a dark yellow in color.You can get these fluids by drinking eight glasses containing eight ounces of water each. You may also be able to get fluids from food.
Milk and juice for instance, are comprised mostly of water. Coffee, tea and soda also have water but also contain caffeine, which is a mild diuretic and increases fluid loss.If you exercise a lot, though, you need to increase your fluid intake largely due to sweating, which is the body’s way of cooling itself. Before exercising, consume 16-20 ounces of fluids, 6-8 ounces every 10 to 15 minutes while you’re exercising and 16-24 ounces afterward to replace what you lost.;
, Carrying a water bottle with you can help you stay hydrated even when you are far from a sink or fountain. Fill the bottle with water, a sports drink, or another fluid, and take it with you to work, school, and social events.

It is a good practice to keep a bottle of water with you when you exercise or when you are going to be outside for long periods of time.
Buy a reusable water bottle that you can wash between uses instead of a flimsy disposable bottle.
 Eating foods high in water content is a great way to assist in increasing your overall intake of fluids. Fruits are a great source of water. Watermelon, strawberries, grapefruit and cantaloupe are all between 90-92% water. Peaches, raspberries, pineapples, apricots and blueberries are each between 85-89% water.They can be eaten fresh, frozen or whipped up in the blender with some water or milk (perhaps some ice cream, too) to make smoothies. You can also throw several together and make a fruit salad.
 Not only is munching on crispy cold vegetables a great way to stave off that thirsty feeling, a number of regularly used ones are also high in water. Cucumber, zucchini, tomatoes, radishes, bell peppers, carrots and lettuce are all between 91-96% water, with cucumber coming in first right behind lettuce. Avocado, a nutrient super food, is about 65% water.Eating these veggies alone fresh, as parts of other dishes or together as a salad is best because they lose a lot of water during the cooking process.


With lettuce, eat the outer leaves within a day or two of buying it. Initially, lettuce contains more water in its outer leaves, but it stays longer in its internal leaves., Who doesn’t love a nice big, juicy burger fresh off the grill on a summer afternoon? Ground beef that’s 85% lean is 64% water when raw and 60% when cooked. The “eye of round” roast cut of beef is 73% water when raw and 65% when cooked. The leaner the beef, the higher the water count.Chicken, a dieter’s delight, has a 69% water count before cooking and 66% afterward. Because water will seep out of chicken the longer it sits in the refrigerator, cook it as soon as possible after you buy it.When cooking meat or anything for that matter, make sure to limit your use of salt and spices to reduce your thirst. Both will make you thirsty. Spicy foods and foods containing a lot of salt, like ham, white bread, ketchup, chips, processed cheese and meat pizza, will naturally also increase thirst, too.
 One cup of yogurt is about 85% water. Once you factor in all the nutritional benefits, like its calcium and protein counts; the many flavor options; the low price; and how there’s no preparation involved, yogurt’s star shines brightly among food alternatives to fluids. Add some fruit to it, and you’re golden., Stay away from consuming large quantities of beer and wine, particularly. Contrary to popular belief, you’re not going to the bathroom a lot while drinking because you’ve added fluids – alcoholic drinks – to your body. Actually, it messes with your mind, literally. Alcohol reduces how much ADH, or anti-diuretic hormone, the pituitary gland in your brain produces. This causes you to urinate more, not just the alcohol, but also the fluids that were previously balanced in your body.Drinking more water won't help much either. Your body will only retain about 1/3 to 1/2 of the extra water you drink. Most of it will come out in your urine.It’s this process of dehydration that is the main cause of the dreaded hangover.

