 Foam beds are generally hypoallergenic; however, be careful when purchasing ‘combination-material’ beds. These are beds that may have a foam base supplemented with a feather topper. The feathers can trigger an allergic reaction in older dogs, especially if they are already suffering from respiratory issues., If you own a large dog you may need to add supplemental padding to whichever bed you choose. This is because the weight and size of your dog may compress the regular padding down to almost nothing, leaving little support for joints. When purchasing the bed see if the manufacturer sells additional padding. If not, you may want to simply put a slab of memory foam underneath the entire bed. Again, try to keep slipping issues in mind., Try to purchase a bed that comes with a wide variety of accessory options that will allow you to customize everything to your dog’s particular needs. You may be able to purchase an additional cover to help with cleaning. Or, perhaps a hair-repellant cover if your older dog sheds heavily., Cleanliness should be a determining factor in your dog bed purchase. You’ll need to clean the bed at least twice monthly and more so in the event of any accidents. Cleaning helps to prevent any skin or smell issues while also removing potential parasites. Look for a bed that is fully machine washable or one that allows for heavy spot cleaning.Buying a waterproof under cover or sheet is also a good idea. This is a plastic-like cover that can go underneath the soft top cover.If your mattress starts to accumulate odors, try spot cleaning it with a vinegar and water mixture. Sun can also help to sanitize the bed, but it can also cause damage to foam., Cold is often a senior dog's nemesis. Look for a dog bed that comes with a built-in body heat retention option or a space for a heating blanket attachment. Some beds even come with separate microwaveable heating pads. This is especially comforting for dogs suffering from arthritis., If nothing on the market suits your tastes or parameters you might try to make your senior dog’s bed yourself. There are various guides online to help you design a bed that combines both form and function. Just keep your dog’s safety and comfort in mind.You can make a bed by weaving nylon fabric strips through a raised frame. Another option is to convert a piece of furniture, such as an old open-front TV stand.

