 If you are interested in becoming a monk, your first step is to visit a monastery. For the most part, monasteries are open to visits from potential devotees. Some will allow you to stay for a few days at a time. On these visits, you will learn about the daily routine at the monastery, as well as what is expected of the monks.Some monasteries offer guesthouse accommodations to outsiders who agree to follow certain rules, such as observing curfews and periods of silence.
You may want to consider a monastic retreat, in which you will take part in the daily routine of the monastery.
 After you have visited a monastery and decided that you’d like to devote yourself to this life, you can express your interest in becoming a novice, and move into the monastery. This is practice, sometimes called an “observership,” is your first step toward becoming a Christian monk. As a novice, you will be taught every aspect of the monkhood. Meanwhile, the monks will observe you to decide if your personality is suitable for monastic life.Depending on the order, there may be more than one level of novicehood.
This process can take up to one year, again depending on the order.
 After you have passed your novicehood, you may be asked to become a postulate, or intended monk. At this stage, you may be given more responsibility at the monastery. Likewise, the expectations set for you will be higher. This stage provides a deeper experience by which you will decide that this vocation is right for you, as well as to prove yourself to the other monks., As a postulate, you will be asked to take “temporary vows,” committing you to the lifestyle and beliefs of monastic life, for as long as you remain within the monastery. These vows will vary depending on the specific order, however they will almost certainly involve a deep devotion to God, a celibate disposition, and the rejection of material belongings., After your time as a postulate, you will eventually be invited to join the monastery for good. You will be ordained as a Christian monk, and you will take permanent monastic vows.