 This means that it's great for games with only 4-8 people in it, but is still hectic and fun for larger games. The map is a set in a junkyard with bits of old airplanes strewn about throughout the field, making for lots of trails and shooting opportunities through the filth. This is a dark map, so if you're having trouble seeing you might be tempted to turn on your night vision. We found it is a better move to just turn the brightness up on your television. Since this is a compact map, the game modes we like to play on this map are CTF, Zones, and Elimination.;
, When playing any sort of objective based game, make sure you place one team member up there in the prone position on the side opposite where you spawned. This will allow you to pick off any enemies dumb enough to try to make a straight run at your base after spawning.
 There isn't enough room to need the extra sighting that one can get over an MR-C, so just stick with that if you're going to camp. If not, Auto Rifleman and Grenadiers have a nice role on this map. With such small confines and a lot of turns, being able to unload your fire quickly and powerfully is important.
 Don't bother doing this unless you're playing a game with 16 players or a no respawn rule set. The action on this map is hectic enough that waiting around for someone to wander by will cause you to fall way behind.
 If you go to the north of where the opposite team is spawning, you'll find a small staircase that leads to nothing. If you sit back in that cubby, you can get a clear view of the other team as they appear. Just remember not to fire and give away your position until they are no longer invulnerable.
 It takes place in a scene straight out of Road Runner cartoons with plenty of raised plateaus blocking your field of view and creating an interesting maze. Due to its winding paths and limited open space, the Marksman class is not as useful here as he is in other stages. The Rifleman and Auto Rifleman will find the greatest success here due to their fast shooting and ability to shoot while moving.
 The rock outcroppings provide plenty of cover and you can quickly duck off into a side road if you find someone tailing you too closely. Similar to these trails are three fairly straight paths that run north-south. A good shot can camp out at one end of these and gun down anybody that hangs around in these shooting alleys.
 Don't lay prone because everyone else is going to be moving so much that you'll quickly find yourself ambushed. Instead, run around in the crouched position and always be ready to pull the Left Trigger to aim and fire off a few shots when you see enemy movement.
 One of the best is on the far eastern side. There is a lake there that you can cross to the other side and hide out on the shore. It gives you a full view of anybody creeping in your area and will allow for some great sniping moments.
 It is a fairly small stage, allowing for intense battles even with 4-8 players. The map takes place on a stormy night in a symmetrical dock region and is great for Elimination and Territory matches.
 The added height they give you will make you an easy target for everyone playing and you'll quickly be picked off. It is a better idea to stick to the low ground and travel under the large pipes rather than sticking your head up.
 There are a series of walkways in the middle that are the only way to get across, but doing so will require you to move out of cover. If you're making a run across this area, stay crouched and move quickly. Your team is going to want to make sure that enemies don't have an easy time moving through this area, especially in a Territory match. To do so, look for the raised platforms on the north and south ends of the map. Situate one team member with an MR-C laying prone on the platform and you'll be able to camp for a few kills before anybody realizes what you're doing.
 Night vision works fairly well for finding enemies, but don't run around with it on since you lose some range of sight. We find it better to just turn the brightness up on your screen rather than deal it.
 It consists of a village on the north end where one team's base is. There is a smaller series of huts on the south end where the opposing team will start. Although the village at the north end can give some great urban combat situations, the majority of fighting will take place in the jungle between the two bases.
 Auto Rifleman will find themselves being picked off without knowing who hit them as they try to quickly move into enemy territory. Stick with Rifleman and Marksman and make your moves carefully. Stick behind rocks and don't travel along the dirt paths -- these paths are perfect sniping alleys and you can be sure someone is going to be camped at one end of them waiting for a sucker to try running along them. The platform at Zone A is a particularly great place to park and camp.
 There are three major lanes for travel on this map. You can move through the rocks, down the middle which will require you to move through the junkyard and past some buildings so that you don't overexpose yourself, or you can move through the trench that runs around the far outside portion of the map.
 There are a ton of places to sit down and snipe your enemies, especially if you start at the bottom of the hill. The far west side of the map has a little area that is recessed and behind some fences and houses. You can lay down there and have a full view of the long road leading up to the other spawn point, allowing you to take down your enemies as they appear. If you find this happening to you, spawn in the second point that is inside the buildings and then run around through the trench to smoke the camper out. Campers can also set up shop at the bottom or top of the rocky outcropping. This means that you'll want to move through these paths slowly and deliberately so that you don't run into a trap.
 Like other maps, there are several set routes for moving across the stage. You can work your way through the rocks on the north end. This will protect you from any sniper fire, but you'll have to be ready for anything around each bend. You can move across the south side underneath the two little pools. This makes you vulnerable to some long range fire, but there are plenty of rocks to seek cover behind. Since this is a more open area, we don't suggest running through here with a weapon that doesn't have at least some sort of scope. Finally, you can simply run across the beach. Unless your team has decisive control over the central portion of the map, this is not recommended because you'll be vulnerable to fire from all sides.
 This is easier said than done because as soon as you get on top of it, you'll become a target from nearly every point on the map. To stay alive you have to stay low. Lay prone next to a rock and target any enemies running across the beach towards you. Hopefully, your teammates will be able to protect you from anybody running through the maze of rocks on the north side. If you can do this, you'll be set to win any type of game mode that you're playing.
, Lie down or crouch for more accuracy and hold the left trigger for accurate single shots.

