 RAM comes in a variety of models and speeds. The type of RAM you can get is dependent on your computer. Check your laptop’s documentation, or check the manufacturer’s website for the RAM specifications that are compatible with your hardware.
 Before opening any panels on your laptop, make sure you are properly grounded to prevent damaging your components. You can ground yourself by touching a metal part on your computer case while it is unplugged from the wall. Simply being turned off does not remove any standby voltages.
 Remove the battery from the back of the laptop and then press the Power button to discharge any remaining power in the capacitors.
 Your notebook’s RAM can be accessed by removing the panel on the bottom of the computer. There are usually a few different panels, so look for the one with the memory icon, or check you manual. You will need a very small Phillips-head screwdriver in order to remove the panel.


Most notebooks only have two sockets, while some only have one. Higher-end notebooks may have more slots.
 Most laptop RAM, or SODIMM, does not require matching pairs when being installed. When it is required, it is because the pairs are on the same memory bank, which should be clearly labeled either on the laptop or in your documentation.
 If you are replacing old RAM, remove it by releasing any clamps on the side of the socket. You can release the clamps by pressing down on them. The RAM will pop up at a little bit of an angle. Lift the SODIMM to a 45° angle and then pull it out of the socket.
 Make sure to only grip the stick from the sides to avoid touching the contacts or the circuitry on the stick itself.
 The side with the chips does not matter when installing the SODIMM sticks, all that matters is that the notches line up. Slide the SODIMM into the slot at a 45° angle.


If you have multiple free slots, install RAM in the lowest number first.
 Once the stick is installed at a 45° angle, you can press it down into the base of the laptop until the clamps lock into place. The RAM is now installed., Flip the laptop around, plug it in and turn it on. Your computer should boot up normally. You may need to enter the BIOS in order for your RAM to be detected, or it may be detected automatically when you enter your operating system.


You can run Memtest if you feel like the RAM isn’t performing properly or may be defective.
 Once you’ve confirmed that your new RAM has been properly installed, you can close up the laptop. Reinstall the panel on the bottom that protects the SODIMM sticks.

