 This method will only work on the fabric parts of your shoe. Fabric paint and acrylic paint will not stick to rubber for very long. If you'd like to color the rubber parts, you will need to use permanent markers.If you are only painting the sides of the shoe, you do not need to remove the shoe laces.
 Once you start painting your shoe, it will be difficult to erase any mistakes. Sketch out your design on a sheet of paper or scrap of fabric, then color it in using acrylic or fabric paint and some thin paintbrushes.


Cotton, linen, or canvas fabric will give you the best feel for what it is like to work on Converse. Paper will do in a pinch, however.
If your paint is too thick, thin it out with some water.
 Press lightly, so that the pencil doesn't show through once the paint dries.If your shoe is a very dark color, use a white color pencil instead.


Simpler designs, such as stripes, stars, and hearts will look the best.
If you like cartoons or comics, consider painting your favorite character.
 This will help your colors show up better and make them last longer. Let the paint primer dry before you move on to the next step.If you are using fabric paint, you don't need to use paint primer.
 Paint the edges first, then fill the shape in. If you want to add any details, wait until the paint dries. For example, if you want to paint a ladybug, paint the entire bug red first. Add the spots after the red paint dries. Keep in mind that some colors, such as yellow, will need several coats before they show up well.


If you want the outline to be another color (like black) wait until the very end.If you make a mistake, wait for the paint to dry, then paint over it., You can do the outlines using a thin, pointed paintbrush or a black permanent marker.
 You can also use an acrylic spray sealer. Whatever you decide to use, make sure that it is matte, or your shoes will be shiny. The sealer will protect your paint work and help it last to longer., Your shoes are now ready to wear. Keep in mind that even with the sealer, your work will be delicate. Try to avoid wetting your shoes soaked or muddy.

