 If you are new to string shapes, it can be tricky. The instructions will make more sense to a person who has gotten the hang of it. So, be prepared to start over a few times before it comes easily. It is recommended to try the simple Eiffel Tower before moving on to the elaborate one. Many of the directions in the elaborate method will make more sense if you have tried them out with the simple Eiffel Tower.
 You can use any type of string but it should be at least three feet long for children and at least four feet long for adults.
 It can be hard to scroll down if your hands are 'tied' and no one is around to help you. Before you start making your Eiffel Tower, position your cursor over the 'down' triangle on the scroll bar so you can move from step to step using your palms, pinkie, or elbow to bump the left mouse button. Or, make sure no element on the page is selected so you can bump the down arrow on your keyboard.


If you are using a touch screen device, you should be able to use some part of your hand to scroll down. You might even try using your nose.
 Form a secure knot and then trim off any excess string coming off the ends.You should now have a complete loop of string.
 Begin the string figure by placing the string over both of your thumbs. With your palms facing each other, hook your pinkie fingers under the string so that the string is now looped over them as well. Pull the string tight, but not too tight., This loop should be made on the opposite string where it is going in front of your middle three fingers. Repeat this step with your other hand, taking your pointer finger and hooking the string from the middle of the opposite hand.


Pull the string figure taut once again.
Holding your hands vertically, from top to bottom you will see a downward pointing triangle, a diamond, and an upward pointing triangle.
This position is called "open a." It is the starting position for many other string figures as well., Pull the string figure tight as you do it, so that you don't lose any other loops.
 There should be four strings running between your hands.
, Then hook them beneath the second string on your index fingers.
 Once you have dropped them, turn your hands so that your palms are facing up.
 Return your hands to the original position after you have done this, with your palms facing each other.
 You may need to use your teeth if you are new to string figures and your fingers aren't nimble enough for this move yet. Pull the string figure taut. You now are in the string figure called Cat's Whiskers.
 You should now have strings around your pinkies, index fingers and thumbs.
 This top loop should now be on both your right thumb and right index finger.


Use the fingers on your left hand to expand and move this loop without dropping the strings they hold. This can be a bit difficult but just do it slowly and carefully.
Repeat this step on the other hand.
 Be careful to leave the upper loop in place on your thumb. Again, people new to string figures may find using their teeth to be the easiest method for doing this.


Repeat this step on the other hand as well.
You should see a small triangle form on both of your hands between your right index fingers and thumbs.
 Just simply curve your index fingers and point them down through the holes. Don't pull them back up, just leave them pointing down.
 Rotate your hands 180 degrees around, moving so your thumbs move up. While doing this you will also need to simultaneously take your pinkies out of their loops. The flip of your hands should also release the second loop on your index fingers while keeping the loop you gained from the triangle.


You now have Jacob's Ladder!
This is the most difficult step of this method. Don't get discouraged if you mess it up a couple times. Simply keep practicing so that you can master this movement.
 Move the fingers of your top hand together and then pull the whole string figure tight.You should now see the Eiffel Tower before your very eyes!

