 There may be a larger problem at play if your siblings frequently talks over and interrupts you. A good way to cope this kind of problem is to sit down and talk things over with your sibling. Before you do so, take a moment to write down your feelings so you can express them adequately in conversation.


List past times where you both have argued and/or when your siblings will not stop talking. Create a long list, then cross off any minor incidents.
Focus on the major incidents, such as when your siblings drove you to have a headache, or interrupted a major engagement by talking.
Also, think of what you want to accomplish by talking to your siblings. Where do you hope to go after the conversation? What do you want your sibling to take away from this discussion? What do you want your sibling to take away from the conversation?, In addition to writing down your perspective, make an effort to consider your sibling's point of view prior to your talk. Why might your sibling feel aggressive towards you? What events have shaped her experience? Have you been unfair in the situation at all? In conflict, it is very rarely only one person's shortcomings creating a problem. Try to understand why you may sometimes rub your sibling the wrong way and what you can do to change the situation.
 Sit your siblings in a comfortable setting. You want to make sure your siblings know what they are about to hear is serious.


Turn off the television, and make sure you are not using your phones or computers. Technology can create distractions and take away from what you have to say.
Use a comfortable place like a bedroom, or a living room. These can help because they have comfy seats, and can make the confrontation more relaxed.
Make sure you pick a time to talk that works for both of you. Do not schedule a talk if your sibling only has an hour before work. Choose a time that's open ended, like shortly after dinner on a weeknight.
 It's important to be respectful during the confrontation. Take turns expressing your feelings. Try not to interrupt when your sibling talks. If she interrupts you, politely interject with something like, "Excuse me, but I wasn't finished talking yet."


Do not interrupt when your sibling is talking. Even if she says something that you disagree with or that hurts your feelings, be respectful and allow her to express herself freely.Remember, no put downs or insults. You want to remain as respectful as possible to resolve the situation. Name calling can derail productive dialogue., The goal of this confrontation is to resolve the issues between you and your sibling. You have to be willing to compromise and see things from her point of view. Once you've both expressed yourselves, work on resolving the problem together. Look for places where you can both change a bit. For example, say you fight frequently because your sister dislikes you spending time in your room. You can agree to give her space after school and before bed. She can agree to be more willing to spend time with you on the weekends or before dinner and allow you to come hang out in her bedroom.


Celebrate your differences. As conflicts sometimes come up due to individual differences, learn to value your sibling's input. Agree to disagree on certain topics. You can also take your differences in opinion as an opportunity to learn about another's point of view. Take a genuine interest in where your sibling is coming from and why.
 Despite your best efforts, there may be uncomfortable situations in the future. It's not uncommon for siblings to fight, especially when growing up and testing the boundaries of family relationships. Sometimes, it may be easier to simply end conversations before they start. If you feel you or your sibling getting hostile, simply get up and leave the room.

