 Practicing yoga stretches your muscles, tones and strengthens your core, gets your blood flowing, and can be extremely relaxing.Try a yoga class, or just start your morning with 20 minutes of practice at home (but remember to always practice at your skill level to avoid injury, especially with more advanced poses). Try beneficial poses:Child’s pose, Head-to-knee pose (forward fold): Massages the abdomen and internal organs, and gives a deep stretch to the low back. To do forward fold, sit with your legs straight out in front of you and bend at the waist to touch your toes. Bring your face as close to your legs as you can, without rounding your back much.

Cat-Cow pose, Cobra pose: Gently stretch both the front and back of the body.

Fish pose, Camel pose: Stretch the front of the body and abdominal muscles.

Bow pose: Stretches the front of the body and increases blood flow to the muscles due to the sustained effort needed.

Reclining hand-to-big-toe pose: Stretches the low back, hips, and groin. Lie flat on your back with your legs out straight. Raise one straight leg into the air while keeping the other flat on the ground. Grab your toes and bring your knee as close as you can to your face. You can also use a strap laced around your foot for better leverage.

Note however, that inversions are not recommended during your period. Avoid headstand, handstand, and other poses that put you completely upside-down., Essential oils are natural oils extracted from plant material. They are potent when undiluted. Some of the best oils to use are lavender, eucalyptus, or clary sage oil.Rub the oil gently around your stomach, or add 10 or so drops of oil to a warm, steaming bath for an aromatherapy effect.


Because essential oils are pretty strong, first do a “patch test” by rubbing a dime-sized amount on your skin to make sure you don’t react to it. You can use a palm-full of base oil like jojoba or olive oil with 2-4 drops of essential oil mixed in, if you have sensitive skin.
Many health food and holistic stores sell essential oils.
Do gentle abdominal massage with essential oils to really improve blood flow and ease cramps. Lie down with a pillow under your knees. Place your dominant hand with your palm on your stomach, over top your belly button. Gently apply pressure around the four corners of your hand in a clockwise direction, massaging your abdomen with smooth clockwise pressure. This can increase blood flow to the abdomen and help relax the uterine muscles.
 The practice of acupuncture involves having small, painless needles inserted into the skin at specific places on your body. It is thought to relieve pain by targeting energy at these pressure points. Though acupuncture is not scientifically proven to help with menstrual cramps, many women experience pain relief from this practice.If needles make you squeamish, try acupressure. Acupressure uses the same pressure points on the body as acupuncture with the same goals of pain relief and energetic balancing, except pressure is applied with the hands rather than with needles. Many massage therapists know acupressure points, and Shiatsu massage is well-known for using this system., Called EFT for short, the Emotional Freedom Technique might improve physical ailments, including pain from menstruation. EFT isn’t medically proven to be effective; it is a simple holistic technique that uses tapping on various parts of the body. The goal is to release negative emotional energy, restore the balance of energy in the body, and alleviate painful emotions that can worsen physical pain., Reiki is a form of energy work that aims to promote relaxation, health, and positive energy flow. The professional giving you reiki will place their hands either on your body or almost touching your body in your energetic field, with the goal of channeling positive healing energy into your body.There isn’t scientific evidence proving that reiki works; some people experience relaxation that may help with cramps.

