 When you sign up for Groupon, you can search for deals near your hometown for things like beauty services, getaways, restaurants, and other products and services. You have to be signed in to refer a friend to Groupon.Simply create a free account. You will need to do this in order to refer a friend to the site. You can do so by using your Facebook login and password at Groupon.com or by creating a free account. You will be asked to provide your email and your full name, along with other information.
Once you purchase a deal through Groupon, Groupon will provide you with a voucher. You print this voucher or provide it through Groupon’s mobile app when you want to redeem the deal.;
, In order to earn free money by referring a friend, you will need to put a credit card into your account settings.


The Groupon rules say they won't give you the Groupon Bucks you can earn for referring a friend unless you have a credit card placed in the site.
To add your credit card information into Groupon, click on your name at the top right of the screen once you sign in. Then choose "my account." Click on "credit cards."

, Be aware that you only get the money if the referred friend buys his or her first deal through Groupon within 72 hours.


Simply go to the Groupon.com visitor referral link located within the site You will see four options: Copy/paste referral link, mail it, Share it on Facebook, and Tweet it.
You get the $10 for every single friend you refer if he or she buys a deal in the right timeframe, but can't earn more than $100., Groupon Bucks can be used toward any purchase you make on Groupon. If the purchase price is more than your Bucks amount, you will pay the remaining purchase price.


The friend must click on your link, subscribe to Groupon, and make a first purchase of $10 or more within 72 hours for you to earn the bucks, though.You will need to have your credit card on file within the site in order to receive the reward. Once Groupon receives the referral, the site will put $10 in Groupon Bucks into your account within 7 days of the friend’s purchase.
 Each of the four referral options works pretty much the same way. Each option allows you to refer Groupon to a friend for a potential $10 in Groupon Bucks.If you want to use the copy/paste referral link simply click on the blue button that says “GET LINK!” This will provide you a URL that you can embed on your website or send to friends.
If you click on mail it, Groupon will populate an email with text encouraging your friend to use Groupon. You will need to insert the email address of those friends you want to send the referral suggestion to.
If you click to share on Facebook or Twitter, Groupon will post a referral request on your social media page. It tells your friends on social media that you can earn Groupon credit if they sign up and buy a deal.
 To see your balance, just sign into Groupon like you would normally do by putting in your email and password.


Click your name at the top right corner of the screen. Look at the box on the right.
Occasionally, Groupon offers special deals for referring a friend. Sometimes, the site offers $30, for example, but the standard reward is $10., Read the fine print. There are certain rules that apply to redemption of Groupon Bucks. They are a form of site credit. That means you can’t redeem them for cash; you can only redeem them toward Groupon purchases.


Groupon Bucks cannot be used for some purchases, such as “Getaways Market Pick Hotels” and merchant products. For other purchases, you just apply the Groupon Bucks to the price when you buy it through the site.
You can only qualify for up to $100 in Groupon Bucks. You can only earn the money when friends who are new users purchase something from the site in the 72 hour time period and for more than $10. People who are already members of Groupon won’t count. 