 Pistols are used almost exclusively for self-defense. Thus, you need to consider why you need the pistol and envision the places you intend to carry it. Do you plan on carrying it with you at all times, or is it staying in the house? Do you want something that will stop people and work as a crime deterrent, or do you want something with enough power to end the standoff violently?


These decisions make a big difference on the size, shape, and type of pistol you choose.
Think long and hard about whether or not you could ever pull the trigger on another human. It may seem like a good idea to pull the gun out without shooting to scare a criminal off. But, more often than not, a gun escalates the situation, and will make things much, much worse if you're not willing to shoot it.;
, You must find out how comfortably you can aim a gun before buying it. With an unloaded gun, close your eyes and point the gun in a safe direction with your finger next to the trigger, but not on it, at a makeshift target. Open your eyes — the sights should be lined up exactly where you wanted them. At five yards, it should be no more than a couple inches off center-target.


If you're too low, try a lighter gun. Too high, you might want something heavier.
If the handgun is pointing high or low, this can be compensated for with practice. For example, almost everyone who has never used a Glock before has a high point-shoot location by 6–10 inches (15.2–25.4 cm) at five yards. But with practice, you will find that you can compensate for that quickly.
Sample a variety of guns whenever possible. You want the one that feels comfortable in your hand when shooting, or a "more accurate" model might not do you any good.
 Larger pistols are more accurate than smaller ones due to their fit to the hand, weight (reduced felt recoil), and longer sight plane. They are, however, much harder to conceal and carry, and the added weight may make them difficult to aim and maneuver for some people.


Also called "combat pistols" or "duty-pistols."
Most people will have greater success shooting a full sized pistol, as the recoil and fit often lead to a more comfortable shooting experience.The 1911, Glock 17 or 22, and Beretta M9 are all good examples of popular combat pistols., Smaller pistols are easier to conceal and are lighter to carry, but they trade off some power and accuracy. However, because they are smaller they are often easier to aim, especially for smaller people.


Conceal-carry guns have a length of 4.5-6 inches and are light and small.
Often sold as "compact," "snubnose," or "conceal-carry" pistols.
The Glock 26 or 27, Kahr PM9, and the Colt Mustang XSP are all highly rated conceal-carry guns., The caliber bullet you're shooting does not change evenly with the size of the gun. Each caliber has it's own strengths and weaknesses, and you need to find one that fits your needs instead of just going for the highest number you can find. Beginners should aim for smaller calibers.


Smaller calibers mean less recoil, which in turn means faster and more accurate follow-up shots, but generally less energy and force. A good starting point is .380 ACP caliber bullets, common in smaller pistols.Larger calibers inflict more damage per bullet, but are harder to squeeze multiple shots off quickly. Try out .45 ACP, 10mm, or .357 sig for a autoloader or a .357 Magnum or .41 mag for a revolver., A revolver is easy to load, point, and shoot, and have been popular options for decades. They are also easier to clean and maintain than most semi-automatics. That said, comfort holding and shooting should be your first concern when getting a pistol.

