 If you are in a relationship, it is important to be on the same page as your partner. Deciding to have a baby together is one of the biggest decisions you will ever make. Speak to one another openly about your intentions and desires regarding raising a family.There are many important questions and concerns that should be discussed before starting a family. Some individuals have specific timelines in mind regarding a family, while others may care only about the number of children they have.
Discussing all of the details surrounding raising a family is the first step in emotionally preparing for a pregnancy. It is a sign that you have the maturity needed to become a parent.
If you feel uncertain, that's ok. Tell your partner, "I have something important I want to discuss. I'm nervous, so please be patient.";
, Tell your partner how you feel now about pregnancy. If you are having any concerns, speak up. If you feel ready to start trying for a baby, then make this clear.Try explaining your feelings. You can say, "I feel like we are ready to take the next step in our lives. I want to consider trying for a baby."
Bring this up when you are feeling stable in your relationship. Early on in a relationship is often an unrealistic time to raise this possibility.
If you are at a point of emotional or financial turmoil in your lives, you might want to consider waiting until things calm down. If your partner broaches the topic at a bad time, ask if you can revisit the conversation in the future.
 Remember that this should be a joint decision. If your partner voices a different opinion, tell yourself to listen respectfully. If you don't understand the point being made, ask questions.For example, try paraphrasing. You could say, "I hear you saying that you're not ready to stop traveling for work. Is that right?"
If your partner remains ambivalent, be considerate. It may take time to bring him or her around to your way of thinking.
Avoid badgering him or her, or insisting that you keep talking about it regularly. Give it a rest for a few months before returning to the discussion––this will give your partner time to think about what you've said.
 When you are considering making a major life change, it's a good idea to find lots of information. Find useful and constructive information to inform your conversation. It's recommended that you do a little research first and find useful resources to guide both of you in understanding what changes could occur.A good place to start is with printed resources, such as self-help books, pregnancy books, parenting books, self-discovery books and resources printed by parenting and baby care groups. Such resources will help both of you to explore the health and emotional issues associated with pregnancy, including risks and stresses.
Moreover, be sure to read beyond the pregnancy stage and read about early childhood. Look at sources that discuss how child raising impacts your life.
 Monitoring your thoughts and emotions can make it easier to communicate. It's a great way to help you focus on issues to bring up with your partner. Consider starting a journal in which you can document all the feelings associated with the emotional pregnancy journey, including the decision to try to get pregnant.There is also a more practical element to doing this––it enables you to keep track of the highs and lows of your feelings and moods.
A journal can be many things––it can help you organize your thoughts as you collect information from various sources, it can be a place for expressing your feelings, it can be where you keep price comparisons for all the baby items you think you need to get and it can be a place to keep medical notes too.
Be sure to include information that you receive from conversations with your spouse or partner, suggestions from friends and family members as well as the facts that you absorb from print resources.
 Invest in a suitable method of contraception until you are ready to intentionally conceive a child. The most common cause of feeling emotionally unprepared is an accidental pregnancy. Talk to your partner about the method of birth control that works best for you.Avoid these worries by properly planning when you want to conceive and only remove contraception from your regular routine when you choose the time. This way, you will both maintain control over the outcome and start off with the desire to create a family on your own terms.
Choose the method that works best for you and your partner. You can consider a diaphragm, an IUD, or prescription birth control pills. Condoms are also an option.
Ask your doctor to help you figure out a family planning method that is right for your body. You can also go to a Planned Parenthood near you.

