 The first thing to remember when treating a boil at home is to never try to squeeze it. Never use any sharp instrument like a pin or a needle to break it open. This increases the risk that the infection will spread.Always wash your hands thoroughly before and after touching or caring for the boil.


You can cover the boil with a bandage or with some gauze if it is in a place where is can easily be irritated, such as the inner thigh. You can also leave it uncovered if the boil is on an area of the body that is not constantly irritated by movement.
If the boil comes to a head and drains, gently wipe the area with a tissue, cover the wound and allow it to heal.;
, Warmth can help soothe your boil and any pain. Soak a clean washcloth or small towel with very warm, not hot, water. Squeeze out excess water and apply it directly on the boil. Hold the compress on the boil for 10 minutes. Repeat this as often as you can, at least twice a day, until the boil comes to a head or disappears.


Always use a clean washcloth or towel every time you treat the boil to limit the possibility of contamination.
Wash any towels and clothing that has come into contact with the boil with very hot, sudsy water to destroy the bacteria., Tea tree oil is an antibacterial and antifungal agent that can be applied directly on the boil to help treat it. Dip a cotton ball or a Q-tip into the tea tree oil. Rub the cotton ball or Q-tip gently on the boil. Apply it at least two to three times a day. Tea tree oil is an antibacterial and antifungal agent.Tea tree oil should only be used on the skin and never ingested.


It may also be useful for antibiotic-resistant infections that cause boils.It is also an anti-inflammatory agent., Cumin is a spice that has both antibacterial and anti-inflammatory effects. You can use it as a powder or as an essential oil. Take cumin powder and make a paste. Mix ½ tsp of cumin with 1 to 2 tbsp of castor oil to make a paste. Apply directly on the boil and cover with a gauze bandage. Replace every 12 hours.


If using the essential oil, use a Q-tip or a cotton ball to apply the oil directly on the boil., Neem oil comes from the Indian lilac and has been used as an antiseptic for over 4000 years. It is effective against bacteria, viruses, and fungi.To treat your boil, dip a Q-tip or a cotton ball into the neem oil. Apply the oil directly on the boil. Repeat every 12 hours.


Eucalyptus oil is another essential oil that has antibacterial properties and is effective against antibiotic resistant bacteria that can cause boils.Drench a Q-tip or a cotton ball in eucalyptus oil and apply it directly on the boil. Repeat every 12 hours.
 Turmeric is the main ingredient in curries. It has both antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory properties.Turmeric may be used as a powder or as an essential oil. If using turmeric as a powder, mix ½ tsp with 1 to 2 tbsp of castor oil to make a paste. Apply it directly on the boil and cover it with a gauze bandage. Replace the bandage every 12 hours.


If using the essential oil, use a Q-tip or a cotton ball to apply it directly on the boil.
Turmeric may stain the skin orange, so it may be most useful for areas that are not seen easily.

