 Dog body language is complex and can often be misread. There is no universal sign of anxiety or fear to look for because every dog reacts differently. It is not unusual for one fearful dog to act aggressive and another to run away and hide. Both dogs want to be safe, but they process the situation differently. Some common signs are:


Hunched body posture
Averted gaze/dilated pupils
Ears held down or slightly backwards
Furrowed brow
Whining
Shaking/shivering
Sweaty paws
Loss of bladder or bowel control;
, Most of the time, this will be obvious. Your dog is clearly afraid of thunder, a specific person, a loud sound, or a particular space. Put yourself in your dog’s place. You know little of the world, but you see something formidable. How would you react? Have empathy for your friend., Take your dog into another room if a particular person is making it anxious. Close the blinds and turn up the music to mask the sound of thunder or fireworks. If your dog wants to turn tail and hide in its safe space, perhaps its crate, cover it with a light blanket, to help muffle the frightening sound. Again, the method you choose to employ to calm your dog all depends on what it is afraid of.You can create a safe space for your dog, by opening a door to a room away from the loud sounds or your can crate train it. In the latter case, your dog will come to find its crate to be the most comforting place of all., You want to give your dog something else to focus on — something “positive” and even productive. Does your dog have a favorite toy or chew stick? If so, present your dog with it to distract it from the negative stimuli. Turn a stressful situation into a playful one. Eventually, your dog will associate whatever is causing them stress initially with a fun experience and then later on they won’t be so affected by the negative stimuli (i.e. strangers, thunder, the vet, or other animals).
 Every dog is different. Every dog enjoys different types of petting. Some like soft gentle strokes, while others like hardy pats and squeezes. One of the most common petting strategies is the gentle sweep of the back. Place the palm of your hand on the top of your dog's head and slowly follow your dog's spine to its hips. Do this repeatedly in order to calm your dog.However, be aware that petting your dog can be misread by the dog as being rewarded for feeling fearful. Counterintuitive as it sounds, petting the dog can inadvertently train him to be fearful in future. Judge the situation, but sometimes it is much better to ignore his fearful behavior which sends the message that there's nothing to worry about.
 The dog interprets the pressure like a baby interprets swaddling. It is comforting for some dogs., Many dog owners and animal shelters quietly play classical music to soothe the dogs.