 There are a variety of different styles of vampire over the years. For instance, Bram Stoker's iconic vampire, Dracula, is often depicted as wearing a tuxedo and cape.Other vampires, like ones from True Blood, Vampire Diaries, or Twilight have different personalities and clothing preferences that look more modern. Decide what kind of vampire you want to look like before you choose your clothes.


Draw your inspiration from your favorite vampire movies.
The vampires in the movie "Lost Boys" wore leather jackets which were popular among bikers in the 80's and 90's.Other vampire movies that you can draw inspiration from include, "Let the Right One In," "Interview With the Vampire," "Nosferatu," and "Buffy the Vampire Slayer."Often vampires must blend in with society, but dressing like everyone else may not be beneficial if you're trying to dress to look like a vampire intentionally.;
, The classic vampire look is heavily influenced by the gothic dress and takes inspiration from Elizabethan era Victorian era clothing. If you want to seem like an ancient vampire, then you should search for clothing at antique or specialty shops. If you're trying to look like a modern vampire, however, you can get away with just wearing dark colored clothing.


Another popular style of dress is called "gothic glamor," which is dark colored clothing that is dark and uses a lot of lace.Some vampires in contemporary literature and media wear light white or bright colored clothing to go against widely accepted standards that vampires are dark and brooding.
If you're a guy, you can wear a black button down shirt with dark pants to get a more vampire vibe.
If you're a girl, you can wear black or crimson red to accentuate your dark aura.
Wearing a long black trenchcoat is the contemporary equivalent to a black tuxedo for vampires.
 Vampires wicked sense of style doesn't mean that they don't know how to dress. In fact, quite the opposite is true. In modern literature and contemporary media, vampires are often depicted as well dressed and sexually alluring.Wear clothes that look flowing and natural, and keep up on the latest fashion trends so you can incorporate it into your style.
 Vampires tend to wear gaudy jewelry in the form of rings, pendants, and bracelets. Pick up some jewelry from a shopping mall or look online for variations. Typical vampiric jewelry includes iconography that includes skulls and spiritual symbols like the pentagram and the Egyptian symbol known as the Ankh, which means eternal life.Make sure your jewelry is not silver, as this is associated with repelling vampires., Having a vampire style of dress is not only about wearing dark colors or doing what's traditional. When you are choosing your vampiric clothing, make sure that you inject some of your personality into your style. If you're typically happy or friendly, consider wearing lighter colored clothing instead of the usual blacks and dark reds. You can still pull off the vampire look by accessorizing your wardrobe and doing your make-up to look like a vampire.

