 This is a viable and respectable option in today’s publishing world. Search online for companies that will help you self publish your book. You may want to create an eBook, or you may want to have copies of your book printed. You can spend as little or as much money as you want on self publishing, and you’ll be able to avoid the lengthy process of publishing a book through more traditional means.


Some self-publishing companies provide higher quality services than others. Before choosing a company, look into the type of paper they use, and try to obtain samples of other books they have published.
When you self-publish a book, you still have a shot at getting it published by a traditional publishing house down the road. In fact, you’ll have a sample of your finished book to send them with your pitch. If it looks beautiful, this can give you an edge over other submissions.
 If you have your heart set on publishing your book with a traditional publishing house, it’s best to find an agent to help you through the process. Research agents who work with children’s books in the United States can be found at www.writersmarket.com. Similar agent organizations will exist for other countries too.


Send agents a query letter and a book synopsis. If agents are interested, they’ll reply with a request to see the manuscript. It may take weeks or months to receive a reply.
If your book is not picked up by an agent, you may send your query letter and synopsis directly to publishers that accept unsolicited manuscripts. Research companies that publish books like yours before contacting publishers.
If your book is picked up by an agent, he or she may ask you to make revisions to the manuscript to make it more appealing to potential publishers. When it’s ready, the agent will send pitches to publishers that seem like the right fit. Again, the process can take months, and there’s no guarantee your book will be published.
 Writing a children's book is by itself a huge accomplishment. There's no need to seek wide publication if you don't want to. Sometimes it's more personal to just share it with the people who matter. Consider printing the manuscript at the copy store and binding it to give to a few friends, or to children in your family. Many copy stores have services that allow you to print and bind full-color booklets that look very professional.

