 Sixth grade is a time when a lot of people find themselves in a new school. That means there are many girls who could use some new friends. Put some effort into making some new friends this school year. Look for people who have the same interests as you. For example, if you like to read, look for others who seem to spend time in the library.Smile! This simple act makes you seem approachable and friendly. Others might approach you in hopes of becoming friends. Be open to that idea.
 As you get older, this is a great time to test your new physical abilities. Don't worry that you're overweight--playing sports is a great way to resolve that issue. You'll have fun and get in shape. Plus, you could make new friends.Make sure to choose a sport that you like. For example, if you really want that team spirit, give volleyball a try. If you know that you hate running, you'll want to avoid the track team and soccer.
 Sixth grade is often your first chance to join the school band or orchestra. Try it! You might find a new lifelong interest. Studies also show that learning to plan an instrument can also help your math and reading skills. You'll benefit in more than one way.Being part of a musical group can also increase your sense of belonging. If you've had a hard time feeling like a part of anything, you might just find some new friends in the music room.
 Middle school typically offers a lot of activites that were not available to you in elementary school. Spend some time exploring your new options. Joining a club or organization is a great way to meet new people and a positive way to spend your time.Look for a club that reflects your interests. For example, if you like writing, look into joining the school newspaper or yearbook.
 When you enter sixth grade, you realize that your teachers expect a lot more from you. You can expect harder assignments, and more homework. This can be overwhelming, but if you focus on school, you will soon learn the ropes.Do your homework with your friends. Study sessions are a great way to bond and get your work done at the same time.
Your concerns about being overweight won't impact your performance in school. Even if you're not feeling very confident, you can still study hard and ace that next math test.

