 Career center counselors are dedicated to helping you prepare resumes. They have multiple templates and can guide you in how to write a resume for specific fields and industries. They will give you feedback and advice as you are writing different drafts of your resume.


College career centers often offer resume-writing workshops.
 Before you write your resume, look at job postings to see how employers are describing positions that interest you. Find their key-words and lists of qualifications. Use those key-words and qualifications when they are relevant to your experience.For example, if you see that many employers are looking for “a highly resourceful team player,” you could use that in your summary section. You could also use phrases like “demonstrated high level of resourcefulness” or “successfully collaborated on a team” to describe one of your experiences.
Include specific job responsibilities that you have done, like “compiles and analyzes financial information to prepare general ledger entries" on your resume.
Use this information to tailor your resume to whatever jobs you are applying to.
 Find a template that will help you emphasize your education, skills, and experiences. There are online templates available from many university career centers. Start with the most important information at the top so employers can’t miss it. Keep reader interest by describing your skills and experiences with action verbs.Some sections that appear in student resumes are: summary or objective, education, related experience, related coursework, activities/leadership, honors and awards, skills.
 Employers will appreciate a clean, professional-looking resume. Keep your resume to one page and use 1 inch (2.5 cm) margins so it is easy to read. Highlight important information and section headings by using italics or boldface. Make it easy to skim by organizing information with bullet points instead paragraphs.Keep it concise because you only have one page.
Proofread it very carefully. You can also ask a professor or someone in career services to do a final review.
Use a standard font.

