 To begin with, you can use a portable lightweight field box. It should be small and sturdy; easy to travel around with. You buy it empty and fill it up with your own choice of colours. It makes a good investment and if you change your mind about the colours that you have bought, it is easy enough to change them.


Alternately, watch for artist grade field box sets on clearance or deep discount sales. If the color range has two yellows, two reds, two blues, a gold color like yellow ochre, a reddish brown and a dark brown then the set will give you the basic colors you need. One or two greens in it may be useful. White is "body color" that may be useful for adding light details on dark areas. If you want to change the colors later, "half pans" of pan watercolor are all the same size so you can pull out a color you don't use much and replace it with a new one you've learned to love.
Sometimes a set with a good field box is cost effective even if it's more than getting the same colors in a simple box if it's well designed and has extra features like a water bottle, snap in travel brush, folding palette sections. Watch for those on sale and if you're not fond of the paints, feel free to swap in half pans of good paint in other brands. "Full pans" are larger and take the space of two half pans in a watercolor box.
You can also refill empty half pans from tubes of watercolor paint. If you change the color or brand, be sure to rinse out the remnants of the old paint before adding more. Fill it, let it dry and see the surface sink. Then add more till it's filled up by pouring. If it's the same brand you can add more before it's completely empty.
If you live in a very hot and dry climate, the best option would be to purchase tube colour paints. Or if you're fond of using paint strong, direct from the tube. Some painters prefer using tube paints for their consistency.

Use tube watercolour paints on a plastic, lightweight palette; it's easy to hold and not too heavy. These palettes are also good if you prefer bringing more colors out into the field, they have many small slants to hold paint and large mixing areas in the middle once open.


At home a large palette with a cover may be convenient. Porcelain palettes are expensive in large sizes but also come in smaller forms like the traditional seven well "flower palette." Porcelain has the advantage that it never stains, weighs more and is less likely to get knocked off the table. Plastic is lightweight. Covered palettes may let you keep paint moist rather than letting it dry out completely, though most watercolors will reactivate if you put water on the dried blob and let it soak for an hour.
The bigger boxes are more suitable for indoors, as they are too bulky to cart around with you on field trips. This depends on your transportation, your setup and the weight of the box. Judge how compact the box is and its weight when full against how far you'll walk carrying it before you settle down to paint. A tin with 48 half pans might be quite small compared to a large metal palette with forty or more slants in it.;
, You need one good brush; spend a bit of money on getting good quality. Buy a few more if you can afford it but you don't need a huge selection of brushes.
If you can afford it, Kolinsky sable brushes are lifetime brushes when properly cared for. If not, consider looking for top quality synthetic or synthetic/sable blends. You may replace good synthetics more often but they can be just as good for a year or two.


For your brush, look for one that has a wide "belly", so that it will hold and carry plenty of colour and that also comes to a fine point.
You can make a handy holder for your brushes out of a bamboo mat. This allows you to roll up the brushes and tie them together for ease of carrying.
 These are very useful for a watercolor artist.


Ensure that you also get a propelling pencil, one that has a reasonably soft lead.
 You can never have too many sketchbooks, in different shapes and sizes.


But whatever the size, the best type is spiral bound, as these are easier to use outdoors. You can open them out flat and they come in different sizes and different qualities of paper; heavier paper will take colour well, so that you are able to experiment with your paints. Look for "multi media" journals that have sizing on the pages to accept water. They allow more big washes and more freedom in your watercolor sketching than drawing paper.
 Watercolor paper comes in sheets, pads or blocks. Each of these forms have different advantages. 100% rag watercolor paper is best, although some good mixed papers can also be effective. Get the best paper that you can afford because good paper will respond better to your early efforts. Many beginners get discouraged when cheap materials don't give good results.


Full sheets can be cut to half sheet or quarter sheet size for large finished paintings, suitable for your portfolio or framing and placing in galleries. They allow you to work large and are sometimes less expensive, though buying by mail order or online you may need to buy a minimum number of five or ten sheets. The disadvantage of loose sheets is that they need to be "stretched" - soaked in water, then taped or stapled to dry out on a drawing board that's wood or Gatorboard. This is a lot of physical work for a beginner but useful to know. Stretching watercolor paper also removes some of the sizing and makes it more absorbent.
You should also get some watercolour paper in pad form, spiral bound with loose sheets which you can remove once you've done your work. This is handy and convenient but presents a problem you might notice in some sketch books too. Large wash areas and using a lot of water on it may make it "Cockle" and bubble up irregularly. Sometimes it won't even dry flat. One way to help reduce this problem is to sketch out a picture area smaller than the size of the pad by an inch or two on all sides, so there's dry paper around the wet area to help flatten it. Another is to weight down the edges of the paper while it's drying by stacking books on it.
Watercolor blocks are extremely convenient, especially for working outdoors. They're bound like a pad on all four sides with a little inch on one side left unbound. With all four edges gummed down tight, they may bubble up but will dry completely flat.
Look at the weight of the paper. It will say 90 pound, 140 pound, 300 pound or even 400 pound. This is the weight of a stack of 500 sheets of a certain really big size, not how much your pad weighs! 90lb paper is very light, common in student papers and multi media sketchbooks. It's not suited to very heavy washes unless you leave plenty of space to the edges and you may have to flatten it afterward but it's fine for watercolor sketching. 140lb watercolor paper is a good standard weight - quite thick, heavier than cardstock and will usually flatten out again even if it cockles. 300lb paper and heavier is almost like cardboard and has a different feel, it's useful for some types of paintings because it can be very absorbent and you almost don't need a backing board for it.
Choose the surface of your watercolor paper. Hot Press is very smooth, like computer paper. It's good for illustrations and styles where you may use fine line pen drawing with watercolor effects. It's hard to get broken color or dry brush effects on Hot Press. Cold Press is standard and it's what most inexpensive pads are. It has a medium texture that gives some broken color and texture interest but the peaks and valleys aren't so large that you can't work small. Rough watercolor paper has very large texture patches, big dips and peaks in the surface. It's good for working large, creating texture effects and doing various other special effects techniques. Each of these textures has its own best techniques and its own look when painted, so test them and discover what suits your style - or whether you like choosing the paper to fit a specific painting.
Watercolor boards are another possible surface. They're either paper bonded to an archival board or a special water-absorbent gesso formula applied to MDF or archival boards. They have the advantage they don't need stretching and will not cockle at all.
Watercolor ground can be applied to different surfaces to create a surface you can use watercolors on. This can be useful if you want to put a painting on the cover of your hardcover sketchbook or something.
 There is no need to spend a fortune on these extra items. Keep it simple:


a bottle of water; and
a collapsible pot for outdoors. Use two pots of water - one clean for adding water to washes and wetting your brush, one dirty for cleaning brushes. Some artists use three so that as the clean one gets dirty there's a second clean one to rely on.
At home these water pots can just be jelly or peanut butter jars, cups, short fat drinking glasses, anything handy. Some artists find some of their favorite water containers at yard sales!
Indoors, you may find a brush washer system useful. It's a plastic square or rectangular water bucket with two or three compartments. One will have angled notches where you can rest your brush with the hairs under the water but not actually leaning on the hairs, the other side has ridges to scrub your brush against to clean off thick paint. These are useful for watercolor and acrylics, for oil paints the brush washer systems are different. It's similar to the two jar system but has some perks to make brush washing easier.
Set out a mixing dish or palette. The plastic palettes for use with tube paints have mixing areas and so do field boxes. At home though, you can supplement these or just use a cheap ceramic or glass plate. Plastic plates can also work but these may become stained a lot easier than ceramic, glass or Corelle.
Extra cups for mixing large washes like sky color are useful. Choose a clear cup or one with a white interior so you can accurately judge the strength of the wash. For pouring effects you may need several of these, yard sales are a good choice.
 Each has its advantages. A watercolor easel is designed so that it can tilt completely flat or at any angle - this allows an experienced painter to let paint deliberately run, or colors poured into earlier washes to move in the direction you want. A table is just convenient. Outdoors, field easels are usually lightweight and can double for holding other types of painting equipment outdoors. Indoors, a multifunctional easel that can lay flat will serve for watercolors as well as oils, acrylics and pastels. Or just work on a table indoors. If you use a drawing board with stretched paper, you can put it at a slant to let water run by stacking books under the high end and prop something heavy in front of it so it won't slide off. Watercolor easels work very well with watercolor blocks. The lightweight outdoor ones are cheaper, so the budget minded could just use the outdoor easel at home and tuck it away in the closet when you're done.

