 Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to make a part just above your left and right eyebrow. Angle both of the parts so that they meet at the back-center of your head. Gather the hair between those two parts and clip it out of the way. This is the hair that you will be leaving long.You can leave the section as wide or as narrow as you want it to be.;
, You need to cut everything from the parts that you made, downward. Use a clipper fitted with a #2 guard and an upward motion. Don't worry about being too neat here; you will clean everything up later.If you are doing this yourself, use a 3-way mirror to check your work on the sides and back of your head.
 Take the guard off of your clipper and set it to the shortest setting possible. Hold it horizontally at your left temple, about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) above your ear. Move it along the side of your head, towards the back-center of your neck. Repeat this step for the right side of your head., Continue using your clippers with no guard for this step. Keep them set to the shortest setting, and only shave the hair that's below the outline., Fit your clipper with a #1 guard. Use an upward motion to shave everything between the outline and the parts you made in the beginning., You will have a noticeable difference between the top and bottom sections of your fade. Remove the guard from your clippers and over them. Next, fit your clippers with a #0 guard to blend out the bottom. Keep blending until the fade is smooth and even. At the very end, use no guard and the shortest setting to tidy everything up., Ruby Rose has some lines sculpted into her fade. There is a short, horizontal line at her temple, and another that runs down the side of her head, towards the back. You can choose to copy these exactly, or create your own design. Decide on the look you want, then cut the lines into your fade with hairdressing scissors., Take the guard off of your clippers and set them to the shortest length. Holding the clippers horizontally, go over the lines. Try to make them as thin as possible., Ruby Rose has longer hair at the top of her head, but not too long. Use a pair of hairdressing scissors to but it down to about 5 to 6 inches (cc to 15.24 centimeters) long.If your hair is very thick, you may need to thin it using thinning scissors.
To get the exact look, cut the top at a slight angle. You want one side to be a little longer when you slick it to the side and back., All that shaving likely left a lot of short, itchy hairs all over your back, neck, and shoulders. Hop into the shower, and rinse them off. Get your hair wet as well; you will need it wet in order to style it.
 Choose your favorite product that adds volume and body. Apply it to the top part of your hair (the part that you left long)., If you want more of a quiff, use your fingers to lift your hair upwards from the roots. This will give it extra lift and volume.You don't need to blue dry the shaved parts of your hair; it will dry quickly on its own.
 For a smoother, slicked back style, blow dry your hair straight using a comb. For more voluminous quiff or pomp, get out a round brush. Wrap the front part of your hair around the brush, upwards and away from your face. Blow dry it, then blast it with cool air to set the style. Carefully pull the brush out., Apply the product to your hands first. Rub it between your palms, then distribute it through your hair. To get more of a quiff or pomp, brush your hair up and back, then use your fingers to tousle and spike it.To get the classic Ruby Rose look, brush your hair off to the side and back.


Only apply the product to the long part of your hair, not the fade.
Set the style with a long-lasting hairspray, if needed.

