 Open Word and open a new document with a blank 8.5 x 11 letter-size sheet (which is standard). This will be the canvas you work on to create your own design.;
, For the easiest design, you can fit two half-sheet sized invitations per sheet. To do this, orient your page landscape, or sideways. At the top of the screen click Page Layout, then Orientation, and then select Landscape., Click the Insert tab at the top of the screen. Then select the Shapes drop-down menu. Pick a shape to create a border, such as a rectangle, a rounded rectangle, or an oval. Click and drag to create an area about half the size of the page.You’ll want to only use half the page so that later you can copy and paste your design to the other side, so you can print two copies per sheet.
 It is probably best to keep your background white, for readability. If your box is filled with color, select Shape Fill from the Format tab, or click the picture of a box with no filling inside. To change the color of the border line, click Shape Outline.If you don't want a white background, choose another light color like yellow so the invitations are easy to read.
 Have a little fun and make unique effects for our invitations. You can click Shape Effects to give the border shadow or a glow. You can also make a box that is filled with something then create a white box within it. To explore the options for filling the box, select Shape Fill and play around with adding a gradient or texture.Remember, you can always click the "Undo" button if you dislike something you create. Feel free to experiment a little until you get the effect you want.
 To make a stylized title, click Insert then WordArt then type your title: “It’s a Boy!” You can also insert a Text Box which will offer a cleaner text that you can still edit. Customize your WordArt or regular text by changing the font, font size, and font color under the Home tab.To create a text box, click the Insert tab on the top tool bar. Select "Text Box." Click "Draw Text Box" and use your cursor to create a text box in your desired shape and size in your document.Use a variety of stylized texts to include all the important information. If you want to include the baby’s name, you might want to do it in a different color or font than the main title.
If you find some of your objects are being moved around by the placement of other objects, such as text, select the object then open the Format tab. Then click Wrap Text then “In Front of Text.”

, Open the Insert tab, then click Clip Art, which will have a lot of stock image and cartoon options. If you want to insert a photograph, select Picture, then find the photo’s location on your computer.Arrange your image and title as you see fit by dragging and dropping them into position. Experiment until you find a design you like.
 Include all the essentials such as guests of honor, date, time, location, RSVP info, and gift registry information. This time, use a text box rather than WordArt so that it doesn’t steal attention from the title. Make sure to double check the information you include for accuracy.
 When you have all the necessary information and images that you want, make sure everything is centered according to the border. Then, go to Home and Select in the far right side of the screen. You can click “Select Objects” and draw a box around your invitation design, or you can choose “Select All” if the images and texts are the only thing on the page.Once everything is selected, right-click on one part of it and choose Group. This will make everything one object that can be moved without changing the position of the different parts.
 With your group design selected, hit Ctrl + C on a PC or Command + C on a Mac to copy it. Then hit Ctrl + V or Command + V to paste it. Move the copied design to the other, empty side of the page.
 You can save your document as a document, or you can also save it as a template for later use. To do this, click on File then Save As. On the Format or “Save as type” pop-up menu, select Word Template. In the Save As or “File name” box, type the name of your template: “Baby Shower Invitation.” Click Save., Print your invitations on cardstock, or thicker paper. Go for card stock paper between 80 and 110lb for the sturdiest invitations. Since you have two copies per sheet, you will need to cut your invitations in half. Use a paper cutter or bring them to a copy shop to do it for you.