 Supplements are often used to support people who have gone through the stress of a wound. Cortisol, which is a hormone released when the body is stressed due to injury, burns, and infections, causes a decrease in glutamine. Some studies suggest that glutamine supplements help your immune system, which helps you fight against the adverse effects of wounds.Glutamine also helps reduce infections. The innate muscle recovery properties of glutamine also make it extremely effective with patients who have suffered from burns or undergo surgeries., Glutamine is a popular bodybuilding supplement. Just like when the body goes through stress due to injury, your body goes through stress when you build muscle. There is a short-term break down of muscle, and glutamine along with other amino acids are the building blocks of the new muscle that will be built post work out. The common thought is that it helps recharge and strengthen muscles that are overly taxed by exhaustive exercise.Although this is a popular method, there have been no conclusive studies with evidence for its use in bodybuilding., Patients with cancer often have low levels of glutamine as well as other macro- and micronutrients. Due to this deficiency, research is being done as to how glutamine supplementation may help cancer patients. Currently, it is used for malnourished patients who are going through treatment as well as for patients receiving bone marrow transplants.


Some studies indicate it may help with stomatitis, which is an inflammation of the mucosa of the mouth, and diarrhea associated with chemotherapy. , There are a few other conditions that researchers believe are helped by glutamine. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, may be helped by glutamine supplements.This is because glutamine plays a role in protecting the mucosa, which is the lining of GI tract.Take one 5g tablet, six times a day by mouth for up to 16 weeks. The amount of time for this dosage is limited because it is a much higher dosage than normal.


Although there is some evidence that glutamine helps with diarrhea and inflammation of mucosa near the mouth, studies have not yet shown that it helps with other digestive conditions such as Crohn's disease.Glutamine may also be helpful in promoting weight gain in patients with HIV/AIDS. A few studies indicate that glutamine, in addition to other supplements, may lead to weight gain and an increase in muscle mass. This is helpful since patients with HIV/AIDS often suffer severe weight and muscle loss. In addition, it may help these patients absorb nutrients better, which is a consideration with this condition.