 Bedlington Terriers are lively, playful, and inquisitive. They are loyal, but can be headstrong when stimulated. They are typically easy to train and very adaptable.These dogs usually enjoy peacefully relaxing with people and are good pets for all ages. If you have children, this is a good choice of dog for you.;
, Generally white, Bedlingtons have a non-shedding coat which can make them better pets for allergy sufferers. Since they shed very little, they also make less of a mess in the house.They are especially good for people with allergies if you get them groomed regularly. This will cut down on the pet dander in your house even more.
 Their thick and linty coats need brushing or combing twice a week at least, so ensure you have time to do this if you are going to choose a Bedlington Terrier. Your dog's coat will need a trim every 6-8 weeks too.You don't have to go to the groomer if you don’t want to; you can learn how to trim your dog yourself.
 Bedlingtons need around one hour of exercise per day and they live, on average, between 11 and 16 years. Being Terriers, Bedlingtons do like to dig – so they need some supervision while playing outside.They are also speedy little dogs and have been compared to Whippets when running. This means that you’ll need to take your Bedlington Terrier to the dog park regularly if you don’t have a fenced-in yard for it to run around in.
 It is important that you find a legitimate and ethical breeder to purchase your puppy from. This will help you avoid the health problems of puppy mill puppies. If you want, you can contact a breed club, such as the Bedlington Terrier Club of America, to locate an approved or recommended breeder.

You may want to find a breeder that registers their dogs with a kennel club, such as the American Kennel Club or the United Kennel Club. These organizations have strict requirements about the health and genetics of the parents and puppies that are registered.
If you know someone with a Bedlington Terrier, you can ask them where they got their dog. They may be able to recommend you to a good breeder.
 If possible, try to see the mother and father of the puppy. All puppies are adorable; we are "hard wired" to be attracted to infant mammals, so don't fall for the first one you see. When in doubt, wait, because there will always be another adorable one to consider.Look around – is the area clean, are the animals healthy, does it smell hygienic? Do the puppies look like they want to play or are they cowering in the corner?
Are the puppies clean? Any sign of diarrhea (wet or dirty hair around their bottom), are their eyes clear (no redness or matter on the lids), is the nose clean or crusted with mucus?
Is there a place set aside for you to take the puppy to watch him walk or play with toys?
What is their policy about a health guarantee? Have the puppies been checked out by a local veterinarian? A good breeder will require that you take the puppy to your vet within 24 hours (or the next business day) to make sure the pet is healthy at purchase.
Ask the breeder what they can tell you about the dog you are interested in. Also ask about the parents. Will the breeder let you see the health records of the parents? If they can't tell you anything, be careful.
Avoid buying from a pet store. Pet stores get their puppies from "puppy mills", where the parents are not treated well, so be alert for any signs the staff are just there to sell animals but don't really care about them.
 Ask the staff to take the puppy from the cage so you can look at him. Try to set him on the floor so you can see him move. He should seem alert and interested in what is going on around him. He should want to chase after a toy if it is placed in front of him.Pick him up and turn him on his back in your arms. Is he cooperative or does he fight to not be turned over? A dog with a trainable personality should resist for a moment but eventually lay on his back in your arms without struggling.

Rub his tummy and see if he likes it; he should. A dog that cowers in the corner and is afraid to be picked up can be difficult to handle as it grows up; he may bite when he is inappropriately fearful and avoid being with people.
While you have the puppy in your arms, gently feel his tummy and bones. A bulge at the bellybutton can be a hernia that could need surgical repair. Puppy bones are soft, but you can feel for any unusual angles or bulges on his legs where there may have been injuries. Even if you are taking him to your vet the next day, it is hard to return a sick animal that you have already started to care about.
 If you don’t want to purchase a puppy, try to find a well-known Bedlington Terrier rescue group. You can find tons of healthy, pure-bred, and trained dogs there at a fraction of the cost (you usually only have to pay an adoption fee).Search on the internet for well-respected rescue/adoption groups for Bedlington Terriers.
This also allows you to rescue the dog and give it a loving home.
 Bedlington Terriers are prone to certain eye disorders. While this is not a hugely common issue among Bedlington Terriers, it is more common among Bedlingtons than other breeds. You will need to watch their eyes carefully and notify your vet if you notice anything unusual about their vision or their actual eyes. The most common eye diseases that affect this breed are retinal dysplasia, cataracts, and eyelash/tear duct abnormalities.
You should inspect your Bedlington Terrier’s eyes before choosing to purchase or adopt the dog, just to be on the safe side. Look into their eyes. A healthy dog will have clear eyes with no discharge or crusts around the eyes. To determine if they can see well, hold a toy in your hands and move it in front of the dog. The dog should be able to follow it with their eyes.
 One problem you may encounter is the condition Copper Toxicosis, a disorder of copper accumulation that can result in severe liver disease. Unfortunately, it is hereditary and the condition cannot be ignored. The dog's prognosis depends on the severity of the symptoms as well as how quickly they developed. Older dogs will often have a chronic type of disease that develops progressively over time. With treatment, they generally have a better prognosis than sudden, acute, and/or severe onset, which typically appears in younger dogs.Some common signs of liver disease in Bedlington Terriers include lethargy, depression, anorexia, vomiting, yellowish discoloration of the skin, or excessive thirst.
Bedlington Terriers can be tested for the genetic mutation that causes this condition. You may want to have your vet test the dog to see if they carry the genetic mutation for this disease.
 Healthy Bedlington Terriers typically weigh between 17 lb (7.7 kg) and 23 lb (10 kg). A generally healthy dog with a good appetite, the Bedlington can be fed twice a day on dry or tinned food. A healthy animal has no special dietary requirements.A lower (or higher) weight can be a symptom of a health problem.
Providing a healthy, balanced diet for your dog will help prevent health issues in the future.

