 The first step in becoming more efficient is to figure out how you can best spend your time. To do that, you need to set some clear goals. Establishing your priorities is the best way to do that, as it requires you to think about what is most important to you.Ask yourself several questions in order to determine your priorities. They can be big questions, such as "What are the most important parts of my life?" or "What is the most important thing I want to accomplish?"
Consider your emotions when you are thinking about your priorities. Ask yourself, "What makes me happy?" and "Who do I respect?";
, Once you have thought about your priorities, you are ready to set some specific goals. Make sure they relate to your priorities. For example, if your priority is "Have a fulfilling career", a good goal would be "Getting into a good college."Set big goals, such as college, and smaller goals, such as getting good grades this semester. This will help you keep the big picture in mind while focusing on more immediate tasks.
Set long term goals and short term goals. You could say, "I will have a great relationship with my family" for a long term goal. Your short term goal could be, "I will spend time with my family this weekend."

, An important part of goal setting is to figure out how you will accomplish your goals. In order to be efficient, you need to be organized, and a well thought out plan is a big step in that direction. When you make your plan, set goals and steps that are both specific and realistic.If your goal is to get into a good college, break that down into manageable steps. For example, one of your steps could be to write a good application essay.
Make a plan for how to accomplish this. Schedule time to brainstorm and pick a topic. Then do some research. Then write a draft. Ask for feedback. Polish your essay. These steps are clear, realistic, and will help you make progress towards your larger goal.
 When you're setting goals, be realistic. That includes remembering that you are human, and might make mistakes. It also means realizing that things won't always go your way. When you set your goals, include alternative thoughts and plans.If your goal was to make the varsity basketball team but you ended up on the junior varsity squad, that's ok. Adjust your goals so that you make the most of this alternate experience.
Slip-ups can be motivating. If you didn't make the team this time, use that as motivation to include some extra practice time when you set your goals for next year.

