 If you got a patch or dirt, chalk, or powder foundation on your clothes, place a piece of tape onto the stain and peel it off. Keep repeating this until the stain is gone. If necessary, rinse the residue out with water.
 Sometimes, this is all you need to do in order to get rid of the stain. You can also use club soda or soda water in a pinch. If possible, rinse the stain out from behind the fabric. If you are at work or at a party, then try blotting it with a damp towel or tissue instead.








Most sauce stains will be oil-based. Mascara and lipstick stains will also be oil-based. Avoid using water on them, especially soda water or club soda.
If the stain is coffee, sprinkle some salt onto it first, and use club soda or soda water to rinse it out.
 Slip a piece of cardboard behind the stain to protect the fabric underneath. Blot up as much of the stain as possible. Choose your powder, and apply a generous amount over the stain. Leave it on for the specified amount of time, then dust it off. The powder will have absorbed the stain. Try are great for oil-based stains, including sauces.









Leave baking powder on the stain for 30 minutes, then shake it off.Leave cornstarch on the stain for 10 minutes, then shake it off.
Press the baby powder into the stain and leave it there overnight. Shake it off the next morning.Try an artificial sweetener in a pinch. Sprinkle a few packets of sweetener on your stain and pat it firmly onto the stain. Let the sugar absorb the grease, then brush off the excess.
Use baking soda on sweat stains. Make a paste out of baking soda and water and scrub it into the stain. Wait one hour, then rinse it off.
 Begin by rinsing the stain out with cold water. If possible, try to rinse it from behind the fabric. If the stain is still there, spray some hairspray over the stain, wait a few minutes, then wipe it off with a damp piece of cloth.








Soda water or club soda will also work in a pinch.
If the blood stain is old or dry, soak the stain with hydrogen peroxide.
Hairspray also works on lipstick, mascara, and other oil-based makeup stains. Simply spray the stain with hairspray and wait 10 minutes. Blot the stain off with a damp cloth.
 Dab or scrape as much of the stain off as possible. Pour some dish soap onto the stain and wait 10 to 15 minutes. Gently rub the stain with a damp towel. Use circular motions, and work from the outside in. This will prevent the stain from spreading.When you are done, rinse the soap out using water.








For spray tans and tinted moisturizers, simply dab the stain with a warm, soapy sponge. Rinse the soap out when you are done, if necessary.
You can also use shampoo instead of dish soap in a pinch. Both are effective at cutting grease.
 Place the garment down on a flat surface and tuck a paper towel inside the garment, right behind the stain. Soak a cotton ball with rubbing alcohol and blot the stain with it. If necessary, repeat the process inside the garment. Remove the paper towel from the inside, and if needed, rinse the stain with water. Let the garment dry on its own.








This may also work on other makeup stains as well, such as mascara or eyeliner.
 Start by scraping as much of the nail polish off as possible. Next, soak a cloth with acetone, and blot the stained area with it. Once the stain is gone, let the garment dry on its own.








You can also use nail polish remover, but it may not be as effective.
If you are doing this on a colored piece of fabric, you might want to test the acetone in an inconspicuous area first, such as inside the hem. Acetone is also capable of removing dyes, and can work as bleach.
 To keep red wine stains from setting, pour some salt or white wine on it. Wait abut five minutes, then rinse it. Blot any residue up with rubbing alcohol. Rinse the fabric and pat it dry.If that doesn't work, try one of the following:









Mix together equal parts of liquid soap and hydrogen peroxide. Blot the stain until it until it disappears.
Mix together 1 tablespoon of white vinegar, 1 tablespoon of liquid soap, and 2 cups (475 milliliters) of water. Blot the stain with this solution until it is gone.
 Simply pour some lemon juice or hydrogen peroxide onto the stain, leave it to dry overnight, then rinse it out the next morning with water.









Both lemon juice and hydrogen peroxide can bleach fabric. Consider testing it out in an inconspicuous area first.

