 There is a range of woods and wood finishes that you can select, including bamboo, basswood, faux wood and others. Different types of wood blinds may provide better insulation or may block light more effectively. They may also have better quality finishes., Find blinds with complementary colors or finishes. Bring home samples of colors and textures to test with your current décor. Some blinds also have ladder tapes, which are coverings made of cloth (or other material) that can be tailored to your room with different colors and textures.
 Consider the type and size of window when selecting blinds. Some windows are very shallow and therefore need thinner blinds. Slats are typically available in 1”, 2” and 2.5” widths. Prices for blinds can range widely, from $70-$120 for an average window size of 36” wide by 60” tall. Custom blinds will be more expensive but may be the best solution for windows with odd measurements or irregularly shaped windows.
 Many blinds are adjusted using a cord that you pull to swivel the slats open and closed. There are also cordless lift blinds, which do not have cords. These are safer options if you have small children who might pull on cords. You can also choose blinds that resemble shutters from the outside of the window. Some blinds have rounded corners while others have square corners.
 Remove your blinds from the package and lay out all of the mounting bracket parts. Compare with the blinds installation instructions to make sure you have all the pieces.
 Blinds can be mounted on the inside of the window (inside mounting), on the outside of the window on the wall (outside mounting), or on the ceiling above the window (ceiling mounting).Determining the best positioning for the brackets will depend on style preference as well as wall material that may affect the ease of bracket installation. Hold the blinds against the window to ensure they will fit properly for your preferred positioning.


Inside mount: The blind slats are measured to fit inside the frame of the window and the mounting brackets are placed inside the top of the window frame.
Outside mount: The blinds are measured to overlap the window frame and the mounting brackets are installed on the wall above the frame.
Ceiling mount: The blinds are measured to overlap the window frame and the mounting brackets are installed on the ceiling directly above the window.
 Hold the blind head rail up to the window in the position where you plan for it go be mounted (inside, outside or ceiling). Make pencil marks about /14” to 1/8” past the ends of the head rail; you’ll line up the brackets on these marks for attaching them to the wall. Use a level to ensure the marks are even and so that the blinds will hang evenly. Consult the instructions that came with your blinds kit for exact specifications, as they vary by manufacturer.


If you are using inside mount blinds, hold the head rail up either flush with the wall inside the window jamb, or hold it back closer to the window.
 The best choice of anchor to secure the mounting bracket will depend on the type of wall you have. For drywall and plaster, use drywall anchors to hold in the screws. For brick or concrete walls, use masonry anchors. To install anchors, predrill a hole that is a suitable size for the anchor at the spot where you need the mounting bracket screw to go. Push the anchor into this hole until it is flush with the wall.For heavier blinds, you will need more secure brackets and wall anchors that can handle the extra weight.
 These are typically cube-shaped pieces with one open side and one side with a sliding or hinged door. Hold the side mounting brackets up on the pencil marks you made. Place the bracket with the door side facing you and the open side pointing toward inside of the window. Open the bracket cover with a screwdriver. Screw the bracket in place using the screws that came with the product.


If you are using anchors, mark the screw holes with a pencil and predrill the holes. Install the anchors first before screwing the bracket to the wall.
 If your window blinds are wide enough, your kit may have come with a support bracket. This will go in the middle of the window, in line with the side brackets. Measure between the two side brackets and find the middle. Mark this spot with a pencil. Use a level to ensure that the brackets will be even. You can move this support bracket 2-3” to either side of the middle if its center placement interferes with the mechanics of your blinds.Position the middle of the support bracket on this point. If you plan to use anchors to secure the screws into the wall, predrill holes for their installation now. Screw the support bracket in place.
 This should snap into place. Some models may require that you hook the head rail onto the brackets. Make sure the blinds are in the closed position, which will make installation easier. Then fold down the bracket swivel flaps. Follow the instructions that came with your blinds to ensure you are doing it properly, as these could vary slightly depending on brand of blinds.
 This piece goes along the top front of your blinds to hide the brackets. Some models may have a protective covering on the valance that can be removed if you choose. Many valances are magnetic and will stick onto the head rail. Others need to be inserted into the top of the blinds, which should snap into the sides. Follow the blinds’ instructions to ensure you are doing this correctly.
 Your blinds may have come with a wand that will enable you to open and close the blinds when you twist it. To attach the wand, locate the sleeve and hook mechanism that extends below the wall mounting. Slide the sleeve upwards to reveal the hook and hang the wand on this hook. Pull the sleeve back down to fully cover the hook.
 To eliminate the risk of a choking hazard for children, install the cord cleat on which to wrap the blinds’ cord. Mount the cleat next to or above the window on the same side as the cord. Use the screws provided with the cord cleat and screw them into the wall. Wrap the cord around the cord cleat to keep it out of reach of small children., Some blinds come with a hold-down bracket, which will keep the blinds in place when they fully cover the window. Install this bracket into the wall or the window facing at the bottom right side. Snap in the bracket pin end into the bottom slat of the blinds where there is a hole intended for this hold-down bracket pin., Do not yank on the cord to pull the blinds up or down. Make sure children do not pull on the cords or twist the slats. Careful use will ensure that the blinds will work properly and last a long time.
 The slats on the blinds will gather dust over time. Every couple of weeks, wipe each slat carefully with a downward motion. You can also use a soft vacuum upholstery attachment, running it over each slat to remove dust. Alternately, wear a pair of soft gloves or old socks on your hands and rub your hands along each slat. Twist the slats to clean the other side.


If there are stains on the slats, use a wood cleaner to clean them off. Using a damp cloth with a small amount of cleaner, test an inconspicuous spot to make sure the cleaner does not mar or stain the surface of your blinds. Gently scrub the dirt with the cleaner, rubbing along the grain of the wood. Wipe clean with a damp cloth.Be careful not to get the blinds wet. Using a damp cloth is fine, but too much moisture can warp the slats and discolor the wood., If a slat gets broken or cracked, you do not need to replace the entire blind. Remove the plugs on the bottom slat to reveal the lift cord knot. Undo the knot and pull the lift cord out of the slat. Continue pulling the cord out, only pulling out of the slats until you reach the slat you want to remove. Replace the slat (available through your blinds manufacturer). Restring the lift cord through the blinds, weaving it back through the slats in the same pattern as you had removed it. Pull the cord through the bottom slat and tie a knot. Replace the plugs on the bottom to cover the knot. Use a rubber mallet to tap these in.