 Black is very slimming, so wear as much black as you like. Go for the long line look.


White shows off your belly and will make it more obvious. Some abstract colors like a neon top with dark pants, also draw attention to your belly. You could try another solid color like soft gray if black gets too boring. Try wearing a single color from top to bottom.Vertical stripes are much better than horizontal, ideally with darker vertical colors at your sides and lighter vertical stripes in the center.
Avoid garish or in-your-face bold and big patterns. Keep in mind that darker on the bottom and lighter on the top brings the eyes of the beholder up towards your radiant face.
 Shoes are important to consider because as your child grows, your blood and other fluid volumes increase, often causing swelling in ankles and feet (this can also permanently change your shoe size.)


Wear lower shoes with flats. High heels are just a bad idea during pregnancy especially because it would be dangerous if you fell. You also want to choose shoes with some extra room.Wedges are fun and beautiful to wear. Buying insoles for your shoes can increase comfort for sore feet. Flip flops can be useful as feet swell.
 Wear layered necklaces that are shorter than your growing baby bump to keep the focus up top.


Try wearing a great scarf. This can draw people’s eyes away from your bump.
Wear natural fiber undergarments. Sometimes during pregnancy one sweats more than usual. To look stylish, wear hoops and big sunglasses.
 Your boobs are probably busting out all over. What to do: If you haven't already, now's the time to invest in a few great bras.


While you may choose to go for bigger sizes of your favorite bra, you might want to consider the comfort and expanding nature of maternity or nursing bras. Cotton bras are a good choice. You will want one that supports your back.
Most women find that not only do their cups runneth over, but their band size (the circumference around the back) will grow too. Besides moving up a band size (or two), you can also find inexpensive bra extenders at most lingerie stores.

