 If you know that you have mental health issues, then be sure to keep those in check. Watch for danger signs that your mental health may be sliding and seek help if you notice anything. If you start to feel like your mental health is sliding or if you want to prevent your mental health from getting worse, speak to a counselor on campus. Your college campus should have counseling services and mental health support for students. Often, these services are free of charge or covered by your student health fees. Look at your college website for more information on mental health services. Speak to the resident advisor in your dorm for more information on mental health services on campus.Reaching out to a counselor on campus can be a good option if you are struggling with your mental health and do not know where to turn. Talking to a trained professional about your mental health can be the first step to feeling better.
Counselors on your campus can also refer you to other services for mental health, such as disability resources as well as other health professionals you can speak to.
Try making a list of triggers and warning signs that may indicate your mental health is on the decline. Keep the list with you at all times and check it often to determine if you ought to seek help.
 It is common to feel homesick in college, especially during your first year. Lean on friends and loved ones around you for support, especially if you feel your mental health is in danger. Keep regular contact with your friends and loved ones and talk to those closest to you about how you are feeling. Do not be ashamed or afraid to admit you are struggling with your mental health.You can also confide in mentors at college, such as professors or teachers. However, keep in mind that professors and teachers may have to report what you tell them to the college if they feel your mental health is in danger.
 If you are having a mental health crisis at college, reach out to an emergency hotline. Call, text, or email the emergency hotline so you can talk to someone about how you are feeling and get the help you need. Many mental health hotlines are available 24/7 and have trained operators who can assist you.Call 911 if you need immediate medical assistance due to your mental health.
You can call or live chat with someone via the National Suicide Prevention Hotline, 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
You can also get more information on mental health services in your local area by contacting the SAMHSA Treatment Referral Helpline, 1-877-SAMHSA7 (726-4727).

