 Before you can use Skype to make a call to the United States, you will need to set up an account. The account will require you to enter in some basic personal information to successfully setup. Once your account has been created, you will be able to use it to chat with other Skype users or make phone calls.


You'll need to provide your full name and date of birth.
You will need to include the country and city you live in.
You'll be required to create a Skype user name.
 Skype will require you to pay a small fee to connect with someone internationally. These fees will vary depending on the calling package you select and the amount you plan on calling. Review some of these common pricing methods that Skype uses to get an idea of what you might be paying:If your contact has Skype on their computer or phone, there will be no charge for the call.
You can buy Skype credits that will make your call cost around 2 cents a minute.
Basic unlimited calling plans to North American phones will cost about $7.00 a month.
Unlimited international calls will cost around $14.00 a month.
 Once you've signed up for an international calling plan or have purchased some Skype calling credits, you will be able to enter the phone number and make your call. Enter the full number into the Skype phone dial, including the exit code, the country code, the area code and the local number.The Skype mobile phone app will start by requesting that you choose a destination country (the US). Doing this will automatically add the exit code and country prefix to your number.
Dial your contact's area code.
Dial your contact's local number.
The full number should look something like 00 1 555 555-5555.
 Once you've entered the phone number you are trying to reach, Skype will start working to connect you with your contact. Skype will be able to connect with both landlines and mobile phones. Once you've been connected, you'll be able to speak just as you would if you had used a normal phone to make the call.


If your contact doesn't answer, you'll still be able to leave a message.
There is no difference between calling a land line or a cell phone.

