 You can make gift bags out of just about any type of paper you want, such as: brown kraft paper, patterned scrapbooking paper, and wrapping paper. Pick one that works best with the occasion. Cardstock is not recommended, however, because it is too stiff.


For an extra-fancy gift bag, use fancy wrapping paper with either glittered or flocked designs.
 If you are use with plain, solid-colored paper, such as brown kraft paper, you might want to decorate it. This will make it look more like a gift bag and less like a paper sack. Use paint and stencils to add some pretty designs onto it. You can also use rubber stamps to create a simple pattern instead.


Be sure to let the paper dry before moving on.
For a fancier bag, draw your designs with glue first, then sprinkle them with extra fine glitter.
 You will be folding your paper around this box, so make sure that it is bigger than your desired gift. You can use any type of box you want, including: breakfast bar boxes, cereal boxes, instant oatmeal boxes, shoe boxes, gift boxes, etc.
 Trace the skinny end of your box onto a sheet of thin cardboard using a pen or pencil. Cut the resulting rectangle out with a craft blade, and set it aside. You will be putting this into the bottom of your bag.Use white cardboard or another color that matches your paper.
 These will make supports for the handles. They need to be a little narrower than your bag and about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) wide. Set these aside as well after you cut them.These will be inside the top hem of your bag. The color for these does not matter.
 It needs to be a rectangle and large enough to wrap around your box, like a present. This includes wrapping around the side of the box as well.
 Fold the top, long edge by 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters). Run your fingernail along the folded edge to make a crease. This will add a nice finish to the top of your bag.The hem needs to be the same width as your cardboard strips.
If your paper has a pattern on it, make sure that the pattern is facing down and the blank side is facing you.
 Trim off any excess paper and overlap the two narrow ends by ½ inch (1.27 centimeters). Try to place the seam at one of the box's edges inside of the front, back, or side face.Secure the edges with double-sided tape or a glue stick.
 Fold the side edges of the paper down first, right against the box. Run your fingernail along the angles on the top and bottom flaps to make creases. Fold the top and bottom flaps against the bottom of the box, and secure them with a glue stick or double-sided tape.
 If you'd like, you can pinch the corners of the bag first before you remove the box. At this point, you can put the box away. You won't be using it again for the remainder of this tutorial.
 Flatten the bag and tuck the sides inside, just like a real paper gift bag. Run your fingernail along the edges to make crisp seams. You only have to make the seams about half-way down.This is not completely necessary, but it will add a professional touch to your bag.
 Run a glue stick or lay down a strip of double-sided tape along one of your thin cardboard strips. Open up the hem on the front of your bag. Slide the strip inside, and press the hem flat. Repeat for the back of the bag with the other strip., Draw a cross on the cardboard rectangle with a glue stick or double-sided tape. Place the cardboard glue-side or tape-side down into the bag, and press it against the bottom., The holes should be about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) from the top edge of the bag. They should be closer to each other than to the sides of the bag.


For a fancier touch, add eyelets into the holes.
 Measure and cut two equal lengths of ribbon. Choose a color that goes well with your bag. For a rustic touch, you can use cording, string, twine, or even yarn. Avoid anything that is too skinny, however; the knots won't be big enough to hold.
 Thread the ends of your first ribbon through both holes on the front of your bag. Tie the ends into knots on the inside of your bag. Repeat with the other ribbon for the back.
 Open the bag up and tuck in some tissue paper. Insert your gift and add more tissue paper, if needed. Fluff the tissue paper out.

