 Being indebted to a family member at a very low or zero rate of interest is definitely preferable to being indebted to a federal loan servicer. You can avoid a lengthy application process and years of outside debt if you have a family member who’s in a position to loan or give you the money needed for school.


Any loan agreement, even those between family members, should be put into writing.
 Most nursing programs are very demanding, and you’ll need to devote your focus to completing your coursework, externships, and clinical rotations. If you can manage it, consider obtaining a part-time job to cover part of your tuition, living costs, or other expenses, especially one that’s relevant to your studies. Various private and public hospitals offer jobs for student nurses as Undergraduate A.I.N. (Assistant in Nursing), which is also helpful for the course itself.


Speak with your program’s advisors or look for on-campus part-time work.
Look for doctors in need office help. Check listing online, in classified ads, or visit offices in person.
 If you can access a credit card with a minimal interest rate, use it to pay for tuition, books and other expenses. Use a rewards or cash back card to earn rewards off the amount you charge to the card. If a grant and scholarship awards are only paying partial tuition, and if you have good enough credit, you can potentially access an interest rate lower than what you’d pay for federal student loans.


If you’ve been awarded a total financial aid package that only covers part of your tuition, consider using a card to pay off the rest.
Be careful of high interest rates when using a credit card. Don’t end up paying more money than necessary in the long run due to high interest.
Be aware that after graduation you will need to pass the licensing test and gain employment. There could very well be a few months between graduation and your first nursing job, so be aware of when you'd be responsible for any loan or credit card repayments.
 When you’re applying for nursing jobs, consider getting a job that offers loan repayment or forgiveness options. This type of financial aid requires that you work for a particular agency or within a particular field of nursing, such as end of life care, for a certain number of years. In return, your employer offers a repayment option once you begin employment.Look for federally funded programs, such as the Nursing Education Loan Repayment Program.Look for local programs that also offer work repayment and loan forgiveness, such as state health departments.
 In addition to public health service, military service can also offer full forgiveness of federal student loan debt. Debt forgiveness programs for public and military service often include consolidating loans to renegotiate a smaller monthly payment. After 120 on-time monthly payments, the remaining balance is forgiven.