 Sometimes, a victim of bullying may want to stand up to the bully, but doesn't know how to or is afraid to do it on their own. Offer them your support, and ask if they want you to help them stand up to the bully.


Ask them how you can help them stand up to their harasser. You could say, “Would you like to meet me after class so we can confront her together before lunch?” or “I can come talk to the supervisor with you if you want. I will support you and be a witness.”
Don't be surprised if they turn you down. Some people don't like to have another person's help to stop bullying. If they tell you no, you could say, "Okay, but if you change your mind, I'll help you" and stick to it!, If the victim comes to you seeking support, believe them and listen to them tell their story. Find out how you can help if they need it.


It’s important to believe the victim even if you did not witness the event. Remain nonjudgmental and supportive as they speak. Casting doubt on their story may make them feel even more victimized and shut down.

Listen with empathy as they share their story. You could say, “What happened to you sounds horrible. You sound really upset. What can I do to help you?”

, The victim may be too distraught to seek out helpful resources on their own, so take the lead and offer to find some. Offer your assistance in any way you can and feel comfortable with.If you see someone being harassed on the street, you could help them get home safely.
You could call the police on behalf of the victim and stay with them while they file a police report. Give the victim and the police your contact information so you can be a witness for any legal proceedings.
You could get help the victim get connected with any legal support or anti-bullying resources they may require.
 It’s possible that the victim may take their feelings out on you after the incident. Don’t take it personally. The victim may feel you are a “safe” person to express their anger to.The victim might say something like, “I wish you hadn’t interfered. I can take care of myself!” You could respond, “I’m sorry. From my perspective, the situation seemed like harassment. I won’t intervene again unless you ask me.”
The victim may cry, express anger, or be in shock. It’s okay to sit with them and just be present -- you don’t have to find some magic words to say.

