 Call and make an appointment to see your doctor to discuss your issues. If you already have a gynaecologist, make an appointment directly through that office. If you do not have a gynaecologist, ask your family doctor to refer you to one. Be prepared to discuss the following things with your doctor:Your exact symptoms. What types of difficulties you’re experiencing, when they occur and how often they occur.
Your sexual history. How many relationships have you had in the past where you did or did not experience the same problems. And whether you’ve ever experienced sexual abuse.
Your medical history. This would include any medical conditions you’ve already been diagnosed with, including any medications you’re already taking. Make sure to mention over-the-counter, alternative or herbal medications, as well as prescriptions.
 It may be embarrassing to talk about your sexual problems with your doctor, but understand that you need help in order to overcome them. Answering your doctor’s questions openly and honestly will ensure you get the right treatment for what you’re experiencing. Some questions your doctor may ask are:How much do the problems you’re experiencing bother you?
How satisfied are you with your current relationship?
Are you able to become aroused or have orgasms during sexual interactions with your partner?
Are you having any pain during intercourse?
What forms of birth control do you use?
Do you drink alcohol or take recreational drugs on a regular basis? If so, how much do you take?
What kinds of surgery have you had in the past, specifically in relation to your reproductive system?
Have you ever had an unwanted sexual experience?

, Some sexual problems may be caused by very specific things that can be found during a pelvic exam. Or may be determined via a pap smear test. Your doctor will check for any physical issues with your genital tissues and skin elasticity. They can also check for scarring and may be able to narrow down where pain is occurring., Many sexual problems are caused by other conditions or medications that change the way your body behaves sexually. In order to reacquire your ‘usual’ sexual desires and behaviours, your doctor may have to experiment with multiple ways to treat your underlying condition.Everyone reacts to medications differently. If a specific medication is causing your problem, your doctor might try a different medication instead. It may take a couple of tries to find the right medication or dose before the problem is resolved.
Your doctor may test you for medical conditions that you have not been previously diagnosed with. If one is found, treating that condition may solve your sexual problem.
 If your sexual problem is linked to a hormonal imbalance or cause, your doctor may suggest a form of hormone therapy.Estrogen Therapy is done using a vaginal ring, cream or tablet. It can improve vaginal tone and elasticity, increase vaginal blood flow, and enhance lubrication. While it sounds easy enough, it does come with some risks. Make sure you discuss all the side effects with your doctor before starting any type of estrogen therapy.

Androgen Therapy includes the testosterone hormone. Testosterone plays an important part in sexual functions for both men and women. However, androgen therapy is somewhat controversial, so you’ll want to be fully aware of all the pros and cons of this therapy should you decide to give it a try. Testosterone can be used "off label" for libido, but there is a potential increased risk for breast cancer if you use it.
 Women who experience vaginismus often have a feeling like they’re ‘too small’ for their partner’s penis, and can experience burning or tearing sensations when something is being inserted into their vagina (including a tampon or speculum). The actual cause of the problem is the muscles in the vagina not being relaxed enough for intercourse to be comfortable. The ‘cure’ is to learn how to control and relax your vaginal muscles through exercises.These exercises can take several weeks to several months to work well enough that you feel comfortable having intercourse, so be patient.
While you’re training your vaginal muscles, it is best not to have, or try to have, intercourse. Your muscles are spasming due to an involuntary reaction, and having intercourse while you’re trying to work out that involuntary reaction may only prolong the problem. You can, however, perform other sexual activities other than intercourse during this time.
Kegel exercises help you tighten the muscles of the pelvic floor. These are the same muscles you would use when you want to stop urinating while on the toilet.
Contract your pelvic floor muscles, hold for a couple of seconds, then relax. Do this as often as you can throughout the day, in sets of 20.
Once you’ve got the hang of contracting your pelvic floor muscles, do the same exercises while inserting a finger into your vagina. Slowly work your way from one finger to three fingers. You’ll need to insert your fingers at least 5-6cm to feel the effect, which is approximately up to the middle joint in your fingers. Not only will this help you identify your pelvic floor muscles, it will also get you use to having something in your vagina that doesn’t hurt. If it does start to hurt — stop.
Once you’re able to insert three fingers into your vagina without any pain (on at least a couple of occasions), you can try to have intercourse with your partner. In order to be able to control penetration, it’s better if you position yourself on top. Make sure you’re in control of the situation so you can stop anytime you want.
When inserting your fingers or when having intercourse it is best to use lubricants to make the process easier.
Talk to your partner throughout this entire process, especially when you’re ready to have intercourse again. The first few times you try intercourse you may need to stay still for periods of time so you can get comfortable and relax your muscles.

