 These days, even a “regular” coffee is going to be more exciting than yesterday’s cup of joe. Coffee shops will brew black coffee in several ways.Drip coffee is made by letting hot water flow through coarsely-ground coffee beans. It’s usually kept on tap in large urns at coffee shops. This is a standard choice, but may be less flavorful than other brew methods.
Pour overs are made by carefully pouring hot water over coffee grounds suspended in a filter over a container. These are usually made by the cup, allowing the hot water to sit with the grounds for longer and extract more flavor.
French press coffee is made by letting coffee grounds sit in hot water for several minutes in a press pot. The coffee is then poured out, leaving the grounds behind. This method produces a bold flavor.;
, Most coffee shops will have a variety of coffee types available for brewed coffee. Each has a particular flavor profile and caffeine content, which your barista will be happy to describe for you.Light roasts are very mild in flavor. They may be called “Light City” or “Half City” roasts.
Medium roasts have a deeper color and often a nutty flavor, but are still moderate in their intensity. They are sometimes marketed as “American” or “Breakfast” roasts.
Dark roasts are rich, bold, and sometimes bitter. They may be labeled as “European,” “Espresso,” “Italian,” or “French” roasts.
Coffee shops may offer both single origin coffees (such as “Mexican” or “Sumatran”), for unique tastes, as well as blends for balanced flavors.
 Espresso is made by forcing a small amount of hot water under high pressure through finely-ground coffee beans. The intensely flavorful drink is then served in a small cup called a demitasse. A slight amount of coffee-colored foam, called crema, appears at the top of properly-pulled espresso.Espresso is sold by the “shot”: you can order a single, double (doppio), triple, and so on.
Some coffee shops serve a smaller, especially intense “ristretto” shot.
Ounce for ounce, espresso usually has more caffeine than brewed methods. However, brewed coffee is served in larger amounts, meaning an overall greater amount of caffeine.
 An americano is a blend of espresso and hot water. It is served in larger amounts, like brewed coffee, but has a richer flavor because it is made with espresso.Some locations will serve a variation called a “long black.” An americano is made by pouring hot water into espresso, while a long black is made by extracting the espresso directly into the hot water, preserving more of the crema.
 Many coffee shops will make a red eye by pouring a shot of espresso into a cup of brewed coffee. Not only does this give the coffee more flavor, it ups the caffeine content significantly., Cold brewed coffee is made by steeping coarsely ground coffee and cool water for a very long time (usually 12 to 24 hours). The unique extraction process pulls out mild, sweet flavors from the beans and leaves behind other compounds that can sometimes make coffee more bitter or acidic.


Cold brewed coffee is often poured over ice, but it can also easily be served hot--just ask your barista.
 A latte is made by blending one or more shots of espresso with steamed (not boiled) milk. The boldness of the espresso and the creaminess of the milk complement each other, making a delicious drink with enough liquid to sip for a while.You may also be able to order a flat white, which is a variation of a latte developed in Australia and New Zealand. It uses less milk in a smaller cup.
 While mochas are sometimes marketed as separate drinks, they’re really just a latte with chocolate syrup added. The combination of espresso, steamed milk, and chocolate can be irresistible., A cappuccino is espresso blended with a small amount of steamed milk and topped with milk foam. It contains less liquid than a latte, but since the espresso is not as diluted, it can be more flavorful.Cappuccinos can be served “wet,” with more steamed milk (almost like a latte), or “dry,” with almost none.
 Traditionally, a macchiato is made by topping an espresso with a small amount of milk foam to cut its intensity. Some coffee shops still serve it this way. At Starbucks and similar cafes, however, a macchiato refers to a sweet drink that is basically a latte with added flavor (like caramel syrup)., An au lait is made by blending brewed coffee and steamed milk, in roughly equal proportions. Because it is made with brewed coffee, it has a different flavor than a latte., Many coffee drinks can be made either hot or iced. Your barista may already have chilled coffee on hand, for instance, but they can also pour an espresso into cold water and ice to make an iced americano. Iced lattes and other drinks can be made in similar ways.


Certain drinks don’t do well in iced forms, however. Milk foam can really only be created by heating it, for instance, so iced cappuccinos don't really work.
Likewise, some baristas discourage iced espressos, since the shock of the cold ice can kill the drink’s flavor.
Don’t be afraid to ask your barista whether a drink can be made iced.
 Most coffee shops have a variety of syrups and other flavors available. These allow you to create everything from a vanilla latte to a mint mocha to a cinnamon spiced cappuccino. You can add flavorings to practically any drink. Baristas can also usually top your drink with whipped cream, cinnamon, chocolate powder, or other flavors.Many coffee shops feature specialized drinks made with various flavors, such as pumpkin spice lattes, or chili spiced cappuccinos.
Sugar will also be available if you want to sweeten your coffee further.
 Your barista will be happy to add an extra shot (or two, or three…) to your drink. This can make your drink richer and flavor and higher in caffeine (unless you use decaffeinated espresso). Just let your barista know that you want a “three-shot latte,” for instance.
 Coffee shops are not always consistent in the terms they use for small, medium, and large coffees. A “small” at one shop may be a “tall” at another, and a “single” at yet another. Just ask your barista to explain your shop’s lingo if you’re not sure.

