 Drink a single shot of espresso on its own, or a doppio, which is two espresso shots on its own.

You can also achieve a ristretto, which is a short shot using ¾ of a typical 1 ounce (2 tablespoons) shot. Or try a lungo, which is a long shot made with 1.5 ounces (3 tablespoons) instead of 1., Pour your desired amount of hot water into a cup with your brewed espresso to make a classic americano drink., Steam milk in your espresso machine by filling a steaming pitcher with cold milk and placing the steam wand of your espresso machine into the milk to heat and froth it before adding it to your espresso.

You can froth milk without an espresso machine by using a handheld frother, a coffee press, or a simple jar to froth it, then heat it in the microwave before adding it to espresso.
 Make a simple macchiato with just a small layer of frothed milk spooned onto the top of a shot of espresso.

Note that Starbucks creates a “latte macchiato” that combines the two traditional drinks together, using much more milk than the typical dollop used for a standard macchiato., Add an amount of steamed milk equal to your shot(s) of espresso. The milk should have little to no foam.

For a variation, try an espresso con panna by replacing steamed milk with whipped cream. Or make a café breve by substituting regular steamed milk with steamed half-and-half (light cream)., Make a latte, also called a café con leche or café au lait, by adding more milk to your espresso. Pour 6 to 8 ounces (¾ to 1 cup) of steamed milk with milk foam over your espresso shot(s).

Try a variation by making a flat white, which uses the same quantity of milk but none of the frothed milk foam.Make a mocha by adding chocolate syrup into the latte with the steamed milk. This is also when you can add any other flavoring syrups to make a latte with hazelnut, vanilla, caramel, etc.
 Make any of the above drinks into a cold and refreshing beverage by adding espresso, ice, and your desired amount of sweetener and milk to a blender for a blended frozen drink. For an iced drink, simply add ice to your prepared espresso drink.

You can pour the ingredients into a cup first if it helps you to get the proportions right.
Try freezing espresso or regular drip coffee into an ice cube tray the night before. Add these coffee ice cubes to your drink so that it doesn’t get watered down.

