 Osteoarthritis is common in obese dogs, mainly because an obese dog is unable to spend as much time exercising and moving about as they need to in order to stay healthy. As a result, the dog might demonstrate stiffness, especially in the morning, and have trouble getting up and down the stairs or jumping onto furniture.Osteoarthritis also leads to lameness or limping, which might begin only occasionally, then become more frequent as the arthritis accelerates.
Other signs include whimpering, especially when the dog rises from a prone position.
 If your older, obese dog has heart disease, they might not have any symptoms; however, if they do have symptoms, the earliest signs will be detected by the vet in the form of an irregular heartbeat. More visible symptoms include hacking or coughing (especially early in the morning or after exercising), laziness, excess sleeping, or generally low stamina during exercise., Obese dogs often have diabetes, too. If your dog drinks a lot, urinates excessively, and eats more than they should, they might have diabetes.Your dog might also start to lose weight, even if their diet remains stable.More serious cases of diabetes might result in cataracts (a cloudiness in the eyes) or blindness in your obese dog.
If you know your dog is obese, you probably won’t allow them the opportunity to eat excessively. Check for other symptoms instead.
 There are a variety of respiratory conditions that could negatively affect your obese dog. These include pneumonia, fungal infections, and bacterial respiratory infections. These conditions tend to manifest similar symptoms, including shallow breathing, noisy breathing (including grunting or snorting while trying to breathe), rapid breathing or panting (especially when not associated with exercise), or coughing (especially with blood, phlegm, or other discharge)., Dogs who are obese tend to have higher rates of cancer. For this reason — among others — it is important to have your older, obese dog visit the vet regularly. Your vet will be able to check for cancer using X-rays and other medical tests.You should already have a vet for your dog. If you do not, check the American Animal Hospital Association’s vet database at https://www.aaha.org/pet_owner/about_aaha/hospital_search/default.aspx to find a vet near you.

