 You don’t need a fishing license in Texas if you are fishing in waters that are completely enclosed by a state park. Figure out where you plan on fishing and if the waters fall within state park lines before wasting time and money on a fishing license. Also, determine if you are fishing saltwater or freshwater. Obtaining a license to fish for saltwater fish is more expensive than getting a license for freshwater.The freshwater year round package costs $30 for residents and $58 for nonresidents.
The saltwater year round package costs $35 for residents and $63 for nonresidents.
There are still bag and length limits within state parks.
Bag limits indicate the number of fish you can catch in a day and length indicates the length of the fish that you can catch.Refer to Texas Park and Wildlife’s website to find additional restrictions when fishing within state parks.;
, If you are 17 years old or younger, it’s not necessary in Texas that you get your fishing licence. Senior citizen fishing licences are available to Texans that are over 65 years old. The cost of senior citizen packages are far lower than of normal fishing licences. If you were born before 1931 don’t bother getting a fishing licence in Texas because it’s not required.You can get a senior freshwater fishing license for $12.
You can get a senior saltwater license for $17.
You can get a senior all-fish license for $22.If you are a minor, you should still be accompanied by an adult when fishing, especially in deeper waters.
 You need to figure out your residence status first because Texas has resident and nonresident licenses. To be considered a Texas resident, you need to live in Texas for at least one year and maintain a job. In addition, you need to be a U.S. citizen and be over the age of 18.If you don't meet the criteria, you'll have to obtain the nonresident licence.


Resident licences are significantly cheaper than nonresident ones., If you are being supervised by a family member or medical professional, then you can fish as therapy. This includes those with mental or physical disabilities.If you are fishing with a family member, then you’ll need a note from your doctor saying that this is therapy.
If you are fishing as therapy with a medical professional, you’ll need to carry a card that identifies the entity that is providing the therapy.
 Figure out how many days out of the year you’re fishing, and calculate whether it would be more expensive to get the yearly license, or get a license for the days you know you’re fishing. Year round packages include everything that you need to legally fish and bring home fish that you catch, but is far more expensive than purchasing the daily license. Purchase a yearly package if you know that you’ll be fishing a lot throughout the year.


One day licenses are much cheaper and cost $11 for residents and $16 for nonresidents.
The one day license includes all water fish.If you are active duty in the military, or a disabled veteran, you can get a Texas fishing license for free, as long as you’re a resident.
The all-water year round package costs $40 for residents and $68 for nonresidents.
 Go to the official website for Texas Parks and Wildlife at https://www.txfgsales.com/. Texas License Connection is the online portal for Texas Parks and Wildlife, and is where you can purchase your Texas fishing licence. Click "Purchase Items." This will bring you to the customer search page. Once you get to this page, create your profile. It’s necessary that you have your social security number, passport number, driver's license number, or customer number. Click “Create Profile” if there is no customer record found. If you don’t have a driver license, it’s possible there won’t be an existing profile for you. In this case, you need to create a new profile. Make sure to put in all the information correctly when creating a new account.You can also get hunting licenses or combo packages that include both hunting and fishing licenses.Existing data will be pulled from your driver licence information., After you’ve completely input accurate details about yourself, you can click on the blue button on the bottom that says “Start Shopping.”Click “Fishing” on the next screen. Choose the license that you’ve determined would best fit your needs and your budget. Review your items and click the “Checkout” button on the bottom of the screen. Once you’re done adding everything you need, check out of the store and get ready to input your billing and address information. Remember to put the address you want the licence to get sent to. Once you’ve finished putting in all your details, the “Place Order” button will finalize the transaction. Once you’ve completed the steps, you can officially fish in Texas legally. Print out the temporary ID on this page so you have a license while you wait for your official one to come in the mail.


When you click your first licence it will take you to the checkout screen, but you can still add more licenses from this screen.
You can remove licences on the next page before inputting your financial information.You’ll need a credit or debit card in order to purchase a license online.
Make sure you have enough funds on your credit or debit card to pay for the license.
 Many commercial businesses are able to give out fishing licenses. Department stores or grocery stores can also have the ability to issue licenses at times. You'll need a valid form of identification in order to get a license.


Some valid forms of ID include your drivers license, vehicle registration, or a Texas voter certificate.Make sure to call the place you're going to get your license from to make sure that they can provide you with one.
 The Texas Parks and Wildlife Department has 1,700 locations in the state. Visit https://tpwd.texas.gov/state-parks/ to find a park near you.


If you have additional questions contact the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department at (512) 389-4820 or 800-792-1112 extension 4820.
Remember to bring a valid form of identification.

