 If you don’t have a bar, you can also use dumbbells or other free weights to do your 21s. You may also prefer dumbbells if you want to lift lower weights.Use kettlebells if you prefer them over dumbbells or other types of free weights.
Grasp your dumbbells or kettlebells with your palms facing outward. Stand with your feet about hip width apart. Lift the weights towards your body in a curling motion and keep your elbows tucked as you curl the weights.
 You may prefer not using weights to build your arm muscles using 21s. If so, then you can also try using resistance bands. These rubber bands come in different resistance that you can use to build your strength.Use the same progression and method with resistance bands as you do with bars and dumbbells. Stand with your feet hip width apart and grasp the bands using an underhand grip. Make sure to keep your elbows tucked through all three ranges of motion.
If your gym has cable weights, then you can also do 21s this way. Set the weight to the desired amount and then grasp the cable weight handles and do bicep curls.
 In addition to building your biceps, you also need to develop other arm muscles such as the triceps and shoulders. This will ensure you have balanced strength in your arms. This can also ensure that you look toned.Pushups are a great way to build strength in your arms and upper body. They target the muscles of your arms, chest, and shoulders. They also help develop back and abdominal muscles.Extend your arms completely and place your hands slightly wider than your shoulders so that you’re in plank position. Keep your elbows pointing towards your ribs rather than having them stick out like chicken wings. Keep your shoulders square and your shoulder blades retracted as you lower your body down. Your chest should almost reach the floor. Make sure to engage your abs and leg muscles for core and leg strength.
Do half-plank/knee pushups if you can’t perform full pushups.
 They may be daunting, but pull ups are very good at building arm and upper body strength. Use different grips or pull up variations to develop your arm, shoulder, and back strength.Hold onto an overhead bar. Use the most comfortable grip for you— narrow or wide. Hanging from the bar, engage your upper body muscles and abs. Pull up until your chin is above the bar.
Consider alternatives until you build enough strength to do full pull ups. Put a box under your feet and, holding the bar, jump and pull up until your chin clears the bar.
 Lifting weights above your head is another great way to develop arm and shoulder strength. Lift your chosen weight directly above your head to get maximum muscle development.Use free weights, resistance bands, or a weighted bar. The weight should challenge you while still being comfortable. Grasp the weight slightly wider than your shoulders. Stand upright with your feet hip distance apart. Engage your core as you press the weight straight upward until your arms are straight. Lower the weight and repeat for a total of 10 to 12 reps.
Work towards a goal of three sets of 10 to 12 reps.
 Triceps dips are a great way to build the muscles on the opposite side of your arm. They can also develop strength in the gluteals and hamstrings.Sit on the edge of a chair or bench with your back straight and feet flat on the floor. Grasp the front edge of the chair and have your palms facing away from you. Walk your feet out to a position where your back lightly brushes against the seat. Retract your shoulder blades and keep them retracted to prevent shoulder injury.
Bend your elbows and slowly lower down your body until your elbows are at a 90 degree angle. Straighten your elbows to push back up.
Repeat 10 to 12 times for one set. Aim towards a goal of three sets.
 Even if you are very safe when you build your arm strength, you can still injure yourself. You may feel something odd or hear noises with certain movements. Paying attention to the signs of injury can help you get prompt treatment and get you back to building your arm strength as soon as possible. Get medical treatment if you experience any signs of injury including:Pain in any part of the arm
Snapping or popping sensations
Swelling
Trouble moving
Strange noises when you perform exercises

