 Skyrim is a vast open world where choices are not as straightforward in other games. While there are two types of armor you can choose from there is no right or wrong combination to choose. However, there are some distinct differences between light and heavy armor and each has its own merits and faults.Both light and heavy armor have their own skill tree associated with them. When you wear one or the other you will level up that skill and be able to put perks that will grant bonuses to wearing either heavy or light armor. You can wear both and level both at the same time, but this won’t benefit you in the long run.
Light armor’s advantages include being less noisy, taking less of a hit on your stamina drain when you sprint, and a low impact on your carry weight.
Heavy armor provides more physical protection. It is easier to craft and has more perks associated with its skill.;
, Your playstyle will drastically impact your choice in armor. Light armor allows for more movement, is quieter, and takes away less stamina. All things that are vital to a thief or assassin type character. A good way to look at it is, if you are going to be a sneaky type character, choose light armor. Otherwise, heavy armor is the way to go.
 Once you have decided which kind of character you are playing, the choice of heavy or light armor is broken down to which kind of armor within that category that you have the level to craft or find.


Armor sets that provide special bonuses if a complete set is worn can be found throughout the game. Many are found in dungeons and caves or off larger bosses. While there are too many to list, you will find many of these sets simply by playing through your quests or exploring in the world.
 Approach any smith in any town and you will be given a quest to learn how to smith. This quest will teach you the basics of smithing and how to craft your first piece of armor. The basics are gather the supplies, use the appropriate workstation to refine the supplies, use the anvil to craft your armor.
 Once you have learned how to craft armor you will need to use the smithing skill making more armor and weapons in order to level it up. The you will want to place perks in the tree until you reach the armor you want to craft. Look carefully at the skill tree at the armor types you can craft so you do not waste perks going up the tree the wrong way to get to the armor you like.
 Once you have the skill to craft the armor you want simply gather the required materials, and craft the armor. Go to any smithing area. Refine your materials. Then use the anvil to craft your new armor., Enchanting armor is pretty simple. You must have learned the enchantment you want to place by disenchanting any piece of equipment with that enchantment on it. You must have a filled soul gem, and use it to enchant your armor at any enchanting station. These can be found in most cities.
 The primary thing you will need when enchanting your new armor is a filled soul gem. You can purchase these from NPC (Non Player Character) merchants or you can use the Conjuration spell “Soul Trap.” You can also get them from mining or as drops in dungeons from mage-like enemies. You will also need armor that has no previous enchantment on it.
 Once you have gathered all the materials and have gained knowledge of the enchantment you want to place on your armor, go to an enchantment station and use it. You will then select your armor piece, the enchantment, and the soul gem. Once selected you will be able to enchant that armor piece.

