 By understanding your symptoms, you should have a better idea of the severity of the pink eye. Symptoms include redness or swelling of the eye, blurred vision, eye pain, gritty feeling in the eyes, increased tearing, itching of the eye, photophobia or sensitivity to light.Viral pink eye results from a viral infection, such as influenza, and unfortunately has no quick cure. Most people who develop this type of pink eye would have already been suffering from a flu or cold. The best option in treating this form of pink eye is to simply use general home treatments to ease some of the pain. This type of pink eye will generally clear on its own in two to three days but last up to two weeks.
Bacterial pink eye is generally caused by the same bacteria that is responsible for strep throat and is the most common type of pink eye. This bacteria lives on the surface of the skin and causes infections due to unhygienic practices such as frequent eye rubbing, improper hand washing or unsanitary contact lens use. This type of pink eye is distinguished by thick, yellow discharge from the eye and can result in rapid vision loss if not treated in a timely manner with antibiotics.
Other potential types and causes of pink eye include foreign objects in the eye, chemical exposure, allergies, sexually transmitted infections (chlamydia and gonorrhea)., If you're interested in getting rid of pink eye fast, then consult Get Rid of Pink Eye Fast. In general, it's important that you treat the pink eye in a manner that address the type and cause of it. It's best to consult your doctor as to what type of treatment is best for your case.


Bacterial conjunctivitis can be treated with antibiotics in the form of eye drops. These drops require prescription from your doctor and are not available over the counter. Some examples of antibiotic eyedrops include Bacitracin (AK-Tracin), Chloramphenicol (Chloroptic), Ciprofloxacin (Ciloxan), and others. Always complete the full duration of antibiotic treatment, even though symptoms should subside with in three to five days.If the infection is due to chlamydia, then the doctor will prescribe Azithromycin, Erythromycin or Doxycycline. If the infection is due to gonorrhea, then a Ceftriaxone Intramuscular injection will be completed along with Azithromycin orally.
Viral conjunctivitis usually goes away on its own after two to three days and does not need antibiotics or other prescription medication.Treat allergic conjunctivitis with allergy medications, such as antihistamines (like over-the-counter Benadryl). In addition, most eye drops contain a compound known as tetrahydrozoline hydrochloride, which works as a vasoconstrictor and therefore constricts the eye's superficial blood vessels and makes them less noticeable. In some cases, allergic reactions may go away on their own if you avoid contact with the allergen., Flush the affected eye with cool water regularly in order to stop the infection from becoming worse. Use either a warm cloth or towel to gently rub the area around the eye.
 Stop the spread of pink eye regularly washing your hands and by avoiding touching your eye. Pink eye is an extremely contagious disease and can be spread easily through hand-to-hand contact. By washing your hands and not touching your eyes, you will lessen the chance that those you come in contact with will contract pink eye.


Additionally, let people know that they should be sure to avoid touching their eyes after contact with you.
 Call a doctor if the pink eye worsens or is causing you considerable pain. In addition to more accurately diagnosing the type of pink eye, the doctor can prescribe antibiotics and other prescription treatment that are not available over-the-counter.


Be sure to follow the doctor's instructions regarding type, dosage and frequency of medication in order to maximize the medication's benefits and effectively treat pink eye.

