 Doing so will help you evaluate which foods are causing you particular digestive problems. Different foods are triggers for different people, but pay special attention to common gas-causing foods such as beans, peas, whole grains, cauliflower, cabbage, broccoli, asparagus, and onions.


If dairy products are causing you problems, try replacing regular dairy products with lactose-free milk or other calcium-rich foods.You may also try consuming dairy products with active cultures such as yogurt or kefir. These cultures aid in digestion.Avoid consuming fried or fatty foods or artificial sweeteners. Consider adding a fermented food such as kimchee or sauerkraut to your diet. The beneficial bacteria in these foods can aid in digestion.Keep in mind that you won't want to eliminate all gas-causing foods from your diet. Consuming adequate fiber and a variety of nutrient-rich foods is vital during pregnancy and helps prevent constipation, which is another big problem in pregnancy. Noting which foods cause you the greatest problems, however, will help you plan your diet. You may opt, for example, to avoid problem foods when out in public or before an important meeting.;
, Staying hydrated will help you eliminate constipation, which can cause additional gas and bloating.


Drink from a glass without using a straw to ensure you avoid sucking in excess air.
Minimize your consumption of carbonated drinks to avoid ingesting gas bubbles., While you need to consume additional food overall during pregnancy, your slower digestive system may not be able to tolerate as much food at one time as it used to. Smaller, more frequent meals will help you ensure your digestive system does not become overloaded., A majority of gas is produced when bacteria in your large intestine break down food that has not been digested thoroughly by the enzymes in your stomach. Breaking down your food by chewing will lessen the load on your intestinal bacteria and reduce your gas production., Although foods that contain fiber may cause you to produce more gas, they will also help to ensure that you have regular bowel movements, which may help with gas. Maintaining good bowel health during pregnancy is also important to avoid constipation. Make sure to include some god sources of fiber in your diet, like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Aim for 25 to 30 grams of fiber every day to help prevent constipation and promote regular bowel movements.