 Create a secret hiding place by removing the centers of pages in a large book. Small items such as jewelry, money, or memory cards can be stored inside.Visit a used book store or thrift shop and purchase a large, thick book. You will want a book with several hundred pages to provide depth for the items you wish to conceal.
Open the book 25-50 pages.
Cut a rectangle out of the middle of the pages leaving about 1 inch around the outer edge of the pages.
Use a razor knife to slice through several pages at a time.
Carefully turn the cutout pages to reveal the uncut pages that lie beneath, and repeat the cutting process until you are 20-50 pages from the back of the book.
Glue the cut pages of the book together to create a solid frame around your hollow space.
Place the items you wish to hide inside the cutout rectangle and close the book.
Hide the book in plain sight with other books on a shelf.
 A deep drawer in a cabinet or a dresser can be modified to contain a false bottom to conceal items.Purchase a sheet of lauan plywood from your local home improvement store.
Measure the inner dimensions of the drawer.
Cut the plywood to fit inside the drawer.
Glue small wood blocks along the edges of the drawer to support the false bottom. The size of your blocks will depend on the depth of your false bottom. Anything deeper than two inches may make the drawer look suspiciously modified when opened.
Place the plywood on the supports as a false bottom. You may want to attach a ribbon or small string on the plywood to help you lift the false bottom, although, doing so may give away your secret!

, A large, well placed picture can disguise a shelf built into the wall. If the space is not already present in the wall, you can easily add a shelf in an existing wall.Cut out a square of drywall between two studs. Studs are usually located 16-18 inches apart. Use a razor knife or drywall saw to cut a square out of the drywall.
Install a horizontal 2x4 between the two studs. Measure the space between the studs and cut a 2x4 to fit the opening. Drill pocket holes at an angle on one side of the 2x4 toward each end. Screw the horizontal 2x4 to the studs on each end.
Hang a large picture just above your opening. Choose a picture that is large enough to cover the entire opening by several inches on each side.

