 Use a diary to keep track of your daily behaviors and diet so you can identify triggers that lead to rosacea flare-ups. Keeping a diary will allow you to steer clear of factors that cause rosacea, such as excess sun exposure and consumption of sugary foods.It may take a little while to figure out what is causing your flare-ups. Be patient and keep recording what you do every day until you can see a pattern emerge.
 Apply moisturizer and sunscreen with an SPF of 30 or higher to your face on a daily basis. These skin care products can help prevent triggers that lead to flare-ups, such as exposure to wind, sun, and hot temperatures. The biggest trigger of rosacea flare-ups is sunlight, so sunscreen is important to wear every day.You can also avoid sun exposure by wearing a hat and staying in the shade whenever possible.
When picking out a facial moisturizer and sunscreen, remember to avoid products that contain alcohol, perfumes, scents, or harsh irritants. You may need to buy a special product that is made for sensitive skin.
 When you have rosacea you need to be careful about what you put on your skin and how you treat it. When cleaning your skin, use products that don't have alcohol, perfumes, scents, and other harsh irritants. Skin care products that contain alcohol and other harsh irritants can worsen rosacea and can cause new flare-ups. Also, avoid using washcloths and other scrubbing products on your face when cleaning it. Just your fingertips and a gentle cleanser is enough.Typically, cleansers made for "sensitive skin" are more mild than general facial cleansers.
 Chronic stress has been found to worsen rosacea symptoms. To limit these, find new, healthy ways to manage stress, or eliminate stressors from your life. Some ways to limit stress include practicing deep breathing, exercising regularly, listening to soothing, calming music, and engaging in other activities and behaviors that help you relax.It can be hard to limit stress if you have a stressful job or family situation. Start small by taking a little bit of time for yourself every day to just breath and relax. Just a few minutes can really reduce your overall stress quite a bit.
 While makeup will not treat or reduce your rosacea, it will minimize its appearance. Use green-tinted makeup base to most effectively conceal the condition. The green color combines with red-colored skin, visually correcting your skin's color.Green-tinted makeup that is made for concealing rosacea should include sun protection and it should be oil free.

