, Each position in the Motion Offense is assigned a number. Facing the middle of the field: The left of the goal is #1, the right of the goal is #2, then numbers increase  from 3 to 7 counter-clockwise balancing around  the 12-meter arch.,,, During a transition from midfield to offense, the ball carrier should look to go to goal as her first option. If the opposing defense is not set up yet, she could have an easy opportunity to shoot or draw a shooting space foul.,, The ball carrier has 2 options when passing. Those two options include passing to the player to her left or passing to the player to her right. Passing to any player other than an adjacent is a risky pass and could be intercepted or deflected by the opposing defender. Passes should be quick, clean and direct. Lobbed passes could also be intercepted by a defender.

If you are a player who does not have the ball and is not directly adjacent to the ball carrier, you should be paying attention to the location of the ball. Keep the offense balanced around the 12 meter arch to create space for passing, movement and cuts.
 They now become "the cutter". The cutter should be running close to full speed into the 8-meter arch in front of the goal, looking for a pass from the now-ball carrier.

If the ball carrier does not have a clean pass to the cutter, the cutter will continue running to the outside of the 8 meter arch. They will find a new spot in the Motion while the other players balance out the rest of the set-up.
 The ball should be moving fast, only staying with one player for 3-5 seconds before being passed to the next adjacent., Communication is key within the offense, so let your teammates know by yelling "switch". Your teammates will know that you are moving and will be looking out for opportunities to receive a pass., Any movement that the offense does requires the defense to focus attention on the motion offense., If you or a teammate drops the ball while in motion, make sure you hustle the hardest to win back the ground ball., Working the Motion Offense can take time. Do not rush and force passes or shots, as bad shots and bad passes are easily recovered by the opposing team.