 Each room or area of a house can present its own level of decluttering difficulties. A lesser-used area may be the simplest to begin with and can therefore bring the quickest rewards. Because it is so frequently used, often by more than one person in the household, a kitchen can be more difficult to keep decluttered.;
, De-cluttering a house full of objects, especially ones that are either broken, or likely to never be used at all will make more space for living and entertaining. Redundant objects can be removed or hidden in storage. Only the best-looking objects and knick-knacks, like vases, lamps, and chairs that fit the style and look of the room should be left on display.


Determine what you use on a daily basis and seek to have those items easily accessible. For example, if you do not use your food dehydrator often, place it into storage (basement, garage). It will save valuable space for items you may use on a daily basis (toaster, coffee maker).
You may also determine usage of items based on season. For example, during the winter months you may not entertain as often. If so, you can place your serving trays and extra dishes in the basement until spring or summer comes. The same reasoning can be applied to seasonal items such as BBQ accessories (skewers, grills, etc.).
 Label each box using a permanent marker: One "Keep", one "Sell", and one "Charity". Also get a large, lined garbage can into which you can throw things that you don't want to keep, ready to sell, toss or donate.
 Set a timer, and don't start more than you can finish in your allotted time. When the timer rings, make yourself stop, clean up, and then take at least a 15-minute break so you don't burn out. You can always decide to do another round after the break is over but you will probably be relieved to have to break.
 Later, you probably will change some of the items in each box, or move them to another box, but that's after you've had some time to think.
 In each room make three piles on the floor, matching the labeled boxes. Pick up an item, decide which box to put it into, and toss it into the box.
 keep the things you need in a place where you will find it easily. For example, by the phone in the kitchen area, keep pens, extra paper and scissors. Make sure everyone in the family is aware to return things back after they use them.
 Look around and enjoy the neat and tidy area that you probably have not seen for months, or perhaps years. Scrub off grime from surfaces, remove cobwebs and repaint drywall if necessary to make a clean and cozy room.
 The rule of thumb here is if you have not used any item in a year or more, it goes! Add it to one of the other boxes, or toss it into the garbage.


Donate the items you have not used items in 1-2 years. Chances are you don't need them. Donate them to the less fortunate or perhaps a family member who is starting out or moving away to college. This principle also applies to furniture, not just dishes and clothes.
 Call a charity of your choice and ask them to pick them up. Most of the time they will. Sort through and price items for your garage sale. This will save you time when you have the sale. Try to arrange the garage sale at an early date, so you will not be tempted to return the items to your house. Bring the filled garbage bags to the curb on the next pick-up day.
 No clutter, no mess, just a nice clean and nice looking house. Keep it that way on a daily basis.
 This will not only look larger but cleaner, as there is less around to distract the eye. Having less décor means less to clean and dust as well.
 This is a tough one but, learning to not replace items that you have gotten rid of is important one to follow. Also it is really important to shop well. In order to prevent buying twice, buy quality items or items that please the soul. If you have to pay extra for sofa cushions you really love then do so rather than buying the ones that were on sale. Chances are if you love your décor, then you will stick with it.


It is easier to remember the items you spent more money on, and to treasure them above the cheaper things. Focus on quality over quantity.
 Address it when you get it, rather than letting it pile up and then intimidate you. Recycle magazines once you read them or cut out the articles you like and place them in a folder to keep.
 Try not to get into useless memorabilia collecting. Buying a coffee mug where ever you travel to can add up. Be realistic, having a few digital pictures are more than enough to create memories rather than a dozen mugs.
 Having eight cereals to choose from and five cookie packages is not being realistic. Enjoy two to three items, then once finished, buy others. This will teach children to respect what they have and appreciate it and it will encourage a less-cluttered mindset for you.
 Once you declutter your environment, enjoy the space and the look of having less items but a more open cleaner space. Instead of finding new appliances, furniture of clothes-- take up a hobby and distract yourself from items you probably do not need.

