 Everyday routine and stress will eventually spoil your relationship. Sometimes even flowers aren’t enough to make you love him as strong as the first days. Add some romance in your relationship. Go for a ride in the car and don’t stop till you find a place where buildings can’t obstruct the view of the sky and city lights can’t outshine the stars. Another idea is to spend a night in the beach; just you and him, sitting around the fire and drinking wine. Check your local laws before doing this. A night in jail for breaking the open container laws is not romantic.;
, There are so many events going on in your town that even if you’d like to catch them all, you wouldn’t have the time! Instead of reading reviews about exhibitions, find out where the next comic festival, book presentation, music concert or poetry reading is gonna be!

, Or go to the nearest hill to have your picnic there. Being spontaneous will improve the fun.
 Try be fun and outgoing. The classic way to have fun with your boyfriend if you decide to go out is to go for a hot cup of coffee in a cozy cafe at the corner, or somewhere you’ve never been before. If you’d like to combine chin wagging with a good meal, choose a restaurant where you could taste different cuisines. You should also experience the night-life of your town once in a while. Dance the night away in a club, or enjoy your drink while listening to your favorite music in a bar!

, Go to the movies at least twice a week. There are always new movies out that will let you share a good laugh, or give you new things to talk about. Invigoration is the source of a good relationship! Besides the movie theater, you could join cinema festivals and watch all the premieres, or you can sign up for a club where you can study the art of cinema and even make your own amateur movie! (Not that kind of amateur movie… that’s in a different article!)

, You can watch a chick flick and promise to watch a movie of his choice. But you can still keep it engaging for him by snuggling up to him. You can place your hand on his chest to remove all touch barriers. You can always slip your hand underneath his shirt but it might send the wrong signal so be open to anything he might try. But keep it fun by switching things up. Also stop to kiss him once in a while it will send him in a whirl!

, Want to combine fun with exploring new lands and meeting new people? It’s recommended to go on a trip at least one a year. Let this trip be a road trip! As soon as you wake up in the morning, make your suitcases (remember to take as less things with you as possible) and get in the car.
 This will be fun! It will bring out his competitive side which is always fun to watch. It might bring out some funny and embarrassing stories from both of your childhoods. And you can always give a reward such as a kiss in the end for the winner.
 This will be a big turn on for him because we all know that guys love playing video games and they would love to see their girl playing. And this will past the time quickly.
 You can make a meal with him. Guys can't resist food. It is the one way to their heart. He would love for you to show off your talents in the kitchen. A female working in the kitchen can be a great turn on for boys. And if you want both of you to get your competitive juices flowing you can compete with your best recipes.

