 You'll find it at https://www.bigcommerce.com/., It's a purple button on the left side of the page., This should be an email at which you're comfortable receiving business emails., This button is at the bottom of the email field., This will include the following details:

Store name
Login details (first and last name, and password)
Phone number
Country
Business size

, It's at the bottom of the page., This will include your website, the types of things you'll be selling, and your current selling method.

You can also skip this step by clicking Ask me later.
 This button is at the bottom of the page. Doing so will take you to your store's dashboard., This tab is on the left side of the page., It's below the Products tab., The information you'll enter for individual products will vary, but the following details are mandatory:


Name - Your product's name. This is what customers will see when browsing for similar products.

Tax Class - The product's tax designation. This will typically be "Default".

Product type - Determine whether your product is physical or downloadable.

Weight - Your product's weight. You won't see this if you're selling a downloadable item.

Description - A description of your product.
While not required, it's also a good idea to add a physical product's dimensions.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the page., This option is near the top-left corner of the page. Clicking it will take you back to your eCommerce site's home page., You'll see it about halfway down the column of tabs on the left-hand side of the page. This option will load your store's appearance page., You can change the details of your store's appearance and layout on this page.

For example: to change the heading on your website's home page, you would edit the text in the "Heading" box at the top of the page.
Scrolling down on the default tab (Carousel & Social Media) will allow you to add links to your social media accounts.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Doing so will save your changes to your website., After fourteen days, you'll need to purchase a month-to-month plan to continue selling with BigCommerce. You can do so by clicking Select a plan at the top of your site's dashboard.

Plans range from $29.95/month for a full eCommerce site to $249.95/month for a premium site with additional security and search features.

