 If you are working within tight timeframes, avoid the mistake of booking your flight for the same day as your budget cruise departure. Although the timing might look fine on paper, this approach is risky because your baggage could end up being delayed or you could miss a connecting flight. To avoid the disappointment of a missed cruise, you should aim to fly in to your departure city at least a day prior to the start of your budget cruise., If your budget cruise stops at a port for a few hours or days, you should avoid scheduling your trip on shore too tightly. If you go too far from port or schedule too many activities or site visits while on shore, you run the risk of missing your cruise departure. Cruise boats will not wait for you. If you want to avoid the disappointment of a cruise that ends early and in a highly inconvenient manner, you should avoid tight scheduling of on shore activities.Add up the time for transportation, site seeing, eating, and any other activities you anticipate doing on your excursion. Once you have an estimated total for your excursion, add an extra two hours for unanticipated hold-ups such as flat tires or taxis that arrive late. Once you have the total time for your excursion plus an extra two hours leeway, plan to arrive back at your cruise ship an hour early so that you have time to get settled back onboard.The advantage of taking a ship-sponsored shore excursion is that you know the cruise ship won’t leave without you because so many of its passengers will be on the excursion.Consider booking a half-day tour and then relaxing for the rest of the day in fairly close proximity to the port., You should look into the packaged shore excursions and compare them with local options that are advertised online. You might even join an online discussion forum to find out about local tour options or find people on your budget cruise who might also be interested. You might be able to save money and get a better experience by booking yourself instead of with the cruise company., Spa treatments fill up fast on many budget cruises so you will want to pre book your spa treatments well ahead of time. As soon as you book your budget cruise, go ahead and book your spa treatments to avoid disappointment., If you manage your expectations, you will be less likely to experience disappointment. This includes expectations for yourself during your budget cruise, expectations for others such as cruise staff, and expectations for family members and friends. Be realistic about what you might expect from budget cruise staff, your family, friends and yourself.If you bring work on the cruise, be realistic about what you might reasonably be able to achieve while on a cruise. There will be limited internet and work space.There may not be the same level of service that is common on higher priced luxury cruises. Adjust your expectations accordingly.

