 Generally most students want to behave and very few really want the tension of getting into trouble. So if you give instructions, anticipate that the student will comply and act as if this is the case. For example, in your travels around the room you notice Gina is reading a book and not doing her math. You take the least intrusive path, “Thanks for putting that book away, Gina.” And continue to move around the room as if you know Gina is going to comply. Gina feels your expectation and 99.9% of the time she will comply, because she is not going to get any mileage if she doesn’t. You have already moved on! Consider the alternative action. You say the same thing, but stand at Gina’s desk with arms on your hips and a snarl ready on your lips. You’re ready for a fight and Gina is likely to accommodate you.;
, Close your request. You can close off a request by prefacing your statement with an expectation of compliance. Such statements like “Thank you for closing the windows for me, Paul”. Few students are likely to refuse a request phrased in such a way.
 Relief teachers seem to take things to heart far too often. Learn to differentiate between discipline and behaviour. Discipline is a belief system of values and principles. Children learn that at home. Discipline involves the principles of honesty, fairness and the values of integrity and personal accountability amongst many many more. Teachers don’t discipline students, we manage their behaviour. Parents are still accountable (not teachers) if their child breaks the law, damages property. Society dumps on teachers far too easily. So … don’t reach for the bottle just yet. Ahh heck – go for it anyway!

, Do the class know when you want their attention? Avoid screaming, “Listen Now!” because as a Relief Teacher the class is not attuned to your voice. Try other options like a small bell, clap of hands, a silly bike horn. Experiment with different techniques that will work for you. Whatever you use, it is important to have a STOP SIGNAL at your disposal.
 Secondary behaviours are those that occur when you have a discussion with the student and the student wants to take control. They are 'chase me' behaviours designed to push your buttons, gain a furious response and ultimately distract you from the purpose of the discussion. Some kids are masters at it, having practised it very well at home. OK. So you want Freddie (it’s a shame that, statistically, most of the offenders are boys) to leave the room. You have exhausted all of your positive reinforcement, redirection techniques, warnings and sanctions and need him to leave. The secondary behaviours are the chair being thrown back, stamping, general huffing and puffing posturing. Freddie is building up a real performance for the benefit of his classmates. Don't allow him to take control of your behaviour. Resist the temptation to address the secondary behaviours at the moment. Instead, remember them for later.
 Major long-term studies have proven the irrefutable success of direct instruction (now called explicit teaching) The term refers to a method for teaching that is fast-paced and provides constant interaction between students and the teacher. Direct Instruction is rich in structure and drilling and content. It is starting to become more popular given the current drive for proven results. Many studies have proven its success as a teaching strategy.


What does it mean for the Relief Teacher and how do you DO it? Direct instruction is a sequence of supports:• setting a purpose for learning, telling students what to do, showing them how to do it, guiding their hands-on application of the new learning.
 As hard as it might prove to be, don’t go for the throat first. Start with the non-intrusive strategies. You might have to take a few deep breaths first. You do remember that World War One started with one shot. I have sometimes been caught out by not making a concerted effort to get all the facts first.
 The truth of the matter is that sometimes you are going to be confronted with a disagreement between students. This can happen within metres of a teacher. Here is a simple strategy that (usually) works. Firstly, DISTRACT students from hurting or hitting - what ever is occurring. This might be a whistle or calling out. If you can use humour, now is a good time to apply it. If not - DON'T. Secondly, DIFFUSE the anger by NOT being angry yourself. (Riots develop when both sides are angry.) Avoid shouting or panicking. Be calm - at least sound calm. Keep your directions short and clear. Never give more than ONE direction at a time. "Bill, thanks for standing over there. John, thanks for putting your hands down." Repeat if necessary but do not change the directions. "OK. Let's sit down and face opposite directions." Having students sit on the ground really has a calming effect. (Watch what NYPD do). and then handcuff them to the nearest pole. Thirdly, DISPERSE. You only need the offenders. Chase the watchers away. (Move on citizens. Nothing to see here) The next step depends on your level of authority. If you are comfortable dealing with the offenders at this point, then do it. I suggest if you are a relief teacher you probably need to pass the offenders over to some one. Now ... that is another article!

, These I-messages are expressions of our feelings. Thomas Gordon, creator of Teacher Effectiveness Training (TET), tells us to structure these messages in three parts. First, include a description of the child’s behavior. “When you talk while I talk...” Second, relate the effect this behavior has on the teacher. “...I have to stop my teaching...” And third, let the student know the feeling that it generates in the teacher. “...which frustrates me.”

, If an important goal is for our students to treat each other with respect, then the responsibility for modelling respectful communication is on you. Words can be very powerful. Be careful how you use them. Be sure that your words focus on the behaviour not on the student. There is a very big difference between saying, "You are so lazy!" and, "You haven't done your homework."

, Kids love double standards. A teacher yelling at a student for yelling in the playground just doesn’t make sense. Make no mistake, you are on show. The students want to see how you solve conflict. They will often use that as an exemplar.
 Sometimes you have to learn to pick the battles. There is no good coming back with, “We won the battle, General but we lost the war!” Some relief teachers (and some teachers) target the most trivial matters which are blown out of all proportion.
 The student who continually misbehaves is often disengaging themselves from the lesson for a purpose. Perhaps they are finding the work too difficult and do not want to show themselves up as being a dunderhead. Being a rebellious youth is far more socially acceptable. If you suspect this is the case, engage the student in a learning activity that shows the rest of the class they are capable. You have to tread carefully here and manufacture a situation when the student looks good.

