 To make a large floral bow you will need a piece of wired ribbon, approximately 4 inches (10.2 cm) wide and 3 yards (2.7 m) long.


Wired ribbon is much easier to work with than soft ribbon as it holds its shape better, making a fuller bow.
You will also need a 9 or 10 inch (22.9 or 25.4 cm) length of florist wire (although pipe cleaner will do in a push) bent into a U-shape, and a pair of scissors.;
, Take one end of the ribbon and form a loop, making sure that the "right" side of the ribbon is facing out.









Hold the bottom of the loop tightly between your thumb and fingers. Keep in mind that the size of the loops you make will determine the size of your finished bow.
At the bottom of this first loop, give the ribbon a tight twist to ensure the correct side of the ribbon is facing out. This is the secret to a pretty-looking bow.
 Form a second loop on one side of your original center loop.


Secure it between the thumb and fingers holding the first loop and give the ribbon another good twist to ensure that the right side is facing out.
Make a third loop on the other side of the center loop, again securing it between your fingers and twisting the ribbon.
 Continue using the same technique of looping, securing and twisting until you have four or five loops on each side of the original central loop.Depending on how you want your finished bow to look, you can make all of the loops the same size or you can make them progressively bigger as you go.
When you've finished making loops, pick up the tail end of the ribbon up and secure it between your thumb and fingers (do not twist this piece of ribbon - keep it straight). This will create a large circular loop hanging beneath your bow.
 Take the U-shaped piece of florist wire and pass one leg through the center loop, so there is a leg sitting on either side of the bow.









Twist the legs of the wire tightly to secure the underside of the bow and hold all of the loops in place.
Alternatively, some people recommend twisting the bow itself (rather than the wire) as they claim this produces a tighter bow which will not fall apart.
 Take a couple of moments to pull out all of the loops (some to the left, some to the right) to create a rounded, flower shape.









This may require some firm tugging, but the wire ribbon should eventually do as its told!
Also be sure to round out each loop, so it looks full and circular rather than flat.
 Cut the large hanging loop beneath the bow in half to form the tails. Cut the tails as short as you like and give them a slanted or swallow-tailed ending, whichever you prefer.