 Use a broom and dustpan to sweep your floor at least once each week. This will remove dust, dirt, and other grime from the tile.Alternately, you could vacuum your ceramic tiles to remove dust, dirt, and crumbs., After sweeping the floor, mop it at least once each week. There’s no need to use soap (though it doesn’t hurt). This will keep your ceramic tile looking shiny and new.








Once you’ve mopped the floor, wring the mop out immediately and dry the floor with it to prevent any new dirt from settling in wet areas, and to protect you from slipping.
If you use soap, use a nontoxic dish detergent.
 If you’re trying to protect ceramic tile located directly inside the foyer, place a doormat outside the door of your residence. Additionally, place a rug or another mat right inside the house. Encourage family members and visitors to wipe their feet on both mats, and to remove their shoes when they enter the home.Use of doormats is especially important during rainy and snowy seasons.
 If a spill happens on your ceramic tile floor, clean it up as soon as possible. The longer a stain sits on your ceramic tile, the harder it will be to remove. Use mops on large spills and absorbent cloths on smaller spills.
 The grout is the sunken area bordering each ceramic tile. Over time, it can become discolored and gross. To keep it clean, mix baking soda and water in equal amounts. Coat the grout with the paste. Allow it to sit for several hours (or even overnight). Scrub the grout vigorously with an old toothbrush or a stiff-bristled brush. Wipe the paste scum away with a sponge soaked in warm water.








For an extra boost of cleaning power, fill a spray bottle with vinegar and spray the paste after you apply it.
The frequency with which you clean your grout is up to you. Clean your grout as often as you like, or when it begins to show discoloration. Floors that are used more heavily will require more frequent cleaning. If you have children, pets, and/or walk about your home with shoes on, you’ll need to clean your grout more often.
 When cleaning ceramic tiles, always start with just water. Test any commercial cleaning solution on a small and out-of-sight portion of your ceramic tile before you apply it to a larger or more visible area of your tile. This will help you ensure that the solution does not discolor or otherwise damage your tile. Avoid using abrasive cleaners or creams containing gritty ingredients like silicate.