 A series of cortisone injections administered to the keloid every four to eight weeks by a doctor can usually shrink the size of the keloid and make it flatter. However, sometimes they can cause the keloid to become darker in color.Interferon is another kind of injection that is being studied for the treatment of keloids, and may be an option for you.;
, Cryotherapy is a very effective treatment for keloids, and can shrink them significantly. In cryotherapy, liquid nitrogen is applied to the keloid to freeze away the excess cells. Cryotherapy only takes a few minutes and can usually be done in your doctor's office. Several treatments spaced several weeks apart may be needed to fully remove the keloid., Laser therapies for keloids are relatively new and have not been studied as much as other treatment options, but they show promise of minimizing or healing keloids. Different kinds of laser treatments work better on different skin types, and on different types of keloids. Ask your dermatologist if she thinks laser treatment might be right for you., Doctors are reluctant to remove keloids surgically, because there is a high chance of additional scar tissue forming at the site. However, in some cases it may be helpful or necessary.


If you have a keloid surgically removed, be sure to follow all of the after-care instructions carefully to prevent a new keloid from forming.
 It sounds extreme, but radiation has been effectively used for over a century to treat keloids, often in combination with surgery or other treatments. Despite concerns over an increase in cancer risk, a recent study indicates that radiation remains a safe option if appropriate precautions (protecting cancer-prone tissues) are made.Radiation treatments are usually outpatient procedures performed at your local hospital under the care of a trained radiologist.
 Safe remedies to shrink keloids include pressure (silicon pads) and the application of healing substances. Do not try to physically remove or shrink a keloid yourself by cutting, sanding, constricting it with string or rubber bands, or using any other method that traumatizes the skin. Not only are you likely to see additional scar tissue form at the site, you can also put yourself at serious risk for infection., Vitamin E has been shown to help scars heal, prevent keloids, and may help shrink existing keloids. Apply Vitamin E oil or cream to the scar twice daily, morning and night for 2-3 months.Vitamin E oil can be bought in health food stores, and many major grocery stores.
You can also purchase Vitamin E capsules, and cut them open and squeeze the oil onto the scar. Each capsule should be good for a few applications.
 Silicon gel sheets or "scar sheets" are self-adhesive, reusable sheets that are applied to an injury site to prevent scars, or on existing scars and keloids to reduce their size and appearance. Silicon sheets should be worn over the injury site or on the existing keloid for at least 10 hours per day for several months.Silicon gel sheets are sold under names such as "ScarAway," and can be bought at most pharmacies and many online retailers.
 There are a number of new topical treatments for healing scars that may visibly diminish keloids. The active ingredient in many of these treatments is silicone. Look for a product labeled "scar cream" or "scar gel" and apply as directed., The best way to deal with keloids is to avoid getting them in the first place. People who already have keloids, or who are very prone to getting them, can take special precautions with skin injuries to prevent keloid scares from forming.
 Pay attention to even minor skin injuries, and make sure that any wounds are thoroughly cleaned. Apply an antibiotic cream and bandage to any open wounds, and change the bandage frequently.


Wear loose clothing over the injury site that will not irritate the skin further.
The silicon gel sheets mentioned above work well to prevent keloids from forming.
 Piercings and even tattoos can lead to keloids in some individuals. If you have developed keloids in the past, or have a family history of keloids in your family, you may want to avoid piercings and tattoos, or consult with a dermatologist before proceeding.
 Keloids are raised scars that can form anywhere on the body where the skin has been injured. They form when the body creates excess collagen (a kind of scar tissue) at the injury site. The skin injury may be large and obvious, like a surgery incision or burn, or small like a bug bite or pimple. Keloids usually begin to develop around three months after the original injury, and can continue to grow for weeks or even months.Ear piercings and tattoos can lead to keloids in some people.
Usually keloids form on the chest, shoulders, and upper back.
 Keloids are usually raised and rubbery in appearance, with a smooth, shiny surface. The shape of the keloid usually follows the shape of the injury, but over time keloids can grow beyond the original injury site. Keloids can vary in color from silvery to flesh-tone to red or dark brown.


Keloids are generally not painful, but can cause an itching or burning sensation for some people.
While keloids aren't dangerous, it is important to have them looked at by a doctor to make sure they aren't a more serious skin condition.
 Some people are more likely than others to develop keloids, and if you have had one keloid scar appear, you are likely to develop more in the future. If you know you are at risk, you may want to take special care of skin injuries to prevent keloids from forming.People with darker skin tones are more likely to develop keloids.
People younger than 30 are at a higher risk, especially teenagers experiencing puberty.
Pregnant women are more likely to develop keloids.
People with a history of keloids in their family are also at a higher risk.
 It is very important to have a suspected keloid examined by a doctor to make sure that it is not something more serious. In some cases, the doctor may be able to visually diagnose the keloid. In others, the doctor may wish to take a biopsy of the tissue and have it screened to rule out cancer.


Most effective treatments for keloids are done under a doctor's care, and early treatment is often the key to success.
A skin biopsy is a simple procedure, in which the doctor removes a small sample of skin tissue and sends it to a lab to be analyzed under a microscope. It can often be done in the doctor's office at the time of your visit.