 Many places in Wales have an English and a Welsh name. First of all you must establish whether you're looking at English or Welsh.


There is no J, K, Q, V, X or Z in the Welsh language; therefore, if the place-name contains any of these letters then it's pronounced as an English word. For example Wrexham has an X, therefore you're looking at the English name. Abergavenny has a V in it, so again it's the English name.
The only double letters in the Welsh language are DD, FF, LL, NN and RR, so if you see any double letters other than these, for example Welshpool has a double OO in it, therefore it's the English name.;
, Each letter has only one pronunciation apart from the letter Y which has two pronunciations. Even then the rule is very strict.


There are no silent letters in Welsh. Each letter must be pronounced.
 W and Y are vowels. So there are seven vowels:- A, E, I, O, U, W and Y.



W is not called "double-you". It's ALWAYS pronounced oo. For example, Llanrwst is pronounced tlan-ROOST


Y is not called "Wye". It's called UH. Y is pronounced uh as if someone has punched you in the abdomen, except in the last syllable of a word, where it's pronounced ee.

U is not called "you". It's like the French U. Purse your lips, then say ee.
 Keep the following rules in mind:



F is always pronounced as v. It's a common mistake to pronounce it like an English F - avoid that!
However; double FF is pronounced as in English.

DD is pronounced as th in "the", "this" or that".

CH is pronounced as in the Scottish "Loch" or the composer "Bach".

LL is a sound which does not exist in English. It's an L that isn't voiced. Just blow instead. The nearest sound in English is TL. If you want to pronounce it correctly, put your tongue behind your teeth as if you're going to say L and just blow. (If you think this is difficult, consider that some Welsh people can't pronounce Z.)

C is always pronounced as k, never as an s. There is no K or Q in Welsh. These sounds are represented by the letter C and there is no X. It's represented by CS.

G is always pronounced as G in golf, never as in George.
And don't forget to roll your Rs.
 Imagine if they spoke Welsh in England instead of English; Leicester would be spelled LESTER; Brighton would be BRAITON; Carlisle would be CARLAIL; Newcastle would be NIWCASL, and so on.


If your mother tongue is English or French you will have probably developed the habit, or even been taught to pronounce groups of letters together. This is not done in Welsh. If you see two vowels together, pronounce them separately but just run them together a little. Coed (meaning woods) is pronounced ko'ed, Caer (meaning fort) is pronounced ka'er. Heol, (meaning a road in south Wales) is pronounced he'ol.
 If you see an E, even at the end of a word, it must be pronounced. Pontardawe has three vowels together at the end (yes; W is a vowel in Welsh). Each vowel must be pronounced, so it's pon-tar-DAH-weh.
 In Welsh, the stress is normally on the penultimate syllable of a word, but there are exceptions.

