 Swipe down from the top of your screen to access the notification panel, and look for the icon for Location Services.


The icon for Location Services is located in the row of quick settings in the notification panel, and can either be a circular icon with a dot in the middle, or a tapered pin facing downward, depending on the model of your device. It will likely be labeled, so it should be easy to find in the notification panel.
Tap on the Location Services icon to turn it on.;
, Open the Maps application, and the app should zero-in on your location since you have enabled Location Services. At the top of your screen, type in your desired destination in the search bar, and tap on the correct result that appear as your type.


Using one finger, you can tap and drag on the map to pan and scroll through it. Pinch in to zoom out, and pinch out to zoom in. Use two fingers and drag them clockwise or counterclockwise to turn the map. You will see the roads, rivers, and highways (marked yellow) on the map, as well as street names and area names.
Tapping on the target icon in the lower right corner of the map screen will center the map to your location.
 Tap the car icon in the lower right corner of your device. It will open a new screen, which you can call the navigation option screen, and will show the minimized map in the center of the screen while presenting navigation options at the top. You will also see your location and destination below the Car, Train, and Walking icon, which you can edit by tapping on either your location or destination to change the route.
 Do this by tapping the car icon at the top of the screen, and you will see the main road you will be using marked in black, next to the gray car icon. Tap on the blue “START NAVIGATION” button below the minimap to begin navigating.


You will then be taken to a 3D road map, with the blue arrow icon representing you and your vehicle, as well as the direction you are facing. As you drive, the app will tell you where to turn, as well as your distance to your destination when you are close.
As with the top-down map, you can pinch to zoom in or out, as well as turning the map clockwise or counterclockwise using two fingers.
 On the navigation option screen, tap the Train icon at the top. Depending on your destination, train route options will appear, which you can use to get to your destination. Each route is denoted by a gray train icon, and timestamps at the right of the icon, telling you the train arrival schedules as well as the the train station name.


At the rightmost of each route, you will see the estimated time of arrival to your destination when you take that route. Tapping on a route will open the map and highlight the path you will go when taking that route.
Your location is denoted by a circular icon with a small arrow pointing to the direction you are currently going.
 On the navigation options screen, tap the icon with the walking person, beside the train icon. Here, you will find routes for when you want to walk to your destination. Each route is denoted by a walking person icon, and to their right is the main street to get you to your destination. At the rightmost are estimated times of arrival for each route.


Tapping on a route will open the map, highlighting your route in blue, and the estimated time of arrival will be at the bottom left, as well as the distance. Tapping the arrows at the lower right corner will open the map in 3D navigation mode. Here, you will see a real-time depiction of your progress when going a certain route, and your current location is resembled by a gray circle icon with an arrow across it, which determines your direction.

