 This will allow fans, colleagues, and other Twitter users in your industry to locate and follow your Twitter profile. For example, if you typically write books under a pseudonym, use that pseudonym as your Twitter username.;
, This will provide Twitter users with information about your niche, and can also help clarify your identity if your name is common. For example, if you write horror novels, indicate this fact in your Twitter profile so users interested in horror novels can begin to follow you on Twitter.


Include a link to your official author website or blog in your Twitter profile. Twitter users can then click on your link to learn more about you, your books, and other works you have published.
 By following users in these areas, you are demonstrating your genuine interest in the Twitter community, which can help generate your own followers. For example, follow other authors, book reviewers, book bloggers, publishing companies, and similar types of users in the book industry.


Search for Twitter users by entering related keywords into the Twitter search field - such as "books," "authors," "publishing company," and more.
 A hashtag is a link unique to Twitter that users can click on to read other Tweets that contain the same hashtag. For example, if you write a book that compiles the best how-to articles on wikiHow, develop a hashtag of "#wikiHowBook." Users can then search specifically for Tweets that mention #wikiHowBook and read what other people are saying about that topic.
 After consistent hashtag use, your followers will start clicking on the hashtag to read other Tweets that discuss the same topic. An example of hashtag use is: "My book just became a best-seller! #wikiHowBook."

, As an author, the types of Tweets that your followers may enjoy reading about may cover topics such as favorite books, news related to authors and books, and news and updates about your upcoming books.


Share interesting and helpful links in your Tweets. In addition to publishing links to your own work in your Tweets, you can post links to interesting articles about self-publishing, and other news related to the book industry.
 Replying to your followers is an ideal way to create a bond with your audience, and shows that you are genuinely interested in the Twitter community. Examples of interactions are replying to praise or Tweets that mention you, or replying to Tweets of people you follow.

