


Warriors are mostly melee fighters. They cannot use range attacks like the other classes until much later in the game. Therefore, and as presumed, warriors have the far more health and defense than other classes. Attacking melee is sometimes boring, but the sheer damage of every hit makes it worthwhile.
Warriors do a lot of damage at higher levels, but are eclipsed by Mage's in the intermediate zone. At this point, Warriors seem pretty pathetic, but don't give up!
Also, it is debatable to choose 2H, or 2handed, weapons over 1H weapons. The good news is that you can use both depending on the environment. This is resulting because of the Warrior's 'Mastery' skills. For example, Fighters get Sword and Axe Mastery. If you pick Axe Mastery, you get a higher minimum damage + accuracy for BOTH 1H and 2H axes.
Pros:

Highest HP and Defense of all classes.
Choice of 8 different weapons types.
Can choose between 1-handed and 2-handed weapons.
First Mapler's to get a mob skill.
Pages (mace/sword users) can use elemental charges like those of Magicians to enhance attacking in 3rd Job and beyond
High raw damage.
Spearmen are wanted in parties should they have Hyper Body (increases max HP and MP by 60%)
Fighters are liked for their Rage ability. Increasing attack by 10.
Dragon Knights are the first class to have the ability to hit 15 monsters in the map. (Dragon Roar)
Crusaders do more damage on single monsters, while White Knights do more damage based on elemental powers, and Dragon Knights do more damage to mobs.
Dragon Knight have a more increased range but more evident in 3rd job.
Crusaders and White Knight gets mp regeneration in 3rd job.


Cons:

No ranged attacks until 3rd (for Spear and Polearm users) or 4th job(for every other warrior)
White Knights/Paladins (Pages past level 70) have restricted training choices since they rely on elemental advantages (like magicians) to train efficiently.
Lowest MP of all classes (until 3rd class).
Axe and Mace users have relatively unstable damage throughout the whole game. Spear and pole arm users also face this problem, though this is fixed in the 3rd job. Either way, this unstable damage is akin to the damage of pre-4th job (cross)bow and claw users. Pole-arm users and spearman get more mastery however in 4th job. Although Axe and Mace are unstable, they do relatively more damage than the stable sword
Low accuracy + avoid-ability.



