 Extra bonus points if you can arrive at school early! It's best to get to school a little early so you have more time to get to know your classmates, ask any questions as needed and learn your way around the school before classes start. Plus, arriving early gives people a better impression of you - that you're almost always on time and you're ready to get the school day started - than it does when you walk in late, interrupting the class and the teacher.
 You don't want to forget to do this, so it's best to complete this task first thing when you arrive!

, Although it may be hard and perhaps even scary, avoid being shy or talking quietly. Speak in a clear, confident voice - it will raise people's opinion of you - but avoid sounding overly loud and obnoxious. It's fine to be a loud person, but there is a limit to how appropriate your loudness can be! Being shy will make it harder on everyone, especially you. People will start to simply ignore you and not even realize you're there!

, Note how things are done around in this school. Once you have all the information you need, you can start being your lovely self!


Putting on an act for everyone will soon get tiring, especially if you stay at this school for years. People are smart and will quickly catch on. Then, your reputation will be ruined and people will refuse to be your friend - no one likes a fake person!
Don't be afraid to let yourself shine! Just because the popular girls at your school have their own opinions doesn't mean you have to have the same as they do. They know nothing about you, and you don't have to let them push you down.
 Your smile is the best tool you have to attracting people; it will give you an irresistible glow that draws people to you. Show off those pearly whites, but avoid fake or strained smiles. Smile only when it's natural, or you'll come off as an annoying fake.
 Simply find something about them you can truly and comfortably compliment them on, but don't just leave it as that! Keep the conversation flowing! For example: "I like your shoes. Where did you get them?" or "I love your hair! How did you get it like that?"


Never let awkward silences be the case. Since you don't know anything about your classmate, ask them a few casual questions that are appropriate to talk about. People often enjoy talking about themselves, but remember they don't do it endlessly!
Don't forget to tell them a little about yourself as well.
If your classmates appear to be snappy or bossy, don't worry about it or think that they dislike you (unless if it's really obvious). They may be like that all the time, but really, they have a nice personality underneath. Don't give up on them!
If there particular people you soon find that you dislike, never show any signs of hostility or disdain towards them. Act neutral towards anyone else that isn't your friend, no matter who the person is. This way, no one can say that you truly are mean to them. Plus, the whole class will start looking up to you!

, Don't turn down any offers that any of your classmates give you to meet outside of school, as this is your chance to know them and secure friendships.
 You'll be fine as long as you show your true self in appropriate ways!


Avoid showing the bad qualities of your personality. Focus on the good qualities, but don't be proud and refuse to acknowledge your flaws!

