 A boat is a major purchase; it should not be made in haste. This is where most people get in trouble. The best deals are made when you can confidently and without regret, walk away from the bargaining table. Consider how difficult sellers have getting rid of their houseboat; don't purchase one impetuously yourself.;
, You need to get the exact specifications of the boat and price compare. You will have a horrible taste in your mouth if you end up buying a houseboat that you could have purchased for a better price elsewhere.
 Don't limit yourself to dealerships; auction houses, private sellers, classifieds and the Internet are all excellent sources that may have that diamond in the rough at an awesome price.
 You need to have a budget and stick to it. If you want to spend $4000, then don't agree to $4005. If you are going to be mad that you let it go for only $5 more than what you wanted to spend, then you need to budget $4005 for the boat. You have to go in with a definite stopping point, otherwise, you will get caught in a pricing war and in such a situation, it is very easy to let your emotions, rather than your wallet dictate. That is dangerous. The ground is even more treacherous if you find your houseboat at auction and get caught up in an emotionally charged bidding war. You can't win in that situation.
 Unless you walk around with a bag full of money, you will need to know beforehand how much down seller or dealer requires. If you need or plan on financing your purchase, you will need to have this taken care before the sale. Auction houses do not generally offer financing or broker such deals, and private sellers most likely do not.
 Auction house terms not only define the purchase price and security deposits; they also dictate when the property must be removed. If this is an estate auction, it is usually the same day or within hours. Dealerships may allow more time; private sellers may or may not. Houseboats are considerably heavier than other boats and will require some serious muscle behind them. Based upon the size of the houseboat, you may have to arrange for specialized, professional transport.

