 It's hard to be an excellent employee if you lack passion. If you're simply suffering through work for 8 hours a day, this will show up in your attitude and performance in subtle ways. Try to go into work each day with a sense of passion and excitement.Focus on the positive aspects of your job. Say you're a copywriter for a non-profit. You may find some of the material you have to write a little silly or corny. However, think about the bigger picture. While the wording in a recent press release may sound saccharine to you, it could result in more donations, allowing your company to do more good in the world.
Authentic passion is hard to fake. If you're in a job you do not feel strongly about, consider looking for a different job. It's very hard to be focused and committed when you feel you're in the wrong career.
 Employers love employees who are able to creatively problem solve. In any given situation, you should be looking for new and innovative solutions. A creative employee is an invaluable asset to any company.

Creativity can be hard to cultivate. However, there are ways to amp your creative side. As you go through your day-to-day tasks, periodically pause and think, "Is there a more efficient way I could be doing this?" You should always be on the lookout for creative solutions to office problems, finding ways to make things run smoother.
Do not be shy. If you have an idea on how to improve things, approach your boss respectfully. Even if he or she passes on your idea, employers appreciate employees who take initiative., A positive attitude is contagious. Good employees come to work with a fresh perspective each day, eager to do their best. Try to come in each day feeling positive. This will reflect well on you and make you a valued employee.


Try to have a "half glass full" mentality. Come to into work looking at each day as a new opportunity to grow, change, and learn. If you're in a bad mood, this will show up in your performance.Practicing self care outside of work can affect your personality. Strive to eat right, exercise regularly, and get enough sleep. If you're taking care of yourself physically, this will improve your emotional attitude.
 Many employees are inclined to talk themselves up to gain favor. While it's good to be confident, sometimes confidence veers on dishonestly. Be honest about yourself and your capabilities. Self-criticism provides you with an opportunity to grow and learn. Employers want ambitious employees who will push themselves to succeed.Do not be self-depreciating, however, as this can come off as having a negative attitude. If you don't know how to do a task, don't say, "I'm too stupid to figure that out." Instead, say something like, "I've never run Google Analytics before, but I would love the chance to learn how if you have a few minutes to show me."

, Employers want employees who will continue moving up. No one wants someone who's content to stay in the same position for years. Be bold and take risks. Write down a list of 10 things you would do at work if you knew failure was not a possibility. Then, try to complete that list anyway. Not all of your pursuits will be a roaring success, but chances are you will reach some goals along the way. Your boss will be impressed that you took the initiative to push yourself out of your usual comfort zone.