 If you want to go on a city vacation, consider choosing a city that isn’t overwhelming. Going to a city like New York or Tokyo can be stressful because it’s so packed and there is so much to do. Instead of relaxing, you may end up running around and feeling stressed.Instead, consider a city that isn’t as busy, but still has a lot to see. For example, you may try Vancouver, Madrid, San Francisco, Seattle, or Washington, D.C.;
, Everyone has a different definition of relaxation and serenity. When you are deciding where to go on your vacation, pick a location that will be relaxing for you. Think about what kind of environment will make you relaxed and feel rejuvenated.For example, some people find the most relaxation at the beach, while others like mountains and lakes. Some people prefer green spaces or a coffee shop in large cities.
Try thinking about times when you have felt relaxed before. How can you recreate this effect?
Only you can decide what is truly relaxing for you.
 Start your vacation with a relaxing tone by making the travel as relaxing as possible. Plan plenty of time to pack the car or get to the airport, and leave with enough time so that you aren’t rushing around to get to your destination.Make relaxing or happy playlists to listen to while you drive or fly.
If you’re on a flight, consider blocking out the noise with headphones and watching a movie to get you relaxed.
Consider indulging in a treat during the travel, like your favorite candy bar or a glass of wine on the flight.
See if there are things you can do at work in advance to make life easier for you while you are on vacation. Being preparing for your absence well ahead of your vacation so you are not frantically trying to do this right before you leave.
 If going away will be stressful instead of relaxing, consider having a staycation. Staycations are vacations where you stay at home and let go of your normal responsibilities for the duration. This can be a great way to relax and rejuvenate.For example, you may spend your days catching up on movies and television, sitting on park benches reading, or sitting on the deck enjoying some sunshine. See if there are any attractions in your city that you have never checked out before, and check them out as if you are a tourist.
During staycations, avoid doing housework or projects. Ignore the pile of laundry and don’t worry about cleaning the garage. Focus on relaxation.

