 It's no small task calling a ghost from the spirit world into the human world, even for a short time. However, there are items that can be used in a special ritual to enable communication between you and the spirits. To summon a ghost you'll need:


Normal playing cards (1 deck)
Candles (5)
Lighter/matches
Salt (rock salt preferred)
Friends (optional);
, The spirits are sometimes hesitant to make contact with the human world in broad daylight, where their powers are weakest. You can improve your chances of contacting the spirit world by:


Waiting until after sun has set to play this game.
Drawing curtains or hanging blankets over your windows to block out the light.
 For the purposes of summoning a spirit to answer questions, you won't need a complicated magic circle to protect you. Sprinkle a fine line of salt in a broad circle around the area where you will be summoning your spirit. Salt has purifying properties, and will form an impenetrable barrier that evil spirits will not be able to pass., There are many different patterns that ghosts respond to, and you should feel free to follow your instincts while setting up your candles. However, for best results, you should place your candles:


One in each of the cardinal directions at the edge of the magic circle: north, south, east, and west. This symbolizes the ends of the earth from which you are calling the spirits.
The fifth candle should be placed in front of the person who summons the ghost, to boost his connection with the spirit world.
 If you are the summoner, you should sit as close to the center of the magic circle as possible, and you should have a clear, unblocked view of the candles surrounding you. If friends are joining you in your summoning, they should sit inside the magic circle and between the candles.


Blocking the view between the summoner and the candles can weaken his connection with the spirit world and cause the summoning to fail.
Always exercise caution when around an open flame. If you or one of your friends knocks a candle over and starts a fire, you spirit channeling game could turn into big trouble.
 If you are the summoner, you should shuffle the deck of cards regularly until you bridge the deck exactly nine times. After you have shuffled and bridged the deck nine times, cut the deck five times. While doing this, keep your mind clear, and be sure there are no interruptions.


In numerology, the number "9" represents patience, meditation, and the rewarding of tests.By shuffling until you bridge nine times, you invoke the nature of this number.
In numerology, the number "5" represents harmony, balance, and consciousness.By cutting the deck five times, you establish a harmonious union with consciousnesses outside of your magic circle.
 If you have friends taking part in your summoning, hold out the deck of cards to them face down. Have each person touch the palm of their right hand to the deck of cards, but do not let go of the deck at any point.


If the summoner loses contact with the deck, his connection with the spirit world could be weakened.
Each person touching the deck with their right hands symbolizes the right handed path of magic, sometimes called white magic., Lay out your cards in 11 at a time, arranged neatly in regular intervals. The number 11 is symbolic of revelation and insight, and by dealing your cards in sets of 11, you will improve your chances of revelation., The summoner will have the strongest connection with the spirit world due to the fact that he is at the focal point of the ritual. Now that the cards are in place, the summoner can ask:


“Are the spirits willing to speak with us tonight?”

, In this ritual, the summoner is acting as the spiritual medium, so he will have to ask all questions to the spirits and turn over cards to find their answer. To find the card the spirits have chosen as the answer to your question:


Hold your hand over the card for several seconds, with your mind clear.
Move your hand from card to card.
Flip over the card you feel giving off heat.
 Cards have long been used to predict the future through a practice of fortune telling known as cartomancy.The ritual you performed will have given the spirits the ability to answer through suits in the following way:


Hearts - Yes
Spades - No
Diamonds - Maybe
Clubs - I don’t know

, If you are the summoner, you'll have to ask questions for your friends. Ask the question out loud, in a clear voice, and then hold your hand above the cards you've laid face down to feel which is giving off the most heat. Turn over that card to receive the answer to your question.


Once you have run out of cards, you can deal another 11 card to receive more answers.
In total, you may deal 11 sets of cards three times. If you deal your answer cards a fourth time, you will be bound by the characteristics of that number.
The number "4" represents totality or perfection, but is also associated in many numerologies as an unlucky number., Messages that come through the veil from the spirit world are often jumbled and confused. Because of this, the more complicated the question you ask, the more likely the answer you receive might not make sense.


If you receive the answers "I don't know" or "Maybe" to many of your questions, you may have summoned a weak ghost that doesn't know much.
 Some places are full of spiritual energy, making these more ideal for the summoning of and communication with spirits. People operate on a similar principle; some people have a natural talent for connecting with the spirit world.

