 Eyeliner comes in a few different varieties including pencil, crayon, gel, and liquid. Every company is required by the FDA, though, to make sure its formula is safe to use for its intended purpose. Colored pencils are not tested for safety on the skin.Color additives in colored pencils do not have the same intended use as those in cosmetics. They are therefore not tested for safety in the same way.
These color additives may be non-toxic, but they cannot be said to be safe for use on the eye, and may cause negative side effects.;
, Cosmetic eyeliner uses specific preservatives to keep microorganisms from growing on the product. Since colored pencils are not intended for use on the skin, they do not contain the same preservatives.The process of converting colored pencils into eyeliner involves submerging them in warm water. These warm, moist pencil tips provide an ideal environment for bacteria to grow and multiply. This, in turn, might increase your risk of infection according to some optometrists., Look at the way an eyeliner pencil glides onto the skin. Notice how soft the wood of the pencil and the eyeliner core are. Compare that to a pointed, hard colored pencil with wood that more easily splinters and peels.

Placing colored pencils near your eyes may allow them to chip, peel, or break off into your eye. This could cause irritation or abrasions in the eye as well as along the skin of the eyelid., No colored pencil is meant for use on the skin, but choosing new pencils from trusted brands such as Crayola can help minimize the risk. Avoid using old pencils or those from bargain or overseas manufacturers.

Old pencils may foster bacterial growth, making them unsafe to use around the eyes.
Imported pencils may not have to follow the same standards to be considered non-toxic, and may use bargain ingredients that are more likely to cause irritation.
 There are a number of possibilities with colored pencils. You could choose bold or thin lines, a single color or multiple colors, a cat eye, or anything else that you can imagine.

Look at photos and YouTube tutorials online to find inspiration from others who have tried the trend.
Experiment with different looks and color combinations to see which one you like the most.
 If you are using a pencil with a sharp tip, consider dulling it before application. This prevents you from putting yourself in the dangerous situation of having a fine-pointed rigid tip next to your eye.


Scribble on a piece of blank paper until the tip wears down to a smoother, rounded end.
 The water should be hot to the touch, but not so hot so as to melt the pencil lead. Let the pencil sit for about 5 minutes. After that is done, take the pencil out and pat it with a dry paper towel.If you want a thick eyeliner, leave the pencil in hot water for 7-10 minutes.
If you notice your pencil lead melting or running in the water, immediately remove the pencil and allow the water to cool slightly before retrying the process.
 Use the converted pencil the same way you would a normal eyeliner pencil. Glide it on across your eyelid and fill it in to achieve the look you want.


To get a steady line, dot the liner along your eyelid, then go back and fill in the line to make it solid. Use the dotted line as a guide.
 Make your look a bit bolder by creating a wing. Extend the line out beyond your eyelid to make your eyes look wider and make your new liner color more visible.

To get a good wing, extend your line beyond the base of the lid at a slight upward angle toward the tip of your eyebrow. Stop once your liner is about a third of the way to your brow.
Create a triangle by drawing a straight line down from the tip of the wing to your eyelid.
Fill in the triangle.
 Use different colored pencils in the same design to get a bold, creative look. Try one or two colors to compliment your outfit, or go for a whole rainbow.

The pencils have a limited time of malleability, so work with one at a time. Don’t start on the red until you are done with the yellow.
Try a dark color on your eyelid and a bold one on your waterline for just a touch of color.
Go all out and try a rainbow look by blending colors along your eyelid starting from the inner corner and working your way out to edge of your eye.
Use a cotton swab to help you blend colors and create softer transitions.
 Let everyone see how creative you are, and show them what you can do with your newfound skill.

If anybody asks how you got the look, share your secret but also remember to warn them of the many risks involved in the process.

