 If you are out of work, or planning to leave the workforce, pick the career you want to begin.


Talk about your plan with people who work in the career field you want to join. They can tell you what to do to prepare for the switch, and give you advice on how to get a job.;
, You will need the support of the people closest to you, especially if your new career will result in changes to the family budget or schedule.
 Work out a timeline and a budget so you and your family can be prepared for your career change.


Consider how long the transition will take. Create a timeline that includes any schooling or classes that you will need to take, and how long you expect it will take to find a job.
Work out your finances. Plan whether you will need to rely on savings while you transition into a career change, or if your spouse will need to bring in extra income.
 For example, volunteer for a charity if you are thinking of switching to nonprofit work. Or, work part time in a restaurant if you are considering a career as a chef.
 If your new career will require additional training that you do not have, enroll in the necessary classes.


Consider online learning. If you are over 50, you might be uncomfortable returning to the classroom. Look for programs that can be completed online.
 If you have been out of the workforce for a while, or your first career required different computer skills than your next career, you will need to learn new software and programs.


Look for computer courses at local community colleges. You can also check with employment agencies for free or low-cost classes.
 Let everyone in your professional circle know about the new career field you plan to pursue. You can use your networks for professional advice and job leads.
 Update your resume to focus on the new field you would like to join. While all of your experience will be the same, include any new education and special skills or training you have completed to prepare for the new career.


Re-write your objective. Use it to highlight your former experience and indicate your new goal. For example, your objective might say "To share my 25 years of business management experience with the public school system as a math teacher who can inspire leadership and success in students."

, If you are over 50 and have been in the same field for a while, it has probably been some time since you searched for a job.


Search online, using sites such as CareerBuilder or Monster.
Utilize a headhunter. If you are over 50 years old, a headhunter or search firm will be able to match your years of experience in other industries with new opportunities.
Prepare for entry-level work. Remember that you are looking for experience and room to grow.
Practice your interview techniques. You will want to promote the skills and knowledge you have gained over many years in the workforce to potential employers. You will need to be comfortable interviewing with people who are younger than you.

