 Toning shampoos can help address brassiness that occurs in a variety of hair colors. When you’re choosing a shampoo, it’s important to know what color tones in your hair you want it to correct. Examine your hair in a mirror in both natural and artificial lights to determine which tones you want to remove.With blonde and gray hair, it’s typically yellow or gold tones that begin to show when your hair becomes brassy.
Depending on what shade of blonde your hair is, orange, copper, or red tones may appear when your color starts go brassy.
Dark hair with highlights can start to look a brassy orange or red.;
, Once you know what color tones you want to neutralize in your hair, it’s easier to choose a toning shampoo. That’s because you can use the color wheel to figure out what color pigment you need to correct the brassy tones in your hair. You want to find a toning shampoo that contains pigments in a shade opposite the tones in your hair on the color wheel.If you hair has gold or yellow tones that you wish to neutralize, look for a violet or purple shampoo.
If your hair has golden coppery tones that you wish to neutralize, choose a blue-violet or blue-purple shampoo.
If you hair has copper or orange tones that you wish to neutralize, go with a blue shampoo.
If you hair has red copper or red-orange tones that you wish to neutralize, opt for a blue-green shampoo.
If you hair has red tones that you wish to neutralize, search for a green shampoo.
 It’s best to purchase toning shampoo in person, so you can check the color and consistency. For dark colored hair, you want a formula that’s extremely pigmented and has thick consistency to ensure the best results. If possible, remove the cap from the shampoo bottle to check its appearance before buying it.Keep in mind that if you have fine or thin hair, you may actually be better off with a toning shampoo that’s lighter in color or not as pigmented. Formulas that are richer in pigment can actually tint your hair when you use it. For example, if you use a deep, dark purple toning shampoo, your hair may wind up a light purple shade.
 Just as you would before applying a regular shampoo, thoroughly wet your hair in the shower or sink. It’s best to rinse your hair with warm water because it opens up the hair’s cuticle, which allows it to better absorb the toning shampoo., Once your hair is completely wet, squeeze some of the toning shampoo into your hand and work it into your hair, starting at the roots and working your way down to the ends. Massage the shampoo gently into your hair to create a rich lather.If you have short hair, use approximately a nickle size (1.5 cm circle) amount of the shampoo.
For hair that ends between the chin and shoulders, use approximately a quarter size (2.5 cm circle) amount of the shampoo.
If you have long hair past the shoulders, use approximately a half dollar size (4 cm circle) amount of the shampoo.
 After you work the toning shampoo into a lather, you must leave it in for a few minutes to allow the toning pigments to penetrate your hair. Check the directions on your shampoo, but in most cases, you should leave it on between 3 and 5 minutes.If you have fine or thin hair, you may not want to leave the toning shampoo on for the full time recommended because it may tint your hair if you leave it on too long.
 When you’ve allowed the shampoo to sit on your hair for the recommended time, rinse your hair with lukewarm water to remove all of the shampoo. Next, follow up with a conditioner and finish with a cold water rinse to seal your cuticle.Many companies that make toning shampoos sell conditioners in the same color to further help the toning process. You can use one of these color correcting conditioners after the toning shampoo or opt for your regular conditioner.
If you wind up with tinted hair after using the toning shampoo, the color will lessen with repeated washings. You can hurry the process along by using a clarifying shampoo the next time you wash.
 To make it easier to apply the toning shampoo to your hair, it helps to divide it into sections. Use clips or bobby pins to pin back the sections that you’re not working on to keep them out of the way., Once you’ve sectioned your hair, you can start applying the shampoo. Start with the sections that need the most toning and are the most resistant to treatments and work your way to the other sections. Make sure to apply the shampoo all over your hair to avoid an uneven look when you’re done.You should be more generous with the shampoo that you would be if you were applying it to wet hair. Use enough to thoroughly coat all of your hair.
Using toning shampoo on dry hair can produce more dramatic results because there’s no added water to dilute the pigments. As a result, it can sometimes tint hair, so you want not want to try the treatment if you have fine or thin hair.
 After you’ve applied the shampoo to all of your hair, give it time to penetrate your hair completely. Consult the shampoo’s instructions to see their recommendation for how long to leave it on, but you can leave it on for up to 10 minutes.The thicker and coarser your hair is, the longer you can leave the shampoo on. It’s best to err on the side of caution, though, and start with a shorter amount of time to see how your hair reacts.
 When you’ve allowed the toning shampoo to sit on your locks for several minutes, rinse it thoroughly with lukewarm water to remove it completely. Follow up with a conditioner, and rinse one final time with cold water.