 If you’re really committed to keeping your bathroom clean, it helps to make it as easy for yourself as possible. That’s why you should keep a package of pre-moistened cleansing wipes beside your sink, so you can wipe down any errant toothpaste or other messes from the sink. The wipes will also come in handy for wiping down the toilet exterior, tub, or tile in a hurry.To make sure your bathroom is clean and safe, choose antibacterial wipes that will not only clean, but help kill any bacteria that may be lurking in your bathroom.
 The best to ensure that your bathroom stays clean is to keep all of the products and items that you need to clean it within reach. You may want to place a bucket in one of the cabinets that holds all of your supplies, so they’re always ready to go when you need them. For basic bathroom cleaning kit, you may want to add items such as:Scrub brushes, including a toilet brush, sponges, and heavy duty cleaning cloths
Spray glass cleaner
A strong multipurpose cleaner
Toilet bowl cleaner
A feather duster or sham
You may also need to use a broom, dustpan, and vacuum to do a full bathroom cleaning, so make sure they’re nearby too.
 As with most things, the best way to make sure that you keep your bathroom clean is to create a schedule for cleaning it. There may be some chores that you want to do daily, others that you’ll do weekly, and some intensive jobs that you’ll only do every few months. Make a list and break them down to according to when you’ll do them -- then consider posting it inside a bathroom cabinet so you can remind yourself of what needs to be done.On a daily basis, you may want to make an effort to wipe down the sink, toilet seat and rim, and the mirror and faucets. You can also run a brush through the toilet bowl and squeegee the shower door if you have time.
On a weekly basis, try to scrub the bathtub or shower walls, deep clean the toilet, mop the floor, and wipe down the doorknobs, doorjambs, switch plates, and baseboards.
Once every few months, go through your medicine cabinet and vanity drawers to toss out any old or unnecessary items. If you have a shower curtain, wash it according to its care instructions too.

