 A coccyx cushion (sometimes called a wedge cushion) is a U-or V-shaped pillow that protects the coccyx from uncomfortable pressure. Some cushions are also formed as a wedge. The U- or V-shape, in comparison with the circular doughnut cushions, often provide more comfort for people with tailbone pain. These cushions can also be used to provide comfort for those with hemorrhoids (piles) pain, prostate disorders, pilonidal cysts or degenerative bone disease.Doctors frequently recommend that patients use a coccyx cushion after back surgery to reduce pressure on the spinal column and tailbone.
Coccyx cushions are also often used to help relieve pain from other chronic pain conditions and inflammatory pain or to relieve pressure on the back and pelvic area during pregnancy.
Coccyx cushions differ from ring or doughnut cushions, which have a hole in the middle, and help reduce pressure on the anal and prostate region in cases of hemorrhoids and swollen prostate., You can buy a coccyx cushion at a local surgical supply store or pharmacy. You can also search online using terms like “coccyx cushion”, “tailbone cushion” and “tailbone wedge cushion”. Online sources can be less expensive, but the advantage to using a local dealer is that you can try different cushions to see which might work best for you.Do some research in advance. There are multiple things to consider when buying a coccyx cushion. Some are softer and thicker than others, some are inflatable, and others have washable covers. There are also cushions using different materials as padding and some may be more comfortable for you than others. Some of the materials used are memory foams, gels, semi-liquid gels, or other materials. Talk to your physician or orthopedic specialist to see if they have specific recommendations.
 If you cannot find a comfortable option in stores, then you can try making your own coccyx cushion. Most coccyx cushions are just regular cushions with a small opening on one side. You can get a large piece of memory foam or a memory foam pillow and cut out a small wedge on one side.

Other creative options include duct taping together segments of a pool noodle, using a neck pillow, or filling a long sock with rice and bending it into a "U" shape., Coccyx cushions are made in varying levels of thickness and firmness and it’s important that you select a coccyx cushion that’s comfortable for you. Squeeze the cushion in your hand to feel how firm it is. This will give you an idea of how it will feel to sit on the cushion and how much support it will give you.Coccyx cushions are also made with gel inserts. Gel inserts can help provide a softer form of cushioning and will conform better to the particular contours of your body. Some gel inserts in coccyx cushions can be removed to be warmed or frozen for hot or cold therapy.
 Some coccyx cushions are U-shaped and have a cut-out area to help relieve pressure on the spine and tailbone. Many people find more relief with these cushions, so try the solid ring cushions and the cut-out version to determine which kind is better for your needs.
 Coccyx cushions can be anywhere from 3 to 7 inches (7.6 to 17.8 cm) thick. Most people use the 3-inch thickness, but a thicker cushion can be beneficial to heavier users.Ask your physician or the local dealer about what size thickness is ideal for you, given your particular body type.

