 Before sitting down to draft your own contract, you should look for sample contracts online. There is no standard “one size fits all” coaching contract. Instead, contracts differ depending on your school and whether the coach is getting paid.


For example, contracts for college coaches are very extensive. The compensation is usually complicated, and college coaches have a long list of duties.If you are drafting a contract for a college coach, you should see a lawyer before beginning.
By contrast, a volunteer coaching contract could be much shorter—about a page in length.You should try to find contracts which can serve as a guide as you draft your own. If you are a high school, then ask other high schools in your area if you can see a copy of their contract to use as a guide.;
, To begin drafting the coaching contract, you should open a blank word processing document. Set the font to a readable size and style. Many people are comfortable reading Times New Roman 12 point.


If you have letterhead, then you can print the first page of the contract on letterhead. Be sure to space down enough so that the contract won’t print over the letterhead.
 You should title the contract “Employment Agreement for Head Football Coach” or something equivalent. You should make the title bold and in all caps.You also might want to make the title slightly larger in size (such as 14 point) so that it stands out.
Center the title between the left- and right-hand margins.
 Begin the contract by identifying the school and the coach. You can also include the date the contract becomes effective.


Sample language might read, “This employment agreement (‘Agreement’) is made and entered into effective as of the 30th day of June, 2016, by and between the and Michael “Mike” Smith (‘Coach’).”, Your contract might use terms which could have more than one meaning or which are vague. After identifying the parties, you can include a list of defined terms.Terms which you might need to define include:


Any acronyms. For example, if you belong to a sports league, then you should define the league’s acronym.
“Service period” or “academic year.” Make sure that you define these terms. An academic year, for example, might stretch from July 1 to June 30.
Terms like “spouse.” If you are including information about fringe benefits in your contract, then you should define whether “spouse” includes same-sex partners.
 You should explain how long the contract lasts for. You could have the contract last for only one season or for multiple seasons. In some states, teachers at public institutions cannot have contracts lasting more than one year. The most common duration terms in coaching contracts are the following:A specified number of years. For example, you could have the contract last three years.
A specific number of years but with a “rollover” provision. For example, a contract might be a three-year contract with a rollover provision for renewal of up to an additional year.
A specified number of years with an agreement to renegotiate at a certain point in time. For example, you could have the contract last three years but with a chance to renegotiate after two years.
 You should use bullet points to explain the coach’s duties. You should be as comprehensive as possible. For example, a coach’s duties might include the following:instruction of athletes
supervision of team practices and conditioning sessions
supervision and instruction of athletes in competitive events
commitment to the academic success of student athletes
selection and evaluation of all assistants, including volunteers, interns, student coaches, graduate assistants, etc.
recruitment of athletes
budgeting for the team
involvement in fundraising
scheduling competitive events
media relations
adherence to the rules and policies of the school and the governing athletic association

, You need to include a provision on compensation. If you are a high school, then your coach may only be paid a one-time stipend. If you are a college or university, then the compensation package could be quite extensive:


Base salary. You should explain the amount of money and the schedule for payments. For example, you may pay monthly on the last day of each month. Explain if payment is spread out for the entire 12 months of the year or if the salary is paid out during the months of the sports season.
Benefits, such as medical, dental, disability, and life insurance.
Allowances for expenses, such as clothing, cell phones, or fuel for travel.
Bonuses. You could offer the coach a fixed-sum bonus for any championships won. In addition, you could offer a percentage of ticket revenues or bonuses for student graduation rates., You should also include a termination provision. A well-written contract will explain what conditions can trigger termination “for cause.” For example, you might want to include any of the following:The coach knowingly violates school or governing athletic association rules, or the coach knows that others in his or her administration have violated the rules but fails to report the violations.
The coach fails to carry out the duties specified in the contract and fails to correct any failure.
The coach is convicted of a felony.
The coach commits misconduct that harms the reputation of the university.
The coach commits fraud, e.g., by falsifying records or condoning employees who do.
The coach becomes disabled or dies.
The coach gambles on sports.
The coach uses substances, such as prescription drugs or alcohol, which impair the coach’s ability to perform his or her job.
The coach commits acts of violence, whether or not they result in public prosecution.
 Make sure that the contract explains what will happen if the coach or the school terminates the contract before its expiration date. If the school terminates the contract for any reason other than “for cause,” then it usually needs to pay the coach money.


Include a provision stating that the coach must resign in writing and that he or she has no entitlement to compensation or benefits after the termination date.
Also have the coach agree to pay the school a lump-sum to cover the cost of recruiting a new coach.
If the school cancels the contract, then it usually agrees to pay the coach a large fixed-sum of money and to continue benefits through the end of the contract term. In exchange, the coach agrees to sign a release, agreeing not to sue the school.
There should also be a provision that the school will not have to pay money or benefits if the coach finds another job., You can also include a provision in the contract where the coach agrees not to take another coaching job at a competing school for a certain amount of time after leaving your school. This is called a “non-compete” provision.The non-compete clause needs to be “reasonable.” Your state law will define what is reasonable, but generally you cannot prohibit the coach from working somewhere else for too long.
For example, non-compete agreements of one or two years are typically acceptable. Anything longer will probably be unreasonable.
Also, the geographic scope of the non-compete clause must also be reasonable. If you are a high school, you cannot prohibit a coach from working anywhere in the country. Instead, the geographic scope must be more limited. For example, you could prohibit the coach from working on a team in your same conference.
 Every contract contains certain provisions, regardless of the content of the contract. These provisions are called “boilerplate,” and you should have them in your coaching contract as well. You will want the following provisions:


Choice of law provision. If there is a lawsuit, the judge will need to interpret the contract according to the law of a state. You can determine the state. Typically, schools choose the state where they are located. For example: “This Agreement shall be governed by, construed, and enforced under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.”
Severability clause. You should state that the contract will remain in effect even if a judge finds one provision illegal: “If any term, clause, or provision shall be deemed illegal or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such a determination shall not affect the legality of any other term, clause, or provision; and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such term, clause, or provision had not been included.”
Merger clause. You also want to state that the contract contains the entire agreement: “This Agreement incorporates any and all prior oral agreements and understandings of the parties with respect to its subject matter.”, At the bottom of contract you should create signature blocks for both the coach and the representative who will sign for the school.Typically, you will have a principal or athletic director sign for the school.
 Once you have drafted your contract, you should have an attorney review it. Your school probably already has a lawyer “on retainer.” This means that your school pays the lawyer a fee each month. In exchange, the lawyer is available to help you whenever you call.Ask your principal or school board who your lawyer is. You can then schedule an appointment and show the lawyer your contract. He or she can make suggestions for revision.
If your school does not have a lawyer, then you should find your local or state bar association. This is an organization formed by lawyers. Most bar associations run referral programs.
 You should invite the coach to your office to sign the contract. You should have given the coach a copy of the contract ahead of time, so that he or she could review it and make suggestions for revision.

Once the contract has been signed, distribute copies. Make copies of the signed coaching contract and give the coach a copy.
Store the original in a safe place.

