 The main goals of treatment are to preserve normal kidney growth, prevent progressive kidney scars, and avoid recurrences of serious kidney-related infections. When the effectiveness of medical management is compared to surgery in the general reflux child population, there are no great differences between the two in reaching these goals. However, in those whose medical therapy fails to prevent these reflux-related consequences, surgery is considered.


There are two basic methods to surgically correct reflux: minimally invasive endoscopic treatment and surgical repair.
 Bladder endoscopy is performed using a cystoscope (cystoscopy). The cystoscope is a thin, flexible, lighted telescope-like tube that enables the surgeon to look into the bladder and perform some tasks like tissue sampling and injections. The endoscopic procedure for reflux is often referred to as Deflux, which is the name of the material used to eliminate the reflux.The Deflux procedure is done through the cystoscope. Deflux is a viscous biodegradable gel. No actual surgical incision is required for this procedure. Using the cystoscope, the surgeon injects Deflux to create a bulge just below or within the urethra where it enters the bladder. The bulge reduces the size of the opening, allowing it to close during bladder contraction to eliminate reflux.
After the procedure, the urine may be light pink for a while and your child may have some discomfort when urinating for about a day. Acetaminophen can be used for the pain—follow the dose instructions on the package since this comes in many strengths.
 Open surgery for reflux is a treatment choice for high-grade reflux, particularly when the reflux is associated with more extensive abnormalities of the ureter or bladder.


Your child will be hospitalized following the procedure and pain management provided. This open surgery is much like any other procedure, but should be less painful. If everything goes well, your child should then be released from the hospital if she is eating, drinking, and urinating without problems.
 Laparoscopic surgery also has been used in this setting, but the frequency of unsatisfactory results or complications is higher than open surgery.

