 Not all high heels are created equal and the ability to walk well in high heels relies heavily on choosing the right ones. Always go shoe shopping at the end of the day, when your feet are slightly swollen from walking and at their biggest. Pick shoes that are suited to the shape of your foot—making sure the shoe is wider than your bare foot. Always try both shoes on in the store and take a walk around—if you don't find them comfortable immediately, then you probably never will.
 It's probably not a good idea to choose a pair of 4 inch (10.2 cm) stilettos if you're not used to walking in heels—it's better to work your way up, increasing the height as you get used to how they feel. There are many different types of heels to choose from, varying in height, thickness, and shape. Training your feet by starting out with small heels will allow your ankles to develop the strength they need to walk safely and gracefully in high heels.


Begin with a shoe that has a low heel of about 2–3 inches (5.1–7.6 cm). Try to go for wider heels (rather than skinny spikes) as these will provide more balance. Closed in shoes can also be easier to walk in than strappy sandals as they provide plenty of support over your foot and around the heel and ankle.
High heeled wedges are the easiest high shoes to walk in, as the heel is fully attached to the sole of the shoe, giving you increased balance and comfort. These are a great option if you want the height of a high heel, but don't feel ready for a stiletto. They are best worn in spring and summer - to wear to work, on holidays or to a summer wedding!
Wear the mother of all heels. Stiletto heels are also referred to as "spike heels" and include anything with a heel above 3–4 inches (7.6–10.2 cm). These are the final step in your high heel training—once you've mastered walking in these, you'll be ready to take on the world!

, Choosing the right size shoe is absolutely essential when buying high heels. Be aware that different brands of shoes may be sized quite differently, so you might be a 7 in one brand, but an 8 in another. As a result, you should always, always try your shoes on before buying.


When in doubt, always go for shoes that are slightly too big rather than slightly too small. You can always make big shoes smaller by adding insoles and cushions, but your can't make small shoes bigger. Shoes that are too small will be terribly uncomfortable and you'll probably regret buying them.
Remember to have your feet sized regularly, as your shoe size can change over time, especially as you get older. Your feet tend to get longer and wider as your arches begin to fall.