 A wide selection of herbs and plant supplements purported to cause breast growth are available for sale both online and at natural healing stores. Though some women swear by these natural medicines, none have been scientifically proven to be as effective as traditional "Western" cures and should be regarded with a healthy degree of skepticism. Additionally, certain naturopathic herbs can cause potentially serious complications in people who are taking certain medications (especially blood thinners),so you'll always want to talk to a doctor before beginning a course of herbal supplements. Some herbs that allegedly encourage breast growth are:Saw palmetto
Fennel
Kava
Wild yam
Chaste tree berry
Black cohosh
Fenugreek
Pueraria Mirifica

, In addition to the herbal supplements that claim to enlarge breasts, many topical lotions, oils, and creams claim a similar effect. As with herbs, there is little scientific evidence (if any) that these solutions have a significant effect on breast growth, though some women claim to have used these topical cures successfully. Before attempting to use any of these methods, contact a doctor to discuss more effective, verifiable ways to achieve your breast enlargement goals.


Note that some actual hormonal medications, like estrogen, come in a topical form. At sufficient dosages, these medications are actually known to cause breast growth. Be careful not to confuse these hormonal creams, which can have other side effects, with naturopathic medicines.
 Some sources claim that, by massaging the breasts with proper technique, it's possible to cause slight breast growth. Sometimes, these sources recommend the use of special oils, creams, or gadgets to encourage growth. Though this may feel good and lead to relaxation, which can cause an improvement in mood and posture, there is no scientific evidence that breasts can be stimulated to grow via massage.


However, because this method is relatively safe and inexpensive (unless you buy a massage aid available for sale from naturopathic healing stores), feel free to attempt it at will. As noted above, massage can be a handy tool for achieving a relaxed, content mood.

