 You can help people by listening to their problems and educating them on domestic violence shelters or programs that are free of charge and confidential.;
, Holding a fundraiser will earn donations from the public that can all be contributed to a domestic abuse shelter or campaign against domestic violence.


Hold the fundraising event in a conference room at a local hotel or at a community center that is open to the public.
 This will help make your community aware of the domestic violence problems that continue to exist in your area and around the world.


Consult with your local domestic violence shelter for sponsorship or for assistance with organizing the candlelight vigil.
 You may be able to speak with and educate victims on their options for seeking safety or be assigned a role in supporting a particular awareness campaign.
 Middle schools and high schools may invite a counselor or representative from an organization to speak about domestic violence ethics, with specific focus on violence between teenagers.
 Patrons who frequent the businesses may see the donation jar each time they make a purchase from the store.


Provide each business with a labelled donation jar that clearly displays the name of the shelter or organization against domestic violence.
 This will provide the public with free access to these materials and help raise awareness.


Obtain domestic violence reading materials from a domestic shelter or organization, then distribute them to public venues such as libraries, community recreational facilities, and various other businesses.
 This will display or advertise your cause to the public when you go shopping or attend major events.


Buy or obtain these shirts or sweatshirts from a domestic violence organization or shelter. In some cases, they may even provide you with numerous pieces of clothing to distribute or sell for charity.
 This will raise awareness against domestic abuse by allowing the public to read your bumper stickers and signs as you are driving.


Tie a purple ribbon around your car antennae during the month of October, which is currently known as the domestic violence awareness month.
 This will help send a message to others that domestic violence is a serious matter that should never be joked about.


Inform people who have joked about domestic violence that they have hurt your feelings or that the joke is not humorous to you. You can also walk away to indirectly inform people that you are offended by jokes regarding domestic violence.

