 There is a great deal of variation in the effects of the procedure, but it tends to have the most ideal, lasting effects on individuals with fair skin and dark hair.
 In the United States, there is no licensing requirement for laser hair removal technicians, so think carefully about who you trust to perform this procedure on you. A good deal may not be worth the sacrifice of professionalism and technical skill.


Look for a board-certified dermatologist or cosmetic surgeon who has experience with or who specializes in laser hair removal.
Avoid salons or spas that might allow people without medical training and experience to perform the procedure.
 Go to the meeting prepared with your complete medical history and a list of medications you take. At the consultation, the technician should perform a test on a small patch of skin to make sure you have no adverse reactions. Typical adverse reactions might include:


Blistering
Crusting
Scarring

, Although it's not dangerous, laser hair removal is a fairly serious procedure, so you should take the necessary precautions to make sure nothing goes wrong during your treatment.









Protect your legs from the sun; a tan can result in splotchy skin lightening during the process, so let your tan fade if you have one.
Leave the roots of the hairs intact for a minimum of six weeks before your treatment. You can shave your legs or use a hair removal cream, but don't do anything that will remove the hair by the root — waxing or sugaring, for example.
 Although there is disagreement on this, some studies suggest that a close shave immediately before laser hair removal treatment improves results and possibly even decreases the pain you experience. Even if there's disagreement about whether or not it's true, it can't hurt!








, It's going to hurt, but you'll get through it. Make sure to let the technician know if the pain is becoming unmanageable. They can take short breaks, adjust the intensity of the laser, or apply a numbing cream to help you manage the pain.
 It's perfectly normal to experience discomfort after your treatment session. To soothe your skin, try pressing ice or aloe creams to especially sensitive areas. Take over-the-counter pain relievers like ibuprofen and Tylenol to help manage the pain. Redness and irritation should subside within a few hours.

