 If you don’t have access to the Internet through Wi-Fi, get online by running an Ethernet cable from your computer’s LAN port to the LAN port on your router.


Macs don’t use wireless drivers. If you’re having trouble with your Mac, see How to Fix Common Computer Network Issues for Mac.
;
, To determine the best driver for your wireless card, you will need to know what the wireless card is called. You can find that information in the Device Manager.
 The Device Manager will now appear on the screen.
 This will expand a list of all network adapters on the computer, including one that has the word "wireless" in its name.If you can't find one labeled "Wireless," right-click each driver and select "Properties." The wireless card should say “Wireless Card” under “type.”

,, The wireless adapter name is at the very top of the Driver tab.An example of a wireless card name is “Intel Centrino Advanced-N 6235.”

, This is where you’ll find links to download drivers for your device.


For example, if your wireless card was made by Intel, visit www.intel.com and click “Support.”

, This is the name that you wrote down earlier. Once you find the wireless card, click the link to visit its product page.
 You may have to click a link that says “Download,” “Software,” or “Drivers” to find the download links.


Most companies provide drivers in a “.exe” file, which makes them extra easy to download and install.
Save the download in a location you will remember, like the Downloads folder or the Desktop.
 Now you’ll prepare to remove the current driver.
,, The entry for the wireless card will now disappear from the “Network Adapters” list.
 This should launch the setup program that will install your wireless drivers.If the file ends with “.zip” instead of “.exe”, right-click the file and select “Extract All.” Select a folder to extract the files to and click “Extract.” Finally, double-click the .exe file located in the folder you selected.
 The device manager will now scan the computer for hardware without drivers installed.If a driver is found, Windows will install it automatically. To confirm that a new driver was installed, expand the list of network adapters and look for the entry for your wireless adapter.
If a driver is not found, you may be prompted to browse for the folder where the driver files are located. Navigate to the directory to which you extracted the .zip files, then click “OK” or “Install.”

, The screens will be different depending on your system and wireless card, but you’ll usually have to agree to the manufacturer’s terms before arriving at an “Install” button.


If the installer asks you to restart the computer once the installation is complete, click “OK” or “Restart Now” as indicated.
 To test your connection, remove the Ethernet cable from the LAN port on your computer. This ensures that you’re testing the right connection., If the drivers were the culprit, you should now be able to access wikiHow using your wireless connection.


Try restarting the computer if you can’t connect. Then, open the Device Manager and run “Scan for new hardware” again.
If you are still having issues, your problem may not be driver related.


