 If you’re not already using olive oil as your primary oil, you should be. Olive oil is high in monounsaturated fatty acids which lower “bad” cholesterol or low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels when compared to corn oil.Olive oil is also rich in nutrients essential to cell health, as well as vitamin E., These all contain soluble fiber which reduces your “bad” cholesterol or low-density lipoprotein (LDL) by making it more difficult for your blood to absorb cholesterol. Aim for 10 grams of soluble fiber each day.


Try fiber-rich fruits like bananas, apples, pears, and prunes.
A cup and a half of oatmeal will provide you with 6 grams of fiber and is an easy breakfast option.
 Fatty fish are rich in omega-3s which have been shown to lower triglycerides. Salmon, tuna, trout, herring, sardines, and mackerel are good choices. The American Heart Association recommends all adults eat at least two servings per week.A filet of black cod, also known as sablefish, can be grilled, broiled, or seared for a quick and easy dinner.
If you eat freshwater fish caught locally by friends, family, or other anglers, be sure to heed local advisories about how much fish is safe to consume. These fish can sometimes contain high levels of heavy metals like mercury., Avocados are high in monounsaturated fatty acids. One study found that eating an avocado each day improved LDL levels in overweight and obese people. Spread some avocado onto a turkey club sandwich instead of mayonnaise.
Mash up an avocado with salt, pepper, and a dash of hot sauce for a quick afterschool or post-office snack. Serve with baby carrots, zucchini, or baked corn tortillas.
 Almonds, walnuts, and other tree nuts are high in mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids and work to keep your blood vessels healthy. They can also improve blood cholesterol.A handful is about 1.5 ounces or 42.5 grams.
Don’t eat nuts that are covered in salt, flavorings, or sugar. These will add empty calories and unnecessary salt and sugar to your diet.
 Not only has garlic been shown to reduce cholesterol, it also helps to prevent blood clots, reduce blood pressure and acts as a natural antibiotic.Add minced, pureed, or chopped fresh garlic to your dish — try to include 1/2 to one full clove daily. Dried garlic powder will also do the trick.
While garlic can significantly lower total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides, the effects do not last long-term if you stop using it. Consider it a complimentary treatment to eating a balanced diet of whole foods., Studies have shown that drinking tea can lower your bad cholesterol. In one study, drinking tea lowered LDL cholesterol between six and 10% in only three weeks.Try replacing coffee and soda with a cup of black tea., The antioxidants in dark chocolate can raise your good cholesterol — in one study, participants saw their HDL cholesterol increase up to 24%.The flavanols found in chocolate can also improve blood flow to the brain and heart and can make platelets less sticky and prone to clotting.Choose dark or bittersweet chocolate, or use real cocoa powder to make yourself a cup of hot cocoa.
 Consumption of Tempranillo red grapes, which are used to make some red wines, can lower your LDL cholesterol.The resveratrol found in red wine also prevents blood clots and may reduce inflammation.

If you don't already drink, don't feel that you need to start just to reap the cholesterol-lowering benefits of red wine. Not drinking at all has greater health benefits overall.

