 While talking about concerns may be difficult, it's important to not let them fester. Avoid being passive-aggressive or rude with your roommate. Talk with them openly before talking about them with other people.


Focus on one issue at a time. Avoid lumping all the problems at once into one argument.
Avoid discussing every little thing that bothers you. Learn what really bothers you versus things that can just make some time to adjust.
Talk with your roommate directly. Not via chat, text, phone, or email. Don't have someone else talk to them for you. You need to address this issue in your own words. Face to face will allow you to understand their body language as well as avoid miscommunication.
Consider saying, "Can we go over the ground rules for when you enter my room when I'm studying?"

, If you do not feel comfortable with talking directly with your roommate, discuss your concerns with the RA or another counselor. Residence hall staff are trained to handle roommate conflicts.A counselor or RA can act as a mediator and help to deescalate the situation if needed.
If you do not have a RA where you're living, talk with the college's counseling center. They can also help to address conflicts or difficult relationships.
Roommate conflicts be stressful. There are many people on campus who have expertise on how to help. Take advantage of these resources that are often free for students.
 Discuss your roommate situation with your family. They may be able to offer advice about what to do. It can be difficult to deal with a roommate that you're at odds with. Getting support for yourself will help you to avoid anger or resentment against your roommate.


Your parents may offer advice about how to handle sharing space effectively.
Support during a stressful relationship with your roommate will help you stay calmer and focus on the good things.
 If your roommate has ADHD, he or she may be currently taking medications to help manage the symptoms. Medication must be taken regularly to be effective. It should not be abused for someone else's benefit. If it is a prescribed medication, only your roommate should be taking the medication.Secure all medications in a private space without access from other people.
Notice if your roommate has been consistently in taking his or her medications.
If your roommate trusts you, see if he or she would like reminders about taking medications. Consider saying, "I know we both take medications in the morning. Do you want me to remind you at the same time I take mine?"
See if you roommate needs help with maintaining a medication schedule. If they don't seem to take their medications consistently, talk with the RA, hall staff, or a counselor for guidance.
 Your roommate's symptoms of ADHD may make it difficult to live your daily life, get your work done, and still be friends with them. So it's important to set boundaries, whether or not you want to continue a friendship.


Your roommate doesn't have to be your best friend. It's okay if he or she is simply someone you respectfully share your space with.
If you cannot resolve your ongoing conflicts with your roommate, consider if moving out is an option.
Some problems are not yours to solve. You may not be able to change your roommate's behavior no matter if they have ADHD or not. Unfortunately symptoms of ADHD may simply make typical roommate conflicts more irritating at times.
Learn how to de-stress. Separate yourself from any roommate stressors as much as possible.

