 It usually comes equipped with 12 rounds. There are 4 rounds in a clip. It can hold a maximum of 24 rounds. All around an excellent choice.






Covenant Beam Rifle - This sniper rifle can be found on only a couple of the present multiplayer maps. The key difference to this sniper rifle is that it does not need to be reloaded. Rather, when a certain firing rate is achieved, the gun will overheat, forcing the player to become vulnerable momentarily. In the hands of the right player, well placed shots can mean unlimited firing, but requires more patience than the UNSC Sniper.
 You must also have knowledge of where the snipers will spawn on each map. Practice your rush to the rifles to maximize your time.
 One of the hidden secrets of an expert sniper is that of using the scope effectively:

x2 zoom should be used in most cases as it will give an easier shot while giving you enough peripheral vision to ensure your safety.






x16 zoom should only be used at far distances, but can also be very useful at extreme close range. In narrow hallways, x16 means zooming completely into an opponents body, guaranteeing a hit. It is also good if you're absolutely sure you'll be able to pull off a head shot on an unsuspected victim, as the targeting region will be much larger.
 Note the height of the vertical lines in relation to the height of a Spartan. This makes it easier to judge how high your scope should be set in comparison to the ground. Also, the horizontal guidelines are extremely useful for calculating the distance away from a wall a target will run out from behind of. Using your guidelines makes head shots more predictable than ever.
 Look for places that will give you a height advantage, a broad view, and a well rounded advantage over other players. Understanding the flow of the game, and where players are typically located at a given time during the match will make finding your location much easier. Play custom games or experiment in forge to get an idea of where you'd like to snipe.
 Too often, snipers make the mistake of staying in one place for too long. Though this can be effective if teammate cover is provided, you must be wary of your opponents knowledge of your location. Killing someone instantly is satisfying, but don't let it catch up with you - players are smarter than you think. They will adjust their movements according to your position. Every time you kill an opponent, or even after a couple of missed shots, be sure to relocate to another location. If this isn't an option, even switching to a different side of a wall is better than staying in the exact same position for too long.
 A headshot is an instant kill, while body shots will only deplete shields, requiring a second shot to kill.
 You should always have a way to escape or hide if someone finds your position.
 This is best for sudden occasions, or situations where the following methods are not applicable.;
, To sweep snipe, focus on your targeting reticle and where it is in relationship to the target's head. You want to make sure your reticle is the same elevation (height) as the opponents head, regardless of where it is horizontally. Then, judging the distance, Pull the aimer stick in the direction of the player. When your reticle crosses over your target, fire. The key to this technique is to minimize vertical movement. This technique requires you to solidify your ability to know the sensitivity of your movement in relationship to the target's location. It is more common for last resort shots, or when you're in danger. This takes a lot of practice so try shooting the seagulls on Last Resort on the beach side or shooting the flying robots on Construct.
 This technique is for the more patient approach, as you must be aware of what your opponent's next move will be. It is best used at times when your target is in a gravity lift, or if your opponent is crossing an open area, unaware of your location. The key is to make your opponent do all the moving, and you simply shoot when the time is right. To successfully do this, you must understand your targets movement. Place your targeting reticule at a spot where you think the target will soon be. Give yourself scope room to reduce tracking. By reducing your aiming movements, you'll be much more successful. When the time is right, lay waste your opponent.
 This is extremely difficult as the reticle without zoom is extremely small. However, this should not intimidate you. No-scoping is a life saver when combat gets close, But it is Harder to get a shot on someone when using this technique. The same principles apply when no-scoping as regular sniping. Try mixing up your movements without aiming too much. Experiment with jumping and crouching to increase your survival chances. Don't love your scope too much, as it can be extremely time consuming to keep zooming in and out.

