 If you've met a woman you're interested in and you seem to have hit it off well conversationally, the next step is to ask the woman out on a date. Here it is particularly important that you avoid pickup lines or cheesy remarks, as this is sort of a make-or-break situation. If you like the woman and she seems to like you, be polite and respectful while asking about concrete plans. Try saying something like, "I have to be going soon, but I was wondering - would you like to get together for coffee or a drink this weekend?"The best way of asking someone out is a respectful, open invitation. The example above is structured around more-or-less concrete plans: one or both of you may be busy on a particular day, but "the weekend" is open and flexible, and having coffee or a drink leaves the ball in her court on what she would like to do. Either way, it's an invitation to a social place within a set time frame., An ideal first date should give you both a chance to get to know one another, while also offering some level of energy. For example, after dinner or coffee (or whatever activity/atmosphere you plan), you may want to go for a long walk together. That way, if the conversation starts to lag, you'll have something to talk about: the park, the city scenery, or the surrounding neighborhood's atmosphere., If you're on a date and you think it's going well, it's okay to be a little flirty. You don't have to be overt about it - in fact, subtle flirting may be even more approachable, and is generally preferred in courting rituals. Most people don't like flirting that feels like flirting, so be somewhat subtle and suggestive in expressing your interest.Lock eyes for a few seconds, then look away. Don't stare, but don't appear disinterested, either.Smile and convey happiness and interest.Try to replicate her body language. This shouldn't be an exact replication, of course, but if she's exhibiting body language that conveys an interest, exhibit your own interested body language., Honesty goes both ways: you owe it to your date to be honest with her, but you should also be honest with yourself. If you meet and go on a date and you know, deep down, that it's not going to work, recognize that. That feeling won't go away with time, and will only make things more difficult when you do eventually end the relationship.Be prepared to politely tell her it's not going to work, if that's how you feel. If you know things won't work out, say at the end of the date, "I enjoyed meeting you, and this has been fun, but I don't think this would work out. Thank you for a lovely evening, though. Take care." You should also be prepared to hear her say those words to you.