 Most people who work in rodeos were born into their field. Their parents were affiliated with the rodeo and they learned the trade from there. Even if you were not born into a rodeo family, it's important to be involved in rodeo culture from an early age.


Attend rodeos and see if you can volunteer. Just working as a farmhand can help as you'll get a sense of the scene., Try to learn some basic skills. Learning how to rope, ride a horse, and other skills are important if you want to become a rodeo cowboy. Taking horseback riding lessons can help you develop a basic riding skill set., Being a rodeo cowboy is a physically demanding job. You'll need strength, stamina, and agility to successfully work in a rodeo. Build up your muscles and endurance as you move towards your career goal.


Join a gym and make use of weight training equipment, like weight machines and elliptical machines. Talk to a trainer at the gym to get your current fitness level evaluated. If you start out pushing yourself too hard, you could end up with an injury that could compromise your career.
Try to work on endurance as well. Take up running, jogging, biking, or other activities where you have to be physically active for a long time.
 As a rodeo cowboy, you'll need to have experience riding a horse. You need to have a certain mastery over horseback riding so work on taking lessons.


If possible, start at a young age. Take horseback riding lessons at a local farm or ranch.
Practice all aspects of riding: jumping, barrel racing, western, english, side saddle. As a rodeo rancher a lot of your job is to entertain so you'll need to have a diverse skill set on hand.A good horse is also important. Many rodeo cowboys say having a good horse under them makes or breaks a career. Pay attention to how you bond with each horse your ride and how well that horse responds to your signals., While not as common as other training and apprenticeship programs, there are some rodeo training programs throughout the country. If you're really dedicated to a career in rodeo work considering enrolling in a training program. You can find lists of programs online or ask the cowboys at a local rodeo if they engaged in any professional training.
 Once you feel skilled enough to hit the rodeo, begin to build your repertoire. Begin to book gigs at a variety of rodeos so you'll have a performance listing to give out as your move forward in your career.


You might have to start small. Sign up for low stakes events and competitions at local rodeos. If you're successful and begin winning competitions, you'll begin moving up in the ranks.Practice. Daily practice and hard work is what will ultimately determine your success as a rodeo cowboy. You'll need to focus on using much of your spare time improving before you're established.Look into 4H rodeos. Many 4H's host low stake rodeo events. This would be a great opportunity to start off and gain some experience.
 There are a variety of professional rodeo organizations you could join to improve your chance of finding regular work. Organizations like the Southern Rodeo Association, the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association, the American Professional Rodeo Association, and more are excellent organizations to join. Membership requirements and fees vary from place to place. Browse the websites of organizations you're interested in for more information.

