 It’s normal to have body odor, especially under your arms. Your armpits naturally sweat more once you go through puberty, and underarm hair can trap sweat and bacteria.Wear deodorant every day to feel and smell fresh. There are lots of different kinds of deodorant – roll-on, spray, stick, and those with or without antiperspirant (decreases sweating as well as covers odor). Some are perfumed and others are unscented. It’s up to you which kind to choose.Different deodorants are marketed towards men and women, but really the only thing that’s different is how they smell.
 Whether or not you want to shave your legs, underarms, and private area is completely up to you. Long hair in your armpits and groin might trap moisture and odors, but showering regularly and keeping the area clean and dry should solve that. If you do shave, do it safely and hygienically:Use clean, new, sharp razor blades and plenty of shaving cream or gel (not just regular soap). Never dry shave!
Take your time and go slowly. Ask your mom, aunt, or older sister for help or advice.
Do not shave your face. Pluck stray hairs or tweezers or try a bleach, cream, or wax that is formulated for facial hair. If you have lots of facial hair, see your doctor and ask about electrolysis or laser hair removal to get rid of it for good.Use a non-greasy moisturizing lotion after you shave to keep your skin from drying out. Never use men’s aftershave – it stings!

, Shaving your pubic hair might make the skin in that area itchy, irritated, or prone to ingrown hairs and folliculitis (infection of the hair follicle).Remember that it’s only up to you how you want to groom down there. You can shave your “bikini area” on your inner thighs and leave pubic hair natural, keep your pubic hair (carefully) trimmed with scissors, or stay completely natural. Just be sure to wash well in the shower. If you do decide to shave, follow these guidelines:Use clean scissors to trim long hair first to make shaving easier (do this over the toilet so you don’t make a mess). Make sure no one else uses those scissors!
Soak in a hot bath or shower for a few minutes to soften the hair and skin.
Use a safety-razor (no straight blades or disposables), preferably with moisture strips.
Pull the skin tight and smooth, and shave in the direction of hair growth – be gentle, don’t apply much pressure.
Rinse off with warm water, pat the area dry, and use baby oil, aloe, or a non-perfumed moisturizer on your skin.
See the articles Trim Your Pubic Hair, Shave Your Pubic Hair, Deal With Pubic Hair, or Look After Your Pubic Hair for specific instructions.
 Brush your teeth, floss, and use mouthwash at least twice a day – after breakfast and before bed. This decreases tooth decay, gum disease, and bad breath. Try to use toothpaste or mouthwash with fluoride.If you have braces or aligners, you may want to brush after every meal.


Gently use your toothbrush to brush your tongue, too.

Get a new toothbrush every 3 months, or after you’re sick with something contagious like strep throat.See your dentist about twice a year for checkups and cleanings., Yeast and bacteria can live on your appliance or appliance case if you don’t clean it well. Brush your appliance case every time you brush your teeth, and disinfect it once a week.For retainers, put some denture cleaner like Efferdent or Polident in a cup of warm water, and let your retainer soak. Rinse it well before using it again., If you wear contact lenses, it’s important to keep them as clean as possible to prevent eye infections. Don’t just rinse them with tap water and reuse them, or reuse the same contact solution day after day – this is setting you up to put bacteria in your eye! Rinse your contacts well every time you take them out, clean your contact case thoroughly, and use fresh contact solution. Be sure to replace your contact case regularly, about every 3 months., It’s normal for your feet and shoes to start to smell, but you should try to keep this under control. Make sure your feet are dry before putting on socks and shoes. Alternate which shoes you wear, and let your shoes air out overnight somewhere ventilated (not the bottom of your closet).Wear socks with closed-toed shoes, and choose cotton socks instead of synthetic fibers.If you have red, itchy, or scaly patches between your toes or on your feet, you might have Athlete’s foot. Avoid this by wearing flip-flops in school and locker room showers instead of going barefoot. If you need to, use an over-the-counter foot powder, or see your doctor for help., It’s nice to share, but not when it comes to things like your toothbrush, razor blade, or hairbrush. Keep your personal hygiene items to yourself, and don’t use other people’s personal items. Also, keep your own towels and washcloths.