 When a bully confronts you it may be hard to stay calm, but this is key to ignoring them. Avoid showing emotions that you are upset or feel hurt by what they are saying. Learn how to calm yourself in these ways: Start counting to ten backwards. Or try the alphabet backwards.
Take deep breaths and count to five. Make sure your breaths are making your stomach rise and not your chest. This type of breathing has a calming effect.
Look at the bully's forehead or past them. Think about a book you are reading or a paper you have to write for class — something distracting but somewhat neutral.;
, If they try to get an emotional rise out of you, or touch you to see if you will respond, pretend that you are unfazed by them. Look away from them. Find a way to distance yourself in your chair or in the room.Build an invisible wall between you and the bully by visualizing it your mind. See the verbal attack bounce off the wall instead of noticing the bully.If you are not in class and someplace where you wouldn't get in trouble for putting on headphones (like on the bus or maybe in the hallway), drown the bully out by listening to music. If you think the bully might get violent or you need to be on your guard, however, this is not a good option.
Ignore the scathing remarks that you want to say to them. Write them down later if you want.
 Put some distance between yourself and the person who is bullying. Find a place where you can go and have privacy. Once you have gotten away from the person, you can let your guard down. Exit a room where the bully is located. Find a space that is private or with people that are supportive.
If you're in a public space like walking down the street, find a way to get to a safe place or someplace where there are other people around.
If you are being harassed through your computer, social media, or cell phone, learn to block that person so that you do not receive messages from them.
 Bullying can be stressful, so find ways to distract yourself with positive things. Consider these:


Listen or play music. Find a favorite playlist to help you stay calm.
Do something artistic. Write in a journal. Draw. Build something.
Be physically active. Join a fitness group or sports team. Take a walk.
Talk with friends. Hang out with people that support you. Do something fun with them.
 If it's possible, try to avoid seeing or interacting with the bully. This shouldn't mean that you have to give up doing things you love. You have a right to go to school or work without being bullied. But consider these ways to avoid interactions:


Get to class or work in a different way.
Avoid the places where the bully hangs out.
Find people who will walk with you if you have to cross paths with the bully.
Find a different time of day to do certain things.
 Cyberbullying can be just as emotionally draining as verbal abuse. Understand that bullying online, via text, or chat is not acceptable. Bullies online may act a different way than in person because of the safety of anonymity or being disconnected from people in real life. Learn how to ignore them on social media.


Avoid the need to respond to their attacks. If they continue to harass you, consider reporting the incident. Here is advice about how to report and prevent cyberbullying: https://www.stopbullying.gov/cyberbullying/.
Block the email address of the person who is bullying. Change settings on your email account.
"Unfriend" or no longer "follow" them on sites like Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and Tumblr. Change your account setting so that the private information cannot be accessed to them or the public.

Block a phone number. Delete the number from your contact list. Depending on your cell phone type, there are ways to remove a number. Contact your phone service provider for additional options.

