 A repellent can be used on a dog if they become too close or try to attack you.


Bring pepper spray or an electronic dog whistle set to a frequency that feels uncomfortable for dogs when blown. Refer to the manufacturer's directions for each repellent to determine how it can be safely used.;
, This will prepare you to react in the safest manner if you see a dog approaching you.
 Aggressive dogs will consider direct eye contact a challenge and may try to attack you.
 Sudden movements can induce panic or fear in the dog and cause them to attack you; whereas running away from the dog may cause them to chase after you.


If a dog walks up to you, stand completely still and allow the dog to sniff you until they determine you are not a threat. If you speak to the dog or make hand gestures, they may see you as a threat and attack.
Above all, remain calm. Be mindful of your body language. Are you showing any signs of fear, such as trembling, or jerking back. Keep your shoulders up and square, chest out. You can turn your body sideways to avoid looking as if you are challenging the dog.
Avoid smiling,(showing teeth is a threat to a dog.)
Avoid direct eye contact. Do not stare into the dogs eyes. That would be another threat to a dog.
If a dog aggressively runs toward you barking or growling, stand still without making hand gestures, then shout commands at the dog such as "No" or "Stay" as if you were the dog's owner.(In your mind,OWN THE DOG). This may cause the dog to calm down or back away.
 If a dog attacks you, you will be required to defend yourself to prevent any major injuries or fatalities.


Kick small dogs in the nose with your foot. This may cause small dogs to retreat from you immediately and prevent them from biting.
Assume a fighting position if a large dog lunges toward you for an attack. Place one leg in front of the other, with one arm held across your neck to prevent the dog from biting your neck. Focus on trying to punch or kick the dog in its nose, eyes, or rib cage.
Stay in an upright position for as long as you can manage without being knocked down. If the dog knocks you down to the ground, arrange your body in a fetal position and cover your neck and face with your arms and hands to prevent fatal bites.

