 One easy way to dress up basic pieces is to choose jewelry that adds a pop of color to your outfit. You could try a big chunky necklace in a bright color, for instance, to dress up a plain top. Alternatively, you could pick some sparkly earrings to make a statement with a dress.Bangle bracelets or dainty metallic bracelets can also elevate an outfit, depending on the occasion.For a guy, consider adding a snazzy tie clip or a fancy watch.
 In the winter, a thick blanket scarf can turn a boring outfit into something much more interesting and sophisticated. Try plaid with neutrals or a soft grey to break up a black outfit. In the summer, a lightweight shimmery scarf can add a touch of interest.In the winter, you can also add fancy gloves for a dressier outdoor outfit.For guys, a well-made classic wool scarf can add sophistication, while a tie in a subtle pattern can add a bit of flair.
 A well-made handbag can make any outfit dressier. If you pick something that fits the style of what you're wearing, it can elevate the outfit. The opposite is also true. If you wear the same sloppy handbag with every outfit, it can bring it down. You don't need hundreds of bags, but try having two or three nice bags that go with most of your outfits.You don't have to spend a fortune on a name-brand bag. However, spending a little bit more than you normally would will give you a bag that will last longer. Look for good materials, a nice lining, and well-made seams.
Choose at least one bag that can add some color to your wardrobe, and pick another for its ability to blend in well (think: neutral or black).
For a guy, pick a stylish bag that will go with most of your looks. Leather is a classic choice, and you can get an upscale messenger bag or more classic briefcase.
 Having a few stylish shoes on hand is a great way to dress up your wardrobe. For instance, a pair of classy heels (such as black stilettos) can take a suit up a level. Similarly, a pair of leather boots can turn an average dress into something dressier and edgier. A pair of wing-tipped shoes can turn an average suit into something much snazzier.Once you find shoes you love (that are of decent quality), consider getting them resoled when they wear out. You'll give them a new life!

, While it can be tempting to add a big necklace, big sparkly earrings, a large scarf, and a bright watch, adding too much can push your outfit over the edge. Aim for one large statement piece, and keep your other accessories more subdued.The same goes for guys. If you wear a flashy tie, lighten up on the fancy jewelry and vice versa.

