


Wear dark clothes with skeleton prints on them, and horror movie t-shirts.
You can also wear black shiny leather, just as long as it's not too tight.
You can even make your own shirts. They can be for your favorite band, movie, novel.
You can change shirts too by ripping, shredding, or sewing them.;
,


You could use eyeliner other than black too.
Try putting it as close to the eye as possible.



Trust me, it'll bump up your horror punk cred to astronomical levels.
 The famous hair is the devilock. It's essential to Horror Punk style. Though it isn't absolutely mandatory, it's something you would want to have, and it compliments the style of clothing you'll have. It is usually dark-colored hair that is short in the back, side, and most of the front, but one very long lock of hair (usually rather thick, but the Misfits usually sport Devilocks rather thin) streaking down the middle of one's face or off to the side a bit.
 Wear pointy spikes, skeleton print gloves, skeleton mask, and gas mask are good options. Fashion your hair in to a pomp or a devil lock

, Combat boots, Converse, Vans, Iron Fist or Punk Rose will work, just as long as it's dark colored. Heels make wonderful accessories.
 Some examples are: The Misfits, Samhain, Balzac, The Cramps, Calabrese, Wednesday 13, Zombie Ghost Train, and Blitzkid. Anything else is completely unacceptable and you will get your horror punk card revoked.
 Either look like Danzig in his prime, or don't even attempt to work out because it's conformist.
 Stuff like Vampires, Werewolves, or any myth/legendary stuff of the likes (especially the scary ones!)


Try reading and watching science fiction more often.
 It's a plus to know about Horror Movies, even cult hits, old movies, and B movies. Most horror punks are very into sci-fi and other horror cultures as well, aside from just the music. Almost all Horror Punk lyrics are fueled by movies or other scary flicks, anyway.
 Anti-punk-punk. Rob Zombie is great too because he looks like a corpse. This is perfect, look like Rob Zombie.


Anime is optional, but a lot of good horror punk comes out of Japan so lots of horror punks respect Japan and like anime, especially the more gruesome or scary animes such as Blood Plus or Elfen Lied.
 You'll notice most horror punks are great people and love to share their interests with other horrorpunks. Don't think you can't have friends and have to lash out at anyone who tries to be nice to you.

