 Even if you’re trying to avoid using chemicals, there are excellent products available to help you achieve the sleek look you’re after. One of the most important aspects of styling hair of any type is protecting it from the damage of heat. Heat protectants are available in a variety of forms, but they all coat hair and allow you to style without damaging your locks.


If you’re blow drying and flat ironing, you may need to reapply your protectant before you begin ironing.
Curly hair typically responds best to a cream-based or moisturizing heat protectant.
If your hair is frizzy, look for heat protectants that add weight to hair and avoid volumizing products.You can even make your own protectant spray at home to ensure the product is 100% natural.
 These are great products to keep hair smooth and shiny after styling, but it’s very important that they not be used to protect hair from heat. In fact, serums will boil when heated, and they can significantly damage hair. Instead, choose a natural smoothing serum that utilizes mineral oils to avoid adding unnecessary chemicals to your hair., In most cases, curly haired people need to find a shampoo that will clean their hair without drying it out. Look for shampoos that use gentle cleansers. The right conditioner is essential when it comes to straightening hair and maintaining a sleek, natural appearance. The chosen conditioner should add weight to hair, so the style holds. Look for shampoos and conditioners that are specifically geared toward straightening hair.


It’s best to find two shampoos that provide the result you’re looking for. Overtime, hair chemistry changes. When you notice your hair no longer feels better after cleaning, switch shampoos to reset your hair’s balance.If your hair is very damaged, consider adding a deep conditioner to your hair care routine once a week or every other week., Some of these products claim to be natural, but they contain harsh, damaging chemicals. However, if you choose keratin products with the right ingredients, they can offer easier to manage hair. Most of these treatments don’t actually straighten hair, and those that do typically rely on the harsh chemicals. However, keratin treatments do make hair more manageable, significantly reduce frizz, and soften curls that are kinky or tight. Essentially, keratin products make it easier to straighten your hair.


Before you buy, make sure the keratin treatment does not use formaldehyde, ammonia, peroxide, or thioglycolate.
Find products with silicone polymers. These will not damage hair, and they help the keratin lock onto the strands of hair for improved effect.
Many keratin products contain amino acids that are also great for hair. These are natural and preferable to chemical solutions as they improve your hair’s health while making curls more manageable.