 Trying to get smaller kids and bigger kids to eat can present very different challenges, but some solutions are the same regardless of age. A fifteen-year-old wants to be in control just as much as a five-year-old, so provide multiple nutritious options that enable a teen to have a say in the mealtime experience.Ask for your teen’s input on grocery lists and mealtime menus. Try to accommodate his preferences while prioritizing healthy meal options.
Make reasonable compromises to get your teen to eat something at mealtime, but don’t give in to a desire for just junk food for the sake of getting him or her to eat. Occasional skipped meals because “there’s nothing good to eat” are less important than promoting good overall eating habits.
 A sixteen-year-old isn't going to be enthralled by getting to stir the cake batter or having a sandwich shaped like a turtle, but there are ways to add interest and involvement in mealtime for teens. Even if she probably won't admit to liking mealtime with the family, you may be able to coax a few smiles out of her.Give each child, including teens, regular roles to play during mealtime. It can be setting the table, clearing the dishes, and so on. It might not be considered fun, but it does stress the consistency of mealtime and the importance of each person's involvement.
Depending upon your teen's culinary instincts, you can let her prepare the meal, lend a hand, or just suggest the menu. If your teen is cooking, you can take over her usual mealtime task.
Let your teen invite a friend over for mealtime. It will make her happy, and it gives you a chance to get to know a bit more about who your teen is hanging out with.
 Most teens don’t want to be lectured about why eating nutritious meals is important, but they do want to be treated like grown-ups. Strive to engage your teen in a two-way conversation on the subject, giving him space to respond and listening to his questions, concerns, and opinions.Arm yourself with the information you need first. Read up on studies showing that skipping meals regularly causes blood sugar fluctuations (which negatively impact mood, health, and performance), nutritional deficiencies (that affect mental and physical health), and negative food behaviors (like binge eating, overeating, and poor food choices).Talk about how eating nutritious meals more consistently can help him achieve goals he already has, like making the varsity team or getting an “A” in biology.
 A child of any age benefits from seeing you make eating regular and healthy meals a priority. Some teens, though, may be skipping meals due to a misguided desire to lose or keep off weight. In such cases, any positive modeling and reinforcement you can provide in regards to body image and self-esteem can be particularly helpful.Never criticize any child’s weight or appearance, but also don’t criticize your own in front of her. Set healthy goals for improvement as warranted, but express comfort with your own body image. Emphasize health, not appearance.
Compliment your teen for making healthy choices, and encourage her efforts at self-improvement without being critical or negative.
 Most older kids who regularly skip meals do so because they feel like they don’t have enough time to eat, or because they are trying to assert their independence (by not “playing by your rules”). If you suspect that meals are being skipped due to an eating disorder such as anorexia or bulimia, though, do not hesitate to take action.Teens can change eating habits and preferences regularly, but watch for unexplained changes — skipping meals frequently, eating only small amounts, not liking former favorite foods, etc. — as possible signs of an eating disorder. Watch also for changes in mood and physical appearance.
Broaching the subject of a possible eating disorder can be very challenging. Be forthright with your concerns but compassionate in tone. Don’t hesitate to consult a doctor, therapist, or nutrition expert for advice. Get professional help for your teen as needed. Eating disorders can quickly become serious health issues.

