 Start scouting out your local police departments (via phone calls, emails, job fairs). By knowing your local area you are developing a map of which departments would be available for you to start your career with. Also, you can reach out to friends or family that may know or be a police officer. People involved in certain departments may have information that is not posted on the official website regarding hiring opportunities in the immediate future.;
, Once these items are marked down the next thing you need to do is prepare! Mentally and physically you need to be ready to perform at your peak for the physical portion of the recruitment process as this is how you will be judged. For some people this may take time and thankfully the process to become a police officer is not expeditious. Make sure you are in decent shape to at least run a 1.5 mile  in around 12 minutes with little to no problems. Also 50 push ups and sit ups in a minute would set you up on  good path to achieving if not surpassing most police recruit requirements.


Recruitment Dates (when does their recruiting begin)
PT/ Written test requirements  (what is the minimum needed to advance to the next process)
Background Packets (where to pick up and when to submit)
Salary range for a new officer inside and out of the academy (often differs slightly)

, Most departments require extensive information into your personal history, driving history, convictions, DUI, and associations. Be prepared to spend at least a week or two compiling all of this information.
  At the recruitment session you will be required to either to take a written exam, PT test, initial interview. Each department is different in what they conduct during their recruitment sessions. Hydrate at least a day or two prior to any physical abilities testing as it will help you significantly perform at your top rate.
 With these things there is not much that can be said to help you here in this article. Every answer you give in the polygraph will be in relation to your experiences and how truthful you are with your examiner. The psychological evaluation is a very lengthy process. You just have to go in with the mindset that whatever you put down  it should be easily explained in a way that makes sense to yourself and the investigator you will be speaking with.
 Their job is to ensure that there are no inconsistencies with the information you have been providing to the department throughout the application process. Also they are going to seek clarification in regards to any outstanding tickets, or drug/alcohol use situations in your past so just be prepared to talk about that in the interview with them.
 The process up until this point can take anywhere from 3 to 6 months depending on the department. Many people have tried to get to this point and many did not succeed, however the fun will be short lived... You may be informed of the date and time you need to report to the academy which, if you did not know, is 6 months of rigorous physical and mental training that will transform you from a civilian to a sworn law enforcement officer.

