 Spring is the best time to visit Barcelona, as you can expect a temperature of around around 68°F (20ºC). During summer, it can get very hot and humid, about 86°F (30ºC), and extremely crowded, due to the coastal location and numerous cultural events taking place in September, both of which are strong tourist draws.;
, Barcelona has multiple accommodation possibilities. You can choose from many reliable travel agencies to accommodate all your needs or you can simply reserve your room and travel insurance online. The beach hotels have a lot of seaview rooms with balconies, pools and spas to make the most of your experience in Barcelona.



Museum Nacional d'Art de Catalunya (MNAC): With the best Romanic paintings in the world, this museum preserves the wall frescoes of a great part of the Romanic churches in the Pyrenees (els Pirineus).
Museum Picasso: The museum is located in a medieval palace on Montcada Street (Via Montcada), 15-23 in the Gothic area. Inside you will discover a magnificent compilation of early Picasso paintings. Both oils and drawings displayed in this permanent collection span the artist's years, both his formative periods and his later, more illustrious periods. The entire collection (over 3,500 works) includes 24 masterpieces such as Man in a Baret, The Divan, Margot or the Period of Waiting, and Blanquita Suarez just to name a few.
Fundació Miró: Located in a good modern building from Sert, you'll find a wide sample of Joan Miró works.

Roman period: Roman walls, 4 remaining columns of the Temple at Centre excursionista, Museu d'història de la Ciutat (walk underground through the Roman past).
Gothic period: Santa Maria del Mar (best Gothic church), Plaça del Rei, Saló del Tinell, Drassanes, Catedral, Santa Maria del Pi, Llotja de Barcelona, Hospital de la Santa Creu, streets within Barri Gòtic (Gothic ward).
Pre-Modernist and Modernist periods:

Gaudí's main works: Sagrada Família, Casa Batlló, Casa Milà, Parc Güell, Palau Güell, Casa Vicens.
Other modernist architects' masterpieces: Palau de la Música Catalana, Hospital de Sant Pau, Casa Ametller, Casa de les Punxes, Arc de Triompf i Parc de la Ciutadella, Plaça Reial, Passeig de Gràcia. Some of those were included in the World Heritage list.


Modern period: Pabelló d'Alemanya (German Pavilion 1928 Universal Expo, a masterpiece of the modern architecture designed by Mies Van der Rohe), Pabelló de la República (GATPAC), Escola Tècnica Superior d'Arquitectura (Coderech), Macba ( Museu d'Art Contemporani, designed by Richard Meyer), Anella Olímpica (Olympic area, Isozaki, Correa, Calatrava...), Torre Agbar (the new symbol in town by Jean Nouvel), Mercat de Santa Caterina (Miralles-Tagliube), Tibidabo's communication tower (Norman Foster), Forum's Convention Center (Herzog & de Meuron).
 From Forum to Barceloneta, they are all fine, but always crowded in summer. That's the only standing rule on Barcelona beaches and Barcelona beach hotels, especially with its sunshiny weather all year round. This is one place where the beaches are teeming with non-stop action especially with the opening of the city to the sea, a project first undertaken in the 1980s.


The redeveloped seafront, from the Moll de la Fusta and the area around the Palau de Mar to the Rambla de Mar and the Olympic Port area, has become one of Barcelona's most popular spaces for recreation and leisure.
 If you are in search of an enjoyable night out on the town, the big problem lies in choosing what would be most to your liking from among all that Barcelona has to offer. In a nutshell, Barcelona nights are all about fun, fun, fun, and one can simply go insane just ticking off the choices on how to achieve it in one night. Even the most hedonistic person's standards for pleasure and enjoying the night away will be challenged in this great city!


El Raval is Barcelona's most diverse area with a mixture of cultures and atmospheres. It was much neglected until recently, but it is full of small, hip bars.
El Born and La Ribera, two of the trendiest areas to be in, and sometimes considered one area due to their proximity, combine the romantic aura of the old city with the newly designed interiors of its numerous bars, clubs and restaurants. This area attracts couples and groups in their 30s looking for sophisticated, relaxing, and intimate bars.
Poblenou area: Take some beers at l'Ovella, and after that try Razzmatazz (one of the best clubs in town). Many popular bands, such as the Chemical Brothers, Massive Attack, Coldplay, Blur, and Oasis all played in this hall during their early tours.
Poblenou area, Vila Olímpica area: For nice people, Barcelonans say "ambient una mica més pijo". Try the Baja club or Catwalk.
Zona Alta area: Take your first beers at La Borsa (imported beers from worldwide), and after that go to a disco or club in the area. The top is Luz de Gas, where you´ll find people up to 50-year-old men trying to meet 20-year-old girls, and 40-year-old women trying the same with 20-year-old boys. If you want to meet rich socialites, this is the place. For the nicest people, "Ambient molt pijo".

