 Preheat the oven to 180ºC, 350ºF or gas mark 4.;
, Take the baking tin and gently lie the pastry on top. Press it down into the tin, working your way around the edges to the top and finally remove any pastry that hangs over the sides. With a fork, prick the pastry crust all over.
 Place a piece of greaseproof paper on top and then add the beans to weigh it down. This will prevent the pastry from rising.
 Bake for 20 to 25 minutes.
 In a bowl, combine the egg yolks with the sugar and the flour. Pour in just half of the milk and mix together thoroughly.


Make an insertion down the centre of the vanilla pod and scrape out the pulp.
Then drop both the filling and pod into a saucepan and pour over the remaining milk. Place the saucepan over a medium temperature and heat the milk until almost boiling.
Pour some of the hot milk into the bowl with the egg mixture and whisk until combined.
Pour all of this back into the saucepan and stir continuously as it thickens. It is important the spoon reaches right to the bottom of the pan to prevent burning of the cream.
Leave the mixture to simmer for about a minute, while stirring, until thick and then remove from the heat.
 Add a few cubes of butter and whisk, then add the remaining butter and whisk until all are well combined.
 Place a piece of cling film over the top of the bowl and push it down to directly cover the cream. This will stop a skin from forming while chilling. Place in the fridge to chill for a few hours.
 When the pastry crust is golden brown and crisp, remove from the oven. Remove the paper, together with the beans, and leave to cool.
 When the cream filling is completely cold, take out of the fridge and peel off the cling film.


Stir briefly, then add half of the whipped cream and blend it in.
Add the other half and stir well until you have a smooth mixture.
 Spread the cream onto the pastry crust and smooth it over with a spatula.
, Put the apricot marmalade into a saucepan together with the water over a medium temperature. Break the glaze mixture down with a spoon while it melts and then let it boil to thicken a little, about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and allow it to cool down.
 Using a brush, give the berries a generous coating of the glaze.
 Serve the tart just as it is. It has a very creamy texture, so it really doesn't require any extra cream or ice cream.

