

Choose a gas boiler that is large enough to heat your home and supply hot water to the sinks and bathtub, yet isn't too large. Choosing a boiler that is too large will result in higher monthly expenses due to loss of heat from the boiler. If you feel this is an issue, then consider purchasing a new energy efficient boiler.



 


Select radiators that offer adequate heating capacity while complementing the interior of your home. The most effective types of radiators use fins to radiate heat into the air.






Choose a control system that comes with clear instructions for installation. If you're not sure it's clear enough, call the manufacturer and ask for a detailed description of the installation process.






Gas boilers and radiators include specifications about their heating capacity. Make sure you choose parts that add to a total heating capacity that is adequate for your home.






When assessing the necessary heating capacity, remember to take into account that windows, doors and exterior walls all loose heat in the colder seasons.





;
, This will serve as a blueprint for installing all of the separate parts.


Plan to install your boiler at a spot in your home that allows for easy connection to the water pipes, as well as the gas main, and offers a ventilation shaft to the roof.






When choosing where to install radiators, it's important to note that most radiators are installed beneath windows to combat heat loss through the window. However, if your windows reach to the floor, place the radiators adjacent to the window for the most effective heat control.






Plan to lay the pipes either along the walls or under the floor. If you're going to lay them under the floor, make sure to clearly mark where they will be so you don't hammer nails through them when laying the flooring.
, They'll need to be about 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) from the floor to leave room for the valves to the pipes and allow for cleaning. Install a wheel valve on the flow connection and a lock shield valve on the return connection. This allows you to regulate the water flow.
 You'll need copper pipes with either compression or capillary joints. Make sure the pipes vent to the radiators in order to avoid air locks and malfunctioning of the system.
 Follow the manufacturer's instructions.
 Again, follow all of the manufacturer's instructions. Remember to have a certified contractor perform the connection to the gas main.
 Activate the heating pump and re-vent the system. Then switch on the boiler and balance the flow of heated water to each radiator by using the lock shield valves.

