 There are some things that you will need to know about the school before sending your child, including your school's:


Student conduct policy
Dress code
Bell schedule (meaning the number of class periods in a school day, and the times when class periods start and end)
Notices, such as enrollment orientations and fundraisers
Tour opportunities for aspiring new students.;
, There should be an "open house" for him or her before school starts; bring your child to that. Get to know the schedule, rules and regulations, principal, teachers, and everything else that you and your child need to know about the school.


Ask for a printed copy of the period class schedule. Help your child to get to class on time. For example, if second period starts five minutes after first period ends, attempt to see if your child can walk from one classroom to another in five minutes.

You should also advise him or her to avoid conversations with friends (just saying "hi" on the way is okay, but not trying to engage in deep conversation) because both of you are trying to get to your next class. Unless your child and his/her friend have that next class together, deep conversation should be saved for the class (or classes) that the friends have together, during lunch period or after school.
 You could register your child for one of these sessions, so that his or her fear can be calmed over summer break.
 Talk over the rules that your student will need to follow, and ask the administration for clarifications if you have any doubts.
 Purchase a combination or key lock for your child (dependent on what is easiest for him/her) and help your child in learning how to open and lock the lock. You will not be there to help when your child is at school, so it's important to practice with him/her in advance.
 This will help him/her keep track of time so that he or she is not late to classes, and knows when the bell is going to ring soon.
 At any new school, it can be difficult to fit in with a new group and make friends. It is important to be friendly and make a good first impression.


Teach your child how to be a true friend. A true friend is a good listener, helps protect his or her friends when they are vulnerable, is loyal, and forgiving. There are many other qualities of a true friend; have discussions about this preferably before school starts.
 Learning to initiate a conversation and making small talk are key to making and keeping good friends. Go over some examples of good and bad conversation topics, as well as conversation starters. Practice conversing with your child to alleviate his or her fears of starting a conversation.
 There are many social rules that your child hasn't learned yet; the transition to middle school is the perfect opportunity to teach them! For example, talking with your mouthful could be considered rude, and it is important to drop the headphones when your child is in the middle of a conversation. , The school may offer an activity that your child is interested in. For example, if he or she is into chess, see if the school offers a chess club. Joining a club is a good way to find things in common with other people, and potentially make a new friend!

, If so, schedule a time to meet with the people in charge of the program, not after the Spring semester before the year when your child gets into middle school. Explain to the IEP people what makes a suitable teacher for your child; this will help make sure your child gets good placement.
 These could include back-to-school nights, where your teachers talk about what your child does every day in his or her classes. Ask your child's teachers any questions if you have them. Set up a parent-teacher conference if you want to talk about your child's progress with your teacher.
 Try "imitating" the school's schedule; set a time frame from each subject, as well as break and study times. Pretend that you are the teacher and work with your child on advanced skills.
 Assign your child homework and give him or her a time frame for each subject, as completing homework on time can be more challenging in secondary school. Work on time management skills as well, as they can be especially important.
 This can be considered support, as homework completed in isolation can make a child feel as if he or she is being punished. Encourage your child to complete his or her homework by him/herself, but help him or her if needed.

