 Research is the key to success. Investigate how you will lay out your store, price your fish, what kind of fish you will sell and which breeders to contact. Or maybe you would like to breed your own fish. Breeding aquarium fish is one of the steps to becoming a skilled aquarist.;
, Listed in the "Things You'll Need" section below.
 Learn as much as possible about the fish you want to sell.

Are the fish peaceful, semi-aggressive and aggressive?
Know which fish will be compatible with other fish, how large fish will get and how quickly, what the fish will eat whether they are herbivores, carnivores, or omnivores.
Know what the fish need their water temperature at for survival, best growth, and breeding.


Do your research on fish you order and make sure you have good knowledge on the fish you order and sell because the customers will have lots of questions. Be able to answer them quickly, easily and correctly. Your answers and suggestions to their questions about the fish may very well be the thing that brings them back or turns them away, and keeps their other fish alive or dead.
 Fish from a breeder might be ill. If you see signs of illness, remove the fish to a hospital tank. Check your fish daily and change the tank water often. Note: Commercialize your fish tanks as much as possible, but maintain happy fish. Healthy tanks attract customers.
 Before you add expensive tropical fish to your new tanks, you will need to go through the cycling process. This process is to avoid "new tank syndrome." You should cycle your tanks with a few hearty fish.


Add easy breeder fish such as guppies and mollies. Once these have a stable population in your tanks, start buying different types of fish. Stock up on food and medications.
 This can be a challenge. Once your tanks are set up and cycled through, you will need to care for the fish. Maintaining healthy fish will include these tasks:


Regular aquarium cleanings and water changes
Regular filter maintenance
Regular feedings, using a variety of healthy foods






Recognizing any odd behaviors in your fish






Inspecting your equipment






Many problems start with water quality. The quality of the water can be compromised when the decorations-rocks, gravel, plastic plants-are added. They may contain limestone which will make the water alkaline. You will forever struggle with maintaining the pH balance in your tank. Make sure the decorations you use are clean, appropriate and of a quality material.
 Once you have the amount of fish and tanks that you want, open your store up. Make sure to obtain the right permits before attempting this step. Read up on starting a small business.