 Simply slide it along the rails until it comes free. Make sure there aren’t any dishes in the rack when you remove it.;
, You can find the filter at the bottom of the dishwasher. It’s usually circular and can be found by the spinning water spout. Grab the top of the filter, rotate it counter-clockwise for a quarter turn. It should then come free from the assembly with a light pull.Some older dishwashers have a hard food grinder (or macerator) instead of a filter. Since they grind up fallen food, they won’t usually need cleaning., Turn on the sink and place the filter under the warm running water. Apply dishwashing soap to a kitchen sponge and rub the filter. Be gentle when you rub the filter as it can be quite delicate.If there’s some more difficult food residue in your filter, you can use a toothbrush to coax them out.
 Rinse the filter under hot tap water. Return it to its place at the bottom of the dishwasher, making a clockwise quarter turn to set it in place. Place the dish rack back onto its rails.


You don’t need to let the filter dry before placing it back in the dishwasher., Place the container on the top rack, leaving it open. Close the dishwasher and start a hot-water cycle. The vinegar will work to remove grime and mold that may have accumulated around the dishwasher.Make sure the dishwasher is empty save for your vinegar filled container.
 Make sure the dishwasher is empty. Sprinkle it over the bottom. Let the baking soda sit in your dishwasher overnight. After doing so, turn the dishwasher on for a short hot water cycle. The baking soda will remove any remaining odors from the mold., While the vinegar and baking soda will remove any mold on the walls, some of the dishwasher’s nooks and crannies (such as the door seal and the folding arms) might need a bit more attention. Dip the toothbrush in soapy water and scrub at any mold you find.Pay close attention to the drain and spray arm at the bottom of the dishwasher. Humidity and food can collect there, making them a prime spot for mold. Scrub each thoroughly., Don’t just clean your dishwasher when mold starts to appear; the appearance of mold in your dishwasher isn’t just gross, it can be unhealthy. Regular cleaning will keep mold from building up and causing health problems, Moisture can stay stuck in the dishwasher between washes, creating a humid environment. Between that and the food within, your appliance becomes the ideal breeding ground for mold. Leaving the door open a crack will allow air pass through the dishwasher, preventing the growth of mold., Even if there are no dishes, make sure to add detergent to the dishwasher. If your dishwasher has a “sanitize” option, make sure to activate it. This will increase the temperature of the water, giving your appliance a better clean.


You can use a chlorine-based detergent to clean the dishwasher more thoroughly.
Make sure you leave the door open slightly after the cleaning cycle is complete.