 Avoid ruminating, or dwelling, on your situation too much, which can make you feel worse by making you feel stuck in a negative cycle.Rumination can prevent you from thinking effectively and problem solving. It also has a strong link to depression.If you find yourself stuck in a certain pattern of thinking, try distracting yourself with other activities or thinking about things that are in your immediate surroundings. For example, look around you and notice the lighting, or buildings on your way to work.Try to refocus your thoughts on what you can change or influence. This can remind you that you're in control of your situation and your own happiness.;
, Reframing is a term counselors use to get you to look at your situation in a new light or from a different angle.You might try looking for the silver lining in your situation, remembering what you've learned, or finding humor in a less than optimal situation. Or, if you are just in an odd mood and feel grumpy, you can remind yourself that not everyday is a cheery day and that tomorrow will be better.


For example, if you’re sad after a breakup, you might remind yourself that although the end of the relationship has been painful, you learned a lot about yourself through the process.
 Gratitude is an attitude, a moral outlook, or even a daily practice that shows thankfulness. It can also mean showing appreciation and repaying kindness. Try being grateful throughout the day by setting a reminder on your phone. When prompted, take a moment to be thankful for one thing that day. Or, just notice things throughout the day to be grateful for. These can be small things, like finding a close parking spot or seeing a beautiful sunrise. At the end of the day, write down 3 things that you were thankful for that day.


Being grateful can put you in a mood of thankfulness and optimism. Studies have shown that it can also improve your well-being and interpersonal relationships.Studies have also shown that gratitude can make you feel more optimistic about the future and improve your outlook., Set aside time to spend cuddling or petting your dog or cat. Or, spend time with your pet by playing a game, if you prefer being active. Research shows that pets and spending time with pets can alleviate poor moods. In fact, spending time with a pet improved mood just as much as spending time with a loved one or significant other.Not only will cuddling your pet cheer you up, but it can also strengthen your bond with your pet.

