 Do you want to change your school because of the peers in your class or because of the lack of proper attention by your teachers? Before taking the necessary steps, really contemplate if you can resolve these issues by yourself.


Try setting up a meeting with your school guidance counselor to discuss the problem, if you feel comfortable.;
, Before talking of a new school, you should tell your parents about the problems you're having well in advance. It is essential that the issues are prone to repeat. This enables you to continue to tell your parents about your issue, and not present changing schools as a willy-nilly idea.
 If you are having an issue with a teacher, make arrangements to meet after class. If it's with a peer and you are not at risk of being further bullied at school, try setting up a meeting between the parents.Following this step could alleviate your needs to transfer schools, but it could also worsen your situation depending on the circumstance.
 There are a lot of schooling options that you could consider. Take time to evaluate which you think you could do well at and where you could imagine your parents being okay with. Look at the curriculum requirements for the different schools. Consider the options below:


Charter schools could be a good alternative if you are limited to selecting from a public school system. Charter schools typically specialize in technology or art, and are free from certain regulations that apply to conventional schools. Magnet schools are also good schools for those limited to public schooling; however, these schools tend to be highly selective and have higher academic standards. Private and parochial schools are everywhere and easy to become enrolled into, but do cost money. If you are considering one of these schools then it might be a good idea to also research scholarship opportunities.
Home school could be an option if you have willing parents and are also willing to sacrifice social milestones that come with a traditional school.
Lists of Schools Near You

,

This might sound goofy, but its a good analogy that will help you organize yourself before the big talk. Consider these questions:

Who to invite?When to have the party?Where to have the party?, After deciding who, when, and where, initiate the conversation. Sometimes this can be the hardest part, so try some sample dialogue to help get things moving:


"Mom, I need to tell you about a problem I'm having.""Grandma, I need your advice about something. Can we talk?""Dad, I've been feeling depressed about something. Can we talk?"

, They are your parents and your happiness brings them happiness.Start with the issue that your parents should be aware of. Remind them that you've already tried to solve this issue, but nothing has seemed to work.


You could reiterate what you have done to solve the problem, like "I've already talked with Mrs. Smith and met with a guidance counselor, yet I'm still feeling . . ."
Or, "We've tried setting up a meeting with Syd's parents, but nothing has seemed to change."

, Be as clear as you can about what you think, feel, and want.If you become nervous try deep breaths and be honest if you are feeling uncomfortable.


You can even say if you're having trouble, "This isn't easy for me to talk about" or "I'm sorry but this is hard to talk to you about."
Opening up to your honest feelings of insecurity will create a deeper trust between you and your parents. This could even initiate more sympathy from your parents, thus creating more of a chance for them to take action.
 Make sure you explain how your academics will improve with the change. Be prepared to show your research during this conversation. You don't need notes and graphs, but a few memorized details will help.


Discuss other types of improvements this school has over your current school like sports and extra-curricular activities.
 Lay out all the information for them to digest. If the school you have in mind is across town, then have a rough idea of how you'll get there in the most convenient fashion.


Don't leave out potential issues you foresee. If you're hiding something from them then it'll merely weaken your chance of them following through with the change.
 If the conversation goes in the wrong direction, just remain calm and do not throw a tantrum. Listen carefully to your parents and take what they tell you seriously.


If an argument begins then try your best to sort it out without yelling. Do not run away from the potential roadblocks that may arise from talking to your parents.
 If they said they'll talk about it, then remind your parents weekly. Add more developments to your problem and link the new school as a solution.
 Sometimes parents have problems of their own. Others just can't be available in the ways you might need. Others have a hard time being flexible.If your are reminding them on too frequent of a basis then your parents might become annoyed and not let you change schools.
 If your parents are still deciding this could show that you really care. Even if your parents have already agreed then doing something nice will show your appreciation for them. Try one or more of these suggestions:


Wash their car.
Clean the house or your bedroom.
Pick up their plates after meals and do the dishes without being told to.
 Changing schools can be a hard sacrifice for your parents so you must respect their wishes. If it's the middle of the school year and your parents said "no," then continue preparing a case for the next school year.

