 If an accident appears imminent, you need to respond quickly but smoothly. Vehicles of all types respond better to smooth steering and braking inputs.
 You need to decide what combination of steering, braking and accelerating will best serve to avoid or minimize the harm from an accident.
 Braking practices vary depending upon whether your vehicle has anti-lock brakes.


No anti-lock brakes - If your car lack anti-lock brakes, you need to pump the brakes to keep the car under control. If you slam on the brakes, your car will start to skid and you will lose control. You cannot steer a vehicle when the brakes are locked. Press firmly, then release. If you feel the tires start to skid release the brakes before steering.
Anti-lock brakes - Do not pump anti-lock brakes. Your car's ABS computer will pulse them much faster than you can (you will feel the pedal vibrate a bit when this occurs). Just hold the brakes firmly and steer normally.
 - Very jerky motions of the steering wheel, especially with heavy vehicles or those with light rear ends (e.g., pickup trucks) are likely to lead to skids.
 Although it seems counter-intuitive, sometimes the best way to avoid an accident is to speed up and get out of the way.
 If your car starts to skid or if a tire blows, follow these steps to control the car.


Don't hit the brakes. This will only make things worse.
Keep a firm grip on the wheel.
Steer in the direction of the skid. If the back of your car is sliding to the driver's left, turn the wheels to the left.
Wait for your tires to regain traction before braking or pressing the accelerator.


Avoid head-on collisions into other vehicles or front-end collisions into immovable objects like large trees or concrete barriers.
Do as much as you can to control your car's speed. The faster the impact, the more damage it will cause.
Avoid side impacts. Serious injury is likely to result if another car strikes your car on the side where it is much weaker structurally and closer to the driver.
 This especially important if one of the vehicles involved in the crash was carrying dangerous goods (e.g. flammable goods such as paraffin or aerosols, or explosive goods), as in such crashes it is important to prevent explosions or fires, as much as you are not in a film and in reality cars can only really explode or catch fire after crashes if the crash involved a vehicle carrying dangerous goods.
 Apply first aid if needed. Do not attempt to removed injured people from a vehicle yourself. Explosions are very unlikely, and you could aggravate any neck spinal injuries, even if the victim feels uninjured. Leave removal of injured people to the emergency services.

