 This might be existing friends you have who haven't yet met, relatives such as your cousins or siblings, people you know at school or work, or people you know through sports and hobbies.;
, Perhaps they have a good sense of humor, maybe they play the same video games or they could each have the same kind of pet. Find things that they have in common they're dedicated to or passionate about. It's not about checking all the boxes, their uniqueness is as important as what they have in common, but finding one or two really important things that they have in common will help to make the material of friendship.
 Tell each of them beforehand that you hope they'll find each other interesting and that you think they'd make great friends. This will help them to realize that you're making a kind gesture and they can at least have a chat. Also make it clear that there is no pressure though, it's just something you thought might work out for both of them.


The sort of occasion might be something like: Going to a cafe together, taking a walk together, visiting the beach/a park/somewhere local, having them over to your house, holding a party and inviting them both, having a sleepover, and so forth. Choose whatever you're comfortable with doing.
 Give a brief rundown on each of them, stating their common interests and suggesting that they might like to get know each other. Ensure that they feel comfortable, then leave them to it.


Decide whether you are best hanging around or hovering off at a distance. If you feel they're acting awkward without you to smooth things over, stay with them but if it's clear you're the third wheel, leave them be and find something else to do. Do keep an eye on them though, in case things don't work out and they're both desperate for an excuse to get away from each other!

, If it becomes clear to you that the two are likely to become good friends, do what you can to keep this growing. Invite them over a few more times to do things with you, make arrangements for them to get together and help out in any way that you can. After a while, you probably won't be needed but don't neglect your own friendship with either of them––be sure to stay in touch and continue your friendships.

