 If you are a mom or a young girl’s role model, how you refer to your figure translates directly to how the young lady will view her own.


Stop dieting. Even if you need to lose weight, avoid using the phrase, “I’m on a diet, I’m fat or not eating right now” around a young girl. She will certainly pick up on the fact that you are struggling and will transpose those thoughts onto herself.
Exercise for fun. Although you may not view hitting the trail as a blast, young girls should see adults working out for enjoyment. Find an exercise you actually do enjoy and invite her to work out with you. Discuss the benefits of working out in terms of how exercise elevates mood, reduces depression, lowers stress levels and improves brain function.
Talk about your body in terms of health. Instead of flippantly saying that you want to be skinny, talk about how you want to be healthy. Your goal shouldn’t be to get into a size two, but instead to be within a normal weight range. You should also want to be healthy in order to avoid certain diseases and to maintain a high energy level.;
, You’ll be able to tell if her body image is already distorted or if she has a positive view of her figure.


Focus on her academic, scholastic or creative talents. Instead of focusing on how she looks, look toward what she can do. Coach her on talents and skills, encouraging her to further her interests and increase participation.
Help her make wise decisions about food, however reinforce the reason why making healthy food choices is wise. Focus the conversation on health, not being skinny. Explain how healthy food reinforces the brain and muscle functions, which will help in every aspect of life (such as school, sports and any other achievement).
Direct her towards helpful role models instead of ongoing tabloid or teen TV viewing. Identify women who have made great strides based on their talents and achievements such as women in business, politics and the arts. Use role models a young girl may relate to as well. For example, while Mother Teresa may be considered to be a wonderful role model, a 10 year old girl may not be able to relate.
 Girls who are involved in activities such as sports, academic clubs or the arts are going to be more focused on honing their craft than looking for fat on their thighs.


Provide an opportunity to try new activities. If she wants to take tap dancing lessons, find a local studio and sign her up. Offer to help with the girls’ soccer team or be involved in the math club. Make sure she has the opportunity to be part of something where she shows an interest.
Let her know that not everyone finds their passion immediately. Sometimes it takes going to five different clubs or teams before she finds her love. Let her know if she doesn’t click with the first activity, she should try something new when the activity wraps for the season. Although she should try multiple activities, avoid offering to let her quit mid-season. Make sure she finishes what she started before embarking upon something new.
Introduce her to one of your passions. If you are a skilled painter or a doctor, take her to work with you and let her see this skill through your eyes. Not only will this allow you to bond, but may open a new world to her.
 If you buy junk food and lay around all day you are sending a mixed message. If she wants to feel good about herself you must not prevent her from succeeding by imposing possibly your bad habits or agreeing that everyone should be healthy but still keeping ice cream in the house.


Enlist the entire family in a “get healthy” initiative. Even if the boys in the house are rail thin and can eat a pack of Oreos in one sitting, don’t continue to purchase them--junk food benefits no one, no matter your body type. Instead, include the entire household in a healthy living lifestyle and only keep healthy food in stock--for everyone.
Work out together. If she isn’t playing a sport, offer to make a goal of working out four days a week--together. If she isn’t already active, offer to walk with her every morning either before or after school. Just start with one mile and work up to more every few weeks. Working out together will give her more motivation to be active--plus it will help you too if you haven’t been hitting the gym either.
Consider therapy if you see there’s a problem. From air brushed magazine covers to young actresses putting their health at risk to be thin, girls today are bombarded with the image that being thin is the only way to be accepted. If you’ve tried working with her and she continues to obsess and be concerned with her body, consider speaking with a professional about other ways you can foster a positive image. There may be underlying issues you may not know to address, however a professional can help uncover and deal with deep rooted problems.

