 Starting out, learn about the basic areas on a foot reflexology chart. This outlines the major organs locations on the foot.The right foot is associated with the right part of the body and left foot is associated with the left side of the body. The stomach, for example, is primarily located on the left side of the body so massaging and applying pressure to the left foot can treat stomach ailments.
The toes and feet indicate your head and neck. Massaging your toes in foot reflexology means working your head and neck.
The insides of your feet correlate to your spine.
The area just underneath your toes corresponds to the chest.
The thinnest part of your foot, usually found towards its center, is known as the waistline. Parts of your foot correlated with the stomach are found above the waistline. Parts correlated with the intestines are found below.The bottom of your foot is connected with your pelvic area.;
, The sole chart is fairly easy to learn and deals only with the underside of the foot, not the tops or sides of the feet. If you're starting out with foot reflexology, keep your main focus on the sole chart. It provides slightly more details in regards to which parts of the foot are connected to which parts of the body.When it comes to toes, the second and third toe after your big toe are connected to the eyes. If you have eye strain, applying pressure in that area can help. Your remaining toes are connected to your teeth, your sinuses, and the top of your head.
Pressure points do differ on the left foot and right foot; however, there are some similarities.

Your ears are affected by the areas just below your toes on both feet.
On both feet, the lungs are found about an inch below all your toes except the big toe.
Your heels on both feet are connected to your legs.
The area just below the waistline is connected to your small intestine on both feet.


On the right foot, your liver is connected to the area just above the waistline and slightly to the left. If you move even further left, you'll hit your right kidney.
On your left foot, the area just above the waistline is your stomach. If you move down slightly, you'll hit your left kidney. Your spleen is found just to the right of the stomach area. Your heart is about two inches below the middle of your toes.
 If you want to get slightly more details in regards to a reflexology massage, you can use a toe chart. Toes contain what are referred to as meridian points, which are small pressure points correlated to certain body parts. There are five meridian points on each foot.There are two meridian points on either side of the big toe. The meridian point on the outer part of the big toe corresponds to the spleen. The one on the inner point corresponds to the liver.
On the toe next to the big toe, there is a meridian point on the left side. This corresponds to the middle of your stomach.
On the toe next to your pinky toe, there is a meridian point on the left side that connects to the gallbladder.
On your pinky toe, there is a meridian point on the left side. This corresponds to your bladder.
 An outside chart displays what areas of the body correspond to the side of your foot pointing away for the body. It also covers the top of your foot. For a more detailed reflexology massage, you can consult this chart.The very top of your foot corresponds to your lymphatic system.The lymphatic system is the part of your immune system that helps filter out toxins and other wastes.The area just above your toes is connected to the chest. The side of your foot above your heel is connected to the hips and knees.
The side of your foot just below your waistline connects to the elbow. If you move down slightly further, to the side of your foot just above your pinky toe, you'll hit your shoulder., An inside chart addresses addresses the side of the foot facing inward towards your other foot. It can also be helpful to know for more detailed foot reflexology massages.The bottom of your foot from the tip of your big toe to your heel represents your spine. The insides of your feet are the same basic shape as your spine, with the same curves and bends.
Just under the waistline there should be a puffy, oval-like mound on the side of your foot. This is connected to your bladder.
 Remember, the inner and outer charts are for people experienced with foot reflexology. Wait until you feel comfortable with the basics before trying to fully understand how to work the inner and outer charts. You may want to meet with a foot reflexology specialist or consider taking classes if you're interested in the inner and outer charts., To start a foot reflexology massage, begin with the toes. You should massage with the rotating thumb technique. Using your thumbs, press in, rotate, lift, and then move, focusing on covering only small areas of the body at a time.


Start by massaging the bottom of your big toe, Then, slowly move to the tip of your toe. Then, repeat the process with your remaining toes.Slide your index fingers and thumbs between the webbing of your toes, massaging this area first.
 After you finish massaging the toes on both feet, focus on your left foot. Cup your hand around the top of your foot. Using your thumbs, massage the foot from left to right on both sides. Then, massage from top to bottom on both sides., Once you've finished with your left foot, repeat the same process with your right foot. Remember to massage with your thumbs and massage from top to bottom and then left to right on both sides., Move on to the tops and sides of your feet. This is where your knowledge of foot reflexology is most useful.If you have abdominal problems, focus on the arch of your foot as well as the area above the waist line. Remember, the stomach is primarily located on the left foot.
If you have issues with your liver and gull bladder, focus mostly on the right foot.
If you're having issues with the kidney, focus on your ankles and heel.

