 The trick to getting the most out of your cupboard space is organization. Cupboards can get messy quick, and this can cause items to overflow onto your counter. Not to mention, the more free space you have in your cupboards, the more clutter you can hide away in those cupboards.Use vertical, tiered storage racks to create additional shelf space inside tall cupboards. This kind of shelving is available in the home goods or kitchen sections of most general retailers.
Install utensil hangers on the inside of the doors of your cabinets. This way, your utensils will still be convenient, but will still be out of sight.;
, There should be no orphaned items on kitchen counters that float around without a specific place. When you don’t know where an item goes, how can you put it away? Take some time to go through all your kitchen items, and determine a specific location for all of them.

While taking inventory of your kitchen, evaluate how often you use each item. If you only use an item three times or less in a year, you can save space by storing it elsewhere, like in a closet., By creating specific locations in cupboards, drawers, and so on, for items that are often used together, you can make your storage more efficient and organized while creating places for clutter to go. You can use whatever system you desire, but you might consider:

A zone for coffee and coffee related items.
A zone for baking supplies and tools.
A zone for cooking supplies and tools.
A zone for plastic containers., This kind of storage is generally less expensive than buying and adding new cabinetry yourself or paying someone else to do it. By choosing standalone storage that matches your kitchen décor, you can integrate these seamlessly with your countertop and hide away items inside.

In many cases, you can find these kind of storage containers at furniture stores or home goods stores, like Ikea, Urban Outfitters, Pier1Imports, Target, Walmart, and so on., No matter how well you organize or zone your kitchen, some odds and ends might be difficult to place. Your junk drawer is a great catch-all storage location where you can tuck things away until you’ve found a more suitable place for them.

Even though your junk drawer is likely to be mess, at least the clutter will be out of the way and hidden from sight there.
Junk drawers sometimes have a tendency to overflow to other locations. When your junk drawer begins to fill up, it may be time to go through it and throw away unnecessary items.