 This is a crucial step as babysitting is an important job that requires your parents' support and approval. Throughout the conversation, it is important to remain open to communication and suggestions so that you display maturity and a sense of responsibility. They may wish to discuss responsibilities and consequences with you. Additionally, they might address concerns about your age and amount of preparation for giving care to others. With your parents' assistance, you may also be able to set up plan and schedule for babysitting.;
, You can start by encouraging your parents, relatives, and other social circles to recommend you to people in need of a babysitter. Furthermore, you could set up posters or business cards on various community boards that advertise your service. If you wish to expand your babysitting business, you can consider visiting babysitting websites and submitting applications to jobs.
 Before selecting one, it is recommended that you perform careful research, ensuring that you will receive quality education. In order to be prepared for various situations, you should receive effective training and learn necessary skills, such as CPR. Look for well-known courses with good reputations (ex: Red Cross), and be certain that they offer essential, valuable information. You will not only be well-equipped for babysitting but also win the approval of parents, who will feel better about leaving their children with you.


Use a search engine to search for "Red Cross Babysitters Training," "Safe Sitter", and other babysitting courses in your area. "Safe Sitter" is recommended because it not only gives you medical training but also includes a wide variety of important information. They present you with a certificate, safety kit, and a manual that you can refer to.
 Be sure that it is unique but simple enough that people will easily remember it. You can also create business cards so that you can easily present them to people. It is recommended that you type them so that it reflects professionalism.
 Ensuring that you are comfortable with the age is essential so that you may perform well. For instance, you may feel that younger children are difficult to care for, or you may think that you are too close in age to your clients. In those cases, it is important to acknowledge your discomfort and reject those jobs. If you have selected an age range but wish to alter it, remember that you have the right to make changes.
 Be certain that you charge an appropriate amount of money so that your clients are more likely to hire you. The price can depend upon the location, your expertise, and the child's age. The range should fall between five to twenty dollars.


It is recommended that you charge similar prices to other local babysitters with the same amount of experience.
If you have many competitors, you could consider slightly lowering the cost so that people are more likely to hire you.
 It is important that you create early plans and obtain important information ahead of time, such as food allergies or necessary medications for the children. Furthermore, be sure that one of your parents will be home in case of an emergency. It is essential that you understand how to handle various situations, such as choking, break ins, fires, natural disasters, or hazards in the client's home. It is unsafe to babysit without knowledge of handling an emergency.
 Post fliers or make business cards. Use bright colors to get the parents' attention.


Be sure to include ages you will babysit, your phone number, and days or hours you would be available. Do not give out your address or full name yet! Some people may be looking for you for the wrong reasons!
Once you have printed all of those off, it's time to start advertising. Paste your fliers in the neighborhood or at your school, library, and so on, or hand them out to neighbors.
Consider creative ways to get your name known. Use blogs, cards, flyers, your logo on Valentine's Day candy, etc.
Don't over-advertise; pestering clients and potential clients is not professional.
 Stay active by offering your services to parents of children you know.
 This includes how to discipline the child, basic food and eating habits, and rules.
 Don't talk on the phone while the baby is playing. Watch them and babysit with care. This is exactly why you got the job, to watch the kids!

, This is to be sure you can receive the right contact in case you need to update the parents on any situation, minor or major.
 This is always good to know so that you can put these things out of reach of the child, who may look around.
 Make them feel you are someone they can trust. This doesn't mean the kid does what ever she or he wants, be a little strict but not too strict! Play with them.

