 Draculaura's natural hair is jet black - the better to complement her gorgeous pink streaks. If your hair isn't already black as a raven's wing, you can use permanent or temporary dye to darken it.


If you don't want to change your hair color, buy a black wig. Draculaura's hair is wavy, not curly, so don't buy a wig with curls.
If your hair is already brown, or even blond, and you don't want to worry about making it black, you can still achieve Draculaura's look.;
, Draculaura accents her deep black hair with gorgeous pink or red streaks. She alternates streaks so that her hair actually looks like it is striped with equal parts black and pink.


Get temporary streaks or permanent streaks to look like Draculaura.
You can also get clip-in locks of pink or red hair that look like Draculaura's streaks.
 Draculaura has adorable bangs that are cut straight across just above her eyebrows. She wears them down, never swept to the side. Get a new haircut and ask your stylist to cut bangs, or cut your own at home.
 Draculaura's playful nature comes out in her trademark hairstyle, a pair of low, voluminous pigtails. Divide your hair into two sections with a part straight down the middle of your head. Use hairbands to secure the pigtails. Tease the hair right next to the hairband to make it look like it has more volume. Use a curling iron to curl the ends and make them flip like Draculaura's do.
 Draculaura has a pretty goth look, with pale skin, dark eyes, and pops of cheerful pink. Since Draculaura can't look at herself in mirrors, her makeup isn't always perfect, so don't stress too much about getting it just right!Here's how to create her look:


Give your skin a pale pink hue. Draculaura's skin is a pleasing pale pink. Use light pink blush on your face, neck and ears to mimic her vampirish look.
Wear bold eye makeup. Draculaura wears hot pink eye shadow, plenty of black eyeliner, and lots of mascara. Don't skimp when it comes to eye makeup - Draculaura's eyes really stand out.
Use hot pink lipstick. Pick out a bold, rich magenta color, and create a rosebud shape over your lips to make them pop.
Draw a pink heart on your cheek. Draculaura may be a monster, but she has a warm, sweet personality, symbolized by the heart on her cheek. Use hot pink lipstick or eyeliner to draw a little heart on your cheek like Draculaura's. You could also use a temporary heart tattoo.
 She is a vampire, after all! Get a pair of faux fangs and everyone you meet will know you're dressing as Draculaura.
 Draculaura wears a lot of gothic black - she is Dracula's daughter, after all - but she loves to accent it with hints of bright pink. Her clothes area always striking, but never severe, and they always have an element of playfulness.


Go for black tights and long-sleeved shirts with a hot pink vest or skirt.
Mix it up with a little purple and other shades of red and pink, but avoid blue, yellow, and other colors of the rainbow.
 Draculaura's tutu is her signature piece, and for good reason - it's adorable. Get a tutu with plenty of bounce, preferably with lace on the underside. Wear it with striped or solid black tights., Draculaura is almost 1,600 years old, so her taste in clothing is, shall we say, classic. She loves old-fashioned style elements like lacy skirts, button down ruffled blouses, high-collared shirts, and fishnets. Of course, she modernizes her style by adding sparkles, high heels, and plenty of magenta.
 Draculaura has high-heeled boots with laces running all the way up to the knees. Hers are hot pink, but you may have trouble finding them in stores. Wear black lace-up boots or buy a can of spray paint and add some hot pink flair.
 Draculaura can't go outside in the sun, so she carries around an umbrella to shield herself from strong rays. Find a frilly black umbrella and use pink spray paint to add some bright pink stripes.
 Draculaura loves long, dangly earrings and gothic-looking necklaces. Check out local thrift stores for some interesting ideas!

, Draculaura has the most unique accent in school, and if you want to emulate her persona, you should get one, too. Watch videos of draculaura online to get a sense of how she talks. Make sure you practice at home before you try it out at school.
 Draculaura is known for her bubbly, sweet, charming personality. She's always smiling and laughing, and she's very nice to her friends.
 Draculaura's most fun accessory is probably her pet bat, Count Fabulous. She dresses him up in a big pink bow and cute pink outfits to offset his black fur.

