 Take some time to talk with your spouse about all of the traditions they celebrated with their family. If your spouse isn't being very detailed, ask specific questions. Then explain the traditions that you grew up with.For example, if you spouse says that their family would always eat a nice meal for the holiday, ask for details about what they ate. You might find that your spouse has specific memories of the holiday meal that are important to them.
 Once you've talked about the traditions you both grew up with, choose which traditions you want to continue celebrating as a couple and which ones you don't want to celebrate. Be aware that since the two of you will be celebrating instead of your whole families, the tradition may feel different or strange. It may just take some time getting used to.For example, if your family traditionally did a big holiday dinner buffet and you'd like to keep that tradition, you may just want to scale it back for the two of you.
 As a newlywed, you might feel like you have to split your time evenly among both of your families. Talk with your spouse about how both of you would like to spend the holiday time. You might find that your spouse only wants to spend a limited amount of time with their family.Keep in mind that you can rotate holidays, if you're worried that families won't want to split your time.
 Holidays as part of a couple can be overwhelming when everyone expects you to drop in for a little. At some point, you'll probably miss part of a friend's party or a family meal. To be prepared for this, talk with your spouse about what events or celebrations are a priority. Make it clear to your friends and family if you will be able to make it to their event or not.


For example, if you want to attend your friend's holiday gathering, but your spouse needs to be at their family's big holiday celebration, you'll probably have to go to the family celebration. Ask your friend if you can meet up at some point during the holidays.
 Consider how many traditions both of you are used to celebrating. If there are a lot of traditions or ones you don't enjoy celebrating, you might want to choose some to drop. Not feeling tied to the traditions can make you enjoy the traditions that you do choose to celebrate. If a conflict comes up, be honest with your spouse to reach a compromise.


For example, you might say, "I'm not going to do holiday baking this year because I really don't enjoy it." If your spouse is upset that there won't be any holiday treats, ask your spouse if they're willing to do the baking. Or offer to buy holiday baked goods.
 It's easy to get caught up in festivities and activities, but remember that creating new holiday traditions with your spouse is important. Take a break from friends and family so you can do something fun and unique with your spouse. You don't have to do something traditional, just enjoy each other's company.If you're feeling overstretched, realize that it's okay to cut back on family time. For example, if you usually attend three holiday celebrations on the holiday, only go to one and spend the remaining time together.

