 Most beach areas will have vacation rentals available. Before you choose one, you need to know which beach you will visit.;
,


Search for a rental through a property management company if you want a rental that has been pre-screened by the agency. These rentals can often be more expensive, but you will have immediate access to a property manager if something breaks or you have questions.
Stick to renting directly from owners if you appreciate personal contact. These vacation rentals can often be less expensive as well, since owners do not have to pay commissions to a property management company.
 Make a list of the things you are looking for, and put them in order of importance.


Search for a rental that is kid-friendly if you are traveling with your family. Extra bedrooms, a pool and a nearby playground might come in handy.
Find rentals that come with a jet ski or a boat if you love water sports. If quiet and solitude are important to your vacation, look for a rental with a private beach in a secluded area.
 Most beach vacation rentals can be found on websites with pictures, rates and reviews.


Look for properties that provide a lot of photos. You should be able to see pictures of the interior and exterior of the properties.
Pay attention to location. If you will not have a car, you will want to make sure the property is within walking distance of shops, restaurants and entertainment. You will also want to know whether you are on the beach or near the beach.
 Look for an email address or a phone number, and get in touch to discuss specifics.


Ask all of the things you need to know, such as what size the beds are in each bedroom, what kind of kitchen utilities are included, how far it is to the nearest grocery store and whether there is parking available.
Take note of response times. If your calls go unreturned or it takes a week to get an email back, those might be red flags.
 Plug the property address into Yahoo Maps or Google Earth to determine the exact location of the properties you are considering.
 Most websites will only include the good reviews, but check FlipKey, which is similar to Trip Advisor, and offers reviews of private rentals and professionally managed vacation properties.
 Most places have lower prices when you rent for at least a week or a month. Ask about other deals and promotions that might not be advertised.

