 Fall and winter concerts are a great reason to break out your winter hats and beanies that have been stored away since the summer! Beanies look great for colder weather and will keep you warm throughout the concert. They will look good with your hair down, short hair, or styled into a long braid or two. Wearing a hat can also save you time styling your hair if you choose to use the hat as your main accessory. It can either accentuate or distract from your hair, depending on how you style it (or don’t).
 If you have long hair, hot weather makes wearing your hair down uncomfortable and sweaty. Remedy this problem by styling it into a bun or ponytail. If you have short hair, you can style it as you normally would or tie or pin it back to keep it away from your face. By tying or styling your hair up and away from your face, you will be able to keep your hair getting sweaty or getting messed up during the concert.
 For fall or winter outdoor concerts, you will want to dress in layers. You can pair a flannel shirt with a down vest or a bomber jacket with a long sleeve t-shirt. If you are opting for comfort as well as warmth, wear a sweatshirt with a pair of jeans and your favorite pair of sneakers.
 Summer concerts great time to break out your cute summer clothes. Opt for a pair of high-waisted shorts with one of your favorite band shirts. For a trendier look, wear a crop top with your shorts. You could also choose to wear a tank top to keep you cool yet stylish, or perhaps a cute sundress you’ve been excited to wear somewhere.


Wear light-colored fabrics, which will reflect the sun, thereby keeping you a bit cooler., Unless you will be sitting the entire time, it won’t be comfortable or practical to wear a pair of high heels to an outdoor concert. You may have to walk up or down a hill in the grass if you will be in the lawn seating of an amphitheater. Most people will be using this time to relax and let loose with friends; you should let your shoe choice reflect this. Choose a pair of comfortable sandals, flats, or boots (depending on the temperature outside) to keep your feet comfortable and ready to dance at a moment’s notice!

