 Colleges will typically have a deadline for when you need to submit your scores to them. You should take the ACT before this date to make sure that the scores reach the college in time.


It generally takes two weeks for ACT scores to reach the university. If you took the exam outside of the US or Canada, it can take an extra week or two.
Writing exam results can take up to four weeks to be scored and sent to universities., Generally, registration for the ACT ends a month before the testing day, but you should register early to make sure that you have a spot. Check the ACT website for a schedule of test dates and registration deadlines.


It may be helpful to sign up as early as three months in advance. This will help you create a studying schedule and give you plenty of time to succeed.To register for the exam, go to the ACT website. You will need a credit card to pay for the exam as well as a headshot of yourself.
You may not need to register for the ACT if your school automatically registers you for a ACT state or district testing. Check with your school first.
 Some colleges will want to see a writing score as well as your normal ACT scores. Check with the colleges that you are planning to attend to see if they require this or not. If they do, make sure you register for this additional portion.


The ACT maintains a database that can inform you if the writing portion is required or not for the colleges you want to attend.
 If you have documented learning differences, you may be able to get accommodations to help you take the test. To do this, indicate on the ACT registration form that you need accommodations. You will receive an email with instructions. Your school officials will have to submit documentation and a formal request.Accommodations that you can receive on the ACT include:


Increased testing time
Alternative test formats (such as braille, DVDs, or a reader)
Large font booklet
Assistance with writing and marking the test
Special seating
A sign language interpreter
Ability to take the test over several days, Some perform better on one test than another. It may be worth it to take both the SAT and the ACT. Keep in mind that the SAT is a very different test with different types of questions and requirements. You may need to study for it separately.
 You will receive your registration ticket by email. Print this out and bring it with you on the day of the exam along with a photo ID and a number two pencil. You may also bring a watch or an ACT-approved calculator with you, if you choose.You may not bring in any books, phones, pens, electronic devices, or highlighters. Food and drink are not allowed in the testing room, but you will be given breaks where you can consume them outside of the room.

