 There are several fun ways to reassure your child that Santa Claus exists and will be coming to visit on Christmas Eve.Noradallows you to track Santa as he makes his annual trek across the world.
Leave a plate for treats for Santa on Christmas Eve so that he has a lovely snack while at your house.
Use special Santa-only paper to wrap presents with.
Send something to your child from Santa, like a letter or postcard.
Have your child sprinkle reindeer food outside on Christmas Eve.
 Fortunately, there are thousands of books that tell stories about Santa Claus. Read these books to your child, which will show them several sides to Santa and Mrs. Claus, his reindeer, the North Pole, and even how the elves make all the presents. These stories will help reinforce the meaning behind Santa Claus – generosity, whimsy, and giving – while bringing Santa to life in your child’s imagination.Booksellers can often recommend age-appropriate books about Santa Claus and Christmas.
Use a search engine to find book titles and summaries that you might be interested in reading to your child.
Your local librarian is the best resource around. Going to the library and asking your librarian for recommendations has a few benefits: librarians know more about books than anyone, the books are free to check out, and you can leave the library with several books in hand to read rather than wait for them to be shipped to your house.
 Having your child’s picture taken with Santa Claus allows them to experience the story of Santa with their senses, not just their imagination. They can sit on Santa’s lap, have their picture taken, and even tell Santa Claus what they’d like for Christmas. This four-dimensional experience reinforces the realness of Santa Claus.


Your child might be uncomfortable seeing Santa in person and may even cry. That’s a normal reaction, especially when your child is very young, and just shows their fear of strangers and the unfamiliar. Don’t force them to sit on Santa’s lap, and reassure them that you are there and that they are safe.
They might ask why the Santa they just met looks different than the Santa they saw on television. You can say, “Well, Santa is very busy this time of year getting ready for Christmas Eve, so he has helpers all over the world, and you just met one of his helpers. Don’t worry, he will tell Santa how good you were and what you asked for.”

