 Retinal disease can cause a number of symptoms in cats. Some signs creep up slowly, such as a gradual loss of vision, while some appear abruptly, like bleeding from trauma. Look for the following signs in the eye:


Cloudiness in the eye
Bleeding in the eye
Dilation of blood vessel in the retina
Grey “spots” in the eye
Blindness or loss of some vision;
, As retinal disease progresses, the cat will lose its vision. This will cause a variety of changes in your cat's behavior. A cat which is losing vision may become less playful or active, be prone to accidents and falls when navigating jumps or leaps, spend more time sleeping, meow more than normal, or seek out its human more than normal.


Perhaps your cat is getting clumsy or running into objects. It may also be more sedentary, as the unknown can cause it to stick to very familiar areas.
 Retinal detachment happens when the retina separates from the eyeball’s innermost lining.There are numerous causes of retinal detachment in the cat but acute trauma is one of them. Think back about possible incidents that could have caused trauma to the cat's eyeball. This is important information to relay to the cat's veterinarian.
 Retinal separation can be caused by genetic malformation, as well as by acute health problems, such as kidney disease, thyroid problems, or high blood pressure. If you know your cat has one of these problems, then eye problems could be a side effect of the condition.For example, a genetic condition called retinal atrophy can be a cause of retinal detachment. One key symptom of retinal atrophy is that the cat has night blindness before it becomes totally blind., Whenever you suspect an eye problem in your cat, have it examined immediately. Eye problems can quickly lead to costly treatment or loss of vision.


You may not be able to come up with a specific diagnosis yourself, but your instincts about there being a problem with your cat's eyes could save its vision.
 To diagnose retinal detachment the veterinarian looks into the eye with an ophthalmoscope and takes into consideration observed signs of blindness, diminished vision, and/or a dilated iris.There are various tests and exams a veterinarian may perform to diagnose retinal disease in cats in addition to direct visual examination. These include:Testing for menace response to see if the cat responses to “threats” to the eye.
Testing pupillary reflex to see if pupils dilate and constrict normally.
A Schirmer tear test to measure tear production.
Fluorescent staining to check for eye damage.
Measuring the pressure in the eyeball with a tonometer.
 This will help the vet figure out possible causes of the damage. There are numerous diseases or conditions that can cause retinal disease in the cat. Among these are:Inherited diseases: There are inherited diseases which can cause retinal disease. Examples include progressive retinal atrophy (especially in the Abyssinian breed) and retinal dysplasia (usually in Bengal and Persian cats).Developmental diseases: Viral diseases, such as panleukopenia, received while a mother cat is pregnant, can cause eye development problems in the developing fetus.High blood pressure: In cats this is generally due to kidney disease, but can be a primary symptom.Nutritional deficiencies: Taurine, an essential amino acid, needs to be supplied in a cat’s diet or the cat from suffer from health problems, including blindness due to the retina’s need for this nutrient., Eye problems are not always cause by retinal disease. There are other conditions can cause bleeding in the eye with the potential for a loss of vision. These will have different treatment methods but are also quite serious so your veterinarian will want to rule them out. They include:Trauma
Metabolic disease
Systemic infections
Tumors
Blood abnormalities like anemia or blood clotting disorders

, The veterinarian will take all findings, the physical exam, medical history and nutritional intake, into consideration before making a diagnosis of retinal detachment. Regardless of the cause of retinal disease, they all lead to poor vision or blindness in the affected cat if treatment is not given in a timely manner.


There are some surgery options but they are invasive, expensive, and few specialists perform them.Thus, the best course of action is usually to treat the underlying cause of the retinal disease. If all else fails, it's also important to give your cat palliative treatment for the progressing illness.
In many advanced cases, treatment cannot help vision loss or blindness.

