 Ideally, a circus theme should use brighter colors. Circuses are often bright, playful environments. When deigning a circus-themed nursery, opt for bright colors. Bright pinks, reds, greens, and yellows work great for a nursery color scheme.Feel free to mix and match colors as well, as circuses make use of patterns like stripes and polka dots. For example, use red and yellow polka-dotted wallpaper.;
, Murals can be a great touch for any nursery. Instead of using a solid color or wallpaper for one wall, paint a mural or hire someone to paint one. You can paint scenes from a circus such as clowns, animals doing tricks, tightrope walkers, and more.Keep furniture in mind when painting a mural. Opt to paint a mural on a wall that will not have a lot of furniture surrounding it.
 Circus themes can be somewhat chaotic. Instead of choosing a single type of pattern to dominate the room, mix and match patterns to add to the spontaneous circus atmosphere. Using patterns that are too uniform or consistent can interfere with the circus theme.For example, add a striped rug to the floor and use polka-dots for the wall paper.
You can use patterns for things like furniture. Instead of a solid colored dresser, get a dresser with vibrant patterns.
 Invest in a variety of stuffed animals in the shape of circus animals. You can have a large stuffed giraffe standing over the crib. You can place elephants, lions, and tigers on bookshelves and mantels. As your baby grows, they'll be old enough to play with the stuffed toys. In addition to having decorations, you will have toys for your baby in the future.You can try creating a scene with stuffed animals. For example, you can invest in a circular piece of styrofoam or wood at a craft store and hang it from the ceiling. Place a stuffed tiger through the circle so it looks like it's jumping through a hoop.
 Buy some paintings online or at a local art store that incorporate a circus theme. These can be paintings of circus animals, like elephants, scenes from circuses, or paintings of entertainers such as clowns. Hang these up around the nursery to give it a circus feel.Some baby stores may actually sell circus prints for nurseries. If you're shopping for things like cribs and changing tables, look through the decoration aisle for circus-themed prints.
 Take a large glass jar and purchase some clown noses. You can buy these online or at some craft stores. Fill the jar with the noses and put it on display to give off a circus feel.For an added touch, opt for a jar with a red lid to match the noses.
 Buy a pillow that's a rectangle shape and designed to look like a ticket with the words "Admit One" written on it. You can buy such pillows online, particularly on websites like Etsy. Place this in your baby's crib to add to the circus vibe.Make sure to check that the pillow is baby safe before adding it to the crib.
 A canopy top looks like a tent. This is a great way to make your child's nursery look like a circus. Purchase a canopy top and place it over the baby's crib.For an added circus effect, pick a canopy with a circus-like design or color. A bright, vibrant color, like a bright red, or something like stripes or polka dots will give off a circus feel.
 Mobiles come in all kinds of designs, so find one that made with a circus theme. A quick internet search for something like "circus-themed mobile" should yield plenty of results. Circus mobiles may have bright circus colors and include circus animals or things like clowns., Some cribs are made to look like carts used to transport animals in circuses. They have circus-like bars on the side and decorative wheels attached at the bottom. A circus crib can really emphasize the circus theme, especially when paired with a canopy top.If you don't want to purchase a circus-themed crib, simply cut out large circles and draw designs on them to look like wheels. Attach them to the bottom of the crib using glue to create the circus train effect.
 Many lamps, especially those sold at baby supply stores, are designed to look like animals. There may be a lamp with a horse as a base, for example, or a lamp where the bulb is held up by an elephant's trunk. These work great to light a circus-themed nursery.