 Preparing for prayer includes cleaning yourself, wearing clean clothes, finding a clean and pure place to pray and clearing the mind of worldly thoughts.



Perform the Wudhu, or the Ghusl, depending on the circumstances. You must perform the Ghusl if you have had sexual intercourse, after ejaculation even through unlawful means, after a woman has completed her menstrual cycle or have had contact with anything considered Najis (impure). Wudhu is sufficient if only madhiy (urethral fluid) has been discharged.
Wear clean clothes. Men should cover at least the part of their body between the navel and the knees, but it is preferable to wear a (preferably long sleeved) shirt. The lower garment must extend to below the knees but must be above the ankles.
Pray in a clean place. The place where you pray must be clean and pure. If you are not sure whether the ground is clean or not, spread a clean cloth or prayer mat over it. Ensure the area is not wet because it may contain urine.;
, The Qibla is the direction towards the Kaaba. Some compasses modified for this purpose are now available. Many hotel rooms also have the Qibla direction marked somewhere on the roof. You must be looking towards the spot where your head will touch the ground during the Sajdah and your feet must be evenly spaced.
 You do not need to say it out loud, but you will need to know which prayer of the day you are performing, what will be the type of the rakaat, and the number of rakaats. An example would be to think, "I will perform 2/4 rakaat/fard/sunnat/nafil of the Fajr/Zuhr/Asr/Maghrib/Isha/ prayer". Remind yourself that you are praying to Allah alone and not show off or for the sake of another person (i.e parents).
 This starts the prayer. Raise your hands, palms facing forwards, up till your ear lobes (or to your shoulders if you are a woman). Say out loud "Allahu Akbar" (الله أَكْبَر), which means "Allah is the greatest".
 Qiyam is where you stand up, your hands folded across your chest. Begin reciting Surah Al Fatiha (the first chapter in the order of the Qur'an) and another portion (Surah) of the Qur'an.
 Your right hand should be over your left, and they should overlap till the wrists only. Men place their folded hands below their navel, and women at chest level. Three of the Sunni schools of Islamic law - the Hanafi, Shafi'i and Hanbali groups - pray with their hands folded. Malikis pray with their arms at their sides. If you are a Shia, stand with your arms at your sides., Your voice can be audible to yourself, but if it is not, thinking the prayer perhaps in your brain or mind is also a valid method. If you are a new Muslim and have not yet learned Surah Al-Fatihah, then praise Allah repeatedly. Until you memorize the Surah, you can start saying it.
 It is helpful to have memorized small surahs of the Qur'an by heart. The last of the 30 parts of the Qur'an contains many small surahs that are easy to memorize. Commonly recited surahs are Surah Al-Ikhlas, Surah Al-Falaq, Surah Al-Nas, and Surah Al-Kafirun. Again, if you are a new Muslim and have not yet learned Surah Al-Fatihah then praise Allah repeatedly., The ruku is basically a bow. You unfold your hands and bow, then placing your hands on your knees.Your back should become parallel to the ground, almost like carrying a glass of water on your back. It is essential to completely bow, not just tilt your body at 45o to the vertical. Say "Allahu Akbar" (الله أَكْبَر) as you perform this step. When you are in ruku, recite Subhana Rabbiyal al-Adheem (سبحان ربى العظيم), which means "All praises to Allah, the great". Say this three times.
 Rise up from the bow, while saying, "Sam'i Allahu liman hamidah (سمع الله لمن حمده) which means Allah listens to those who praise Him. Then say "Rabana walakel hummed" (ربنا لك الحمد), which means "Our lord, to you is due to all praise."

, Say "Allahu Akbar" (الله أَكْبَر) once again and prostrate on the ground. Make sure you have placed your forehead, palms, and knees all on the floor, touching the ground. The bases of the toes on both feet also need to touch the ground. Have your forehead be bare - a covered forehead invalidates prayer. Recite "Subhan rabbi alAla" (سبحان ربى الأعلى) three times which means "Glory be to my Lord, the Most high." Everyone must keep their elbows raised above the ground.
 When you are in this position, you must keep your eyes staring at your lap. Men must turn up the heel, and bend the toes, of the right foot. Women must keep both their feet and soles up under their body.
 The second prostration is exactly identical to the first one.
 The second raka'at is identical to the first one up till the second prostration, but without the Takbiratul Ihram.


Perform the Tashahhud at the end of the second raka'at. After the second prostration, stay in a sitting position and recite the Tashahhud (also known as Tahiyat) and then the SalawatAtta-hiyyatu mubarakatu lillahi was-salawatu wat-tayyibatu As-salamu 'alaika ayyuhann-Nabiyyu wa rahmat-ullahi wa barakatuhu As-salamu 'alaina wa 'alaa 'ibaadillaahiss-saliheen. Ash-hadu-al-la-ilaha illAllahu wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan 'abduhu wa Rasuluh. meaning All worships - oral, physical and momentary - are for Allah. Allah's peace be upon you, O Prophet, and His mercy and blessings. Peace be on us and on all righteous servants of Allah. I bear witness that there is no god but Allah, and I bear witness that Muhammad is His Servant and Messenger.
If you are performing only two raka'ats, then this is the last raka'at. After saying the Tasyahhud and the Salawat, say the Durud,
اللهم صلى على محمد وعلى آل محمد كما صليت على إبراهيم وعلى آل إبراهيم
و بارك على محمد وعلى آل محمد كما باركت على إبراهيم وعلى آل إبراهيم فى العلمين إنك انت الحميد المجيد
(Allahuma sali ala Muhammad wa ala Aali Muhammad kama saliet ala Ibrahim wa ala Aali Ibrahim ennak hameed majeed, wa barik ala Muhammad wa ala Aali Muhammad kama barakta ala Ibrahim wa ala Aali Ibrahim ennak hameed majeed) then recite "allahumma inne zalamtu nafsi zulman kasira wala yagfiru junuba inna anta fagfirulu magfiratam min indika war hamni inna kala gafirur rahima" or "rabbi ja'alni muqeemus salaati wa min zurriyati rabbana wataqabbal du'a rabbanaghfirli waliwalidaiyya walil mu'mineena yauma yaqoom-ul-hisaab". then complete the prayer by looking over your right shoulder (where the angel who records your good deeds is) and saying the Salaam
السلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
and then looking over your left shoulder (where the angel who records your wrongful deeds is) and saying the same.
 The third raka'at is performed just like the first one, and you rise directly after the second prostration without saying the Tasyahhud or Salaam, unless it is your last raka'at. After your last raka'at, complete the prayer after the second prostration by reciting the Tasyahhud, Salawat, Durud, and Salaam, as described in the step above.