 The main types of ovulation predictor kits use either stick tests, monitors, microscopes or watches. Each type has advantages and disadvantages. You will need to determine which one will work best for what you need and what type of test you prefer.


Stick-based ovulation predictor kits are inexpensive, accurate and easy to read; however, they can be tricky to use for some women and can cause a mess.
Ovulation fertility monitors are electronic or battery-powered devices that can detect ovulation hormones either through urine or saliva. Saliva or urine is placed on the lens screen of the device to determine hormone levels. These monitors often provide more detailed information about hormonal levels throughout the month but tend to cost much more than stick test kits.
Ovulation microscopes test hormone levels in saliva placed on the microscope lens and examined after it dries. The presence of a "fernlike" pattern indicates that you will ovulate within 24 to 36 hours. Testing with these small, easy-to-carry devices is simple and convenient but they do cost more. Accuracy rates may not be as high as some other testing methods.Ovulation predictor watches and other devices are also available. They use biosensors on the skin to measure chloride ion level surges in skin perspiration occurring about six days before ovulation. For this reason, this device can provide an ovulation estimate days earlier than estrogen or LH-based tests. It can also offer a six day window of fertility and highlight the most reliable days of ovulation.;
, Ovulation predictor kits have varying levels of accuracy. Look for tests with accuracy rates as close to 100% as possible. This way you can have a high level of certainty when you will be ovulating and the greatest chance of success becoming pregnant. Many ovulation predictor kits are 98 – 99% accurate.
 When considering costs, take into account the fact that some ovulation predictor kits are reusable. If you choose a kit that measures hormones by peeing on a stick, then be sure to get one that provides more tests per kit than the others do. Chances are you will be using your ovulation predictor kit for four to 10 days at least during the first month and possibly longer, especially if your cycles are irregular. While monitors and microscopes are more expensive, you can reuse them multiple times and not have to worry about running out of test sticks.
 The less you have to interpret your kit’s test results, the better. For the most part, you want results that you can depend on with reasonable confidence. This way you can focus on increasing your chances of pregnancy at the most opportune times instead of guessing whether you’re reading the results of your ovulation predictor kit correctly.Ovulation predictor kits that use test sticks often offer either a positive or negative result, so there’s no guesswork involved for you.
 Many kits require you to test around the same time each day during the week you are likely to ovulate based on menstrual cycle length. Other testing methods such as microscopes and monitors allow you to test freely throughout the month at any time of day. This can be helpful in pinpointing your hormone level changes and determining when ovulation is likely to happen in the coming months., Some tests use urine to measure hormones, so you have to either pee on a stick or dip the test stick into urine placed in a sterile container. Monitors use a lens screen to measure hormone levels in saliva or urine. Microscopes work similar to monitors and can detect hormones after saliva dries on a lens.Some women do not like to have to deal with urine or potential messes. If this is you, then consider getting an ovulation prediction kit that does not measure hormone levels in urine.

