 Wedge sneakers are large and a little clunky, but they can still look stylish as long as the rest of the leg looks slender and long. To that end, when wearing jeans, you should opt for a sleek pair of skinny jeans that hug your leg over classic styles like straight-leg or boot-cut. Create an even narrower line by tucking the jeans into the sneakers.;
, Like skinny jeans, leggings make the leg line look slimmer, which helps to balance out the large shoes on your feet. In some ways, leggings are a little less versatile because there are certain types of tops you do not want to pair them with. Short tops do not work as well with leggings because the leggings are a little too form-fitting, so your panty-line will show if your top is not long enough to cover it. Leggings are an excellent choice for long tunic tops, dresses, and skirts, though.


You could also try wearing shorter leggings with your wedge sneakers. Full-length leggings can be tucked into the sneaker, but 3/4 or 1/2 length leggings can make your leg look just as sleek and balanced.
 Short capri pants, shorts, and short skirts are all fantastic options for wedge sneakers. These bottoms draw the eye upward, limiting the amount of weight on the bottom of your leg. Since you have a lot of weight on your foot, keeping additional weight or emphasis off the bottom portion of your leg leads a more balanced and well put together style.


Note that this also applies to dresses. Structured dresses should have as high a hemline as you can afford based on body type and modesty demands. At the very least, dresses and skirts should fall at or a little above the knee. If you do opt for a longer skirt or dress, it should be of a looser, more casual style.
 High-low skirts work especially well since they come up in the front enough to show off your legs, helping reduce the amount of perceived bulk toward the bottom of your leg.
 If you have a wedge sneaker in a plain color, like tan, brown, gray, or black, you can spice things up a bit with a funky red skinny jean or patterned legging. If you have bright neon wedge sneakers, however, you should stick with classic washes of denim and solid brown or black leggings.
 If you want to create a more feminine, chic look, pair a wedge sneaker in a neutral or muted color with a structured skirt or pinstripe trouser. The wedge sneaker is casual enough to add a dose of playfulness to your apparel, but a muted color will keep dressy clothes looking somewhat dressy.

