 For instance, you may find vintage styles appealing. In that case, look for vintage accessories like brooches and hats, and dig through thrift stores and online auction websites for trendy vintage-inspired pieces. Incorporate a few pieces of your chosen theme into your modern wardrobe to put a personalized twist on your style.
 Perhaps you’ve always nursed a secret fondness for polka dots. As long as the pattern flatters your figure, look for dresses, tops, and skirts in various polka dot prints. Throw in a few accessories with the print as well, like a purse or belt. Do not over-saturate your wardrobe with your chosen pattern, but use it more than you use any other print. Just make sure you have a strong stock of solid colored pieces to make a bold print with.
 If you have beautiful green eyes, for example, gravitate towards greens that really bring out the color of your eyes, or reds that act as a complement to your shade of green. Look for tops, bottoms, and accessories in this color. Again, you should avoid over-saturating your entire wardrobe with one color, but do not be afraid of favoring one color a little more than any other.
 If empire-waisted sundresses create a flattering silhouette and you love the way they look and feel, stock up on them. You may not be able to wear your chosen garment for every occasion, but you can likely take full advantage of it in your casual weekend clothes.
 Some women love heels, while others prefer flats, boots, or sandals. Maybe you feel especially confident in brightly colored, two-inch stiletto heels. Whatever your favorite footwear is, wear it as often as you can get away with. Some styles may not work depending on the season—for instance, boots do not usually work for summer, and sandals do not usually work for winter—and others may not be appropriate for work or formal occasions. For casual dress, however, feel free to have a little fun with your footwear.
 Accessories can be an easy way to incorporate a trademark. You can choose a general accessory trademark, such as dangling hoop earrings, faux pearls, or a certain colored gemstone. Alternatively, you can opt for something more specific, like a special flower that holds personal significance to you. If you love roses, for example, look for rose stud earrings, rose pendants, and rose print scarves.

