 It helps to pick out a binder that you can easily cut to make a smaller planner. The best way to make a personalized planner is to find and purchase a cardboard binder as a frame. The cardboard will also allow you to customize the design if you decide to adjust the outward appearance.Try to find a binder that uses small rings that aren’t very long. This will allow you to modify the dimensions of the binder without affecting the binder’s rings.;
, Lay the binder flat so the rings are facing up. Use a ruler and pencil to measure out 5.7x6.7 inches. This is an estimated size that may not work for your binder. Measure the height by leaving an inch above and beneath the rings. Then make each side around seven inches. Be sure the sides don’t overlap each other by making their sizes equal.


Use an exacto knife to produce a clean cut. Hold the ruler down with pressure along the outline and carefully make your cut.You can also use scissors if an exacto knife isn’t available to you.
The spine will be 3 or 4 inches depending on what binder you picked out.
Don’t try to tamper or cut the ring holes. Modify the binder’s size based on the ring holes.
You’re not required to cut your binder, but planners are generally smaller than standard binders.
 You aren’t required to design your planner, but it might encourage you to use it if you enjoy how it looks. Reflect for a moment on what you’d like to see as you write down your obligations and schedule. Perhaps a series of inspirational quotes will complete the look and feel of your planner. You could also go with a minimal design by gluing three different colors of construction paper into a grid-like pattern on the cover.


It is also a popular choice to paste an inspirational figure onto the cover like Nelson Mandela or Serena Williams.
Choose whatever design you feel connected with., To effectively use this binder as an outer shell, you’ll need to protect it from water and other types of damage. You can use plastic book covers or a waterproofing spray. The book covers should be in a school supplies store and the spray can be found in a hardware store or the internet.


If you decide not to use a cover or spray, consider covering the edges of the binder with tape. You could even use a colorful duct tape to add something flashier.
An adhesive spray could also be used as an alternative to a waterproofing spray.
You could also glue a laminated sheet of paper onto the cover to act as a cover.

