 Your favorite cookbook may have been an old, tattered thing passed down to you by your late grandmother, but if that book is out of print, you should probably resist the urge to put it on your club's roster. Instead, stick with recently published cookbooks that are fairly inexpensive. It may even help to check with local libraries in your area to find out if a cookbook you have in mind is available to borrow.
 As the club's founder, it is only natural for you to select the first book or two. After that, though, you need to give your other members a chance to share their opinions. You can either vote on proposed selections or allow you members to take turns choosing.
 One way to keep a meeting organized is to make sure that all the courses are covered. The host or hostess usually prepares the main dish, while the other members are assigned a meal category like appetizer, side dish, and dessert. If you have more members than meal categories, double up on the assignments. For instance, two or more members could prepare side dishes or desserts.
 There are few things more frustrating in a cookbook club than painstakingly preparing a dish only to discover that another member prepared the same thing. Make sure that each member knows what the other members plan on making to prevent this from happening. Keep an e-mail thread so that the selections are down in writing. You can also keep an internet-based spreadsheet that members can share and edit to accomplish the same thing.
 Even if you prepare a standard meal for most meetings, you can occasionally have a meeting that focuses on one type of food. For instance, if you select a cookbook all about cake, then obviously, all of your members will bring in a type of cake.
 During holidays, you may want to consider a holiday-oriented cookbook, but this is not necessary. Avoid cookbooks that are completely out of season, though. For instance, don't choose a cookbook about grilling for the middle of February, especially if you live in a cold climate.
 Ordinary book clubs demand a certain level of structure to keep the topic of conversation fixed on the book of the month. Cookbook clubs, by comparison, have a looser structure, and conversation can stray from the cookbook being used without conflicting with the purpose of the club. You should each share your experiences and opinion of the cookbook for each month, but do not worry if the topic of conversation strays into other realms every now and then. The main point is to showcase dishes from the cookbook and get an overall opinion of whether or not the cookbook is worthwhile.


Set aside the first 30 minutes of the meeting for members to come in and settle down. Do not serve the food yet. Instead, wait for everyone to arrive and get all their initial greetings out of the way.
Dedicate the next 15 to 30 minutes for "serious" business. Club members should introduce their dishes and describe their experiences.
Sit down and relax for the rest of the meeting. The hostess can prepare plates, or you can simply place the dishes on the serving table and allow everyone to take what they want. Allow the conversation to naturally drift in and out of casual topics, but make sure that anyone who has something to say that pertains to official cookbook club business has a chance to say it.
 If one of your members is deathly allergic to peanuts, for example, you should probably make sure that the rest of your group knows to stay away from recipes with peanuts. Other peculiarities based on preference, such as vegetarianism, should be handled on a case by case basis. If your group is close enough, the members may decide to appease one another's eating habits. Otherwise, just make sure that each member reveals the ingredients in his or her dish so that members who would prefer not to eat a certain ingredient can avoid it.
 This is only optional, of course, but bringing a camera to your club meetings will allow you to take pictures of all the dishes. These pictures can then be posted to your group's blog, if you have one, or they can be kept in a group scrapbook or cookbook. Mark down the title, ingredients, and directions for each pictured dish, along with the cookbook it came out of.

