 Stretching exercises and body awareness may be enough for you. Warm-up or be warm before stretching. A warm-up can be an ordinary activity like housework or walking. Being warm can be from working or from dynamic stretches. Since the muscles to be stretched are so small, a specific warm up is easily done by swinging your arms sideways and horizontally for a couple of minutes. Or, your warm-up could be athletic (hitting a ball), aerobic (reaching side to side or forward), or freestyle (dancing, shadowboxing).


It may also be helpful for you to take a thorough, warm bath or shower after working out.
 Perform this stretch when your body is warmed up. You can do it as much as you like, or as infrequently as once a week. Make sure you are stretching your chest muscles and not your spine or hips; the stretch you feel should just be in your chest.


Stand with your forearm against a doorframe or against the corner of a wall. Your elbow should be bent at a 90 degree angle.Rotate your chest away from your arm until you begin to feel a stretch in your chest and shoulder.Turn your head away from your arm, which will increase the stretch.Hold the position for at least 20 seconds, then switch to the other arm.
 Using a dumbbell of no more than ten pounds, perform a bent-over row. This exercise works the small muscle in your back called rhomboids and it stretches your chest. You can perform it weekly or as little as twice a month.


Start bent-over with your free hand bracing on your knee and with the other hand grasping the dumbbell with the elbow straight. Keep your back straight.
Shrug your shoulders back and keep your shoulders tight until you finish this exercise. This is the most important form consideration for this exercise. Tight is not having your shoulders round. Tight is tensing the muscles of your shoulder.

Lift the dumbbell in a curved motion and not in a straight line up and down. Exhale and lift the dumbbell to your side, roughly to your hip. Holding the weight here, squeeze your back muscles for a few seconds.Inhale as you lower the dumbbell to the starting point.
 Use a resistance band with handles to do this stretch. Note that each color represents a different resistance.


Sit on the ground with your legs extended, back straight. Hold the ends of the resistance band and loop the tube around your feet. Your arms should be extended.Keeping your back straight, bend at the elbows and draw your hands back toward your ribs. Squeeze your shoulder blades together and hold for a few seconds.Slowly release, then repeat the exercises for the recommended number of repetitions.