 Though every cat is unique, Persians in general tend to have a distinct personality type. They are playful in their own way, yet reserved and somewhat docile for the most part. Unlike other cat breeds, Persians are not particularly known for jumping or climbing.Persian cats tend to prefer sitting in a person's lap or lying in the sun over more physical activities.
They tend to not be very demanding of people's affection. Sitting or reclining in a person's lap is usually sufficient for most Persians.
Persians often get frightened or annoyed with loud noise and/or poorly-behaved children.
 Persian cats are not known for being very vocal. They might greet people with a quiet, low-key meow, but will not meow or yowl with any persistence unless they are distressed.When a Persian cat does vocalize, it tends to be in short, melodic bursts., Persians are generally not very welcoming to surprises.Because of this, taking a Persian cat to an unfamiliar environment may be jarring and unpleasant to your cat. If you are planning on leaving town for a few days, a Persian may need someone to visit your home and care for him or her, rather than being boarded in unfamiliar territory.If you plan on making changes to your home, like buying new furniture, it may be best for your cat to introduce that furniture gradually instead of all at once.
If you move to a new home, make sure some of your old furniture is there before you bring your cat. This can make the transition easier for a Persian.
 Like many purebred cats, Persians are prone to certain health complications at some point in life. Some may not significantly affect the cat's quality of life, while others can be quite serious.Some of the most common health complications seen in Persian cats include:


Basal cell tumors
Cataracts
Deafness (especially common in blue-eyed Persians)
Cryptorchidism
Entropion
Facial fold dermatitis
Lysosomal storage disease
Peritoneopericardial hernia
Polycystic kidney disease
Progressive retinal atrophy
Systemic lupus
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Portosystemic shunt
Gingivitis
Corneal sequestration
Hip dysplasia
Strabismus/nystagmus
Dermatophytosis

