 Students demonstrate via comparative essays that they can look at two civilizations or regions and recognize how they are similar or different. You should examine why there are similarities or differences. What are the reasons behind them? You have forty minutes to write this essay. Spend the first five minutes outlining your argument.You might be able to choose from a number of examples for analysis., Students must show that they can follow the prompt. For example, if it says “compare and contrast,” do both of these things. Be sure to understand the meaning of these words. Common “directive” words that will appear on your exam are:


Analyze
Compare
Assess or evaluate
Explain
Discuss
Describe, Before you start writing your essay, jot down an outline with your key points. Decide what will go into each paragraph. By having a map of your plan, you will be able to write more efficiently and quickly. When making your thesis statement, key in mind the directive words. If the prompt says you must compare, then make sure you offer a comparison in your thesis statement.
 When drawing comparisons, think about two topics you know a lot about. Of course, some prompts will lead you to analyze specific groups but if you are allowed to choose your examples, lean on your strengths.


For example, if the prompt asks you to compare the role of religion in war between two societies, you could pick the Ancient Hebrews and early Muslims. If, however, you know more about the Christian Crusaders and the spiritualist Mongols, go for that comparison. As long as you can support your points with thorough examples and your examples answer the question at hand, use what you know best.
 Like with the change-over-time essay, graders will look to see that you can argue well, explain the reason for changes, and synthesize your arguments. Because comparison is the focus of this essay, particular attention will be given to how you compare and contrast the regions. What details do you provide? How do you explain the different historical, social, or contexts that result in differences? Particularly you must show that you:


Can develop a solid thesis
Answer every part of the question
Provide evidence to back up your thesis
Make minimally one (preferably more) direct comparisons between regions or societies
Examine one reason for the difference between regions

