


Choose 1 or 2 related products to relay in your commercial. For example, if you are a furniture store, focus on the quality or affordability of your mattresses. The more specific your ad, the more likely listeners will recall it when they think of that product.;
,


Throw out 5, 10 or even 15 different ideas with your advertising department. If you do not have a business with such a department, gather your top employees or a few friends and go through ad concepts. Creativity can be somewhat limited on a radio platform, but that doesn't mean you can't have original ideas.



Begin with an attention-grabbing statement. It's crucial to stand out as quickly as possible in radio advertising. If a listener is not interested, he or she will most likely immediately switch the station to one without an ad.






Couple the emotional with the logical. A straightforward ad with only facts won't appeal to many listeners. Creating a mix of emotional factors and logical requests is the most effective way to draw listeners. For example, a half-off sale on smart phones is a great deal logically, but it could be more effective if the advertisement detailed how important it is to have a smart phone to share photos with your grandmother.






Leave the ad sparse. Do not over-complicate your commercial time. Overwhelming the listener is an almost sure way to make them tune out.






Make a great offer. You can create a great radio ad, but if you don't have a good deal, no one is going to be called to action. Make a compelling offer that causes listeners to consider your product.






Include the answer to "What's in it for me?" Listeners want to know why they should try your product. If they don't receive an answer, they will move on. Have an answer that solves people's problems.



Hire or solicit the services of a friend with a radio voice. Radio voices tend to have lower tones and can be described as rich and full. Some radio commercials use voice-over artists with high-pitched, loud voices in order to garner the most attention. It depends on the type of advertisement you are making whether you should hire a soothing radio voice or an irritating one.



Record your commercial in a rented studio for the best possible production value. Production value can be very important on the radio because sound is the only sense witnessed. If the voice pops or is muffled, no one will hear the ad and you might lose money.



Cut it down to your allotted time. Broadcast stations are usually not very lenient on time. If you have a 60-second commercial slot, your commercial should be 60 seconds long.
Add sound elements to enhance the scene.
 You can even buy "remnant" radio spots at a significant discount.