 Is it because you are constantly asking for something? Are your requests unreasonable, or is it something every parent would say no to? Will it put pressure on your parents? They might say no for a reason that they do not want to explain to you. If you think that's the case, stop asking them why or they will just say no for sure.;
, Are you constantly asking for money? Do you want to go on a trip with some friends? Don't ask for a CD just because you happened to see it or a doll just because you think you want it. If you do see something you want and you don't have the money, wait a few days and see if you still want it. Your parents will be more willing to say yes if they know that you have thought about it. (You may want to wait until your birthday, Christmas or Hanukkah, depending on what you celebrate in December every year)

,, Before you ask make sure to ask yourself "what have you done to deserve it", if you have a good response then you will have a better chance of being told yes.
 If your parents say, "I'll think about it" or "wait until tomorrow", then wait until they have had time to think about it and kindly ask what their thoughts are when they aren't busy doing something.
 If you want a car, make a list of all the responsibilities that you will be able to take on if you get a car. If you would like to go to a party, tell them who's going to be at the party, give them other parents' numbers so they can check facts for themselves, and offer to set a curfew you will all be comfortable with. Also if the curfew is going to be un-agreeable simply suggest that you could sleep at a friends house after the party.
 For example, if you say that you will pay them back that $10, do it. If you told them you'd do the dishes in return for being allowed to stay out later, do the dishes before you leave or the second you get home. If they know that your true to your word, they'll be more willing to say yes the next time.
 Think about the answers or questions you might get, you must also be prepared for a no! Just don't get upset when you hear that holding your ground while trying to compromise is a thousand times better than throwing a tantrum, while that might have once worked it probably won't anymore.

