 Observing and looking require the use of the eyes. Many people use the terms interchangeably, but they are very different actions.


Looking is when you see things without the intent of using it later. You don't commit anything to memory or try to make meaning of what you see.
Observing is seeing what is around you and keeping it in your mind so you can make meaning out of it or pose questions about it.
Deduction is when you separate the important details from the unimportant ones after you have observed something. In deduction, you use your careful observation to come to a conclusion.
To practice observing instead of looking, take a piece of paper and list every object in your room. Then look around and compare your list to the items. How many objects do you see or touch every day that you don't observe? Continue doing this over and over and see how many more items you begin to remember.;
, A good observer takes in their surroundings instead of just taking them for granted. Look around yourself as you walk to the store or drive to work. You will start to notice things, like the same cars that take the same route to work or when the store on the corner has changed its display.If you take visit the same places every day, start paying closer attention to them. What do you notice about these places? What changes? What stays the same? Try to recall things about these places later to see how much you remember.
 Start noticing the details of things you pass. Paying attention to things that might seem insignificant makes you conscious of your surroundings. This makes you a better observer. The more you purposefully notice things, the quicker it will become a habit.


What kind of trees are planted in front of your favorite coffee shop? What color shirt does your boss where most often? What kind of cars are parked in the parking lot? How does the sound of your street differ at 7 a.m. verses 7 p.m.?
Notice minute details. When waiting in line at the post office, observe the condition of people's clothes and shoes. Watch what people order at a restaurant. Taking the time to pick up small details helps make you more observant.
 To be a good observer, you must be neutral. Observations don't include personal feelings or judgment because those things are based on bias. When personal feelings, preconceived notions, and prejudices get involved, people don't see what is there. They see an object distorted by their perception. A good observer ignores their personal feelings and sees things for what they are.


To accomplish this, start by taking a step back. Remove yourself from the world around you. Instead of thinking about the negative experience you had with a certain dog breed, see the dog for what it is. Don't look at people who drive a certain kind of car a certain way because you associate that car with a certain social class.
Staying neutral helps you see things for what they really are. The pit bull you are terrified of is playing with kittens and licking strangers in the park. The person driving the expensive car may work three jobs to pay for it., To be a good observer, you must slow down. Rushing through your day leaves no time to observe the world around you. Try taking a certain amount of time every day to notice the world around you. Do new things or try to see familiar things through a new lens.


Try taking a picture every day. Not just any picture, though; take pictures of interesting things you see every day. This can help you work on noticing your surroundings and taking the time to observe what's around you.
Look at a new piece of art every day. Try to remember the model of the car that parks beside you every day. Try new foods and write down the details about the food. Give yourself time to observe the world around you.