 For roughly the first week after you give birth, you will experience a heavy, bright red flow of blood. During this time, you may also pass several small to medium-sized blood clots.During this first stage of postpartum bleeding, you will probably saturate a menstrual pad about every three hours.You may also pass one or two large clots (the size of a quarter), and several more small clots (the size of a grape).If you have given birth by Caesarean section, you can expect your bleeding to be a bit heavier.You should begin to notice a slight change in the color of your lochia after two to four days postpartum.;
, For those first three to 10 days, your lochia will be a deep, bright red (growing a bit lighter after about four days). After three to 10 days, this should change from red to pink. After another few days, lochia will change to brown, and finally to a yellowish-white., Although you should only bleed heavily for around three to 10 days after giving birth, you will continue to have a light to medium flow for several weeks (up to six). Your bleeding should be slowly tapering off, and becoming lighter in color during this time.If you are breastfeeding, you may notice a slight increase in bleeding and cramping when you nurse (or immediately after). Nursing causes the uterus to contract slightly, so this is perfectly normal.
If you have begun taking hormonal birth control, you may continue spotting after six weeks. Discuss this with your healthcare provider.
 It may ease some of your fears to understand what is happening inside your postpartum body. After you give birth, the placenta separates from your uterus, and the blood vessels where it was attached are left open, bleeding into your uterus. After the placenta is delivered, your uterus continues to contract, releasing this blood, as well as any leftover tissue, fluid, and bacteria. As the uterus contracts it also closes off the bleeding vessels. In short, during your first six weeks postpartum, your uterus is cleansing itself and restoring normal conditions.During pregnancy, the amount of blood in your body rises by about 50%, so your body is well-prepared for this postpartum blood loss.
If you experienced a tear during birth or had an episiotomy, you may bleed from this site as well.

