 Add 3 gently crushed cardamom pods, 2 whole black peppercorns, 2 whole cloves, a 2-inch (5-cm) piece of fresh ginger that’s been sliced into pieces, 1 cup (237 ml) of water, 1 cinnamon stick, ½ tablespoon (7 ½ g) of brown sugar, 1 star anise, ¼ of a vanilla bean that’s been sliced down the middle, and a pinch of ground nutmeg to medium saucepan. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are fully mixed.You can usually find all of the spices for the chai concentrate in the spice aisle of your regular grocery store.
Whole vanilla beans are available at most grocery stores, though you can also find them at online retailers.
You can adjust the spice amounts so the flavors that you prefer most stand out.;
, Place the pan with the spice mixture on the stove, and heat it over medium-high heat. Allow the mixture to come to a complete boil, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Be sure to keep an eye on the pan to ensure that the mixture doesn’t boil over.
 After the mixture comes to a boil, reduce the heat to medium-low and cover the pan. Let the mixture simmer for 15 minutes., Once the spice mixture has simmered for 15 minutes, place 1 black tea bag inside. Allow the tea to steep in the spice mixture for at least 5 minutes.You can use whatever type of black tea that you like, but Darjeeling is a particularly good option.
 After you’ve steeped the tea bag in the spice mixture for several minutes, pour it through a strainer. Discard the solids and reserve the liquid chai tea concentrate.In addition to using the chai concentrate for the popsicles, you can also mix it with water or milk to make chai tea.
This recipe makes 1 cup (237 ml) of the chai tea concentrate, which is the amount that’s needed for the popsicles. You can easily double or triple the recipe, though, so you have extra to use for tea.
If you make the concentrate ahead of time or have extra, you can store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week.
 Add the chai tea concentrate and 1 cup (237 ml) of milk to a large bowl. Stir well so the two are thoroughly combined.You can use whatever type of milk that you like, but canned coconut milk will create the richest popsicles. For lighter popsicles, use cow’s milk, nut milk, or soy milk.
 Once the chai tea concentrate and milk are mixed, add the liquid to a popsicle mold. Place the mold in the freezer and chill the popsicles until they are firm, which should take about 5 hours.If you’re using a mold that doesn’t have built in popsicle sticks, freeze the mold for about 2 hours. Take them pops out of the freeze and gently press wooden sticks into them before freezing for another 3 hours.
 When the popsicles are fully frozen, take the mold out of the freezer. Run the outside of the mold under warm water to loosen the pops, and remove them from the mold. Serve immediately.