 Add ½ cup (118 ml) of warm water to the bowl of a stand mixer. Next, sprinkle 1 tablespoon (8 ½ g) of active dry yeast over it in an even layer.If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use any large bowl to hold the yeast mixture.;
, After you’ve sprinkled the yeast over the water, let the mixture stand for 5 to 7 minutes, or until it becomes foamy. Whisk the mixture until it’s completely smooth., Once the yeast mixture is smooth, add ½ cup (64 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Whisk it into the mixture until a loose paste forms.You can substitute a gluten-free flour mix for the all-purpose flour if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed the flour into the yeast mixture, place the bowl in a warm spot. Let the mixture rise and then fall, which should take approximately 30 minutes.You can place the yeast mixture beneath a sunny window or beside the stove to rise and fall.
 After the yeast mixture has fallen, add 4 large eggs, ¼ cup (50 g) of sugar, 2 teaspoons (10 g) of coarse salt, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla, and the remaining 4 cups (500 g) of flour to the bowl. Mix the ingredients in on low until they are fully incorporated.You can use egg substitute in place of the eggs if you prefer.
 Switch the stand mixer’s attachment to the dough hook and begin kneading the dough. Continue kneading for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the dough is smooth.If you don’t have a hook attachment for your mixer, you can use clean hands to knead the dough. However, you’ll probably need to knead the dough for 8 to 10 minutes to get it smooth.
 Once the dough is smooth, add ½ cup (113 g) of softened, unsalted butter to the bowl. Knead the dough again until it becomes smooth and elastic, which should take approximately 10 minutes.If the dough seems too sticky as you knead it, you can add a little more flour.
 When the dough is smooth and elastic, transfer it to an unfloured surface. Use clean hands to knead it again until it is extremely smooth, which should take about 3 minutes., After you’ve finished kneading the dough, place it in a clean bowl. Cover it with a damp towel, and let it rise in a warm spot until it doubles, which should take approximately 1 ½ to 2 hours.You can cover the bowl with plastic wrap if you prefer.
 After the dough has doubled, use clean hands to punch down the dough. Make sure to smooth out any air bubbles in it as well., For the cinnamon roll bites, you’ll need a 9- to 10-inch (23- to 25-inch) pie dish. Use softened or melted butter to lightly grease the surface of the dish so the bites won’t stick.If you prefer, you can use nonstick cooking spray to grease the pie dish.
 To prepare the coating for the bites, place ½ cup (113 g) of melted unsalted butter in a small bowl. Add the remaining 1 cup (200 g) of sugar and 2 tablespoons (16 g) of ground cinnamon to a separate small bowl and whisk the two together well.If you prefer, you can use 1 cup (216 g) of store-bought cinnamon sugar.
 When you’re ready to prepare the bites, take small pieces of the dough and roll them into balls with clean hands. Aim for balls that are approximately 1-inch (2.5-cm) in size., After you’ve rolled the dough into balls, place them in the melted butter to thoroughly coat them. Next, roll them in the cinnamon sugar so they are evenly covered.It’s best to work with one ball at a time.
 When you’re finished coating the balls, place them in the greased pie dish. Layer the balls on top of one another to create a stack and pour the remaining melted butter and cinnamon sugar over the stack.The stack of dough balls should resemble a dome.
 When you’ve finished adding all of the balls, cover the pie dish with plastic wrap. Let the balls rise by approximately half, which should take about an hour., To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cinnamon roll bites, it’s important to preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Make sure that the balls are done or nearly done rising before you begin preheating the oven.
 Once the oven is preheated, remove the plastic from the pie plate and place it on a baking sheet. Set the bites inside the oven, and allow them to bake for 50 to 55 minutes, or until they are firm and golden brown.Placing the pie plate on a baking sheet keeps any possible butter and cinnamon sugar mixture that might bubble over from dirtying the oven.
You can be sure that the bites are done by inserting a cake tester or toothpick inside one. If the tester emerges clean, the bites are finished baking.
 When the cinnamon roll bites are finished baking, remove them from the oven. Let them cool in the pie plate for 10 to 15 minutes., To make the glaze for the cinnamon roll bites, add 1 cup (125 g) of sifted confectioners’ sugar and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of coarse salt to a medium bowl. Whisk the two together until they are fully combined.Confectioners’ sugar is also known as icing or powdered sugar.
 Add 2 tablespoons (28 g) of melted, unsalted butter, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of whole milk, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of pure vanilla extract to a separate small bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully blended., When the butter mixture is blended, pour it into the sugar mixture. Mix well until a smooth, pourable paste forms.If you’re having trouble blending the two mixtures together, it may help to use an electric mixer.
 Once the glaze is fully mixed, pour it over the cooled cinnamon roll bites. Set the bites out and serve immediately.Store the glaze at room temperature until you are ready to add it to the bites. Be sure to whisk just before drizzling it over the bites.
Keep any leftover bites in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should stay fresh for up to 5 days.

