 There are several different cleaners, such as Goo Gone or Goof Off, that are manufactured specifically for removing adhesives. These products are designed to remove sticky adhesive without damaging the finish of the material. Both products are safe to use on wood and plastic., There are many chemicals that can be used to remove stickers from a guitar. One of the most effective chemicals to use is naphtha. Naphtha can be found at most hardware and general stores. Common products made with naphtha include lighter fluid, shoe polish, and fuel for camping gear.Use caution when working with naphtha as it is very flammable. Do not use it near an open flame.
You could also use acetone, commonly known as nail polish remover, in place of naphtha.
 Create a homemade solution using coconut oil and baking soda. Combine two parts coconut oil with one part baking soda in a small bowl. Although it may seem strange to use an oil to remove a sticker, you are creating a solution similar to Goo Gone or other commercial adhesive removers.A homemade solution will be free of many harmful chemicals that are found in commercial adhesive removers.
You can add a few drops of sweet orange essential oil for extra degreasing power and a more pleasant scent.
 Before you apply generous amounts of adhesive remover to your guitar, pick a small section on the back of your guitar to test the solution. You want to be sure that it doesn’t tarnish the finish of your guitar.
 If you are removing a larger sticker, using a larger scraping instrument, such as a CD, may be more effective than your fingernail. Removing some of the sticker will allow your adhesive remover to better reach the sticky adhesive on the back of the sticker.Paper stickers will allow an adhesive remove to penetrate the paper surface.
Plastic stickers will repel the adhesive remover and not allow it to reach the sticky adhesive surface on the back of the sticker. It is important to try to remove as much of a plastic sticker as possible before applying an adhesive remover.
Be careful to not lift any of the guitar’s finish while attempting to remove the sticker.
 Wrap a cloth or paper towel around your finger and dip it into your adhesive remover. Rub the solution on the sticker in a circular motion. Coat the entire sticker with a liberal amount of the solution.If you are using a spray bottle of adhesive remover, spray the cloth or paper towel instead of the guitar. This will prevent you from getting remover in parts of the guitar where you do not want the remover.
 Using your fingernail or the CD, continue to remove the sticker from the guitar. Start working to peel back the sticker from one corner. The adhesive remover should have softened the grip of the adhesive, allowing you to remove the sticker with little residue leftover., Once the sticker is removed, used the adhesive remover to remove any leftover residue. Use care to not scrub too hard and tarnish the surface of the guitar.
 Some of the adhesive solutions listed above can list a film or residue on your guitar. Dampen a clean cloth with some water and wipe off the surface of your guitar.
 Using a clean cloth or a clean portion of your adhesive remover cloth, dry off your guitar’s surface. If you notice any remaining adhesive, repeat the steps to remove it. Be sure to completely dry off your guitar to avoid tarnishing the surface.

