 It is important that you avoid overstocking your tank. The general rule is that you should have room for one gallon of water for each inch of fish in your tank. So, a ten-gallon tank can safely accommodate ten one-inch-long fish. This is a very important rule to keep in mind if you are looking to care for schools of fish.Overstocking your tank can lead to a build-up of toxic waste products. It will also necessitate additional cleanings.Some larger species, such as full-grown goldfish, will require additional tank space. Fish that move around a great deal may also need extra room.;
, You need to choose fish that all thrive at right around the same temperature. You can accommodate only a few degrees’ difference in preferred temperatures or your fish will suffer. So, a tropical fish generally cannot live comfortably alongside a cold water fish. Your tank equipment needs will also differ greatly as some fish require heaters and lights and others do not.For example, a white cloud minnow is a type of cold water fish that requires consistent temperatures between 72-82 degrees Fahrenheit (22-28 degrees Celsius) in order to thrive. Discus, on the other hand, need a warmer tank that stays in the low to mid 80s Fahrenheit (high 20s Celsius).If your tank is the wrong temperature, your fish may become more susceptible to disease. They may also move more slowly and refuse to eat.
 Make sure that the fish that you buy fall into the same range on the pH spectrum. Many fish that you buy directly from the store are acclimated to a neutral pH, but will do even better in a pH customized to them. For example, a tropical African cichlid does best in alkaline water. Most freshwater fish prefer a pH somewhere between 6.5 and 7.5.Don’t forget to take into account the pH needs of any live plants that you will add into your tank as well. For example, many fresh water plants require a pH between 6.0 and 7.5, a fairly wide range that can overlap with the needs of a number of fish., The tank filtration needs between these two fish groups are generally different, with tropical fish requiring less in the way of filtration and cleaning. The temperature and pH requirements between them are also dissimilar, which really can’t be worked around, even by a skilled aquarist.


For example, a goldfish would not live well alongside a cichlid. The goldfish requires colder temperatures and freshwater. In contrast, the cichlid thrives in tropical, saltwater conditions.
 Even if you are pretty sure that the fish will get along, it is a good idea to create an interesting tank environment that can provide some “alone” space for an individual fish. Some fish are generally social and friendly, but also need to get away every now and then. This will also minimize any stress associated with overcrowding.For example, gouramis are fish that love to hide. They establish a dominance system and, during these contests, the weaker fish will often hide from the stronger one.
 Some fishes, like the goldfish, will provide a great deal of color and activity. Other fish, such as the shark fish, are less colorful but demonstrate very interesting schooling behaviors. Some fish are bottom-feeders and prefer to hide-out during the daytime, such as the kuhli loach, making them almost impossible to spot., Make sure to consider how comfortable you are caring for fish. If this is your first tank, you may want to go with a relatively simply combination of just one or two low-maintenance types of fish. Single-species tanks are especially good for fish that prefer to swim in schools.


Oscars are dominant, large fish that don’t generally tolerate other species tank mates well. They will try to eat smaller fish especially. Puffer fishes are good options for experienced aquarists, but they also prefer to be around their own species. Platies and GloFish, for example, are great beginner fish that enjoy living in community tanks.