 A good breeder will specialize in 1-2 specific breeds so it is important that you choose your type of dog first. Consider your lifestyle and personal preferences. Some areas to think about: activity level, friendliness with others pets or children; trainability; size or final weight; grooming requirements; coat length and type; age; sex., If you are looking for a pure breed dog your best resources is the American Kennel Club (AKC) and its local chapters. Go to the AKC website to find your local chapter. This group will then put you into contact with a breeder referral expert who can help with your search. You can also see what information your local AKC has posted on their website as well., Your vet is always a good resources for anything pet related. Call or make an appointment with them to discuss what kind of dog you’d like and where best to find them. Vets often have a great deal of insight regarding those bad breeders whose animals require lots of care or receive no care at all.You might ask, “Do you know of any excellent local Pomeranian breeders? Tell me about how you know them.”

, If you are looking for a dog with a particular skill set, such as hunting, you may be best served by going to a gathering focusing on that particular area. Agricultural shows often showcase dogs for sale and, if not, you can simply ask about the origins of a dog that seems like a good fit for you., You can use the internet to both expand and dig up additional insights into your current list of possible breeders. Type in the breeder names to see what pops up in the search screen. Eliminate any breeders that have ever been investigated. You can also type in your name and city to find additional breeder options. Or, use the digital AKC Marketplace Puppy Finder by going to their website and entering your breed request, preferred gender, and zipcode.Make sure to carefully read any breeder reviews that you find. Look for red flags such as comments about poor animal treatment or litigation. You can also check with the Better Business Bureau (BBB) to see if any claims have been filed.
 You should always seriously investigate adopting your dog, even if you are looking for a purebred. Roughly 25% of dogs in animal shelters can be identified as purebred making them a great option for many people. Mixed breeds dogs also offer their own benefits of increased healthfulness as well. By working with a shelter or rescue you can also get access to a puppy as well, if that is your desire.Find a list of local shelters or rescue organizations by entering your city name and “animal shelter” or “animal rescue” into a search engine. You will also find that adoption is generally a much cheaper option.
If you are concerned about AKC papers, you can contact the AKC to discuss processes that are in place to welcome adopted dogs into the fold and allow them to participate in AKC dog competitions alongside breeder animals.

