 Learn to live with less. Layer your summer clothes during the winter for a different look. Learn to use a small purse. Limit makeup and accessories. Going without can be a real adventure.;
, Start an inexpensive, unconventional trend. Ignore advertising. Why follow the crowd?

, Choose your outfits carefully. Look for the most accentuating outfits worn by others with the same figure, skin tone or hair color. Wearing different shades of the same color is slimming and easy to put together.
 Take the time to coordinate your clothes into a month's worth of outfits. Make a list of all possible combinations and refer to it frequently.
 Determine what you need to complete an outfit. Something that doesn't match or fit well may never be worn.
 Be patient. Check for quality, color, fit and a long-lasting style. You'll want to wear a garment for a few seasons, then recycle the fabric into another garment or accessory.
 Have a rough idea of what you're willing to pay. Review the current styles. Keep a list of reasonable prices in your purse.
 You'll find a variety of unique imported and second-hand items. You can bargain for a better price.
 Their selection may be limited, but they have cute clothes and accessories. This is a great place to buy pajamas and slippers.
 Vintage is always in fashion. Brand names can be found. Worn clothing is very comfortable. Look for fabrics to make something new.
 Search both the men's and women's departments. If you're petite, search the children's department as well. This is a great place for the basics.
 They have a stylish clothing line of good quality and reasonable prices.
 Use coupons during the holiday sales, either online or in stores. Try things on prior to a sale. Take time to think things over to avoid impulse shopping.
 Stay within your budget. Leave credit cards at home.
 Wait a week to think it over. Remove the tags once you're sure you'll enjoy your new item.
 Usually a lot of shops have the same things, so you should check before buying. You'll probably find clothes that look alike for cheaper than in other stores.
 Rather than buying 10 cheap shirts, go for one good quality shirt. Don't be careless while buying cosmetics. While buying new products buy the smallest packet or get a free sample for a trial run, if it suits you then go ahead.