 The normal range of rectal temperature for cats is from 38.1 C to 39.4 C (100 to 102.5°F).If you can't easily take your cat's temperature, the following symptoms could indicate a fever:Poor appetite
Lethargy
Inactivity
Weakness
Excessive shedding
Withdrawing away from other cats
Rapid or shallow breathing
Shivering
Decreased grooming activities
Because most fevers are caused by an underlying condition, be on the alert for other symptoms such as vomiting, diarrhea, coughing, sneezing or skin swellings. These could point to a reason for your cat’s illness.;
, Symptoms are a good sign that your cat has a fever, but the only way to know for sure is to take her temperature with a thermometer. You can take your cat’s temperature rectally or in its ear.Gather your supplies. You will need a thermometer, lubricant (e.g., petroleum jelly or K-Y), alcohol and paper towels, and a cat treat.
If using a glass thermometer, shake it until the mercury is below the 96F (35C) line. Simply switch on a digital thermometer. Use a special thermometer designed for pets to measure temperature in the ear.
If measuring your cat’s temperature rectally, lubricate the thermometer.
Cradle your cat under one arm, or ask someone else to hold her. Raise her tail.
Insert the thermometer into your cat’s anus about one inch. Hold a glass thermometer in place for 2 minutes. Remove a digital thermometer when it beeps.
Clean the thermometer with rubbing alcohol and paper towels.
Give your cat a treat to comfort her.
If your cat’s fever is over 102F (39C), take her to see a vet immediately. High fevers can cause organ damage., Gently press your cat’s body with your fingers.Determine whether you can feel any injuries like bone fracture, swollen lymph nodes, abscess, wound infection or tumors. All of these instances can cause fever.You may or may not be able to feel a bone fracture in your cat. Fractures or breaks in bones can cause swelling or bruising in the break area. If you apply pressure to the injured area your cat will respond with pain. Be gentle as you examine your cat.You should be able to feel swollen lymph nodes under your cat’s jaw area and around her shoulders. Swelling at the back of the legs or near the groin is also possible.Immediately take your cat to the vet if you notice any of these symptoms. These conditions require prompt medical attention.
If you do not notice any of these symptoms, the fever is likely a normal immune response. If possible get your cat examined by a vet who will try to identify the source of the infection. Follow the steps below as directed unless your cat's fever has been present for over 24 hours.
If your cat has had a fever for more than 24 hours, seek veterinary advice and treatment as soon as possible.
 Cats lose heat through sweat glands in their paws and by panting. Help your feverish cat cool off so you can reduce her body temperature. Find a cool, dark, room, preferably with a slate or tile floor so that she can stretch out and transfer her body heat to the tiles. You can also try these ways to help your cat cool off:Position a fan on the floor so that it blows cool air over her body.
If your cat will tolerate it, gently wet her coat with water. You can use a damp cloth or a spray bottle to dampen her coat. The evaporation will help to cool her body.
 Fever can be caused by dehydration, and can also cause dehydration. It is important that you provide fresh water at all times to your cat. If your cat is having trouble drinking, provide your cat with water via syringe (without a needle).Rehydrating your cat can reduce fever (this is the reason why cats are given IV fluids at the vet’s clinic).A feverish cat will not want to get up and walk about, so make sure she has drinking water within reach. You can sponge her gums with tepid water.
In addition to water, you can also give Gatorade or children’s electrolyte solutions to cats with fever. These may help restore your cat’s electrolyte balance, especially if she has been vomiting or had diarrhea.You can use a syringe to get your cat to drink Gatorade.
If your cat is resistant to syringe hydration, try freezing some water or Gatorade into cubes. Your cat may be more interested in licking an ice cube than drinking (and the cold will help her cool down).

Never give your cat milk! Cats are very sensitive to lactose. Milk can make your cat ill and cause nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea., Fever requires huge amounts of energy and can leave your cat very weak. Your cat may not feel up to eating solid food. You can supplement her diet by providing soft foods. Soft scrambled eggsor canned tuna run through a food processorcan be good options.


If your cat refuses solid or soft food, try using a syringe to feed your cat milk replacer (sold at pet stores). This is a food that’s designed for feeding sick cats or nursing motherless kittens. Use a syringe (no needle) with 5cc to 10 cc capacity.
Insert the tip of the syringe on the insides of corners of the mouth, closest to the cheek. Cats and dogs will swallow by reflex anything that has passed in this area inside the mouth.
If your cat cannot eat, ask your vet about high-calorie liquid supplements. Your cat can consume these until she is well enough to eat solid food again., It’s a good idea to ensure your cat’s nutrition by boosting her appetite. Vitamin B-complex and energy supplements added to her diet can accomplish this.A vitamin and energy supplement like Nutri-Plus Gel (at 5ml daily for 5 days) can be given to battle fatigue and a lack of nutrients.
An example of a very good B-complex vitamin is Coforta. It has a high concentration of cyanocoblamin (3), which is needed in energy metabolism. It is injected at 0.5ml to 2.5 ml per cat once a day for 5 days Subcutaneously (SQ) or Intramuscularly (IM):

For small cats less than or equal to 1 kg (2.2 lb), 0.5 ml
For cats 2 to 6 kg (4.4 to 13.2 lb), 1 ml
For large cats, 7 to 9 kg (15.4 to 19.8 lb), 2.5 ml
For cats between these weight ranges, estimate a dose between these or follow vet advice, erring toward a lower dose.


Never give your cat supplements with the following ingredients. They can be toxic to cats:Garlic or onion
Calcium
Vitamin D
Vitamin C



