 Insert the two teeth upwards underneath the cap and pull up. Repeat this a couple times around the cap and it comes off, no problems.
 The prongs slip easily under the cap. Work around the edge and the cap can easily be removed.
 Close the door and twist the bottle down, and you might not lose any contents. A potential stained carpet from a spill reduces this method's attractiveness.
 Hit it with the palm of your hand. Don't use wooden edges, or you'll ruin them.
 (Warning: Gold wedding rings may be pulled out of shape using this method - you risk the wrath of your spouse by doing this!) Simply hold the bottle in the non-ring hand and place the ring hand, palm down, over the bottle cap. Hook the ring on the edge of the cap farthest from the palm of your hand, with the proper pressure the cap will pop off. Depending on the shape of the ring, you may experience some pain on the top of the ring finger and opening many bottles in a row may result in swelling, so use common sense. If it hurts too much or your finger swells, stop.
 Simply grab the neck of the bottle with the top of your hand even with the bottom of the cap. Lay the spoon handle, knife blade (sharp edge facing away) or whatever across the third knuckle on your first finger. Hook under the edge of the cap and pry up. If the metal is wide enough, it doesn't put enough pressure on your hand to actually hurt.
 Even a car key can work (eventually), but you'll probably tear up your cuticles pretty badly. If you don't care about the finish on the item, a hairbrush handle, a ceramic coaster, a remote control, a soup spoon, a hardcover book, a CD case... again, anything with an edge.
 Push the single strand (swinging part) of the handcuff through the ratchet, and hold it so that there is a gap of about 3/4" (1.9 cm) between the double strand and single strand. Rest the single strand against the top of the cap. and hook the bottom of the double strand under the cap. Use the handcuffs to lever the cap off. Use only good-quality, NIJ-certified handcuffs, as cheaper novelty handcuffs may be damaged by this process.

