 Crank bait attract bass because the lures look like injured, weak fish in the water, which causes the bass to strike. To use the crank bait, put your lure on your line. Cast your pole out into the lake or river near a structure and let the lure sink to the bottom. Once you feel the line settle, pull back on your rod and start to reel in your line. As you pull back your rod, you will feel the lure dive into the water, which will cause resistance on your pole. Level out your pole again and stop reeling your line. This will allow your lure to rise in the water. Repeat until your lure reaches the surface. Then, cast out again and repeat.


Once you feel a bass tug on your lure, gently pull back on the pole. This will tug the hook into the bass's lip, which is called setting the hook. Once you do this, you can reel in your bass.
If you are fishing in a calm body of water such as a lake or pond, use steady, even pulls and reels with the bait. If the water is choppy or moving such as a river or on a windy day, switch back and forth between pulling and reeling fast and slow.
You can also try to make the movements seem as realistic as possible. You want to bass to think that the lure is a real fish., The method for using spinner bait is similar to the crank bait. The difference is that when you pull back your pole, you don't have to reel in your line. Pull it back to make it dive in the water, then slowly let your pole back down. This will make the lure move back up in the water, make the blades emit noise, and upset the water around the lure. The bright, spinning blades on these lures attract the attention of the bass and pulls the bass to your lure because the movement annoys them.


This method can be more difficult because it is harder to hook your fish because the bass often bite at the blades instead of the hook. This causes it to take more time to actually hook a bass., This lure is much simpler than the other lures to fish with. Put the plastic worm on your line, cast out your line, and let the worm sink to the bottom. Instead of pulling your rod around, you can simply reel your line back in at various speeds. Since real worms aren't jumpy, there is no need to jerk your reel like you did with the other lures.


You should put a weight into your worm so it sinks to the bottom once you cast it. Otherwise, it will stay too close to the top of the water and not attract the bass., The best technique for live bait is to constantly move around your line. The bait you put on your hook is dead or mostly dead, but bass are extremely attracted to live prey. To mimic the live fish, worm, or frog, you should constantly move around your line. This can be through reeling it in or slightly moving your pole back and forth to make it look like the bait is moving around naturally.