 While it may have been several years or more since you last worked with them, it is worth the effort to search for those former managers and co-workers. If you can find them, ask them to be a reference.Also consider former clients you may have had, if you worked in a job in which you served clients.
Your first thought may be that you don’t want to bother former managers or co-workers, but remember that it’s for a very good reason. If they do not understand the importance of references (not uncommon) or cannot be bothered (very common) or have no guidance to help regarding references - persist. Perhaps a heartfelt call or visit may help to override this.
If you’re able to find a former supervisor or co-worker, and they’re really busy, you could write the reference letter yourself and just ask them to edit and sign it.
 If you leave a job for any reason that’s valid (e.g. moving, going back to school, found a better job, staying home with the kids, or even because the job isn’t working out for you), take the time to ask a manager or co-worker (or both) for a reference before you leave. Even if you aren’t planning to look for a new job anytime soon, knowing you can call on them for a reference in the future is very helpful.If you know there’s going to be a big gap between leaving your current job and looking for a new job (because you’re going back to school for a few years, or you’re going to stay home with your kids, etc.), ask for a reference letter. However, keep in mind that written references are not normally considered sufficient.
 Professional networks are an invaluable resource for job seekers. Not only can a network help find you a job, they can help get you a job you’ve applied for. Take the time to evaluate what your current network looks like, then work to expand your network as needed.Networks can include: friends, co-workers, fellow volunteers, clients, supervisors, religious leaders, fellow students, teachers/professors, business contacts, and more.
Think about who you'd call for advice, who you'd go to for support, who knows what’s going on in your field, who already knows someone you want to be introduced to, who can teach you something useful, and who can back-up your great ideas. All of these people should be a part of your network.
Keep in touch with the people in your network as often as you can. For example, keep track of them on LinkedIn and congratulate them on promotions and other major life events. Or make sure to send them a card for their birthday or the holidays every year.
 Just keep in mind most voluntary organisations are often very strict regarding references themselves. If you can get taken on, volunteer experience is just as valuable as any paid work experience you may have. Volunteering often means you need to work in a group or team setting, and usually means you have someone to whom you report. Fellow volunteers or volunteer supervisors can also be references.Volunteer work that you’ve performed for a religious or social group can also be used as both experience and a potential reference.
 If you’re about to graduate high school or college, ask a former teacher or professor to be a reference for you. They’ve not only seen your work, but they’ll have had the chance to evaluate and observe your ability to work with others, be a leader, make presentations, and work under pressure.Ask your teacher or professor before you leave school. You are not likely to be the first student to ask them for a reference.
Consider asking your teacher or professor for a reference letter as well. As you can imagine, they’re going to have a lot of future students. Writing down the great things about you when they remember them will be helpful for them in the future.
 It may go without saying, but you need to try not to burn any bridges with former managers or employers. As much as a former manager or employer may annoy you, you may need them to help you preserve your livelihood. If needed, consider it a selfish act on your part to treat them nicely and take advantage of their ability to give you a reference.