 Mark the center of the stud on the wall. Standard studs are actually 1.5 inches (3.8 cm) wide (after drying and dressing the rough-cut 2" x 4" board). If you don't locate studs when you hang the flatscreen, your TV is likely to weigh down too much on your weakly-supported drywall and fall right off, leaving you with a damaged TV and a damaged wall.


The best way to find the studs is with an electronic stud finder, which you can easily rent at your local hardware supply store.
Alternately, you can measure 16" from the corner of the closest wall to find a stud, then keep measuring every 16" if your house is build to code.
If you're totally lost about where to find the studs, use your knuckles to tap on the wall where you think a stud might be. A hollow sound means drywall, whereas a thinner sound means stud. Hammer a tiny nail through the spot where you think you've hit a stud. If the nail goes right through, it's drywall; if it takes a while to go in, you've hit a stud.
 You want to ensure an even, level mounting, so take a little time before you mount to ensure that the final product will be visually appealing.
 You pilot holes should be a bit smaller than the bolts you'll be drilling into them. All you want to do is make their job a little easier.
 You may need another person to help you in the following step.
 You can use a drill or wing it with just a socket and wrench. Double-check that the mounting bracket is in fact level.


Cut two holes in your wall if you want to hide your cords and keep them from trickling down from your TV.






In the middle of the mounting bracket, cut a square hole. Your mounting bracket should have a square hole designed specifically for this purpose.






One foot from the ground, cut another square hole into the drywall. This hole may be smaller than the first hole.






Feed your cords into the first hole and out the second. If you need to, use a feeder, such as Fish Tape, to help expedite the process.
 Tighten the nuts that are attached to the bracket so that the TV will be tightened to the bracket.
 Plug in your cables to their respective homes and turn on your power.
 Your TV has been successfully mounted.

