 There are plenty of other ways to meet new people. One of the best ways to do so is by participating in social activities you’re interested in anyway. For instance, start hitting that open mic night you’ve been tempted to check out. Weekly events are great, because you’ll start to recognize people, and vice versa. Even better: find a participatory social activity!


Join a co-ed sports team. Don’t worry about competitiveness, co-ed leagues are usually causal and fun-oriented. If you meet someone you’d like to get to know better, see if they want to grab a beverage after a game. If your nervous to ask them out, mention that everyone should go out together.
Start volunteering somewhere. There are organizations of all sorts that are always looking for volunteers. Pick an organization you’re impressed by that focuses on providing services or advocating for something you believe in. Not only will likely meet people with similar perspectives, people find compassion and selflessness attractive.
When you’re invited to any sort of social gathering, go!;
, People tend to pursue romance with those who are similar to themselves, but also different in certain key ways.Know that people tend to find conscientiousness, extraversion, and agreeableness attractive.Relax. Be aware of your neurotic tendencies. We all have them. Learn not to externalize your stress and nervousness. This is important for your own peace of mind, and will also increase your attractiveness., Pay attention to what types of character traits you respect and the types of personalities you enjoy interacting with. Plus, hanging out with people you admire provides the chance to meet other people that you are likely to share interests or social circles with. Be sure to introduce yourself warmly to people you don’t know at social functions. Even if you are not romantically interested, this will build your social skills and send a message to others that you are confident and approachable.


Approach everyone you meet as though you’re thrilled to have the chance.
Actively listen to people when you first meet them, and enjoy the opportunity to learn about different types of people. There are more of us than we realize, and there’s plenty to learn from one another!
Maintain friendships with the people that particularly impress you.
 Know that curiosity and willingness to experience new things are a key component of our individual psychologies. Look for a partner that shares your level of adventure in pursuing new types of experiences.
 Superiority complexes prevent people from being able to contribute equally to mutually fulfilling relationships. If someone believes they’re a “better catch” than their partner, they will likely put less effort into maintaining the relationship. Don’t ever involve yourself with anyone who doesn’t believe you deserve them.