


Give your mouse a good clean. If you don't know how yet, read wikiHow's article on how to clean a mouse.

Clean the mousepad too while you're at it.
Check your mouse cursor. Still happy with it? Or is this a good opportunity for an upgrade to something a little funkier?;
, Use this as a good opportunity to do some application or program updating that you've been putting off because you can't stand just staring at the screen while it happens. Get it rolling.


Really slow-to-load web pages are also a good choice. Try any webpage aimed at providing you with answers about why your taxation refund hasn't arrived still.
Note, it needs to be something that allows you to a) see your desktop; and b) still move your mouse. If this isn't possible, lose the program sprucing and just start mousing.
 If you're not sure that going around in circles, or squares, or whatever shape you're tracing over your icons with the mouse cursor is fulfilling enough for you, try to smarten up the experience with a few added hurdles:


Try following patterns, such as skipping some icons but not others. Or try to trace out the shapes of animals, food, favorite computer symbols using the icons positioned as they are.
Use mathematical formulas to work out which icons to touch and not touch on.
Randomly click on an unused icon now and then. Once it opens, have the mouse chase around anything of interest on the opened item, then click close again and return to desktop mousing.
Alternatively, take a penalty for every accidentally opened icon or drop-down box.
Think up any other amusing ways to prolong your procrastination.
 Apparently that is a standard requirement following chasing your icons.Peppy means "full of energy, high spirits, and lively". Possibly you might need some other boost to help you reach this state. Some suggestions include:



Healthy snacks at the desk
Slightly less but definitely delicious chocolate snack stash at the desk

Caffeine - coffee, chocolate, tea, whatever way you like it most.
 You can always resume chasing the icons around with your mouse whenever the desire takes you.

