 In the early stages, you may notice pink raised spots on the chin or lips. When you run a finger over the spots they feel bumpy, like local roughening on the skin surface. Sometimes the pup experiences mild irritation and rubs his chin along the ground.


If the spots become infected, the lumps may burst and exude a sticky discharge. This is usually "seropurulent", which means it is straw-colored and slightly tacky to the touch, and may be stained with creamy or yellow colored pus.
If the dog rubs the spot repeatedly he will inflame the skin and may cause it to bleed, in which case blood may also weep from the spots.;
, When a veterinarian is first presented with a puppy showing signs of canine acne, it can be difficult to predict if this is acne or if it is the earlier stages of a more serious infection.


Hair plucks or skin scrapes to check for the presence of the demodectic mange mite, can help rule out demodectic mange, which in the early stages of infection can masquerade as acne. However, many cases of demodectic mange do not need specific treatment and it is something the puppy will "grow out of".
Another similar condition is severe generalised folliculitis or "puppy strangles". This is a much more aggressive skin condition than acne in that the puppy becomes unwell with a fever and swollen glands in throat, as well as a sticky skin infection.
Puppy strangles also affects most of the face, rather than just the chin, and whereas acne pups are otherwise healthy, pups with strangles tend to feel poorly.
 Treatment of canine acne involves keeping the skin clean and eliminating secondary bacterial infections.


This is a condition that dog's usually grow out of by the age of 12 months, by which time their immune systems are sufficiently strong to fight of infection.
However, if left untreated the secondary infections can cause scar tissue to form as part of the healing process, which is cosmetically displeasing.
 If skin bumps are present but have not yet formed spots, keeping the chin clean decreases the numbers of bacteria that could potentially cause a secondary infection. Cleaning is achieved with the daily use of a shampoo or gel.


Benzoyl peroxide is a medicated shampoo which has a "follicular flushing" action, which is highly desirable for keeping the hair follicles clean. This means that the product penetrates deep into the hair follicles and washes away grease, loose skin cells, and bacteria.A veterinary product containing less than 5% benzyl peroxide should be used (most veterinary products contain around 3%).
To use the benzoyl peroxide shampoo, wet the dog's chin with water. Apply a spot of shampoo to a wet flannel and rub it gently against the damp skin. Rinse the flannel well and then soak it with water to rinse away the shampoo until all residue has been removed.
 Tea tree oil is a traditional remedy for skin infections due to its antiseptic properties.This natural remedy has both antibacterial and antiseptic qualities, but needs to be used with caution in dogs.Tea tree oil belongs to group of chemicals called terpenes. It works by breaking down the bacterial membrane and allowing leakage of potassium ions out and sodium ions in, resulting in bacterial lysis.
Low concentrations of tea tree oil - around 0.1-1% are safe for use in the dog. Unfortunately, many preparations are much higher than this (some even 100% tea tree oil) and this concentration should never be used on a dog because it is toxic. Only use products that are labelled as being below a 1% concentration.
Use tea tree oil in a similar way to the benzoyl peroxide. Dampen the skin then apply to a damp flannel and work into the skin. Rinse well with clean water and pat dry.
 Signs of tea tree toxicity can range from drooling and vomiting, through to difficulty walking, partial paralysis, tremors, and even seizures. These signs usually develop 2 tp 12 hours after exposure.


The severe symptoms are associated with oral dosing of tea tree oil (for example, if the dog licks neat oil off his coat). If severe symptoms occur, bring the dog to the vet immediately.
If the dog experiences mild symptoms of toxicity, such as drooling, then decontamination of the skin with soapy water should be sufficient to prevent the toxicity, but only if a tea tree solution of less than 1% was used. Oils stronger than 1% are not recommended for use in dogs., If the skin bumps become infected and rupture, oozing purulent (pus-like) or sero-sanguinous (watery straw-colored fluid stained with blood) material, then oral antibiotics will be necessary to bring the infection under control. These are often given in conjunction with skin cleansing.


Oral antibiotics are more effective than antibiotic creams or ointments, because the latter tend to clog or plug the follicles and may seal grease and infection into the skin.
An effective antibiotic is amoxycillin potentiated with clavulonic acid. This is given twice a day at a dose of 12.5mg/kg per dose. A 20kg dog requires 1 x 250mg amoxy-clav tablet twice a day. Treatment often needs to be given for 4-6 weeks, and extended for at least 2 weeks once the symptoms have cleared.Amoxycillin with clavulonic acid acts by disrupting the bacterial cell wall, causing it to become fragile and rupture, killing the bacteria.
 If a puppy has suffered from an episode of acne which responded well to treatment, ongoing skin hygiene can help prevent recurrence. A once daily washing of the chin with benzoyl peroxide, up until the age of 12 months, should help to decrease the likelihood of a flare-up.

