 If you don’t already have an account, you will have to create a new one. Go to the website www.treasurydirect.gov. On the right hand side in the orange “Account Login” area, click on the “open an account” link. On the next page, select TreasuryDirect, which is the first option under Individual/Personal accounts. Follow the three steps to create your account.


Select the kind of account you are opening (i.e. individual or entity).
Provide your personal information, including you Social Security number, email address and your bank account and routing number.
Create your security features. Choose your password and password reminder, choose your personalized image and caption and create your security questions.
 Go to the website www.treasurydirect.gov. On the right hand side, find the orange Account Login area. Select TreasuryDirect from the drop down menu and click on the orange Login button. You will be taken to the “Access Your Account” page.Enter your account number in the box. It will always be 10 characters and begin with a letter. Click “Submit.” You will be taken to a page where you must enter your one-time passcode. You will see the word “Attention” in big letters.
Get your one-time passcode (OTP). This is the website’s way of identifying you and your computer. It is not the same as the account password you created when you opened your TreasuryDirect account. The one-time passcode is sent to the email address you provided when you created your TreasuryDirect account. Go to your email account, open the email that was sent to you and find the OPT number. Enter it into the “enter your OTP box.” The OTP is case sensitive, and it only works for 24 hours.
Click the box next to “Register Your Computer.” This allows the website to put cookies on your computer so it will be recognized the next time you log in to your account. This way you’ll be able to skip the OTP step.
Click on the blue “Submit” button. You will be taken to the page where you enter your account password.
Use the virtual keyboard to enter the password you created when you opened the account. Click the blue “submit” button.
If you haven’t already chosen a personalized image and caption, you will be prompted to do so now. This is another security feature. Choose an image and enter a caption. Remember the caption because you will have to enter it every time you log in to the account from now on.
You will now reach your Account Summary page. This is where you can buy and manage your U.S. securities online.
 If you don't already have one, you'll need an account there to redeem your bonds electronically.Fill in the required personal information, including your name, mailing address and Social Security number.
Provide bank account information. You can designate a checking or savings account to accept the proceeds from cashing in your savings bond.
 Once you have logged into your account, you can select the securities you want to redeem. You can choose up to 50 securities to redeem in one transaction. The funds will be deposited directly into the checking or savings account you designated when you opened your TreasuryDirect account. It takes two business days for the funds to be transferred to your account.Click the ManageDirect tab at the top of the page. Find the heading “Manage My Securities” and click “Redeem Securities.”
You will be taken to the Redemption page. Here, choose the button beside the security type you want to redeem and click "Submit".
You will be taken to the Summary page that lists all of your securities. Select each security you want to redeem by clicking the box next to it. You can choose up to 50 per transaction.
If you chose multiple securities to redeem, you will be taken to the Multiple Redemption Request page. The full amount must be redeemed to the same financial institution.
If you chose only one security, you will be taken to the Redemption Request page. Here you can choose to redeem the full or a partial amount. If you are redeeming a partial amount, you must redeem at least $25 and leave at least $25 in the security.
From the drop-down box, select the destination bank account for the funds and click “Submit.”
You will be taken to the Redemption Review or Multiple Redemption Review page. If you need to change anything, click "Edit" and make the changes. Otherwise, click "Submit".
Finally, you will see a Redemption Confirmation or Multiple Redemption Confirmation page. Your redemption request is completed and the funds should be deposited into the account you selected within 2 business days.
 Just as when you redeem a paper savings bond at the bank, if you redeem an electronic savings bond online, you must pay federal income tax on any interest you earned. You need form 1099-INT which reports all of the interest income you earned when cashing your savings bonds. When you redeem you securities electronically, you can find this form on the ManageDirect tab of the TreasuryDirect website. Click on the Form 1099-INT link to download it.