 An X-cuff is aptly named for the series of ‘X’ shapes that appear in the completed cuff. Because of its width, though, it requires a bit more string and beads than a regular cuff. It is also particularly attractive if you use an assortment of colors for your beads. Regardless, grab a spool of elastic string, pony beads of your choice, and a pair of scissors.
 Wrap your string around your wrist to estimate the length for the cuff, and then tie a knot on the end to secure it (leaving a tail). Add on beads in a color pattern of your choice, pulling them taut to the knot on the end. When you’ve beaded an entire row long enough to wrap around your wrist, tie the two ends together and pull the long end of the tail through the bead next to the knot.
 To bead the second row, you’ll be adding a series of beads to the string and then sliding the string through the first row of beads to weave them together. Slide 3 beads onto the long string, and then pull the string through the adjacent bead in the first row. Add another 3 beads, and tuck the string through the next bead in the first row. Continue this process until you’ve worked all the way around the bracelet, and then pull the string tight to secure it.
 The third row of beading is the same as the second, except that you will weave the string through the center bead (the middle bead in each set of 3 beads) from the second row. Slide the string through the row of beads in the second row until it comes out of the first ‘center’ bead. Then, add three beads, and tuck the end through the next ‘center’ bead in the second row. Continue this process all the way around until you’ve completed the third row, and pull the string tight.
 Repeat the process for the third row. Pull the string through the nearest ‘center’ bead in the third row, and then add a set of three beads. Pull the tail end through the next ‘center’ bead, and then add another three beads. Continue this process all the way around the bracelet until you’ve completed the fourth row

, With four rows of beads completed, you’ve probably noticed that the cuff is a bit uneven looking - the first row is straight across, but the fourth row is wavy. This is because you’ve only completed one half of the bracelet, and need to go back to the beginning to complete the mirror half on the other side of the bracelet. Carefully weave your string through your bracelet until you reach the starting point of your first row (where the knot is tied).


If you run out of string during this step, you can add more and trim the ends short so that the knot doesn’t stand out.
 Working away from the center on the opposite side of the bracelet, repeat the aforementioned steps for rows 1-4 of beads. You should end up with a total of 7 rows of beads, forming two large rows of stacking ‘X’ shapes.
 When you’ve completed the two halves of the bracelet, you’re ready to tie it off! Knot the end of the string multiple times so that the beads cannot slide off of it. Then, trim the excess off both this string and the other tail end (still somewhere in the center). With that, you’re done!