 Wild adventure is not for the weak hearted. You need quite a bit of gumption to withstand staggering heights, free falls into nothingness, and beating the mighty waves. However, Kuala Lumpur offers an array of activities that cater to varying thresholds. You don't have to be an adrenaline junkie to indulge in the Malaysian adventure, for there are plenty of mild yet wild activities to choose from. Think about what adventures you enjoy and what is going to far, and then decide how extreme you want your vacation to be.;
, Check out amusement parks that offer roller coasters, water rides, extreme sports, and even a scare park. If you are looking to do something more natural, head to the mountains for climbs that will be difficult but rewarding. Kuala Lumpur is also home to fascinating underwater scenery that can be explored through scuba diving, or go white water rafting or kayaking for more water adventure. The more research you do, the more possibilities you discover, so search online and read books and travel blogs to discover everything Kuala Lumpur has to offer.
 Choose a hotel or hostel close to the activities you want to take part in. Again, extensive research will help you make the best choice. Whatever hotel that you end up choosing, make sure that you make reservations well in advance so that you can enjoy the best rooms at the best rates.
 If you plan on going mountain climbing or scuba diving or doing any other physical activity, make sure you physically prepare yourself well before your trip. Run, climb, lift, and train to build the endurance to conquer the challenges that await.
 Adventure can be great fun, but if you're not careful, it can also be really dangerous. Never perform high risk activities without the assistance of a professional instructor or a guide. Always check and double check gear to make sure it is appropriate for the activity and ensure that each activity satisfies international safety standards. Once you clear your ground work, you are good to go!

