 Why do you need jewelry or other items that remind you of the person who left? Sell it!


You could use Craigslist, eBay, or even head to the local pawn shop. Or if you really want to rub it in, try a specialty sale site that encourages people to get rid of stuff their ex gave them. Two of these sites are Never Liked it Anyway and Ex Boyfriend Jewelry.Some of the sites require or ask that you share your story, allowing you to get things off your chest.
On some of these sites, engagement rings are especially popular. There are also sites where you can sell wedding packages if the event didn’t take place. You could also sell your wedding dress online.
 Still smarting over a negative break up? Send the person an anti-Valentine’s Day card.


Don’t do this, though, if it will cause problems or if the person has previously asked you to leave him or her alone. Anti-Valentine’s Day actions should be harmless fun not creepy stalker behavior.A safer approach might be to just send an anti-Valentine’s Day card to your other single friends! They may appreciate the laugh!
Or send the card to yourself. At least you won’t have to worry about not getting a card in the mail on Valentine’s Day!, Okay, this isn’t so much anti- Valentine’s Day. It’s anti-anti-Valentine’s Day. But if there’s someone you’re thinking about, why not take a chance?


It depends why and how it ended of course, and how long ago, and whether they’ve already got someone else new.
Be aware that reaching out into the past can create the potential for more heartbreak. But if there’s someone from long ago you’ve been thinking about, or some regret you have, why not express it?
You might be surprised and learn that the person will welcome the contact. You could also send something to a secret crush.
 If you’ve recently broken up with someone, and that’s why you’re alone on Valentine’s Day, buy yourself a breakup gift.


It could be a piece of jewelry you’ve always wanted, a day at the spa, a trip somewhere you’ve always wanted to go, or a new purse.
If you’re a guy, you could buy yourself sports game tickets, a day at the spa, something for around the house, that book you’ve been meaning to read, a new stereo; the possibilities are endless.
Wrap the gift, and go the whole nine yards. You’re basically treating yourself. Look at the positives. You know better than anyone else does what you want most anyway.
 Have a movie or TV series marathon. Pick something without a romantic theme.


Alternatively, watch movies with lots of romance such as Titanic; Encourage your guests to make snarky comments during it.
Use a streaming service to binge watch that show that everyone else is always saying they're addicted to.
You could also go to the movies. That's a good way to distract yourself, but, be aware, you might run into couples having a date night.

