 Determine how much you are willing to spend on a rented house. A general rule of thumb for renting properties is that you shouldn’t be spending much more than about 30% of your overall income on rent.Make a budget range. This will give you some flexibility when searching for houses. Try to adhere to your preset budget when searching for rental properties to avoid financial hardships in the future.
Expect to pay more for specific locations or specific types of rentals. There are homes in Bangalore for every budget; you will want to look for areas that offer affordable costs while still providing all the amenities you desire.;
, The best residential areas in Bangalore can be thought of in terms of cost of living, proximity to schools and major commercial areas transport availability from bus and railway stations, and the diversity of the population.Bangalore has more than 20-25 residential areas in which you can look for a home.Visit different areas of the city. Take note of whether they are surrounded by slums or are likely to have high rates of crime, as well as the proximity to parks and green spaces. While the best-suited location for a rental house in Bangalore will differ for everyone, here are some places to start looking:

Marathalli: a booming suburb with commercial and residential properties.HSR Layout: an affluent suburb in the south east of Bangalore.Malleswaram: one of the oldest localities in Bangalore with a rich social and cultural heritage.Hebbal: located on the outskirts of the city with top-notch connectivity to all parts of Bangalore.Indira Nagar: located in the heart of the city with a large number of food establishments and retail outlets., In 2011, Bangalore was voted the 6th most painful place for commuting in cities worldwide.This means that you will want to consider living close to places that you will visit often so you can avoid driving if possible.


Determine the location of the nearest food shops, pharmacy, hospital, laundromat, bus stop, and other places you may want to visit when choosing an area to rent a house.
Consider an area that is close to your workplace if possible. This will shorten your daily commute and may allow you to avoid driving altogether, saving you hours of frustration.
 This can include features like a washing machine, carpeting, refrigerator, new walls, air conditioning, or enough bathrooms with showers. Making this list before you start searching for properties will help you identify a few rental houses that may be right for you.


Recognize that you will have to pay more for certain features. This can include features that are often expected in properties in the West.
Expect to add 30-50% onto the rental amount for furnished or semi-furnished houses.Prepare to be flexible. Be realistic about the features that you can expect in a house in your price range.
 To-let boards and newspapers can be a great option for finding houses to rent. These ads will usually be placed in the general vicinity of the property available to rent. Additionally, friends and colleagues can provide helpful connections regarding available properties, and can give you inside advice on how to begin your housing search. Networking on social media can help you get a few leads on new rental properties as they become available. However, the most common way to find apartments will be through an online search, and it is on the online sites that we will focus.
 Once you narrow down your search to a few houses that have caught your eye, schedule appointments to visit these places. A few suggestions of sites that have rental houses in Bangalore include:


www.easytolet.in
www.sulekha.com
www.magicbricks.com
www.commonfloor.com

, This can easily be done by adding as much information as possible to your inquiry before you search. This can include the locality of interest, property type (independent house, row house, farm house, etc.) budget (in lakh or crore), and how many bedrooms/bathrooms you want.


Rental sites for properties in Bangalore will often use terms that may be unfamiliar, such as “BHK” which means “Bedroom, Hall and Kitchen” and “RK” which means “Room and Kitchen.” The number written before BHK or RK indicates the number of rooms.
If you see “0.5 BHK”, this means that the bedroom is a half-bedroom, and will have a length and breadth less than 10 feet., To do this, leave the inquiries blank before you search.


For example, if you want to know the general price range of rental houses in Marathahalli, enter in Marathahalli as the locality but leave the budget blank; on the other hand, if you are willing to spend up to 2 Lakh and you want to know what parts of Bangalore you can consider, fill in the budget inquiry and leave the locality blank.
 All three types will be available in Bangalore.


Beware that a semi-furnished house may only mean that the house has wardrobes and storage space.Ask for details about the items included.
 Look specifically for a description of the flooring material, water availability (if it is available 24 hours), status of electricity (if there are frequent power cuts), and the age of construction of the property. Having as much information as possible about a property will allow you to make a more informed decision

, A broker will take about a month’s rent as their fee and will re-charge you every year even if you are renewing the same property.You should look to directly connect with the house owner to avoid exorbitant brokerage fees.


Visit www.nobroker.in to connect with house owners and avoid brokers.
 Make sure you visit each property you are considering before making any rental decisions. Never rent a house sight unseen- pictures can be very deceiving!


Bring your list of desired features. It is easy to forget exactly what you are looking for in the moment. Having this list on hand will ensure that you do not sacrifice anything you want in your rental house.
Take someone along for a second opinion. Especially if you are visiting multiple rental houses, having someone to discuss the pros and cons of each property can be incredibly helpful.
Ask the landlord any questions you may have during your visit, and don’t be afraid to follow up with him if more questions arise. Choosing a house to rent is a big commitment, and you want to make sure you aren’t in for any surprises. Especially discuss any issues or concerns you may have with the property.
Test the Wifi connection and phone signal. Speak with your landlord if the connection is spotty or weak.
Ask about a generator or power backup. Find out if there is a backup generator that works 24/7, or if it needs manual starting.This will be important if you have a power outage that cuts off your air conditioning at 3:00am in August!
Find out if water is available 24 hours a day. Some properties will not have water available at all times.
 This has been the status-quo for deposit in Bangalore for many years.However, this extremely high deposit has recently be challenged, and a ruling has been issued that tenants are legally only required to pay one month’s rent as a deposit.Talk with your landlord to determine a deposit you are both happy with. While a 10 month deposit is extremely high, a 1 month deposit might be lower than a landlord is willing to accept. Settling on a middle amount can be a good way to ensure you get your desired property without breaking the bank.
Beware of any landlord that demands a 10 month deposit. If your landlord is unwilling to negotiate with you over the deposit amount, it may be best to go elsewhere. Most landlords will agree on 6 months’ rent instead of 10., You may be able to lower your rent or have some goods, such as a washing machine or air conditioning, included in your rent. It’s always worth a shot to haggle, but you may be less successful with experienced landlords.


Compare the price you were given for your property with similar homes in that locality and check for pricing trends in the area.Express your desire to rent the property so that the landlord can seriously consider offering you a better deal. The homeowner will treat you differently if he knows you have a genuine interest in the property.Propose a discount in rent of about 20%, and back this up with evidence (including the prices of comparable nearby properties). Allow the landlord to counter back with an offer.
Use additional factors to aid in your negotiation: ask for a price reduction if you were to sign a longer lease, offer to give up your parking space if you do not have a car, mention that you are not a smoker (if you aren’t), offer to prepay your rent a few months in advance, etc. Be creative!
Aim to receive a discount in rent of about 10%.If your landlord refuses to negotiate rent, look to negotiate for new appliances (such as a washing machine or refrigerator).
 Note if there is traffic noise late at night, or early in the morning from commuters. Be sure you know what to expect from your surrounding area so you aren’t unpleasantly surprised.


Ask the neighbors about the surrounding noise level, find out how long their commute is, and inquire about the general atmosphere of the neighborhood before you decide on a property., Don’t settle on an “okay” property. Bangalore has an astounding range of houses for rent across different areas of the city. Don’t agree to one of the first few properties you see if you aren’t certain it is right for you.


Prepare to pay the owner of the rental property you wish to rent a token so that he will hold the house for you. This amount should be around INR 3000-5000 so that the owner will stop showing the property to other potential tenants., The owner generally takes care of making the rental agreement, so make sure you read it through thoroughly.


Check the maintenance fee that will be deducted once you vacate. It should not be more than about one month’s rent.
Make sure both you and the owner keep a copy of the agreement. This will be of assistance if any disputes arise in the future.

