 Pulleys are simple machines consisting of a suspended disk that allows the tension force in a rope to change direction. In a simple pulley configuration, the rope or cable runs from a suspended weight up to the pulley, then down to another, creating 2 lengths of rope or cable strands. However, the tension in both sections of rope is equal, even if both ends of the rope are being pulled by forces of different magnitudes. For a system of two masses hanging from a vertical pulley, tension equals 2g(m1)(m2)/(m2+m1), where "g" is the acceleration of gravity, "m1" is the mass of object 1, and "m2" is the mass of object 2.


Note that, usually, physics problems assume ideal pulleys - massless, frictionless pulleys that can't break, deform, or become separated from the ceiling, rope, etc. that supports them.
Let's say we have two weights hanging vertically from a pulley in parallel strands. Weight 1 has a mass of 10 kg, while weight 2 has a mass of 5 kg. In this case, we would find tension as follows:

T = 2g(m1)(m2)/(m2+m1)
T = 2(9.8)(10)(5)/(5 + 10)
T = 19.6(50)/(15)
T = 980/15
T = 65.33 Newtons.



Note that, because one weight is heavier than the other, all other things being equal, this system will begin to accelerate, with the 10 kg moving downward and the 5 kg weight moving upward.
 Pulleys are often used to direct tension in a direction other than up or down. If, for instance, a weight is suspended vertically from one end of the rope while the other end is attached to a second weight on a diagonal slope, the non-parallel pulley system takes the shape of a triangle with points at the first weight, the second weight, and the pulley. In this case, the tension in the rope is affected both by the force of gravity on the weight and by the component of the pulling force that's parallel to the diagonal section of rope.

Let's say we have a system with a 10 kg weight (m1) hanging vertically connected by a pulley to a 5 kg weight (m2) on a 60 degree ramp (assume the ramp is frictionless).To find the tension in the rope, it's easiest to find equations for the forces accelerating the weights first. Proceed as follows:

The hanging weight is heavier and we're not dealing with friction, so we know it will accelerate downward. The tension in the rope is pulling up on it, though, so it's accelerating due to the net force F = m1(g) - T, or 10(9.8) - T = 98 - T.
We know the weight on the ramp will accelerate up the ramp. Since the ramp is frictionless, we know that the tension is pulling it up the ramp and only its own weight is pulling it down. The component of the force pulling it down the ramp is given by sin(θ), so, in our case, we can say that it's accelerating up the ramp due to the net force F = T - m2(g)sin(60) = T - 5(9.8)(.87) = T - 42.63.
Acceleration of the two weights are the same, thus we have (98 - T)/m1 = (T - 42.63) /m2. After a little trivial work to solve this equation, finally we have T = 60.96 Newton.
 Finally, let's consider an object hanging from a "Y-shaped" system of ropes - two ropes are attached to the ceiling, which meet at a central point from which a weight hangs by a third rope. The tension in the third rope is obvious - it's simply tension resulting from the gravitational force, or m(g). The tensions in the other two ropes are different and must add up to equal the gravitational force in the upward vertical direction and to equal zero in either horizontal direction, assuming the system is at rest. The tension in the ropes is affected both by the mass of the hanging weight and by the angle at which each rope meets the ceiling.


Let's say in our Y-shaped system that the bottom weight has a mass of 10 kg and that the two upper ropes meet the ceiling at 30 degrees and 60 degrees respectively. If we want to find the tension in each of the upper ropes, we'll need to consider each tension's vertical and horizontal components. Nonetheless, in this example, the two ropes happens to be perpendicular to each other, making it easy for us to calculate according to the definitions of trigonometric functions as follows:

The ratio between T1 or T2 and T = m(g) is equal to the sine of the angle between each supporting rope and the ceiling. For T1, sin(30) = 0.5, while for T2, sin(60) = 0.87
Multiply the tension in the lower rope (T = mg) by the sine of each angle to find T1 and T2.
T1 = .5 × m(g) = .5 × 10(9.8) = 49 Newtons.

T2 = .87 × m(g) = .87 × 10(9.8) = 85.26 Newtons.




