 Shamrocks may seem difficult to crochet, but they are easy if you have the right tools and materials. To make a shamrock, you will need:Medium worsted weight yarn in green
A size H crochet hook.
Scissors;
, Start by making a slipknot for your first loop on the hook. You can make a slipknot by looping yarn around your index and middle finger twice and then pulling one loop through the other. Slide this loop onto your hook and then make a chain of four.To make a chain, simply loop the yarn over the hook and pull it through the second loop on the hook. Keep doing this until you have a chain of four.
 Next, you will need to connect the chain of four into a circle with a slipstitch. To slipstitch, insert the hook into the first link in the chain, loop the yarn over the hook, and pull it through both loops.Now you should have a chain circle. You will be working into the center of the circle to create your shamrock petals.
 Start your first shamrock petal by making a chain of four extending from the chain circle. This chain will be the outer edge of your first shamrock petal., Next, triple crochet into the center of the circle. This will be your longest stitch and it will form the outer edges of your petal.To triple crochet:


Loop the yarn around the hook twice.
Then, insert the hook into the center of the circle and loop the yarn over again.
Pull the yarn through the center of the circle, and the yarn over again.
Pull the yarn through the first two stitches on the hook.
Then, yarn over again and pull through the next two stitches on the hook.
Finally, yarn over again and pull through the remaining stitches on the hook to complete a triple crochet stitch., The next stitch in the petal will be a double crochet stitch into the center of the circle. This stitch will be a little shorter than the triple crochet stitch, so it will create a slight indent in the petal, which is common for shamrocks.To double crochet:


Start by looping the yarn around the hook once.
Then, insert the yarn into the center of the circle and yarn over again.
Pull the yarn through the center of the circle and yarn over again.
Then, pull through the first two loops on the hook.
Yarn over again, and pull through the last two loops. This will complete your double crochet stitch., For your next stitch, do another triple crochet stitch into the center of the circle. This stitch will create the second raised area of your petal., To finish your first shamrock petal, make another chain of four and then slipstitch into the center of the circle to connect it. This will complete your first petal.Make two more petals just like this one to complete your shamrock petals.
 To start the stem, make a chain of seven extending from the center of your shamrock. This will be the base of your shamrock stem.If desired, you can make the stem a little longer or shorter.
 To give the stem a thicker base, start by doing a half double crochet stitch into the third chain from the hook.To do a half double crochet stitch:


Loop the yarn over the hook and insert it into the third chain from the hook.
Then, pull the yarn through this first loop and yarn over again.
Then, pull through all three loops on the hook to complete the stitch., After the half double crochet stitch, all you need to do is slipstitch along the chain and up to the center of the shamrock. When you reach the center, you can cut your yarn a few inches away from the hook, pull it through to secure it, and then tie your starting and ending yarn pieces together to secure them.Your shamrock is now complete! Pin it on your shirt, sweater, or jacket with a safety pin to wear it, or make several shamrocks and then use a piece of yarn and a large eyed crochet needle to make a garland to wear or to decorate your home. Thread the yarn through the needle and then string the shamrocks onto the yarn.

