 Anorexia is a common sign of feline hepatic lipidosis. In fact, a cat with this disease may refuse to go near its food bowl.Anorexia leads to weight loss, which can be drastic—25% or more of body weight—in cats with hepatic lipidosis.A cat may stop eating because of a stressful event (new pet, moving to a new location) or underlying health problem (cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, inflammation of the pancreas).A hormonal imbalance may also cause anorexia. A hormone called leptin is produced in a cat’s fat and causes a cat to feel full. Leptin levels may increase with hepatic lipidosis, causing a cat to feel full and not want to eat.;
, When the liver stops working properly, different parts of the body start to turn yellow. Take a close look at your cat’s skin, eyes, ears, and gums. If you see yellow, that is a strong indication of hepatic lipidosis.The yellowing is due to increased levels of bilirubin, a yellow-brown substance that's found in the bile. Bilirubin levels go up when the liver isn’t working properly.The yellowing, called ‘jaundice’ or ‘icterus,’ occurs in about 70% of cats with hepatic lipidosis., Hepatic lipidosis can cause vomiting and diarrhea in cats.This disease can also slow down the movement of food through the GI tract. If food is getting ‘stuck’ in your cat's GI tract, your cat may develop abdominal pain.If your cat has abdominal pain, it may become more vocal. Also, it may not want you to touch its belly.
Hepatic lipidosis can also cause constipation in cats., If your cat has hepatic lipidosis, it may start drooling more than usual.The increased drooling could indicate nausea.Interestingly, you might notice your cat sit near its food bowl and start salivating, but refuse to approach the bowl., Cats with hepatic lipidosis become very weak and lethargic.If your cat is eating less than usual, or not eating anything at all, it won’t have the energy to move around and play like it used to. Be aware of your cat not playing with its toys or engaging in playtime with you.
 Hepatic lipidosis can make a cat withdraw from its normal activities.You may notice your cat wanting to be by itself more than usual. For example, if you have other pets, your cat may no longer want to interact with them. It may not feel like spending much time with you, either.
 Cats with hepatic lipidosis can suffer from very low levels of the electrolytes potassium and phosphate. If the levels of these two nutrients drop too low in your cat, your cat may hunch over and bend its head and neck downwards (‘ventroflexion’).Electrolytes are substances that help the body function properly.
 Fortunately, cats can recover from hepatic lipidosis. However, if the disease is not promptly diagnosed and treated, the disease becomes irreversible and possibly even fatal.If you notice signs of hepatic lipidosis in your cat, take it to your vet as soon as you can.
 Before running diagnostic tests, your vet will perform a physical exam of your cat. During the physical exam, give your vet a history of your cat’s symptoms, including when the symptoms started and what they look like. Below are some signs of hepatic lipidosis that your vet will look for on the physical exam:Severe weight loss
Jaundice
Enlarged liver
Dehydration

, A blood sample is an important tool for diagnosing hepatic lipidosis. When your vet takes a blood sample, they will look for several abnormalities that can indicate hepatic lipidosis:Elevated alkaline phosphatase (a liver enzyme) and bilirubin
Elevated blood cholesterol
Low red blood cell count
Low levels of several electrolytes, such as sodium, potassium, and phosphate

, An abdominal ultrasound will allow your vet to look at your cat’s liver. On ultrasound, a liver affected by hepatic lipidosis will be hyperechoic, meaning that it will look brighter than usual on the ultrasound screen.The liver may also look enlarged.An ultrasound machine sends ultrasound waves through the skin. When these waves get reflected back from inside the body, images of different organs form on a screen. Echogenicity (hyperechoic, hypoechoic) refers to how these ultrasound waves get reflected back., The only way to confirm hepatic lipidosis is to analyze a small liver sample. To take the sample, your vet will use the ultrasound image to guide a long, thin needle into your cat’s liver.They will draw up a very small liver sample into the needle, then examine the sample under a microscope.


Your vet will anesthetize your cat to take the sample.
In the liver sample, your vet will look for a large buildup of fat in the liver cells.Usually, a liver biopsy is not needed to make a diagnosis of hepatic lipidosis.