 Nothing ruins the reputation of mountain bikers more than illegal trails. This is very important as it will make a difference to ask, before just building.


The Forestry (commission) Service will destroy an illegal trail if they find it.
Follow proper building procedures. A good place to find this info is IMBA.;
, Forests are a good place, but they must have a trail through them. Forests work well because they have obstacles already there.


Find a place that is legal, not wilderness boundary, not someone else's yard and not your mom's garden. An ideal place is your own undeveloped private property, or somewhere the city has permitted you to develop. Make sure there are no cliffs or other extreme hazards on the way.
 The dirt can't be too wet, or too dry. Make sure its perfect dirt for your style of riding.

You don't want your trail to be too steep or to flat. The last thing you want is to build a cool trail and realise that its too steep. If you can walk down it with out having to catch yourself, then it's prefect. If you can run down it without going to fast, or have to crawl down, it's not a good place.
 This requires an engineer and people to look at the path the trail will take. If it is a personal trail and you already have an idea in mind, walk through it and make sure it is what you want.
 Even with a flow trail, which is an easy way to make smooth trails (discussed later) needs to not have trees, rocks, or excess shrubbery in the way. This may require getting help from volunteers or workers. To clear trees, dig around until the top of the first roots are exposed, then cut there. This ensures it won't grow back, and that it won't stick up as a stump. Rocks require creativity. Use tools to lever out bigger boulders. Smaller rocks can be picked by hand or raked.
 To make your trail just dirt, depending on the location, soil, length of trail, and available resources, there are different methods. Raking out by hand all the grass and weeds can be tedious. Tearing up the trail, churning the soil is good for long lasting smoother trails. A tiller machine or hand pushed tiller could work. If you are willing to spend a little, make a flow trail. They are incredibly smooth and can be made with perfect berms and jumps. The machines to make a flow trail can be rented or bought. Look them up online for more info.
 A steamroller or pulled roller can pack down the course initially. Vehicles may be required to ride it down to be more solid, as long as the riders refrain from skidding and peeling out. Ride or hike over the trail to get it even harder. Do not allow horses on your trail for the first year or so.
 Add wooden obstacle trails.


Try to build some jumps out of wood or dirt. Make them a reasonable height but not crazy. Perhaps 1-3 feet off the ground. Before you make the ramps though, make sure you have space to slow down when you get off the jump -- you don't want to ride right into a tree or mound or dirt.
A fun idea that is common in trails with wooden ramps is a see-saw. Make a wide slot in a fixed stump or secure base between 1 and up to even 6 feet (1.8 m), depending on the length of the see-saw and steepness you want. These are used by riding up, and getting dropped of on the other side. They can be put in steep drops for fun or to smooth the descent, or on a flat length just for fun. They are not suggested on turns or berms.
Another wooden obstacle is a fixed log for balancing. This can extend forward and have a safe sloping drop on either side and in front.
 This is crucial, because you don't want to stop on a narrow area, as you can lose your balance and fall., See what you can change to make it more fun as you all try it out.