 The best way to look sad in person is to actually be sad. Sometimes you can accomplish this by focusing your mind on sad thoughts or memories. Try focusing on one or more the following:


The loss of a loved one and never having the chance to say goodbye.
Your own death and the limited time you have of life.
A tragic mistake from childhood that can’t be resolved or made up for.
Be warned that acting sad is a very good way to actually make yourself sad.Be careful pretending for too long.;
, Humans are social animals who accomplish a large part of their communication through facial cues and nonverbal means.Getting the major facial expressions down is a solid place to start when performing sadness. Try the following:


Frown and pout your lips. Both expressions are common displays of sadness.
Lower your gaze and turn your face away from the person you are talking with as though hiding or embarrassed.
Furrow your brow to show nervousness, consternation, frustration, or displeasure.
Look resigned or exasperated by raising your eyebrows and if in prolonged surprise. This communicates something like “I still can’t believe things are this bad.”

, Recent research suggests that looking sad has more to the do with overall body posture than facial expressions.Further research suggests that when reading emotions in other people, viewers will focus their attention on a person’s chest to read nonverbal cues.When you want to take your sadness act to the next level, incorporate full-body signs of depression and try the following:


Slump your shoulders and upper body downward to show the exhaustion and insecurity that come from sadness.
Turn your body away from the person you are talking to as though protecting yourself from further hurt.
Clutch your body or fold your arms in front of you to symbolize closing yourself off from the other person’s attempt to cheer you.
Touch your face to display a key gesture of sadness and self-comfort.
 We all know that crying is a key sign of sadness and depression, and getting your face to look like you’ve spent the last few hours crying can go a long way convincing the person in front of you that you’re sad.


Rub your eyes hard to work up small tears and leave visible redness.
Why fake the tears when you can have them for real? There are a few good ways to actually cry on command that can amp up your sad game.
 Sighing is a universal sign of sadness, and a well-timed sigh can trigger the other person to recognize and even respond to your sadness subconsciously., One of the most significant signs of sadness and depression is sleep deprivation.Beyond that, a lack of sleep is also one of the most easily recognized features of someone’s face.These facts make sleep deprivation a solid element to include in your act. Try the following:


Yawn silently. You are likely to yawn more loudly when waking up in the morning, but yawn more quietly when communicating a need for sleep.
Close your eyes and sigh as though just this one moment of rest is helpful.
 Sad people will pull away from the world and take less interest in what is happening around them. You will look more sad in a face-to-face meeting if you come across distant and lost in your own mind.


Give the impression that you have lost interest in things you once enjoyed. For example, pretend you did not watch the latest sporting event and don’t care how it turned out.
Start to say something but then stop yourself as though communicating just isn’t important anymore.
Toy with things absent-mindedly, such as the edge of your sleeve, twigs or leaves, chipping paint, etc.
 If you want to come across genuinely sad, you should give the impression that you want to stay sad. This means pulling away from other people and resisting their attempts to cheer you up.


Mention casually that you haven’t spoken to friends in a while and have been spending time alone.
Respond to invitations by saying “maybe” in a way that invites the person to infer you mean “no.”
Stop listening while the other person talks. Do this in order to show disinterest or interrupt them as though you weren’t really listening.

