 If you're interested in forming a tenant association, find out if you can get at least a small group of fellow residents on board for an initial meeting.Typically if you're thinking about forming a tenant association, it's because you are having problems with the landlord or management and believe you are not alone.
If you and the other residents banded together, you might find power in numbers. You could be more effective at getting the problems solved and making your community a better place to live.
Don't be afraid to go door-to-door and get your fellow residents talking about any problems they've had with the landlord. Gauge their interest in joining or helping form a tenant association with you.
 You are allowed to hold a tenant's association meeting anywhere in your complex or building that is designated as a common area.Contact the most enthusiastic or interested neighbors you encountered and find out when the best times would be for them to have a meeting. Try to schedule your initial meeting when the most people can show up.
Paying attention to the traffic in and out of your building or complex can also give you a good idea of when most people are at home and potentially would be available to come to a meeting.
 If you want to accomplish anything as a group, you must establish at least enough rules to ensure the meeting is organized and follows a basic schedule.Start your first meeting by introducing yourself and any other residents who are forming the association with you. Then list the general issues you will be discussing during the meeting.
Consider bringing along an egg timer or similar device to measure and limit the amount of time each person has to speak. This allows you to ensure the meeting ends at a reasonable hour but gives people who want to contribute a chance to speak their minds.
 You may prefer to designate particular individuals to be in charge of the association and keep order at meetings.What kind of structure you choose is up to you and your fellow residents. You may not want any formal structure at all, apart from a few officers.
In a large building or a complex with many buildings, you may want to have captains in charge of each individual building or floor, so groups of residents have one person to speak for their particular interests.
You might choose a looser structure with only a president and vice-president, or elect a group of 5-10 people as a steering committee to rotate responsibilities at each meeting.
Some tenant associations are organized as direct democracies, with all members voting on every action undertaken by the association. This might be a good fit for smaller associations but could seriously bog down larger groups.
 If you've decided to use a formal organizational model, you'll need to take a vote among resident members of the association to choose who will be in charge and for how long.At least, at first, those of you who had the idea to form the association will more than likely be chosen as officers. But if there is a resident who has experience running a business or association, or someone with legal experience, you may want to talk them into taking a leading role.
There typically is no need for a tenant association to collect money or have a bank account, but if you want to require the payment of dues to pay for community events or other expenses, such as refreshments at meetings, you can open a joint bank account in the names of several officers.
Keep in mind that if you decide to go on a rent strike or otherwise withhold rent as a group, an association account may come in handy. Association members can use it to deposit the money they would normally pay for rent.