


Biology, anatomy and chemistry classes will help you become familiar with an organism's anatomy.
If you want to do research or veterinary science, take math and statistics classes.;
,, You might volunteer at a zoo or veterinarian's office, where you'll learn about the care and handling of animals. Select an area that interests you the most.


Consider any work that will offer hands-on experience with animals. Not only will you learn about animals, but you'll also get an idea of where you may want to work after you gain certification in veterinary anatomy.
Volunteer as much as possible, regardless of whether you're going to school or not. Volunteering is an excellent way to develop your career in veterinary science.
 You should have at least an associates degree to enter the veterinary workforce. If you plan to work in research or veterinary science, you will need a bachelor's degree.


Would-be veterinary anatomists must complete an associates degree or a bachelor's degree, preferably in Veterinary Technology, before specializing.
You may want to earn a Master's Degree in Veterinary Anatomy or get a Doctorate of Veterinary Medicine (DVM).
Specializations include a Master of Science of Veterinary Anatomy and DVM.
Some vocational schools and universities offer 2-year Veterinary Technology degrees.
Apply to a school that's American Veterinary Medicine Association (AVMA) accredited.
 After you graduate, you must meet licensure and certification requirements in your state. Each state has its own rules on what you need before you can enter the veterinary workforce.
 This may improve your chances of landing a better job. Most researchers hold a DVM and undertake a similar route as veterinarians.
 This is 1 way to network with other veterinary professionals.
 Veterinary anatomy is an emergent field. To succeed in it, you will need to know the latest developments in veterinary science. Keep up with the latest veterinary related issues, such as bird flu pandemics.


Take courses that will work as continuing education credits in veterinary anatomy.

