 Showing your child affection through touch is an excellent way to create a loving and supportive environment. Studies have shown that physical contact, such as hugs and rubs, can help to reduce stress and anxiety among children. It is very important that you build affection into your relationship with your child. This will teach them the importance of close relationships and contact.That being said, there will be times when your child does not want to be hugged.
Ask them for a hug. This way you are respecting their personal space.
 A great way to ensure that you are raising a well-rounded child is to encourage them to pursue their own interests. Although success at school is important, it should not be the only thing that you place value on as a parent. Instead, allow your child to pursue and engage in a variety of activities. Your child may not excel at traditional classroom learning, but enjoy taking part in sports or other extracurricular activities.If your child demonstrates interest in a particular activity or hobby try and foster this by supporting them. When praising them, acknowledge their effort, hard work, and persistence rather than their results.
For example, sign them up for swimming lessons, or soccer camp. Alternatively, your child may be interested in collecting action figures or dolls.
Show your support by showing up for games, recitals, plays, and other important events. Your child will appreciate having you there to watch them.
 Although it is very important to teach your child the importance of commitment and perseverance, there are certain instances when it is okay to allow your child to quit an extracurricular activity. For instance, you shouldn’t force a child to remain involved in something that they truly dislike. Consider the following things when your child is thinking about quitting an activity:Your child’s age: If you have a young child they are likely involved in a variety of different pursuits and it will be necessary for them to make choices about which activities they would like to continue as they get older.
The cost: If your child is truly unhappy with a certain activity and it is costing you a lot of money, there is no point in putting yourself in a strained position financially.
The reason for quitting. Ask your child why they want to quit. Maybe they are injured or sick, or they have a mean instructor or coach.
Set guidelines before joining. For example, talk to your child about the value of commitment before the start of the season. If it is in individual activity you may suggest that they need to attend at least three sessions. If it is a team-based sport you may want them to stick it out until the end of the season.
 Curiosity is a key to creativity and opening your mind to new experiences. Individuals who are afraid of failure are often closed off to curiosity. If you want to raise a well-rounded child encourage them to be curious and ask questions. You can model this behaviour by saying things like “I was wondering about that” when they ask questions. This will enable you to help your child discover the answer.You can also set aside time for discovery and free play.
Encourage your child to look under rocks and explore their surrounding environment.
 You should encourage your child to be as creative or wacky as they can be without judgment. Ask them to come up with their own stories, and let them have plenty of time for free form, imaginative play. Even if their ideas are nonsensical, praise them for their creativity in thinking up such things.

Playing with dolls, pretending they are astronauts, or staging their own play are all forms of imaginative play.
Play pretend with your child. Hold a tea party together, or pretend to be a dragon that is guarding a treasure. This will encourage your child's creativity and strengthen your bond with them.
 Praising kids for minor accomplishments is not always productive and does not foster character development. Instead, you should praise your child’s effort. This will demonstrate that you value hard work, and effort over success. For example, say things like “You didn’t give up,” “you are getting better,” “you gave it your all.”If your child is involved in a team sport or group activity praise their teammates as well.
Complement their teamwork and camaraderie to reveal that this is an important character trait.

