 Avid bookworms often have very little problems dealing with long stretches of time on a plane. And the great thing about smartphones is that they provide a convenient little window for viewing literally thousands of books on your phone. Simply install an e-reader app of your choosing and settle down to a good book to help the hours zip by.


Amazon Kindle has perhaps the widest selection of e-books in a single market, with its own app for iOS, Android, and Windows phones. Simply log into the Kindle App with your Amazon account, purchase the books you want, and let the Kindle App download them to your smartphone.Koboand Barnes&Noblealso have a strong offerings, and it will be worth your time to explore their virtual shelves as well.






You can also opt to install one of the many multitudes of free e-reader apps out on the market, from the aptly named Ebook Reader by ebooks.comto Aldiko Book Reader by Aldiko Limited.This option is extremely useful if you often read indie books from alternative ebook retailers like Smashwords. You will, however, have to manually transfer your e-books to your smartphone and will have to format them into a format that is compatible with the app of your choosing.





;
, You might get away with streaming music and video, but storage space is king when you don’t have access to the Internet on your flight. You will thus need to store your favorite music and videos for a long flight. This in turn means that you need to invest in high-capacity external storage devices to hold your files for you.


Owners of most non-Apple devices will be able to easily expand the storage on their devices by keeping a stash of micro SD cards. These come in 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, and even 128 gigabyte variants—giving you the option to store as many audio and video files as you want on your smartphone.






Owners of Apple devices, however, will not have the option to use micro SD cards. They can instead use wireless card readersor specially designed flash drives with lightning connectors to hook up to an iPhone., Puzzle games, word games, and board games can be fun for around 30, maybe 60 minutes. But a long flight will last much longer than that. This is where long-form games come into the picture. Adventure games (Walking Dead, République, Broken Age) role-playing games (Final Fantasy, Dungeon of the Endless, Knights of Pen and Paper), strategy games (XCOM: Enemy Within, Doorkickers, Worms), platformer games (World of Goo, Rayman, Megatroid)—these genres are particularly good at sucking up the hours without you even noticing. The best part is that many of these long-form games work even when you don’t have access to the Internet. So experiment and try out these game genres if you haven’t already. You may be surprised at what you find available out there—especially on iOS and Android.You can also try your hand at working with emulators. These apps allow you to play games from consoles of old on your phone, ranging from classics like the NES and Gameboy to more recent offerings like PSP and NDS. You have GBA4ios and nds4ios for iOS devicesand the aptly named DS Emulatorand N64 Emulatorfor Android, to name a few.
 Smartphones are amazing for productivity, and you would be surprised at what you can get done with your phone while on a long flight. You can review reports, read up on manuals, tap out drafts, proofread documents, organize your schedule, clean out your old messages, record your thoughts and opinions, and so much more. The key here is to look for something that you can do on your phone to help out with work or school. Granted it may not be the most fun way to spend your time, but it does hold the potential to help the hours run faster.


This is more easily done if you prepare the stuff you want to work on beforehand. Transfer documents to your phone, save an offline copy of your emails, save the articles you want to read or whatever. It is best to prepare your work beforehand while you have access to the Internet and your work computer.
 Let’s face it: it can be very hard to relax—much less fall asleep—when people are yakking all around you or someone’s baby is crying its head off across the aisle. This is why it is a very good idea to install a white noise generator to help filter out the noise all around you. Couple it with a noise-cancelling set of earphones or headphones, and you’ll be able to let the noise of the world around you fade away as you settle down to relax and eventually fall asleep.


Try to find generators that can produce ambient voice sounds. Apps like A Soft Murmur, MyNoise,and Coffitivityhave this feature, which makes them more effective at drowning out individual human voices so that they eventually fade away into the background. This is especially useful when people are boisterously chatting away beside you. All have iOS apps that can work even without Internet access, while A Soft Murmur and Coffitivity have Android versions that can do the same.
 Last but not the least, remember to keep your smartphone juiced up. It’ll be of no use to you when it runs out of power an hour into your 20-hour flight with no charger in sight. A power bank with a 10,000-plus mAh rating is good enough, although you may want to double up on the power banks if you plan to watch a lot of movies or play graphics-intensive games on your phone.


Just make sure you have a cable that can actually connect your power bank to your smartphone. The last thing you want to do is buy a high-capacity power bank only to find out that it doesn’t have a lightning connector to charge up your iPhone!







