 You probably won't be able to babysit until you're a teenager, but babysitting can be an easy and quick way of making tons of money.


After you babysit your first family, ask for a recommendation or "referral" from the family. It'll be a lot easier to get new families to employ you if you come with a recommendation. Just make sure the recommendation is a good one and you know the people!

, Ask someone if you can pet sit for extra cash. Find out who is going away on vacation or simply just going away for the day and offer to take care of their pet for the day/duration of their vacation.


You can also make a lot of money walking dogs, especially if you walk multiple dogs in a day. You can start your business by putting up a poster in your neighborhood that lists how much you charge and the times when you're available. You should charge about $5 per walk; you can begin to charge more as you do it more often and become more experienced. You can start by walking dogs for free to build up the experience and then start charging for your services.
 There's no glamour in having a paper route, but it can be really good pay. The pro is that it's a pretty easy job. The con is that you have to wake up really early (usually) in order to deliver your papers. 

, Ask your parents to borrow their lawn mower and start going up to your neighbors, offering to mow their lawns. Few people like the idea of mowing their lawns, so you can generally charge people pretty good money in order for your service.


Try setting up a plan with your neighbors: Tell them you'll mow their lawn every weekend for an entire month. Tell them you'll give them a good deal for letting you mow their lawn four weekends in a row.
Spice up the mowing by going diagonally instead of using straight lines. This looks really fancy and it's just as easy to do as straight lines. Of course, ask your neighbors first whether you can cut diagonal lines.
Take pictures of your mow jobs and show them to your neighbors. This should make them less apprehensive about hiring you if they have any apprehension.
 Learn how to prune trees, rake leaves, plant flowers, or sweep the sidewalks. The more you know how to do around the yard, the more employable you'll be. That means more money. That means becoming richer quicker.
 Renting this will cost approximately $50. Get agreements ahead of time to do as many driveways as you can and price it at somewhere around $50 each and you'll be rich over the weekend.


Caution: a pressure washer may damage property, splash dirt on automobiles, and hurt people's eyes and such so if you decide on doing this step, please be careful while using the pressure washer and do not play around with it. Ask one of your parents to help you figure out how to use it before operating it.
 You can start with low prices then start to get higher prices. Start off with your own driveway and then start asking neighbours. Some people don't have time to shovel snow before school/work. You can get rich easily with 15-20 dollars per customer. 

