 Old fashioned milk bottles can be a lovely way to present this gift, if you can find some. Check online or look in a local antique store. If not, you can also use large canning jars or even another type of bottle (as long as it had a lid) to house your creation.;
, It's best to provide the ingredients for a quick bread only as they're easier to make. If you want to provide a more detailed recipe, you'll need to include more items, such as packages of dry yeast and specific instructions.


Find a recipe that most people will like and can make. Something overly complicated may be a turn off (unless the gift recipient is a genuinely good baker).
 Take into account the weather when packaging your bread. In warmer climates, items like chocolate pieces may melt and ruin the presentation (not to mention the prospect of baking the bread).
 You’ll want to package and present the gift in an attractive manner so keep in mind everything you might need (including glue or the use of a computer to print labels and/or a recipe card).
 Even if the bottle or jar has never been used, it’s important to properly clean the container to remove debris and make it sanitary.


Don’t fill the bottle or jar until it has fully dried. Do your best to dry the inside of the bottle or jar, otherwise turn it upside down on top of a clean towel and allow it to air dry. You may need to wait a full day before it’s completely dry, depending on the air temperature.
 Follow the recipe by combining base the dry ingredients (that is, flour, salt, baking powder and so forth), together in a large bowl. Since the dry ingredients will most likely be the bulk of the bread, you’ll want to pour them into the bottle or jar first.

Add the next layer of dry ingredients, which may include spice and sugars.






Sprinkle in the top layer dry ingredients, which typically may be any type of nuts, chocolate or garnishes.
 You could also create your own sealant; use materials such as Press and Seal paper or craft paper secured with double stick tape.
 Go with either a hand written label or you could generate a “professional” looking label using your computer software and a laser printer.


Affix the recipe card to either the back of the bottle (using self adhesive tape or a label sticker) or by punching a hole through the recipe card and tying it to the top of the bottle.
 Make your bottle look festive by wrapping it as you would any gift. Don’t forget your card so the recipient knows who gave this creative gift.
