 Fill you laundry sink or a bucket with at least 1 quart (1 L) of lukewarm water.


This method is generally recommended for wool and cashmere. Other knitted fabrics, like cotton, may also respond to this method, but synthetics and tightly-knit natural materials should not be treated with this method.
The water should be roughly room temperature if not a little warmer. Do not use hot or cold water.
 Add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) Borax for every 1 quart (1 L) of water. Alternatively, mix in 1 part white wine vinegar for every 2 parts water, or 1/2 quart (1/2 L) for every 1 quart (1 L) of water.









Borax is a wool relaxant, so it naturally relaxes the fibers of wool garments, making them easier to manipulate and stretch.Vinegar, too, is thought to have the capability of relaxing cloth fibers. White wine vinegar is generally preferred since it is clear and gentler than white distilled vinegar, but any clear vinegar can be substituted., Immerse the clothing in the soaking solution and let sit for a full 25 minutes.









If your clothing has become severely shrunken, you may want to consider gently stretching the garment while it sits in the solution after the first 25 minutes pass. Gently pull the clothing to begin stretching the fibers, then let soak undisturbed for another 10 to 25 minutes.
 Remove the garment from your solution and roll it into a ball, squeezing firmly to wring out excess moisture.









Do not rinse the garment. The soaking solution needs to continue actively relaxing the fibers as you work on stretching and re-shaping the garment.
 Roll dry towels into bunches and stuff them into the garment until the clothing item is roughly the same size and shape as it originally was.








Use as many rolled up towels as needed to create a smooth outline. If the clothing is lumpy after you put the towels inside of it, the fibers may stretch out in an equally lumpy manner, and the result will be a sweater that has been "unshrunk" but one that looks less-than-flattering on you.
The towels will also help absorb the excess water, causing the garment to dry faster.
 Shake or bang the garment around with the bundled towels inside for 10 to 15 minutes to help stretch the fabric further.
 Place a hanger inside the garment and hang it with the towels still inside. Let it finish drying in this manner.


If this tactic produces some change but not enough, you could repeat it multiple times until the garment is sufficiently stretched out.

