 You teenager may need your help in developing better sleep habits if they are experiencing certain symptoms. Sleeping impacts many areas of growth and development, so their sleep deprivation is something you want to address right away. Look for these warning signs:


Sleeping in for more than 2 hours on weekends
Taking naps lasting longer than 45 minutes
Difficulty waking up and/or staying awake
Difficulty concentrating, When a child enters puberty, their body clock makes a switch and wants to stay up later. This is called the sleep phase delay. However, the amount of sleep the adolescent needs stays the same as it did pre-puberty —around nine hours.Teenagers then become sleep-deprived because they are still forced to get up early for school. Yet, they simply may not be tired earlier, at a time when they should go to bed to get the full nine hours of sleep they need.
 Encourage your teen to get some kind of exercise during the day to help them sleep better at night. If they exercise too close to bed, however, they may have trouble falling asleep.Your teenager may feel more wakeful in the morning if they can spend a few minutes exercising. Even walking to school or the bus stop may be beneficial.
Exercise may also benefit school performance., Healthy bodies equal healthy sleep. Better nutrition and lifestyle choices will help your teenager sleep better. Encourage whole, nutritious foods. Invite your teen to come grocery shopping and help you prepare meals so they know how to carry on these healthy habits into adulthood.


Don’t give them a big meal too close to bedtime. Growing teenagers are hungry all the time, but encourage a light snack in the evening instead of something heavy, which can affect sleep.Your teenager should not be smoking, drinking, or using drugs anyway, but remind your teenager that chemical substances can also make sleep worse., Caffeine can make it harder to fall asleep and make sleep lighter and less restful. Caution your teen against drinking something in the evening to wake up and focus better on their homework or after-school job.If your teenager is having a hard time concentrating on homework, for example, have them take a quick break or do some exercise as a natural pick-me-up.
If they insist on drinking caffeine, discuss appropriate amounts. Teens should have no more than 100 mg per day, which is about the amount in one cup of coffee or two to three sodas.Remind them that they may feel the effects of caffeine for up to six hours after ingesting it, so they should avoid it after lunchtime.
Remember chocolate contains caffeine as well, so eating this treat too close to bed, or eating chocolate in addition to drinking a caffeinated beverage, may keep them up at night.
 It may be best to avoid naps entirely, but if your teenager needs one, tell them to keep it under an hour. Sleeping longer may disrupt nighttime sleeping habits and keep your teen wide awake at bedtime.Tell your teen to try power napping, a short nap technique that can help them feel more alert and energetic.
 Teens will want to sleep in on weekends, but try not to let them sleep in more than two hours past their usual weekday wakeup. It may make it harder for them to fall asleep at a decent hour on Sunday night and feel well-rested on Monday., If your teenager’s sleep habits do not appear to improve through the implementation of sleep-friendly strategies or healthy lifestyle changes, you may wish to talk to your child’s doctor. Their doctor can perform an exam, ask your teenager about their habits, and recommend any further action.


For example, if your teenager is tired beyond what you would consider normal, their doctor may wish to examine them for signs of insomnia or sleep apnea

Signs of sleep deprivation also overlap with some signs of attention-deficit disorder (ADD) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). A doctor can rule out these conditions.
Your teenager could also discuss any other psychological concerns they may have with the doctor that may prevent them from sleeping. For example, they may be suffering from anxiety or depression, which can impact sleep. Their doctor could refer them to a mental health professional.