 In order to qualify for health insurance through the Affordable Care Act or Medicaid, you must know your household size. Household size is important because different income limits apply to different household sizes: a larger household may be able to qualify for Medicaid or reduced cost-insurance under the Affordable Care Act with more income than a smaller household.


A household typically includes the person who files taxes, that person’s spouse, and any dependents. For insurance purposes, "dependent" includes anyone that you would list as a "dependent" on your tax records. Typically, minor children will qualify and in some cases, you will be able to list your parents as dependents. ;
, In addition to your household size, your income determine whether you are eligible for Medicaid or discounted health insurance through the Affordable Care Act. Include the following income sources in your calculation of annual income: Any unemployment compensation that you receive.
Any income earned by members of your household, including your spouse or any dependents.
Any alimony payments, interest income, income from capital gains.
Withdrawals from a 401k account or a Roth IRA.
 Under the Affordable Care Act, insurance applications are available on the “healthcare.gov” website. Usually, you can only enroll in health insurance during an “open enrollment period,” which is a specified enrollment time. However, because you have lost your job, you are eligible to fill out an application and get health insurance through “special enrollment,” even if the open enrollment period has ended. Before you are ready to fill out an application, you will need the following information: Information about your income and your household size (as discussed above).
Home and mailing addresses for anyone applying for coverage.
Basic information about everyone who needs coverage, such as the relationships of those people to you. For example, if you want to apply for coverage for both you and your spouse, you will need to enter basic information about him or her.
The social security numbers of everyone who needs healthcare.
Information about any professionals who will help you complete the application. While you can fill out the application completely on your own, some people choose to have an attorney or accountant help. If this applies to you, the professional will be required to submit information about themselves with your application.
Immigration information for anyone applying, if there is anyone who is not a citizen of the United States.
Information on how you file your taxes. This includes whether you file jointly with a spouse, or if you are single with no dependents.
Any insurance policy numbers, if anyone in your household currently has a health insurance policy.
Information on employers. You need information on the employers of anyone living in your household, even if the employer does not provide health insurance.

