 Soft foam works, too, but styrofoam is easier to carve out. The tough part about this is that you have to sculpt a face. The easy part is that puppets come in all shapes and sizes and you can't really mess it up.


The major points to cover are indentations for the eye sockets, a bulge for a nose, and removing the lower jaw (if you want it to talk).
If you do want it to talk, leave a space for your hand to go into!

, Start at the middle of the face and work your way out, hot gluing as you go along. Spray adhesive also works, but it's a bit harder to work with. Readjust and stretch as you glue, keeping the fleece tight against the styrofoam. Get deep into the indentations (like the eye sockets) and keep it secure, like skin would naturally be.


You can either have the nose be part of same material as the head, stick it onto the styrofoam ball, or cover it in fleece and then add it to the face. One way is not better than any other.
 Bottle caps can be used for eyes, but so can beads, puff balls, or anything you can find wandering through your local craft supply store. As far as the lower jaw goes, if you removed it, cover it in fleece and hot glue just the very edges to the head. The styrofoam jaw should still be able to move -- just the fleece should be hot glued and attached.


Depending on the size of your puppet, it could be donning a full-fledged wig or hat on its head. Neither of those available? Throw on a hoodie! Problem solved.
Add felt eyebrows and ears, if desired. Every puppet is different, so if yours doesn't have something, it won't be cause for alarm.
 A naked puppet is, for some reason, sufficiently awkward. Grab something you never want to wear again and glue the top to the "neck" of your puppet (for this reason, you may want to employ a scarf or turtleneck).


To give the puppet a body, simply stuff the shirt with newspaper or some type of foam or quilt batting. Stay away from short sleeves so you don't have to deal with making arms.
 Since one is probably operating the face, make at least one hand movable to give your puppet even more life. All you need to do is trace your hand on a piece of felt, cut it out twice, and sew them together (inside out, to hide the seam).


Leave just short of an inch (2 cm) around all sides of your hand to give yourself some wiggle room. To have a four-fingered puppet (including the thumb), just keep your index finger and ring finger together as you trace.
Place your hand in it and through the sleeve of your puppet. Now your puppet talks and can gesture! Move over Achmed.

