 This will allow you to go shopping upon arrival and purchase gluten-free foods that you can store and prepare yourself while staying in the hotel. Plan simple dishes that do not require too much preparation, as both the cooking utensils and the space available to cook is probably very limited. If a small kitchen is not available, request a room with a microwave and a mini refrigerator.
 Because of the nature of this type of establishment, the owners are more likely to be willing and able to accommodate your dietary needs than a hotel staff would be. Most bed and breakfasts are familiar with the issues people with dietary restrictions face. Because so many individuals now suffer from gluten sensitivities, chances are you will not be the first guest that has requested special dining options.


Contact bed and breakfasts in the area and inquire about gluten-free dining. Even if they have never had a request in the past, they may be willing to accommodate your needs if you explain which foods are off limits and which foods are safe for you to consume. Just make sure you explain the severity of your condition and the importance of avoiding gluten altogether.
 If you will be staying at their home, they will likely be planning out their meals with you prior to your arrival. It is important that they know that you cannot consume gluten-containing foods.


Provide them with a brief description of what gluten sensitivity is and how it will affect your body if you consume gluten-containing foods. Provide a detailed food list that explains what foods are acceptable and what foods are off limits. This will allow them to properly stock their refrigerator and pantry with food for you to eat during your stay.






Consider having your food delivered to their home prior to your arrival. Many grocery stores now have online ordering options. Some stores deliver the food right to the home, while others will have an employee do the shopping for you and prepare it for pick-up. Do not assume it will be better to just wait until you arrive and do the shopping yourself.
 This step is important to do several days prior to departing for your trip. Knowing, in advance, whether or not specific restaurants can accommodate your request can prevent disappointment later on.


Ask to speak with the head chef directly, or the manager if the chef is unavailable. Most hostesses who answer the phone will not be trained in food preparation, and may provide false information about the way gluten sensitivities are handled at their establishment.






When you speak with the chef, find out how familiar he is with gluten sensitivities and if the restaurant currently has any gluten-free options on its menu. If not, ask how the chef accommodates diners with gluten-allergies upon request. See if he is able to alter any of the current meals to fit the needs people with gluten sensitivities. Some restaurants that do not have gluten-free meals listed on the regular menu will have gluten-free options available for when the need arises.
 A road trip offers the greatest chance to accommodate a traveller with a gluten sensitivity; being able to bring your own food and stop at convenience stores along the way can prove invaluable during travel.


Pack a small cooler filled with fresh fruits and vegetables, cheese and gluten-free sandwiches when traveling by car. Gluten-free crackers, cookies and other packaged snacks can be tossed into a reusable grocery bag, which can be refilled prior to the return ride home.
 Alternatively, consider purchasing a small, disposable cooler in which to store perishable foods, since you will not have the convenience of storing reusable bags or coolers in your car after you have arrived at your destination.
 Contact airlines directly and inquire about in-flight gluten-free food options. Though most airlines do not accommodate gluten sensitivities, they may carry foods that are gluten free. Alternatively, consider bringing your own food onboard, although in this case, consider that some airlines place restrictions on the amount of food that can be carried onboard, so it’s important to determine if, with prior approval, you would be able to carry on more than the normal limits.
 A few currently offer gluten-free menu options on their regular menu. Some will ask you to notify them in advance with the dates of your trip, and will prepare a special menu for you that contains only gluten-free meals.
 These cards provide a brief explanation of gluten sensitivity and explain the seriousness of the condition. They also list which foods are acceptable and which must be avoided. It includes hidden sources of gluten such as seasonings and flavored salts. Presenting the card to your server could eliminate the need for a lengthy explanation of your condition and your need to make special meal requests. This is an invaluable tool should you find yourself at a restaurant that you didn’t initially plan on visiting during your trip.

