 The behavior of the person saying "I love you" sets the tone for the conversation. If you are nervous and meander by saying things like, "I've got something to tell you but I don't know how," or "I'm not sure if I should tell you this," it makes the discussion more "serious." Instead, things should flow smoothly and casually into the topic. Butterflies in your stomach are normal, but doing your best to stay cool will make things much easier.


If you have decided to say "I love you," say it like you mean it. There is nothing to be ashamed of or embarrassed about. He should respect you for being open and honest.
 Blurting out "I love you" in the middle of a conversation puts the other person on the spot and forces him to react in the heat of the moment. The guy you're talking to should not feel pressured to respond. Remember that you are looking for an honest exchange.


Instead of expressing your love abruptly like in the example above, wait until you're both happy — for instance, after you share a laugh at a nice joke together. Then, say something like, "Hey, listen, I have something to tell you," and briefly preface your confession with a description of how you feel.
 This is the big moment. Say that you love this person to his face. Look directly into their eyes when you tell him and keep a straight face he knows that you're being serious.


Substitutions for face-to-face conversation won't do here. No texting him it when he's in another room or getting a friend to tell him for you. Don't even do it over the phone.
 Understand that a confession like this can be a lot to take in at once. Don't start panicking and having a nervous breakdown if he doesn't say "I love you too" instantly. He may need a few minutes to take a deep breath and let this new information sink in. Be patient. Respect the difficulty of the conversation as you allow him to gather his thoughts.


Know that he may not come to a decision in front of you. If he's obviously having trouble, let him take some time on his own to think about it. He may say he loves you too ten minutes later. On the other hand, he may say it a week later.
 Eventually, your special guy will have a response for you. Respect his choice here — even if it's not exactly what you had in mind. No matter what, you were courageous for speaking your heart.


If you got the response you wanted, beware — it may be followed by a heavy make-out session.
On the other hand, if you get a "No," a "I just want to be friends," or something similar, don't worry. There are plenty of fish in the sea and there is going to be someone out who will love you. It's just not this person.

