 After opening up the application for the first time, you will be prompted to sign-in to your Google account. You will also be given a brief tutorial on the basics of the application.


Again, the account that you use for Gmail or any other Google service will also be a valid account for YouTube.;
, Tap the three horizontal lines in the upper left of the screen. In the drop-down menu, you should see an option called "Uploads." Tap this option to be directed to your account page.


In the upper portion of the screen you should see "'s Channel."

, Tap the icon that looks like an arrow pointing upwards. This is the upload icon that YouTube primarily uses.
 Select a video from the upload screen, the options will be slightly different for Android and iPhone users.



For iPhone Users: Select a video from your camera roll. This should be the only option available to you.

For Android Users: Choose a source. Click the Guide button (three horizontal lines) in the upper left of the screen, then choose either Recent, Videos, or Downloads


Recent shows new videos on your phone. If you just took the video, you will easily find it here.

Videos: This will show videos from all different applications which either play or record video. This includes apps like GroupMe, Snapchat, and others.

Downloads: This will show videos that you have downloaded from the web. Be aware, though, that you must have ownership of the video to upload it to YouTube. Otherwise, your video will be taken down.
 The YouTube application includes a brief trimming feature. Drag the blue circles on either side of the blue rectangle to trim down the length of your video.
 Try to make the title relevant to the content of your video. This will make it easier for people to find your video. Avoid titling the video something irrelevant just to get more views. Not only does this aggravate viewers, it also almost guarantees lower likes on your video.
 You don't have to include much in your description, but it helps viewers know what is happening in the video. For example, if your video is of fireworks on the 4th of July, think about including where you saw the show. Try to anticipate questions your viewers will have, and include answers in the description.
 You will see three different options for privacy options under the "Privacy" header. You can change the privacy options later on, even after uploading the video.



Private: Only you will be able to see the video. This is a useful option if you want to just have a place to store your video. It is also a useful option for testing out how a video looks on YouTube before making it public.

Unlisted: Only people with the link can view your video. This is a useful option if you only want to share your video to certain people, such as friends or family. Be aware, though, that nothing stops them from sharing the link with others.

Public: Anyone can view your video by searching for your title or by seeing it in their suggested video list.
 Tags help YouTube in determining when to show your video when a user searches for a term. For example, if you had a "League of Legends" tag on your video, it will be more likely to show up when a user searches for a League of Legends video. Adding tags will also make it more likely that YouTube will suggest your video to users interested in your tag.


Try to keep the tags relevant to your content. You could get a spam notification if you are too liberal with your tagging.
 If you are an Android user, press the icon that looks like an arrow pointed to the right. If you are an iPhone user, press the blue button that looks like an arrow pointed upwards.

