 Positive touch can keep your mood elevated and make you feel sexy and desirable. Find ways to bring healthy, positive touch into your everyday life. For example, you might trade back rubs with your spouse or hug a friend.Getting a manicure, pedicure, or massage from a massage therapist are other options to bring positive touch into your life.;
, Silky, breathable fabrics such as silk or satin can make your bedtime routine feel special and sensual. Find a great pair of silk or satin pajamas or a soft robe to help you feel great as you prepare for sleep. You might also invest in silky sheets to add some sexiness to your daily routine., Exercise helps release endorphins, leading to a better self-image and lower stress. More than that, exercise can also help you feel stronger and let your body accomplish more. The stronger your body is, the better you will feel.Consider lifting weights, running, or doing a few pushups every day to build muscles.
 Take a few moments to think about your favorite physical attributes. Do you like your eyes? Your arms? Your chest? Build your wardrobe and beauty routine around what you like best about yourself.For example, you can try a new, smoky eyeshadow to draw more attention to your eyes. Or you can buy a new shirt that shows off your strong arms.
 Give yourself permission to invest in self-care. Depending on what you like the most, you might consider giving yourself a spa day, getting a new haircut, going for a professional shave, or having your shirts freshly pressed.If it has been a while since you've taken care of yourself, take yourself out on a pampering date.
 Studies show that women who practice yoga feel sexier. Yoga also helps you build flexibility and tone your muscles, which can lead to sexiness dividends down the road., One way to inject sexiness into your life is to add spice to your daily routines. Rather than simply taking a shower every day, find ways to make your bathing ritual feel special and sensual. Buy some scented candles, play relaxing music, and take a bubble bath., If you feel like you're stuck in a rut, experiment with new products and styles. Try a new makeup brand, wear a color you've never worn before, or part your hair on the opposite side. This will help you see yourself in a new and positive light and highlight your inner sexiness., Sometimes when we think we look bad or frumpy, we are in fact simply wearing ill-fitting clothing. Make sure that your clothes are comfortable and the correct size. Don't wear loose, baggy clothing or clothing that is way too tight. You will feel sexiest in clothes that are built for the size you are.Ask a salesperson for advice if you are unsure how to fit your clothing. This is especially important for undergarments such as brassieres.
 Dancing by yourself or with your partner can make you feel sexy and help you get in touch with your body.Dance lessons--especially for a sexy dance style such as the tango or salsa--can help give you self-confidence and a sense of rhythm. You'll be able to remember these lessons well after they're done, and you can always put on your favorite dance song when you feel low., Some people like to be perfectly neat and groomed. But sometimes it can feel sexy to look a bit mussy and rumpled, as if you have just gotten out of bed.Tousle your hair to give it a sexy, devil-may-care vibe.
 Walking and standing confidently can help make you feel strong, proud, and sexy. Resist the urge to slouch or hunch over. Instead, keep your back straight, your chest out, and your head held high., Sleeping a full 8 hours each night not only helps your mood but it also makes your skin look youthful and rejuvenated. If you are beginning to feel run-down, try to get more sleep each night. You should notice a difference in how you look and how you feel., Sometimes you can begin to lose your sense of sexiness when you are caught up in the day-to-day stresses of life, work, and family. Make a commitment to yourself that you will treat your body well and pay attention to it in order to feel sexier and more confident. Take the time to eat healthy, exercise, and maintain whatever beauty regime makes you feel good. Don't ignore what your body is telling you because of your other commitments in life., Exercise is a great way to stay healthy and to feel good. However, exercise can often feel like a chore. Find ways to move your body that you enjoy: dance, play a sport, walk, swim, or do yoga. Don't punish your body with exercise: let your body enjoy it., It can be tempting to critique our bodies' imperfections. However, you should remember that sexiness is not about your pant size or your weight: it is about how you feel. Having a body that feels strong and healthy can make you feel sexy: focus on your strength and potential, not on arbitrary numbers., People can be healthy and sexy at every stage. Resist the urge to look at the scale every day. This can make you feel inadequate and unsexy, even when your body is looking and feeling great.