 Just about any girl can wear a skirt. But you want to be fun and unique. How about trying something new? Here are some ideas:


You could cut holes into your jeans and sew materials on the back, so that they are visible through the holes.
You could stitch a pattern or even your name onto your jacket (Make sure it is the right fabric - a raincoat would not be advisable.)
Improvise! Create something new and different. What would they say if you wore a skirt and jeans underneath? Not that it matters, of course, because you are unique!;
, You don't have to have long hair just because you are a girl. Try out unique and fun, but also stylish and cool hairstyles. And, also, you don't have to have a natural colour if you don't want to. How about dying your hair red for a change? Just remember not to go too wild, otherwise the people around you will possibly think you're just weird instead of unique.
 But if you want to be unique, you need to create something new. You can go out of the house with black smokey eyes and bright red lipstick, or you can walk around wearing none at all. Whatever makes you feel yourself. Maybe somewhere in between?

, Don't do it because you feel like you need to! Don't do it because someone says to you that it is a mess! Decorate it the way that makes YOU feel comfortable!

, Instead of bringing make-up to school, bring a football once in a while. Of course, you probably have a girly side to you! You can still have makeovers and stuff like that. But remember that you want to be different and unique.
 Tell a joke once in a while. Make the people that are around you happy. Always be cheerful and have a smile on your face! You're gonna want to be a pleasant, kind person, and a nice friend.
 If you hide from people, they won't get to know you and that way you won't have a chance to let them know how fun you are to be with!

, This is the most important step. DO NOT let anyone change who you are! This article is also no use to you if what it describes is nothing like you! Be who you want to be, not what others what you to be.

