 The exterior of your home is particularly important, as potential thieves who see the cameras may immediately be deterred. Place cameras in locations that cover all entrances to both the property and your home itself. If you have gates or garages, don’t forget to train cameras on their entrances as well. Cover any doors into your home, as well as large windows, with a clearly visible camera.


If your primary motivation for installing a video monitoring system is deterrence, consider installing fake cameras. Since these cameras will look just like real security cameras, they can be equally effective in deterring potential thieves. You can acquire fake cameras from a hardware store or online.
 Whether or not you actually install cameras, post signs that say the area is under video surveillance. This alone may help deter thieves. Of course, if a potential thief can see cameras, they are more likely to be deterred. Check to see if the company who made your cameras also provides security signs. You can also purchase these sorts of signs from hardware stores or online.Put signs in locations that are clearly visible. Place window clings on exterior doors and ground floor windows. Also place signs on any gates to your property.
 Minimize the number of cameras inside your home. While cameras outside your home can deter thieves from entering, cameras inside your home may make your family members or visitors uncomfortable. Never place cameras in bedrooms or bathrooms, or any other area where people might assume privacy.Do not record audio on home security systems. While some video monitoring systems also offer the capability to record audio, this is illegal in some places. Further, audio recording is unlikely to help deter theft.
 For a home environment, monitored alarm systems may be the best option for security. These alarm systems can be used with or without a video monitoring system. The major benefit of a monitored alarm system is that they can help interrupt a theft in progress.Most monitored alarm systems rely on security professionals monitoring your video and/or alarm system in a monitoring center.
These centers are staffed 24 hours a day, and will contact you or law enforcement if a theft or other crime occurs.
 Modern security systems include many options. In addition to video monitoring systems, you can install perimeter alarms, motion sensors, and automatic locks and lights. You can even incorporate smoke and carbon monoxide detectors into a home security system. All of these features can be part of a monitored alarm system, or you can install them yourself to deter or interrupt crimes and ensure you and your family’s safety.