 Often, one of the things a Christian girl will find most attractive in a guy is a heart for God. A great way to display this love is to become a devout believer. You'll probably want to attend mass regularly (especially the masses she attends) and to take an active interest in scripture. However, you'll want to avoid extreme forms of dogmatism - don't use your religion to criticize her or impose limits on her. Everyone hates condemnation - any conviction should come from HER conscience, and if she asks you for advice, listen and share.
 She's a Christian girl, so, chances are, she'll want a boy who will treat her like a real woman. Conduct yourself like a Christian should, by treating her with respect. Be a gentleman to her in whatever way you know how. To some, this will mean opening doors, carrying her books, and offering her your seat, while, to others, such traditional displays of respect will seem outdated. Never be casually lewd around her. Talking dirty may impress your friends, but most Christian girls will be off-put by this sort of talk. Some will show a wild side when they're more comfortable around you, while others never will.
 If you are both very religious, you may want to pray for the object of your affections and (cautiously) ask her to do the same for you. You may ask for general well-wishing prayers, or for guidance from God for something specific you are struggling with in your walk with God. This has the potential for awkwardness, so try to avoid sharing intensely personal details until you are very close with this person. Instead, you may want to speak in generalities - sometimes, just asking for a prayer with no other explanation is enough.
 Your Christian girlfriend should be a very important part of your life, but not your reason for living. If your love for Jesus isn’t motivation enough to grow in maturity and pursue godliness, then you are not ready for a Christian woman. Your first goal as a Christian man should be to grow in your relationship with God and to keep him at the center of your life. Do this before you think of starting a close relationship with any Christian woman. Only when Jesus is placed in the middle of the relationship and, more importantly, your own life, you can truly experience love as it is meant to be.
 Most Christian girls are very classy, and they want classy men. Open the doors for her, pull out her chair, and always pay for the date. Remember to be polite and respectful around her family! Most Christian moms, and especially fathers, look for this in guys. They want a guy to treat her daughters right and be polite! By doing that, parents will probably approve of your relationship with her much more quickly, and it might give you a better chance to be alone with her quickly!

