 If you allow a single comment to derail your dreams, then you may not have what it takes to cope in what is essentially a tough industry. Criticism is part of the job description and improvement is the name of the game. Learn to discern between jealous and unfriendly criticism and criticism that is targeted at helping you to improve and become an even better singer.;
, While it is important to gauge what others think of you and to tweak things that you know you need to improve, it's quite another thing to let people's jibes and undermining get to you. People think bad things because most of the time they wish they had the very talent you have and it just helps them to cope better. Or, maybe the school of hard knocks has hardened them so much that they can't stop being mean as a way of coping. That isn't an excuse but it does provide you with an explanation that reveals that their unkindness isn't about you, it's about them. Hence, don't take it to heart and don't assess yourself by their judgmental standards.
 Don't allow yourself to be buffeted about by other people telling you which box you need to sit in. Once again, learn from the comments about what doesn't work for your voice and either improve that aspect or steer clear of what doesn't work to focus on what does work.
 This means you must be ready for a lot of rejection, a lot of the time, but know that it's all part of the process and eventually you will break through if you stick at and keep improving. For example, it took years of rejection before Linkin Park became well known and respected for their music but eventually they got a contract because they stuck at it and believed in what they were doing. When you get to the point of wanting to quit, read up on other artists and what it took to get them to where they are now (or where they got if they're already long gone).
 Focus on where you're headed, not what has already passed. A bad performance is a chance to learn, to improve and to stop repeating what doesn't work. It is not a reasons to give up unless you really cannot sing (and by now, you would already know this if you've listened to people who know, such as your singing teacher).
 Don't hang out where people aren't going to like your music. Avoid places where people are likely to throw things at you or shout demeaning things. They are just not worth it and won't improve your confidence any. That's abuse, not constructive criticism. Instead, perform at venues, parties, shows, events, etc., where you know that people are going to love what you're doing. You might even get fans and requests for autographs!

, If you let people push you around, nothing will work, so stick to doing your own thing. Recording companies aren't actually looking for the next clone, they can create their own for that. When they see an independent performer who sings well, they want a unique package and if you've stuck to what you're best at, that's precisely what they'll see. Or, skip them altogether and do your own thing using online promotion instead.

