 Let's face it, flies are attracted to chicken poo. If the poo build up is really bad then you may want to clean up more regularly. Faeces in the garden can simply be hosed down.;
, Roosting is actually one way for the chickens to reduce mess and make clean up easier. If you haven't done already, install roosting poles. Chickens that tend to the nesting boxes and floor at night should be shooed to the roosting poles when you go to secure the coop.
 Wood shavings usually do the trick whilst hay, straw and newspaper isn't as effective. Although sand isn't the most recommended or absorbent bedding, it actually helps to dry the poo out. Opt for this option if you can.
 Dry chicken mix doesn't have to be cleaned up to reduce flies but other sweet treats do such as fruits. Flies are attracted to sweet fruits such as watermelon, strawberries and apple. After the chickens are finished with their food, clean it up.
 Flies are attracted to moist, warm areas. Low ventilation, leakage from the roof and spills from the drinker will help cause the perfect living space for flies. Do your best to avoid this by making a few adjustments:


Make sure the coop has high ventilation. Ventilation is the air flow so that the coop doesn't get too humid or stuffy. If the weather gets really hot you can install a fan or cut in some windows which draws in some light too.
Fix any leaks hidden in the roof. You can tell when the roof leaks after a rainy day and the coop has some wet spots or it's drenched. Any leaks could be due to holes in the roof so give it a good inspection. Another reason could be if you have shingles and they haven't been laid out properly - you can get a handy man to come over and fix this or fix it yourself.
Reduce spillage from the drinkers. You can do this by hanging them above the ground or making the bar around the edges bigger so that the water doesn't spill over.
 Flies are attracted to these odors. If you really don't need the composting system or extra fertiliser; don't use it.


Another option is to move the composting system as far away from the coop as possible. That means there will be less flies around the coop but they may relocate to where the compost bin is.
 These plants feast on flies. It might not be the most effective solution but they do catch flies now and then. They also grow very big and can be bought at your gardening store. It's worth a shot.
 Online chicken stores do make and deliver a herb mix suited for chickens. You simply add this mix to the nesting boxes and bedding and it repels the flies.
 Fly traps may have a nasty oder and aren't great to look at beside the coop but they do work. They help attract flies and then kill them for good. If you don't mind spending a bit of money, head to your local warehouse store.

