 If at all possible, give yourself a day or two at home to catch up before returning to work or school. If it's not possible, even an evening or afternoon of good rest will help.
 If your travel took you out of your timezone, especially by a difference of more than a few hours, start changing your schedule gradually even before you leave. You can use a similar approach to lessen the shock of the first early morning if you prefer to sleep later on your days off., Don't neglect to sleep just because you were traveling. Sleep on the airplane, bus, or train if you can. If you drive to and from your destination, trade off with another driver, and schedule adequate rest stops.,

Don't unpack your toiletries kit. Instead, refresh anything you consume (toothpaste, razor blades, shampoo), and put the whole toiletries kit away for easier packing next time.
Stop at a laundromat. If your trip left you with an entire family's worth of dirty laundry to do all at once, consider using a laundromat and doing many loads at the same time. You can also use a laundromat to wash larger items (such as sleeping bags) and you can even stop on the way home to avoid bringing very dirty items back into your home at all.
 Toss transit schedules, receipts, boarding passes, and any other items you will no longer need now that you're home.

If you need to submit receipts for reimbursement, if you need proof of your trip for citizenship, visa or immigration purposes, or if you can deduct your trip expenses from your taxes, collect and scan the relevant documents. Don't wait too long to submit expense reports.
, Did you leave behind a pocket knife, or local membership cards? Take a moment now to replace these items., If you have travel-specific items, such as a backpacking towel, clean those too, and store them in or near the suitcase, so they'll be at hand next time., Your sleep schedule may have shifted from its usual (whether from jet lag or sleeping late) and you have probably had things stack up while you were away. Don't try to take on a huge backlog on a day when you are tired and have no momentum. Instead, do basic tasks according to what you feel you can usefully accomplish and work up to your usual pace on subsequent days.

If you have the option, come back to a shorter than usual week, starting on Tuesday or Wednesday.
 You need not unpack and catch up on all your missed correspondence on your first day back. Instead, tackle anything that can't wait (such as unpacking wet clothes and paying bills that arrived in your absence) and work through the remainder gradually, as your time and energy permit., If you plan ahead a bit, you can leave yourself at least a few key items in the pantry or freezer, at least enough to get yourself through a meal or two before you have to go out shopping., If you asked to have your newspaper or mail held, you may need to contact the relevant organizations to restart them.

Notify family, neighbors, and anyone who helped take care of your home or work while you were away that you are home safely.
If you had pets in the kennel or staying with others, welcome them home.
Recharge your mobile device(s) and reset any settings you changed for traveling.
