 When you respond to someone describing a hard childhood you should try to show empathy.It may be very difficult, embarrassing, or even scary for them to share something so personal. You can show empathy by letting them know that it took courage to share this with you and that you appreciate their trust.


Depending on the relationship, a display of touch may be appropriate. Place a hand on their hand or arm briefly to display empathy.
You might also try saying, “I know it wasn’t easy for you to tell me this. You’re very brave. Thank you for trusting me.”
Or, you could try, “Thank you for sharing this with me. I know it was hard for you to talk about, but I’m glad you did.”

, There is no need to try to make the person feel as though you completely understand or can relate to what they went through. In fact, it can be counterproductive to say this and make the person feel as though you don't understand the depths of their pain. If you can’t imagine what it must have felt like to have their childhood, then say so. They will appreciate your honesty and know that they made the right decision in sharing this with you.


You might say something like, “I can’t begin to understand what that must have been like. I do know that you’re really brave and strong for getting through it.”
Or, you might say, “Even though I can’t imagine having a childhood like that, I do feel empathy for what you went through.”

, You don’t need to interrogate the person, but it is okay to ask questions to make sure you understand everything. Be sure not to ask leading questions, appearing as though you know how they feel or what they went through. Try to be sensitive and calm when you’re asking for more information and respect their wishes if they don’t want to answer your questions.


For example, you might say, “Do you feel comfortable telling me more about what happened? I want to fully understand."
If they say they don’t feel comfortable answering a question, you might say, “It’s okay. I understand that this is difficult for you. You tell me what you’re comfortable with.”

, This may be one of the most important things you do when you’re responding to someone describing a hard childhood.It can take a lot of courage for them to tell you, especially if they’ve never told anyone else. Letting them know that you believe them can help reassure and calm them.


You might say something like, “I know this wasn’t easy for you to talk about. I believe what you’ve told me and thank you for trusting me.”
Or, you might simply say, “I believe you.”

, Depending on what happened during their childhood, the person may feel that they are to blame. One way that you can respond is to let them know that this isn’t the case.Let the person know that things that happened in their childhood were beyond their control and weren’t their fault.


For example, you might say, “What happened to you isn’t your fault. You were a child and had no control over it.”
Or, for instance, you could try saying, “You aren’t to blame for what happened. You are brave, though, for talking about it now.”

, Although you may want to support someone that has described their hard childhood, remember that you’re not a trauma or crisis professional.Instead of trying to tell the person how to heal and move on or find out how their childhood made them feel, focus on letting them know that you’re there to support them.


You don’t have to help them ‘process’ what happened. For instance, don’t try to get them to remember ‘repressed’ memories.
Encourage them to seek professional help if you feel their childhood might still be affecting them. You might say, “It seems this still hurts you. Have you considered talking to a counselor?”

