 You can't focus on facts unless you know the facts. That means you need to read up on whatever topic to know the facts about, such as a side of a debate or political issue. You have to be an expert (or at the very least, fairly knowledgeable) to be able to make a factual, logical argument.


Try reading up on the issues at trusted websites. Government websites (.gov) and educational (.edu) are usually good choices.
On other sites, check to see if the site looks spammy, such as having too many ads. Also, consider the source. If the information is paid for by a particular organization that advocates one side of an issue, it's more likely to be biased.
Another way to make sure you have good information is to see if you can verify it with three different, reputable sources.
 Even if you think you know where you stand, emotion can take over in an argument if you only know one side of the issue. Make sure you study (factual) viewpoints from both sides, so you know where the other side is coming from.


One reason this advice is important is that when you believe something, you tend to only look at sources that confirm what you know (called confirmation bias). That doesn't help you in a debate because you'll be easily brought down by the other side. And when your facts fail, you're more likely to move over to emotions.
Try writing out any arguments that might be made by the other side. Familiarize yourself with the facts that might be presented by the other side. Identifying potential facts or arguments they might bring up will allow you to prepare your response. This will keep you from being caught off-guard and ensure you are giving both sides equal weight.
 One way you can stick to the facts when you're talking or thinking about something is to bring in statistics.Statistics are based on research, and they can help you back up what you're saying or thinking with verifiable facts. Just make sure your statistics come from a legitimate source. Otherwise, they aren't worth looking at.

