 Word of mouth is great way to track down a good doctor or specialist. Ask your primary care doctor to refer you to a reputable urologist in your area. You can also call your insurance company and have them provide you with a list of local urologists in your network.While it might a sensitive topic, you can also ask friends or family members to recommend a urologist.
 National urological boards and associations often offer convenient search tools that can help you track down a urologist in your area. For example, you can visit the "Find a Urologist" page on the American Urological Association’s website. Their search tool allows you to enter your zip code and filter results by distance and specialty.In the specialty drop down menu, you’d select "fertility" to find an appropriate local urologist.
 Search for the websites of potential urologists’ private practices, or look for their listings at the hospitals or medical institutions at which they practice. Try to track down urologists who specialize in male infertility and who routinely perform microsurgical procedures.You can also call their private practice or medical institution and ask about their experience. Ask, “How many microsurgeries does this urologist perform per year? Do they have experience treating azoospermia and other infertility issues?”

, Enter prospective urologists into a search engine to find patient reports and reviews. You can also contact your local better business bureau or chamber of commerce to find out if they have a history of poor business practices.Online reviews aren’t always objective and authoritative, so take them with a grain of salt.
 You'll definitely want to get a feel for a doctor's bedside manner before signing on for long-term care. Call a prospective urologist’s office and ask if you can speak with the doctor. Choose one who takes the time to talk to you about your condition, communicates clearly, and doesn’t try to rush or dismiss you.Gauging any doctor’s bedside manner is essential, especially when choosing a specialist to treat a potentially sensitive issue like infertility.

