 You'll get into plank pose from the floor, either lying down flat or on your hands and knees. Spread your fingers and press your palms into the floor, lining up your wrists under your shoulders with your elbows bent.








If you start from your hands and knees, your elbows will be straight. Keep your back flat and neutral.
Your legs should be about hip-width apart. Firm up your back and your shoulder blades before you move into plank pose.;
, If you start lying on your belly, you can slowly press up until your arms are straight, while simultaneously raising your lower body so that your legs are extended straight out behind you and your toes are ground into your mat.








From your hands and knees, your upper body is already in plank position. Slowly extend your legs back one at a time, tucking in your toes and pulling through your heels.
At this point you are in "high plank" position. Your body should be one straight line from your heels to your head. Rest your gaze on the floor about a foot in front of you, lengthening your neck.
Breathe through the pose deeply, pushing the floor down as you press backward through your heels as though you're pushing them into a wall.
 Slowly lower your upper body without moving your legs. Your elbows should be directly below your shoulders so your upper arms and forearms form a right angle at your elbows. Press your forearms and the palms of your hands into the floor.








Push back through your heels, keeping your buttocks and the backs of your legs firm.
Engage your core, pressing back to lift your body up. Your back should be flat and neutral, your body a straight line from your heels to your head.
 Breathe deeply, with every inhale thinking about pulling back through your heels and every exhale thinking about pressing the ground away from you with your forearms and palms.








Pick a spot on the floor slightly in front of you to focus your gaze, being careful not to crunch your neck or jut forward with your chin.
Slowly lower your knees to the floor to release the pose. Remain on your forearms and knees for a few breaths before moving to another position.

