 Before you start shopping around, it's important to be able to understand the basic components of a turntable. Make sure that you fully understand the features and can compare the advantages and disadvantages of different brands, models, and styles of turntable.A basic turntable or record player consists of:


A record platter or plate, which is a record-sized circle on which the vinyl record will sit. The platter rotates to spin the record, and is often covered with an anti-static felt or rubber pad on which the record will sit.
The stylus of the record player is also sometimes referred to as the "needle," and is the component of the record player that contacts the record itself. The stylus is usually housed in a cartridge, which contains the small wiring and coupling mechanism that connects the stylus to the tone arm.
A tone arm can be operated manually or automatically, rotating the stylus onto the record. Good record players will have tone arms that will lift off automatically and return to place when the end of the side is finished playing.
The base of the record player contains the internal circuitry and houses the various components. Ideally, turntable bases are secured on anti-shock feet to keep the record from skipping during play.;
, Turntables can be divided into two basic categories, in terms of the way that they're operated. For the beginner, the difference may be minuscule, but it's important to understand the different machine-styles, depending on the way you intend to use your turntable.


Direct-drive turntables offer consistent machine-operated speeds that will never need adjusted, and allow dual-directional rotation. If you have any interest in analog DJ “scratching,” you need to buy a direct-drive turntable, or you’re going to be disappointed.
Belt-driven turntables isolate the motor to one side of the machine, rotating the platter with an elastic belt. While the belt has a tendency to wear out over time in old turntables, the distance of the motor from the tone arm cuts down on incidental operating noise, making these models whisper-quiet.
 Some turntables are basically a platter and a needle, with few frills or other features. Lots of modern turntables, however, come with a variety of different features that can make a unit more desirable and convenient.


Most turntables should come with a variety of playback speeds, measured by revolutions-per-minute (RPM). Most 12-inch records (large, LP sized) are played at 33 1/3 rpm, while smaller 7-inch singles are played at 45. Old shellac and acetate discs made pre-1950 are usually played at. If you want to play all kinds of records, you'll need to make sure the unit features all these playback speeds.USB ports are a feature on many new turntables, which allow you to direct-line in your record player to your computer and record digital files of your vinyl records. If you've got a big collections of vinyl you want to digitize, these are essential.
Tone-arm cueing systems are available in manual and automatic varieties. Some record players are operated by sliding a switch or pressing a button, which activates the tone arm and drops it gently onto the record, while other record players need to be placed onto the groove manually. Automatic cueing systems are very desirable for beginners, since you won't have to fumble around with the delicate stylus.
Anti-shock stabilization systems are excellent, especially if you want to take your record player anywhere for DJing events, or keep your record player in a heavy-traffic room. There's nothing worse than a skipping record.
 Some cheap turntables are impossible to get apart, meaning that if a stylus breaks you'll have to scrap the whole unit. Because record players will wear out over time and suffer in terms of sound quality, buying a unit that you'll be able to upgrade is a smart choice. Most mid-range units should allow you to customize the belts, stylus, and the platter, if necessary.


Alternatively, if you’re not interested in making a long-term purchase, cheaper and flimsier turntables can be a good budget option. When it wears out, it’ll just be worn out, but you can get some use out of it in the meantime.
 Like anything, more expensive turntables are generally “better” than cheaper varieties. How much better, though, depends on your own preference for sound and your intentions with your turntable. Decide how much you can spend and set a price range accordingly. From sub-$100 to high-end models in excess of $500, there are a variety of perfectly-listenable models.


A DJ looking to jump to analog live sets might be in the market for a more high-end record player capable of putting out the juice, while teenagers looking to drop a needle on dad’s old record collection probably don’t need to break the bank.
If you’ve never purchased a turntable before, don’t overspend. Plenty of record snobs with room-sized collections play their deep cuts on used turntables that sound great. Save your money for vinyl.
 Given the option, going big on a cartridge and spending less on a machine is always the better option. Since the stylus is the part that actual contacts the grooves, it has the most impact on the sound coming out of the speakers. As long as a turntable functions properly, it’ll sound great with a great stylus.


For comparison, a high-quality cartridge only costs about $40. While that might seem expensive for so tiny a component, if you can get away with buying a used machine with a worn out needle for less than a hundred bucks and make it sound brand new, it’s practically a steal.
 Vinyl collecting comes and goes as a hobby, meaning that the market for units, records, and other record-playing equipment can vary widely in price. It's always a good idea to keep an eye on used units to look for deals on high-end equipment that someone else has gotten rid of. If you know how to inspect a record-player, this can be a great option for saving some money.


Ask for a hooked-up demonstration of a record player before you buy it. You should be able to hear it. Bring your own record, so you can be sure of the quality.
Check the rotation of the platter. Platters should spin perfectly flush with the base and shouldn't warble as they spin. You can adjust this, but if you're going to spend money on a new unit, you want to make sure you're paying for what you get.
A record player with worn-out belts will warble and distort sound. Inspect the quality and the pliability of the belts on a belt-driven record player to be sure the unit is solid. Belts should never be cracked and should return to their shape if stretched.
 Record store clerks have an unfair reputation for snark, but try to give them a chance. Many record stores sell turntables or replacement parts, and many of the clerks will be perfectly willing to dish on local options for shopping, their preferred set-up, and other advice. You won’t know until you ask.
 Most of the time, you won’t be able to just buy a turntable, slap a record on the platter and start rocking out after you plug it in. You need to run a turntable through a multi-channel tuner, or at least a good pair of speakers after running it through a pre-amp. Don't forget to figure your stereo into the equation.


Some new or portable turntables come with built-in speakers. What these lack in quality, they make up for in value. You can usually get a portable record player with no need of pre-amp, speakers, or other equipment for less than $200.
 Pre-amplifiers are used to boost the sound of the record player to appropriate volumes. Most record players, new or used, will need to plug into a phono pre-amp to boost the sound, before direct-lining into the sound system. Some models feature built-in pre-armps, but both budget and high-end record players will mostly need to be paired with a pre-amp, which are available at most good electronics stores, for no more than $25-50.Built-in pre-amps make the process of setting up your record player a whole lot easier. It'll involve a lot of extra audio cables to connect your turntable to the pre-amp, then attach the preamp to the receiver.
 Dust is the enemy of a record collection. If you're investing in a record player for the first time, it's important to learn to care for it and your vinyl records properly. Investing in some basic supplies will help you to keep your records clean and your stylus in good working order.A basic kit to go along with your player and your collection should include:


A felt or microfiber record brush
Record cleaning fluid, which is basically a mixture of distilled water, isopropyl alcohol, and detergent
Anti-static record sleeves
Anti-static plate pad

, 7-inch vinyl singles played at 45 rpm will sometimes have a much-larger hole in the record than a 12-inch record. These need to be played by slotting a plastic gap spacer over the spindle in the center of the record platter, which will sometimes be included with the unit and sometimes not. It's an easy thing to forget about, but it can be frustrating to end up without one if you want to play some singles. Fortunately, they're available online or at most record stores for a dollar or two.
 A good record player is useless without a tasteful collection of your favorite vinyl to play on it. While budget used vinyl is widely available at second-hand record stores, antique stores, resale shops, online venues, and garage sales, there's also a burgeoning new vinyl market to explore. Vinyl's not dead.


Rocker Jack White's successful boutique label Third Man Records puts on a variety of vinyl novelties, including colored vinyl, scented vinyl, picture-discs, and vinyl that plays backward.
Record Store Day is a worldwide phenomenon, and can be a great way to get out and check out local record stores in your area. In the spring of each year, hundreds of new limited-run releases are made available to the public. It's the crate-digger's Christmas.
Real record collectors are known as crate-diggers and can be found thumbing through the unlabeled boxes in the bottom of libraries, book sales, and garages, looking for unfound gems and diamonds in the rough. Famous collector Joe Bussard (whose collection of 78s is larger than the Smithsonian's) used to pretend to be an exterminator so he had a reason to knock on doors and ask if people had any old records they wanted to get rid of.

