 People with orthorexia are also at risk of severe weight loss. This is because they’ve potentially eliminated many food options from their diet, that they may have trouble maintaining their weight.


If your weight has dropped substantially and can be connected to food limitations, you may have orthorexia.
Try to determine if your weight loss is healthy weight loss or if it is a result of obsessive exercise and food choices. Losing 5 or 10 pounds over the course of a month may be healthy, while losing 20 or 30 pounds may be severe.
Think about whether you actually want to or need to lose weight. If the answer is no, and your food choices result in weight loss, you may need to seek help for your orthorexia., Some people with orthorexia will also have obsessive exercise habits. This could lead to health and other related problems. Spend a little time reflecting on your exercise routine.


You may have orthorexia if you have problematic food choices and your exercise routine interferes with other aspects of your life, like work, family, or social life.
Consider whether you become anxious or have panics attacks if you are unable to complete your exercise routine., People who suffer from orthorexia may also suffer other health problems that can be traced to their food choices. As a result, you should consult a physician in order to monitor your nutrition and other vital statistics. Some things a physician may check include:


Vitamin deficiency.
Iron levels.
General blood work to provide a sense of overall health., One of the best ways of determining whether you have orthorexia is by consulting a mental health specialist. A mental health specialist will evaluate your habits, lifestyle, and other factors and provide you with a proper diagnose of your psychological state. They can also help sort out whether or not you have orthorexia or some other condition, such as anorexia nervosa. Some people with the eating disorder anorexia have an obsession with eating only the "correct" foods, making it difficult sometimes to distinguish between orthorexia and anorexia.Seek out a mental health specialist that focuses on body image, nutrition, or dietary habits.
Don't hold anything back from the mental health professional.
You can also consider licensed or unlicensed counselors or life coaches who have experience with nutrition and health problems.