 Include a secondary date in case of rain the day of the event and you cannot play. Also, decide your final registration date to allow sufficient time to commit to suppliers of food, prizes, etc.;
, Make sure to sign a contract with the course so you know what to expect when it comes to fees and what the course will provide (advertising, beverages, and food).


The course manager can help you in your tournament planning and can tell you which holes will work best for specialty challenges. Specialty holes may include Closest to the Hole, Longest Drive, or Hole in One. Have a female and male winner for each and present prizes at ceremony.
 In the planner, you should include sections for participants, sponsors, food vending, prizes, and accounting. Think ahead regarding the tournament format, handicapping systems (to equalize players' abilities), the signup process, how the registration table and the invitations will look like and of course budget. Look online for detailed free event planners online that will help you stay organized.
 Custom trophies, t-shirts and promotional materials often require planning and ordering.
 Set the fee at an amount that will cover money to go toward the event and charges for using the course and food.
 Sponsors can be companies or individuals who donate money or items to your fundraising event. In return, the sponsor's name is advertised on a banner or marker at one of the golf holes.
 Include general fliers and registration forms. If you have an established presence on social media, it is a good idea to use such platforms as Facebook, Twitter or other niche social networks, to promote your golf tournament. If a charity is organizing the golf event, using Kickstarter is necessary.
 Information can also be sent via email if it is a corporate event.
 Typically, groups consist of four players. You may pair individual participants with other single players or groups who do not have enough players. Finalize your order for trophies, prizes, and memorabilia based on your final registration date numbers.
 Most golf tournaments conclude with a meal and ceremony. Any food provided between the 9th and 10th hole of play usually comes from the golf course.
 Make sure they are aware you will be using their logo so there are no copyright conflicts.
 Most tournaments have a Shotgun Start; this start has a team on each of the 18 holes and everyone begins at the same time.
 Auctions are great for fundraising events to increase the total amount of money collected. Purchase a large roll of raffle tickets that participants can buy individually for the auctions or a raffle. The raffle divides money from ticket sales with 50% going to the raffle winner and the rest toward the event.
, Have a registration table for participants to sign in and purchase tickets. Also, have a table set up with auction items. Place a container next to silent auction items in which participants can put their tickets. Draw tickets to determine winners at the ceremony.

