 You'll need a packet of unflavored gelatin, as well as 1 to 2 tablespoons of milk. Gelatin is what makes Jello thick and jiggly, and you're making it much thicker here, so it creates a thick film on your face you can pull off.You're looking for a consistency similar to that of thick yogurt. Start with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) and add more if you need it.The mixture will get thinner when you heat it.








You can use almost any kind of milk, including goat, soy, and almond. You can also add a drop of lavender essential oil.Be sure to use a bowl that's safe for the microwave. You're about to heat it up. Also, you don't need a huge bowl for this mask.
Be aware that this mask can peel off hairs in a painful way, so you may want to wax or shave before doing it.;
, Heat the mixture in the microwave for about 30 seconds. You may want to check on it sooner. Do not let it boil. Check to make sure it's warm to the touch when you pull it out.You can also heat the mixture on the stove on low heat.
Check to make sure it's not too hot for your face by sticking your pinky in it. If it doesn't hurt your pinky, it should be okay on your face.
 Using a makeup brush or a cotton ball, apply the mixture to your face. You can apply it all over, but you should particularly focus on your problem areas, such as your nose, chin, cheeks, and forehead. Look for wherever your blackheads are prominent.








Try to skip areas that are particularly sensitive, as this mask can hurt on those areas. You can just apply it to your nose. Note that it will smell pretty bad.Also, try to apply a fairly thick layer, but you'll only really need to go over your face once. If it's too thick, it won't dry properly.
 Check back in 15 minutes. It can help to set a timer so you don't forget. The mask should be dry enough that it's starting to crack, especially if you move your face around. It should also feel dry to the touch.Don't wait too long, as it can dry too hard. If you let it go too long, it will leave your skin red and sensitive.
 Once you've determined it's dry enough, it's time to peel it off. It should come off in big strips or sections. Start at the edges, and pull slowly toward the center of the mask. Keep going until the whole mask is gone.








If you want, you can look at the inside part of the mask to see what you're taking off of your face.
 To close up your pores at the end, you need to use some cold water. You can even use an ice cube. The idea is you are closing the pores to further germs, dirt, and grime.








You can also use an astringent and a light moisturizer.
If you're going outside, put on a sunscreen, as your skin will be sensitive.
Your face may be a little red after peeling the film off, especially if you have sensitive skin. To reduce the redness, put an ice pack on the red spots.

