 This is extremely important because immobilization of the affected wrist lessens stress and strain placed on it during movement, which allow the area to heal. During wrist motions, the tendons and ligaments of the small muscles of your hands and fingers that pass through the carpal tunnel slide and glide, which causes friction on other soft tissue structures. If this continues, it could make your condition worse.


Part of resting your wrist is wearing the brace described in the first step of this article. You may also be advised by your doctor to refrain from participating in activities that cause your to bend your wrist. This could include typing.
 If the condition is still in the acute stage (you have been experiencing the symptoms for less than six weeks) a cold compress can help to minimize swelling and inflammation. The cold compress restricts the blood vessels in the area, both numbing your pain and reducing swelling.Wrap a cold compress or pack of ice in a hand towel. Do not apply the ice or compress directly to your skin, as prolonged exposures to cold temperatures could lead to skin damage. Hold the compress on the area for 15 to 20 minutes, then remove the compress to keep from damaging your skin.
 If the condition is already in the chronic state (you have been experiencing it for more than 6 weeks) cold compresses won’t work anymore. Instead, apply a hot compress or heat to the area to soothe the pain (the area should not be swollen at this time—if it is swollen, do not apply heat). The heat increases blood flow to the area, which can help to speed up the recovery process.


Wrap a heated compress or hot water bottle in a hand towel. Hold the compress against your wrist for 15 to 20 minutes.
 Your physical therapist (PT) may apply a paraffin wax to your wrist and hand. The wax will be heated in a special heater to roughly 125 degrees F (roughly 51 degrees C). While this may sound hot (as it should) touching 125 degree F paraffin is actually cooler than touching water that has been heated to 125 degrees F.Your PT will dip your hand and wrist the wax 10 or more times, each time allowing the wax to harden before your hand gets dipped in again. This helps to trap the therapeutic heat inside the wax glove, allowing the heat to fight pain and speed up the healing process. The wax will be left on your hand for 15 to 20 minutes and then removed.

