 Run a quick internet search or check your local phone book to see if there’s an astrology expert operating in your area. Astrologers are certified in their knowledge of astral interpretation and are qualified to advise you on the zodiac, relationship compatibility and other matters of health and prosperity.Not all professional astrologers own businesses. Some might operate out of their homes, or perform astrological assessments as part of a holistic therapy treatment. Your best bet is to search the internet for astrology authorities in your vicinity.
 The astrologer you consult will need to know your date and time of birth, as well as a few other things about you. This will most likely take the form of a short, informal personal chat, as the astrologer will want to ensure that you’re comfortable talking about yourself and your personal matters before any advice is given., The astrologer will be able to offer insight into your own personality based on the traits that individuals born under your zodiac sign commonly exhibit. They will also go over optimal relationship matches, tips for keeping your business and financial affairs in order and warnings about how to avoid pitfalls in your personal life. Listen as these things are explained and consider how they apply to your life.Hearing the details of your zodiac sign explained to you by a professional can tell you a lot that you may not have even realized about yourself.
 Another service a professional astrologer can provide is relationship charting. If you know the zodiac sign and birth date of your crush or the person you're currently dating, the astrologer can create a compatibility chart that looks at factors like astral alignment and how well your elemental signs naturally complement one another and offer a prognosis for the potential of the relationship. Heeding the wisdom of an astrologer can give you a leg up when it comes to dealing with matters of the heart.Talk with your astrologer about what traits you and your prospective partner have in common, and in what ways you differ. Having this knowledge in advance can help the two of you unlock one another's passions and prepare you to effectively resolve unexpected disagreements later on.
When two signs seem especially incompatible, a good astrologer will have recourse in the reading of moon signs and Venus and Mars alignment, advising you on ways to cultivate a fruitful relationship despite initial appearances., One of the benefits of scheduling a face-to-face meeting with an astrologer is that you have an opportunity to ask questions and receive answers on the spot. Think about any questions you might have regarding your zodiac sign, relationships, or how best to balance your innate temperament. Rather than cryptic mysticism, modern astrology should function as a kind of in-depth personality assessment making use of thousands of years of social analysis.In addition to general compatibility criteria, ask your astrologer about what qualities in particular you should look for in a lover to complement your own. Even within the right elemental signs, there are stronger and weaker pairings.

