 If you are having trouble landing the paying job that you want, you can often get your foot in the door by volunteering. Look over the company’s website and see if they offer any ongoing volunteer opportunities. Especially if you want to get into non-profit work, you may find that this is common.If you have a specific company in mind, you may be able to locate a volunteer page on their website. Alternatively, conduct an Internet search, using the name of the company and the word “volunteer.” Some examples that may come up are:

www.americancancersociety.org/volunteer
www.diabetes.org/volunteer
www.alz.org/join_the_cause_volunteer.asp



, Many companies that have established volunteer programs will have a sign-up page directly on the website. Use this and provide all your contact information. If you have the opportunity, attach a link to your resume. Realize that at this stage, you are not applying for a job but rather for a volunteer opportunity. Present yourself as willing and ready to serve their needs.If the company does not ordinarily conduct a volunteer program, you might still work something out. Contact the personnel manager and express your desire to work for the company. You could say something like, “I realize you may not have any paid positions open at the moment, but I am very interest in Acme Corp. and would like to volunteer some time for the company. Could we meet to discuss this?”
You may know that in the future you hope to turn this volunteerism into a paying job, but for now, you need to present yourself as an eager volunteer. Some companies have a competitive process just for accepting volunteers, and you want to appear as positive as you can.
 Even if you submit an application online, contact the office by telephone or even in person. If it is a small, local organization, you may be able to visit the office and speak with someone about your interest in the company. You might not get right in to see the president, but you may be able to get some valuable information from the person at the front desk. In either case, your own eagerness should shine through., As much as you are able, you should show that you are willing to work and accept whatever assignments are offered. Keep in mind that your reason for volunteering is to attract the attention of the employer and make them want to hire you on a full-time, paid basis. Show off your talents as much as possible, and make them understand that you will be a valuable person to have around.If you are asked to perform tasks that you think are beneath your talent level, find a polite way to express your eagerness for more challenging work. Demonstrate your abilities. For example, if your volunteer work is to greet clients at the door, you might look for ways to demonstrate your management skills by arranging a better greeting system or suggesting a rearrangement of the lobby furniture.
 As you are volunteering, keep your eyes and ears open and learn as much as you can about the company’s operations. If a paying job opens in the future and you find yourself in an interview, it will be extremely valuable to be able to say, “When I worked in the shipping office as a volunteer, I became familiar with many of the staff members here and the company’s operations.”, While you are working as a volunteer, be alert to internal hiring. You may have access to the company’s internal email or intranet system, and this could be were internal jobs get posted. You can also be alert to personnel moves within the company and be ready if any of these lead to job openings.