 Your hands are another potential source of transferring germs to your eye area.


Remember that fingers harbor bacteria too. If using your fingers to apply cosmetics to the eyes, make sure to wash them well beforehand.





;
, Using non-disposable ones intended for reuse risks transferring germs and bacteria onto your eyes.
 For example, do not apply makeup when driving, as this can lead to eye injuries such as a corneal scratch (which can lead to infection). Applying eye makeup when in motion also risks stabbing your eye with the applicator, which can cause serious damage.
 Getting the eye makeup matched to your individual needs is important––avoid using products just because a friend does or because your favorite movie star is advertising them. You must choose according to your own needs and sensitivities.

If you have sensitive skin, it is recommended that you use makeup labeled "hypo-allergenic", "fragrance free" or " for sensitive skin". This should help to reduce the chance of experiencing an allergic reaction. However, be aware that even these labels don't necessarily mean that you won't have a reaction––you may need to test different brands or even discuss your reactions with a dermatologist or eye care specialist.
It is highly recommended that you avoid using anything considered to be “multi purpose make-up”. This refers to makeup such as color sticks intended for use as lip color, blush and eyeshadow. This type of makeup is a sure-fire way to introduce bacteria from your mouth and nasal region direct to your eyes, where the infection can be end up being much more severe.
Do not use eyeliner on the inner lids; to do so is to give the makeup direct access to your eye, increasing the chances for infection or allergic reactions.Avoid glittery and iridescent products. As pretty as these seem, they can scratch and irritate your eye, leading you to rub them and potentially spread infection. Once in a blue moon might be okay but don't use this type of makeup regularly., Not all eye makeup is made equal––the more ingredients that you don't know about, the more wary you should be about the product. Seek products that carry a full disclosure of their contents and that certify that the ingredients used are non-toxic and not harmful with long-term use. If your current eye makeup lacks this information, do some online research. One reliable source to find such information is the Cosmetics Database found at: http://www.cosmeticsdatabase.com. This site can tell you which ingredients in eye cosmetics and makeup removers contain ingredients that are thought to be harmful to your health.Be very careful if using "natural" or "preservative-free" cosmetics. Without any preservative, bacteria will thrive. Such products should be stored somewhere cold, perhaps the refrigerator, and used quickly. Read the labels carefully to check for other storage directions.