 For general cleaning, choose a pH-neutral ,water-based cleaner, like those designed for vinyl floors or hardwood-specific cleaners. To dissolve grease and dirt, choose an alkaline, water-based cleaner: soaps, detergents, or a bit of baking soda dissolved in water will do, though should be used sparingly. To dissolve hard water or mineral deposits, choose an acidic water-based cleaner; white vinegar or lemon juice in water would make a good rinsing agent to this effect.








Specific hardwood floor cleaners, of course, are your safest bet.
Don’t use bleach, ammonia, abrasive cleaners, or anything that will leave a residue (ex. oil, furniture spray, wax). Not only will they damage the hardwood, but a few will even void the warranty on your floor.
 To avoid hard-water streaking, you may want to buy distilled water, which can be purchased cheaply at your local supermarket. However, a quick wipe down with a lemon juice and water mixture after cleaning will also prevent streaks, if hand dried afterwards.
 Dip a mop into a bucket of your cleaning agent diluted in water. Run it over the floor along with the grain of the wood, starting in the farthest corner and working towards a door so you never have to step on wet floors. Refill the bucket if the solution gets too dirty.









Remove your shoes. This will prevent you from marking or dirtying the floor while it’s wet.
 Dip the cloth in the cleaning solution and scrub it over stains with your hands to apply a more directed pressure.
 Replace the dirty water with fresh, clean water. Rinse and squeegee out the mop so that it is damp, and use it to pick up the dirty water left on the floor. Squeegee it into your clean bucket and repeat.









Wring the mop dry, rub it over the wet floor until it’s saturated, and repeat until the floor is fairly dry. Do not postpone this step: though modern surface seals are water-resistant, they will not tolerate being wet for long periods. When you're done, rinse the mop and refill the bucket with plain water.
 This will remove any streaky or dulling traces of your cleaning solution.
 You can also use the wrung-mop method to dry the floor. This will prevent streaking and protect the life of your floor.








