 Meetings are a way to gain fellowship and support each member—and to receive support for yourself. Meetings can be in person, on the phone or online. The point is to interact and share all parts of the process.Making a regular commitment to meetings helps you stay on track and accountable for your progress. It is also a chance to share stories of both success and setbacks.
You can locate a meeting by typing your residential information into the given fields on the OA website.If you cannot find a face-to-face meeting in your area, you can participate in telephone or online meetings.;
, A big part of recovery from overeating is sharing your own story in several different modes. Some aspects of sharing are encouraged, but not required to participate in the program. You may share your story in many ways.Write a journal about your story and journey. Continue to grow in the process by also researching and comparing the experiences of others to your own.
You can talk about your story during a meeting, when appropriate or through the online forum.
You can also share your story by submitting it to the Overeaters Anonymous Lifeline magazine., Generally, a sponsor is someone who has extensive experience with the program and who can serve as a motivator and guide. Be sure to take full advantage of your OA sponsor and ask any questions you need to support your journey., The Overeaters Anonymous program works because you learn you are not alone and that support comes from peers, sponsors and leaders. You must be willing and ready to show vulnerability and seek out the help that is there for you.Your support group might serve as the other individuals who attend meetings with you and your sponsor. However, your support group also encompasses family and friends who want to encourage you during your journey. Non-Overeaters Anonymous members are encouraged to attend open meetings to better understand the process and what you are going through.Keep in mind that OA is an anonymous group, so you may not have the ability to form relationships with other group members outside of meetings. It is the right of each individual member to maintain his or her anonymity, if desired.
 Recovery from compulsive eating is a process and each success should be acknowledged and shared. Focus on each small win and the growth you see to get you along the way.A small win might be calling your sponsor when you feel like bingeing and having him or her coach you through your compulsions. Even though you still had the urge, it is a major accomplishment to take action against the urge rather than giving in to it.
It is a mistake to feel like sharing your success will make others at meetings feel like they have failed if they are not at that same place. You learned from each member of the group and they, too, will learn from you.
 Overeaters Anonymous is not a group focused on losing weight so there aren’t weigh ins. The focus is addressing the underlying cause of the overeating and changing the behavior. You need to understand your primary issue with eating and decide on a plan to overcome it.If you are looking for more of a support group to focus on working out or meeting weight goals, this may not be the group to join. You can choose to work on those goals outside of OA.
 The basic underlying process of Overeaters Anonymous focuses on the 12 steps that are very similar to Alcoholics Anonymous and other addiction groups. The twelve steps include:Admitting you are powerless over food and that your life has become unmanageable
Believing that a power greater than yourself can restore sanity
Deciding to turn your will and your lives over to the care of God (or higher power, universe, etc.)
Performing an inventory of yourself
Admitting the exact nature of your wrongs
Being ready to have your higher power remove all these defects of character
Asking your higher power to remove shortcomings
Making a list of all persons we have harmed and be willing to make amends
Making direct amends to such people wherever possible, except when doing so would injure them or others
Continuing to take personal inventory and, when you are wrong, promptly admit it
Seeking through prayer and meditation to improve your conscious contact with your higher power
Carrying this message forth to compulsive overeaters and practicing these principles in all your affairs

, Many think of these types of meetings always being done in person but this is not always possible, or necessary. You can actually attend in a variety of ways.


If you live in an area that has regular Overeaters Anonymous meetings, this can happen face-to-face in a group setting.In areas without a face-to-face meeting or in cases where that type of meeting is not possible, the same types of supports can be found via online or telephone support. These alternative meetings are called “virtual services.”Online or telephone meetings usually use some sort of website or phone-based platform that requires you to log in and participate that way.
 Compulsive eating is the feeling that you are not able to control periods of overeating that involve an unusually large amount of food. This does not include purging afterwards like you would see with bulimia.Compulsive eating may develop into Binge Eating Disorder if you have frequent episodes of compulsive eating, feel extremely emotional either during or after overeating and have no purging episodes afterwards., You need to assess the symptoms you are experiencing to see if they match up with those for compulsive eating. The behavioral components of overeating may include:Stockpiling and hiding food
Eating normally around others and hiding to binge
Eating quickly and without care for making a mess
Unable to control how much you eat or the speed of eating
Eating when you are full
Eating throughout the day without planning meals

, The only way you can truly get help for an issue like this is to accurately diagnose it by the symptom patterns. It may be necessary to see a doctor to fully diagnose your compulsive eating. Emotional symptoms of compulsive eating may include:


Eating out of control as the only way to release stress and tension
Feeling of numbness during a binge
Feeling shame about how much you eat although you secretly never feel it is enough
Having a desperate need to control weight and eating

, Like other forms of mental illness, there is often no direct cause of an eating disorder. People with a family history of eating disorders may inherit their disorders, but societal pressure to look a certain way can also play a role in the development of an eating disorder. An eating disorder can also be the result of other mental health problems, such as depression or obsessive compulsive disorder.Other factors may also increase your risk, such as being a woman, being young, and having high stress levels.
 Remember that your treatment for a compulsive eating disorder should be comprehensive. It should not focus just on the addiction aspect because there are other things that can help.Treatment options may also include counseling with a professional therapist, medication, and stress reduction activities.Talk to your doctor or a therapist to start getting help for a compulsive eating problem.

