 By definition, dark chocolate is chocolate that has a higher concentration of cocoa butter and less milk. It’s actually possible to make dark chocolate without any milk at all, making it perfect for people who can’t or don’t consume dairy. Along with your ingredients, you'll also need:Grater
Double boiler
Metal whisk
Candy mold
Optional ingredients to add to the chocolate, such as dried fruit or nuts;
, In the bottom of the double boiler, fill the pot with an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Place this over medium heat and allow the water to come to a boil.


If you don’t have a double boiler, fill the bottom of a regular saucepan with water, and use a metal or glass bowl as the top portion of the double boiler.
Make sure the bowl doesn’t touch the water, otherwise the chocolate will burn. Place the bowl into the saucepan and make sure the water isn't touching the bowl. Pour out some water if the water is touching the bowl.
 Grating the cocoa butter will help it melt faster.You can also cut the cocoa butter into small chunks if you prefer. When the water is boiling, place the cocoa butter into the top of the double boiler. Use the metal whisk to stir it frequently as it melts.


It’s important that you don’t use wooden utensils to make chocolate, because the wood can still contain moisture from the tree, and this can leach into the chocolate, changing its composition.Some recipes call for coconut oil instead of cocoa butter, but coconut oil will result in an oily chocolate that isn't as smooth, rich, and creamy as chocolate should be.
 Once the cocoa butter has melted, add the cocoa powder and whisk to combine. When the cocoa powder melts and the mixture starts to take on a glossy appearance, whisk it until it becomes smooth and creamy.When the chocolate is creamy and glossy, add the sugar and vanilla, and whisk to combine. Continue heating and whisking until the sugar is melted.
You can use honey, maple syrup, or any other sweetener in place of the sugar.
 When all the ingredients are melted and fully combined, pour the mixture evenly into your mold. Use a flat mixing spatula to distribute the chocolate in the mold if necessary.


Once the mold is full, you can sprinkle in any additional ingredients you're using, such as nuts or dried fruit. Try to distribute the ingredients evenly throughout the chocolate.
You can use any mold you like for this chocolate, including a bar mold, heart shapes, or any other design. If you don’t have a chocolate mold, you can use clean ice cube trays.
You can also use dark chocolate to make chocolate chips, truffles, and other delicious confections.
 Set the chocolate aside to cool to room temperature, because you don’t want it to harden too quickly. Once it reaches room temperature, transfer the mold to an air-tight container and into the fridge to set for about an hour.It’s important to wait before putting the chocolate in the fridge and to put it in an air-tight container first. If the chocolate cools too quickly or is exposed to moisture, the chocolate can bloom, which is when the surface of the chocolate becomes dull and streaked., Take the chocolate out of the fridge once it has set. To get it out of the mold, place the mold upside down on a flat surface. Peel the mold away from the chocolate.


You can also put the chocolate into the freezer for five to 10 minutes then try again to peel away the mold.Gently tap the back of the mold with the but end of a kitchen knife if the chocolate doesn’t come out right away.
Instead of tapping the mold with the knife, you can gently tap the entire mold against a hard, flat surface to release it.

