 Increasingly often, malls are welcoming spas and massage centers into their halls. Take advantage of this and get a full-body massage or facial treatment after a day of browsing through shops.Make sure you mention any medical conditions or injuries you have before booking a spa appointment. Broken skin, for instance, might disqualify you from getting a facial.
 If you like makeup, you can visit a makeup counter and get a free makeover, and ask for tips for your skin type. Many skincare counters are happy to provide these services in the hopes of selling new products, so don’t be afraid to ask for a sample of a product you might be on the fence about.This is a great option if you are looking for a makeup product to do a specific job, such as reduce under eye circles or make your lips pop.
 Visit your mall’s candy, chocolate, or pastry shop and indulge on a few treats. You can purchase a chocolate croissant and enjoy it right there, or you can stock up on some sweet treats to take home and eat throughout the next few weeks.Use this opportunity to try something new. You can ask to see any new candy or specials, or you can ask the clerks what their favorites are.
 Bring along your favorite book (or a new tome from the bookstore), and sit down to a cafeteria lunch. You can eat while you read, absorbing the sounds and smells around you while you immerse yourself in a new world.Many malls have coffee shops in them, as well, so you may even be able to cozy up in an armchair and sip a latté as you read.
 You can visit a department store and request to have your measurements taken. You can then use this information if ever you need to take an item to a tailor, order an item online, or complete alterations yourself. Although you can do your own measurements, doing so can be tricky, so why not enlist the help of a professional?Sizing is particularly important for bras, so if you wear a bra, use your time alone to find out what size you should actually be wearing.
 Malls are often used as testing grounds for new therapy machines. Hydrotherapy, therapy chairs, and therapy machines have all been known to adorn the large hallways of malls, so take a few moments to find out if you can test out a new relaxation/therapeutic technique.


Some of these can be dangerous for existing medical conditions or pregnancy. Make sure you talk to the vendor or operator about any possible risk factors before you partake.

