 Do your research as widely as possible, including prices. You may want a horse to ride cross country, a horse for dressage, a horse to pull a trap, or flat race or something else. There are many, many ways to enjoy horse ownership. Make sure you know what you want, don't focus on getting a particular breed of horse, unless you know it will make all you horse owning dreams come true. If you are not convinced about the type of horse you want, you'll never convince your parents to buy you one!


Buy or borrow some books on caring for horses. Research online too. Read through the books and articles thoroughly. Increasing your knowledge may result in you finding more points to persuade your parents and will help to demonstrate your commitment to caring for your own horse.;
, Include how you intend to finance the purchase of the horse. Explain in your plan where the money for on going costs will come from, such as vet fees, feed, tack, farrier costs, etc. Make sure to include who will look after the horse, don't forget to include some contingency ideas. Such as if you go on holiday or are unwell. Find all the answers to the questions you might be asked. Fill a small notebook with the details. Cover the prices, all the equipment you will need and where you can keep the horse. It's also a good idea to put in a timetable for the week, incorporating leisure time and other clubs, and schoolwork. This will show that you've thought about the effort needed and how to balance this with other essential parts of your life.


Be frugal. Spend as little money as possible. When you get money such as allowance and holiday present money, stick it in a safe place where you will forget about (but not lose) it.
 Taking lessons is an important and vital step to horse ownership for most people. You can't learn everything from books. You almost certainly need to know how to ride, even if you for some reason want a companion horse only. Remain humble at all times and remember that no matter how many years you have spent around horses, you can always learn something new.


Find a place where you can be with horses and start learning. Offer to help out at the local stables on a weekend or take riding lessons somewhere and improve your skills. If your parents can see your dedication and know that you're really serious, they may realize that this isn't just a passing thought.
 If you have another pet, such as a dog or even a hamster, go all out with taking care of that animal. If you and your siblings often argue over who has to walk or feed the dog, do it without being told and without the usual argument over who should feed the pet. If your pet has to be brushed, brush it with every animal brush you have. Use any products that you can find. Has Mom been asking you to bathe Fido? Do it before she even gets home. Start taking charge with other things as well, such as your schoolwork, your chores, and cleaning your bedroom. If you have one, put your dishes in the dishwasher after dinner instead of making Mom do it. The most important direction: Take charge.
 If you see something that is poisonous to horses, don't be afraid to say so. Just casually mention it as if you are commenting on the weather. Get a book or two and read it thoroughly so that you actually do know your stuff.
 If you aren't already, go horsey. Cover your room, binders, schoolwork, wardrobe, bedroom door, everything with horses! No matter what anyone says, especially that you are obsessed, go horsey. You could even buy hats, backpacks, and shirts with horses or horse related things on them. Try not to spend too much money, however, because that is irresponsible and shows you parents that you aren't ready for an animal like a horse.


A good idea is to get calendars, that way once the year is up you can cut the pictures out of the calendar instead of purchasing posters. Print pictures off the internet too.
 If your riding instructor thinks you are ready for a horse of your own, let them know that your parents need to know that! If you don't tell them to tell your parents things, they won't even think about it.
 You obviously will never get a horse if your parents don't know you want one. If you have friends that own horses, tell your parents about them a lot.


Go on YouTube and search videos where kids (or even young adults but not too old or you may get it into your parent's heads that adulthood is the only good age) were surprised with a horse of their own. Make sure your parents are in the room when viewing these or they obviously have zero effect. Mention that it would be amazing to be surprised like that.
 Suggest that you all sit down together at a time when everyone is comfortable and doesn't need to rush off to work or anything else. A weekend might be a good time, when everyone is relaxed.
 Let them know that you have done your homework and want to tell them the facts about owning a horse and some information about how you can fit a horse into your schedule.
 Show them that you have done a lot of research on the types of horses and the one specific type you're interested in. Show that you've researched the costs of buying the horse and where the best deals are. Show them too that you have researched the ongoing costs of keeping the horse.


Also explain where you think the horse would be housed. Is it going to be on your own property or in agistment (on someone else's land)?

, Explain how you are willing to do your part in meeting both.


Perhaps you have some savings to contribute, or you have a job that can help towards the costs.
Maybe you're happy to go without birthday or other gifts for a bit, accepting that the cost of the horse is the gift for a while ahead.
 Do not interrupt or whine while they explain how they see it.


If this is the first time they've heard of it, they will probably need some time to think it over, so be willing to allow for this without looking upset or annoyed. Say thank you for considering the request if they adopt this approach.
If they say an outright "no", gently say that you understand this is a big deal and a big change. Ask that they at least think it over before making a final decision. Ask them if there is any other information you could provide to help their thinking process.
 If your parents are really adamant that a horse is not for you, resist the temptation to argue or cajole them. Instead, set about finding ways to make this work, such as finding funds or finding a perfect place to keep the horse, and so forth. Then, raise the issue again a few months later. On the the plus side, if your parents were worried that this is a passing fad, they'll be aware that you really mean this if you do wait and then raise it again with them.


Have your rider instructor call up your parents and say what a great rider you're becoming.
 If you do nothing else than go on and on about wanting a horse, this risks angering or irritating your parents. Be more constructive about your approach than that.


Begging and whining and throwing tantrums will get you nowhere. It may even throw you back.

