 If someone has a head injury, you should call 911 and have him checked out by medical professionals. Even minor concussions should be checked out by a doctor.If you choose not to call emergency services after a minor head wound, you still need to watch for severe symptoms. If you notice any of these symptoms, call 911 immediately:


Vomiting
Having pupils of unequal size
Being dizzy, confused, or agitated
Being unconscious
Seeming drowsy
Having neck pain
Having slurred or difficult speech
Having trouble walking
Having seizures;
, After a head injury, check the person. Look for loss of consciousness first. Then, check his mental awareness. Don’t move him unless it’s absolutely necessary.


To check for mental awareness, ask the person his name, what day it is, how many fingers you're holding up, and if he remembers what just happened.
If he is unconscious, check his airways, breathing, and circulation to make sure he's breathing, and immediately call emergency services.
 After someone suffers a blow to the head, he needs to rest. If the head wound isn't major, the person can sit up. Make sure he is in a comfortable position. Cover him with a blanket if one is available.If the head wound is severe, or you believe the person has neck or back damage, don't move him unless necessary., If the injury is not bleeding, apply ice to any swollen areas. Make sure not to put ice directly on the skin. Instead, place a cloth between the ice and the swollen area.You can use a bag of frozen vegetables if you don’t have an ice pack or ice available.
 If the wound is bleeding, apply pressure to it to stop the bleeding. Use a towel, article of clothing, or other piece of cloth to staunch the bleeding. If at all possible, make sure the cloth is clean, but if you don't have access clean cloth, use the cleanest piece of cloth you can find. Don't press too hard; you want to stop the bleeding, but not cause any additional pain. Gently press the cloth to the wound.If at all possible, keep your hands away from the wound. Only touch the wound with the towel to avoid transferring bacteria into the wound.
If you believe there is a serious injury, don’t move the person’s head or remove the debris from the head. Wait for emergency services to arrive.
 If the person loses consciousness while you wait for help, you will need to monitor his breathing and pulse. Watch for obvious signs of breathing (such as the rise and fall of his chest) or see if you can feel his breath on your skin by placing your hand near his nose and mouth. Check his pulse by placing your index and middle fingers against the groove in the neck, just beneath the jaw and to the right or left of the voice box or Adam's apple.


If the person throws up, carefully turn him on his side, making sure his head and neck do not twist. Clear his mouth of debris so he does not choke on his vomit.
If at any time the person stops breathing or has no pulse, begin CPR. Continue until emergency personnel arrive.

