 After you have deducted your taxes from your monthly paycheck, you will need to review the total and evaluate your other costs of living. From this, you will need to deduct monthly expenses such as your rent or mortgage, bills, groceries, insurance, and the cost of commuting.


If you earn $45,000 annually after taxes, you are left with a monthly payment of about $3,750. If you budget $1,500 for your rent or mortgage, $250 for commuting, and $500 dollars for all other expenses, you are left with $1,500 dollars from your monthly paycheck.
 When calculating the cost of working, it is important to think about the dress code. A U.S. survey showed that half of the respondents spent less than $250 annually on professional clothing, while another 35% spend between $250 and $749. When calculating the cost of working, consider how much you will spend on clothing.Other clothing items aside from business attire should be considered. Factor in the expense of wearing protective clothing for a construction job, for example.
If you are an actor and need to purchase clothing for auditions, photo shoots, or performances, calculate how much you pay toward those expenses., Think about the amount of money you spend each day or week on food. This could include your morning coffee from the café in the lobby, your groceries for making your packed lunches, or the cost of buying lunch in the cafeteria everyday.If you eat out for lunch every day, you could spend $2,500 each year.
If you pack you lunch each day, you may spend around $780 annually., The cost of supplies, equipment, or subscriptions you need to complete your job should be considered when calculating the cost of working. If you need a laptop to do work on the road or at home, you will need to factor in the cost of the device, your monthly home Wi-Fi bill, and any in-flight Wi-Fi connections you may pay for while traveling.


If you are a doctor, subscribing to an academic journal may be required so that you can stay up-to-date with new procedures and treatments for certain diseases. A digital subscription to the New England Journal of Medicine, for example, can cost you $189 annually.