 What creative ideas do you have to create your special blend of massage oil?;
, Keeping notes will help you to replicate the exact blend again should you discover one that works well.
 Making a massage oil for all skin types requires using ingredients that are hypoallergenic, which means that there is a low likelihood of the oils causing an allergic reaction. You must consider both the carrier oil(s) and the essential oil(s) added to make the blend.


While nut- and peanut-derived oils are usually not allergenic for most skin types, they are highly allergenic to those who have a nut allergy, and are best avoided unless you are absolutely certain the users do not have such an allergy.Carrier oils that you might consider using that are popular for massage blends and that tend to have low allergenic properties include: grape seed oil, soybean oil, corn oil, jojoba oil, olive oil, avocado oil, apricot oil, sweet almond oil (but see note on nuts above), sunflower oil, evening primrose oil, etc.Coconut oil can irritate the skin of persons prone to acne.Essential oils that are low in allergic reactions will depend on which oil but basically, a true essential oil should be hypoallergenic. If an essential oil is marked synthetic or fragrance oil, do not use it, as it will provoke an allergic reaction in susceptible people. Avoid any so-called essential oil that seems to be too cheap compared to what the oil normally fetches, as it's likely to be synthetic. Beware "single note" oils too, such as peach scented or apple blossom scented, as these are likely to be synthetic. Moreover, read up carefully on the properties of each essential oil you intend to add. Even though the essential oil is pure, it may still have contraindications for certain persons, such as the sick, the elderly and pregnant women. Some companies will make it very clear on their product that the essential oil is hypoallergenic, especially those using organic sources and processes. Note that some essential oils are produced with linalool, which can irritate the skin of sensitive persons.
You might prefer to choose organic sources for everything you use in the massage blend. This can make for a great selling point or be persuasive with a reluctant family member, although it will raise the cost.
 Tally the cost of ingredients, tools and equipment. This is especially important if you're making blends as part of your massage business or for craft stall sales, as the products used can soon add up.
 Be sure to include the amount of each ingredient used, the costs, tools, equipment and time requirements.
 You'll need at least a half an hour or so to make the oils in any one sitting.
 The container should preferably be made of glass or ceramic and it must be opaque and dark, to help protect the oils from light damage (which can cause oils to go rancid quickly). 


Use a funnel to help you pour in the carrier oil(s).
 Use natural ingredients to scent the massage oil, such as essential oil(s), dried peel, flower buds, etc. Since this is for all skin types, you'll need to consider avoiding any scents that might irritate some persons, such as anything too flowery, too musky or too strong.
 Decide the method you will use to preserve the oil, for example, a dark glass or ceramic bottle or jar. Label the bottle and date it, so that you remember what it contains and how old it is. Also add any special instructions for using it.

