 Enjoy a diet that promotes consumption of whole foods like fruits, vegetables and lean protein. Some researchers suggest removing foods that have been processed and may have harmful substances added like artificial sweeteners, preservatives, and allergens like eggs, milk, and grains., One teacher recognized how periods of in-school activity reduced ADHD symptoms in her students. As a result, a study was conducted showing that regular physical activity - as little as a half hour each day - improved cognitive functioning, mood, and focus. Students also saw a decrease in the severity of ADHD symptoms.If you or your child have ADHD, try getting regular exercise, in virtually any form, to see if it helps. Even if the effects are minimal, people who work out regularly still report feeling better about themselves and healthier.
 Getting 8 to 9 hours of sleep each night for adults and even more for children is essential to mood stability, attention, and focus. One study showed that children with ADHD had higher rates of daytime sleepiness.Therefore, getting adequate sleep at night can help you or your child stay awake while at work or school.


The best tactics to improve sleep quantity and quality lie in developing a regular and consistent sleep pattern. Create a relaxing bedroom environment, and move all other activities elsewhere. Avoid caffeine or alcohol in the evenings for better sleep, too.
 Both yoga and meditation promote relaxation and improve moods in people who engage in these activities. These practices place an emphasis on your breath and focusing on sensations within your body, rather than environmental stimuli. Try both or either to see if one helps an ADHD sufferer learn discipline and stress management.
 In addition to lifestyle changes, you can consult with a psychologist for non-pharmacological interventions that help alleviate ADHD symptoms. Which interventions your mental health provider uses will depend largely on your unique medical/psychiatric history and symptom patterns. Plus, adults and children generally require different interventions that match their developmental level., Many people shy away from pharmacological treatments of ADHD. However, they have been proven to alleviate symptoms in 85% of cases, particularly for severe manifestations of the disorder. In some cases, lifestyle changes may be sufficient at helping you manage your ADHD. However, if these tactics do not improve your symptoms, see your doctor about a stimulant or non-stimulant medication that may suit your needs.