 Before you begin your training session, choose one command to focus on with your dog so that he will not be overwhelmed. You may want to start with something simple, such as “sit.”


Commands such as sit, stay, heel, come, and lie down are considered basic obedience commands.These are important commands to teach your dog so that he will be well behaved.;
, By holding a treat in your hand, you can teach your dog to focus on your hand, which is crucial for hand signal training. You can also use the treat to get your dog to move in the direction you want him to go. Choose one of your dog’s favorite treats and grasp it in your hand.


For example, if you want your dog to sit, then you can raise the treat high into the air, so that he looks up at it. If you want him to lie down, then you can lower your hand with the treat in it down to the floor. This will encourage your dog to change his body position to get closer to the treat, such as by sitting or laying down.
Keep in mind that it is important to stop using treats as lures as your dog learns.After using a treat as a lure a few times, try giving the command with the same hand gesture, but with no treat and see if your dog complies.
You can also try using a laser pointer or flashlight to get your dog’s attention.By directing a laser pointer at the ceiling, you can direct your dog’s attention up and this may encourage him to sit. This may be especially helpful for teaching commands like stay and come.
 It is important to mark your dog’s good behavior right when it happens. Otherwise, your dog may not make the connection between the desired behavior and the reward.For example, if your dog complies with your command to sit, then you can mark the behavior with a physical gesture for “good job,” such as clapping your hands and smiling or giving your dog a thumbs up and smiling.Just make sure that you perform this gesture right as your dog’s bottom touches the ground.
Then, make sure that you give your dog a treat or pet your dog to provide some additional reinforcement right away.
 Train the same command at least a few times during each session. This will help to ensure that your dog understands the command. After a few sessions, your dog should be a master of the command and you can start to teach him a different command.


Make sure that everyone in your household uses the same commands and techniques as you do.Otherwise, your dog may get confused.

