 If you have rough, flaky lips, you can use petroleum jelly to create an effective scrub that removes the dead skin. Mix a small amount of the jelly with sugar to create a gritty lip scrub. Massage it over your lips and wipe it away with a tissue or clean washcloth.You can also exfoliate your lips by applying a layer of the petroleum jelly to your lips and using a clean toothbrush to gently scrub away the dead skin.
 When you have dry, chapped lips, petroleum jelly makes an extremely effective lip balm. Just as it does with your skin, it helps lock in moisture and soothes flaky, cracked skin. Use your finger to apply a small amount of the petroleum jelly over your lips, and allow several minutes for it to sink into the skin.If you plan to apply lipstick after the petroleum jelly, use a tissue to blot your lips first. That will remove any petroleum jelly residue that might keep your lipstick from going on evenly.
 If you need a certain shade of lip gloss that you can’t find at the store, use petroleum jelly to create a custom gloss. Mix a small amount of the petroleum jelly with loose powdered eye shadow or blush in the shade you want. Apply the mixture to your lips with a brush for a pretty, glossy lip color.Add as much or as little of the eye shadow or blush pigment to create the shade that you want. The more pigment that you add, the more concentrated the gloss shade will be.
If you don’t have loose eye shadows or blushes, scrape a little powder from a pressed version to mix with the petroleum jelly.
You can also use powdered drink mixes, such as Kool Aid, to color the petroleum jelly. Not only will the mix color the jelly, it will flavor it as well. For example, make a cherry-colored and flavored gloss with Cherry Kool Aid.
 If you have the perfect shade of lipstick but wish it was glossy and shiny instead of matte, petroleum jelly can help. Apply the lipstick to your lips as you normally would, and blot it with a tissue. Next, dab a light layer of the petroleum jelly over your lips for a glossy finish.

