


If you already have blonde hair: Great! If it isn't long yet, let it grow, look after it.(maybe use some treatment such as Moroccan oil and a hair mask once a week).






If you don't- that's fine too! Just copy the step above, look after your hair, let it grow etc.If you really want to color it, do so, although it isn't recommended since it'll be a struggle to maintain healthy looking hair because you have to keep touching up the roots (especially if you have very dark hair)!






Take note that if you want the perfect blonde for your skin colour, you should find a hair salon that is highly recommended and has possibly even won prizes.
Remember,your natural hair color is usually the one that fits you best! (skin color and eye color wise).





;
, Losing weight consists of mostly working out! Go running a minimum twice a week and do Pilates/yoga three times a week.On youtube, the VS channel has videos on how to train like a VS Angel, with the Angels' personal trainers and the Angels' themselves.


Candice is famous for her beautiful bump, so you should also do squats, to get yours resembling hers.
 You don't need to diet to be the same size as her, just eat healthy, eat A LOT of vegetables,fruit and meat, while getting food from all the major food groups.
 Candice claims to wear comfy, yet girly clothes that are also casual. Such as Jeans and a White tank-top with some nice jewels.


Take note that your clothes should always be clean, ironed, tidy and the outfits should be good looking.You can make a research on outfits on google from celebs and models and take ideas and such from them.
 If you like animals, maybe ask your parents for one.
 But if you aren't, invest in some nice wedges, etc. to seem taller than you already are.
 You can easily get it by buying a good bronzer.
 Not everyone is blessed with clean skin- but there are ways, to make it look more even- or even beat the impurities and pimples!


The best cream for getting rid of pimples (in my opinion) is Clean and clear blackhead clearing scrub. I also use clean and clears morning burst facial cleanser. I highly recommend these products for flawless skin.
Go to a cosmetic Salon (if you can afford it) to get a facial.






Try to get at least 7-8 hours of sleep every night!






Wash off your Makeup as soon as you get home






Use a moisturizer, that is made for your skin-type!






Before applying make up wash your face and wipe dry with a towel, so your face is rid of oil and a couple more of dead cells.(It looks more flawless and pinker after that). Then put on foundation, but extremely light and not all over your face if not needed. Hide the blemishes and such with powder dots or concealer. Add pink hue(with blush) to your face and mostly on the apples of your cheeks, chin and the two sides of your forehead. Blend the blush with the back of your hand or fingers. Do winged eyeliner for your eyes if you want and lipstick(that stains lips) in a nice shade that suits you.
Finally apply highlighter and bronzer to key places on your face(all Victoria Secret models do it).That adds that amazing glow, they all have.







