 The battle rifle is the best weapon in the game for short to medium ranges., There are many weapons in Halo 3, and to get better at this game, you must learn the strengths and weaknesses of all of them.

The Guns. The Guns are your main weapons in Halo 3. You must learn how to use them before playing.

The Battle Rifle. The Battle Rifle is a quite strong weapon that shoots 3-round bursts and can zoom in for long-range shots. It can do quite a bit of damage to enemies if you shoot at their heads. This weapon is good for short-to-long ranges. It is not dual-wieldable. This is a standard starter weapon. A good technique with the Battle rifle or BR is to throw a frag grenade at oncoming enemy or any grenade and then get one shot off in the head will typically work quite well. The Battle Rifle takes 4 shots to kill someone in the head.
The Assault Rifle. The Assault Rifle is the "cousin" to the Battle Rifle, because it has many similarities with it. However, instead of shooting bursts, the Assault Rifle is a full-auto weapon. It, unlike the Battle Rifle, cannot zoom in. This weapon is good for short-to-medium ranges. It is not dual-wieldable. It, like the Battle Rifle, is a standard starter weapon.
The Magnum. The Magnum is a semi-auto handgun. Its rate of fire is somewhat low, and can become inaccurate at long ranges. It's a rather powerful gun which is often underused. The Magnum is good for short-to-medium ranges. It is dual-wieldable. In dual wield configuration and at short ranges, three headshots with both magnums will result in a kill, which is even faster then a Battle Rifle.The Magnum takes 5 shots to the head to kill them.
The SMG. The SMG, or Sub-Machine gun, is a full-auto weapon. It is inaccurate at medium-to-long ranges. It can do great damage at short-to-medium range. It is dual-wieldable.
The Rocket Launcher. The Rocket Launcher is an extremely strong weapon. It can spread a huge amount of damage where it is shot. It is somewhat inaccurate at long ranges, and enemies can dodge the rockets. It can destroy vehicles. It is good for short-to-medium ranges. It is not dual-wieldable.

Shoot at Your Enemy's Feet! An enemy is less likely to survive a rocket shot if you shoot at their feet, because they cannot run away as easily.


The Shotgun. The Shotgun is a weapon that can do extreme damage at close range. It can down almost any enemy at point-blank range, and is feared by all enemies. It can deal low damage at medium-to-long ranges, and should be avoided in those situations. It is best at close range. It is not dual-wieldable. You should also Try to get close with the shotgun and shoot and press B for a insta-kill combo!

Aim for the Chest! For easier kills with the shotgun, wait for your enemy to approach you then release a hail of BBs at your opponent's chest. Since the torso is the largest target of the human, the BBs will be clustered in one area resulting in more damage.


The Sniper Rifle. The Sniper Rifle is a semi-auto weapon that can be extremely strong at long ranges. It can blow up a rocket when shot in its direct path. It can kill in one shot when aimed at the head, and two shots anywhere else. This weapon is one of the best in the game, and its location should be memorized on every map. Remember that you can double-zoom with this weapon. It is best at long ranges. It is not dual-wieldable.

Find "Sniper Spots". When using the Sniper Rifle, some places are best for using it. Elevated, out-of-the-way locations are best, because you get the best view of the map, and you can't be seen easily.
Refrain From "No-Scoping". No-scoping is when you do not zoom and try to kill enemies shooting "from the hip". As satisfying as no-scope kills can be, they are tough to get, and only masters should attempt.
Predict Your Enemy's Movement! Enemies may suddenly jump and move unexpectedly while you are trying to snipe them. This can be very annoying, but if you can predict their movements, you can easily get a snipe.


The Spartan Laser. The Spartan Laser is a ridiculously powerful weapon that shoots a red laser that obliterates enemies and vehicles. It, apart from the Sniper Rifle, is the only weapon that can kill multiple enemies with one shot. It charges quite slow, and enemies may take that as a chance to duck out of sight. It is best at long range. Try to make sure when you see a group of enemies at long range you keep your focus on a single target, rather than choosing in "mid-charge", this may cause in a miss, waste of ammo, and revealing your location. It is not dual-wieldable.

Use The Spartan Laser Against Clusters and Vehicles! From afar, the Spartan Laser can destroy vehicles and all of the enemies in them. It can also kill clusters of enemies, resulting in multi-kills for more points.
Widen Your Beam! Right before one fires the Spartan Laser, shift either to the left or right resulting in an arched beam rather than a beam fired in a straight line.


The Machine Gun Turret. The Machine Gun Turret is a grounded weapon that shoots rounds at a fast rate. It can be detached so you can carry it around as a regular weapon. It can destroy many enemies in a row and light vehicles. It is best at medium-long range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Missile Pod. The Missile Pod is a weapon that, like the Turret, is grounded but can be used as a regular weapon; carried around. It can lock on to and destroy vehicles, and can kill enemies with ease. It is best at medium-long range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Flamethrower. The flamethrower is a weapon that shoots deadly flames. It can kill an enemy after the first contact, because it keeps them on fire after you hit them with it. It should only be used at short range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Energy Sword. The Energy Sword is a melee weapon that can kill all enemies in one "lunge". The Energy Sword can be used by pressing the melee button or the attack button, the latter causing a "lunge" that, from a small distance, causes your character to lunge toward the enemy and strike them. Both, if they make contact, are an instant-kill. This weapon's location should always be memorized. Beware though, if you get in a sword fight it is wise to swing with perfect timing and use jump attacks. It should only be used at short range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Plasma Pistol. The Plasma Pistol is a weapon that can shoot relatively weak energy shots at fast rates or "charged", strong shots at slow rates. The latter can instantly deplete any shields. When charged fully it stop a vehicle dead in its tracks, and give you a chance at a kill. This weapon is best at short-to-medium ranges. It is dual-wieldable.
The Plasma Rifle. The Plasma Rifle is a weapon that has a very fast rate of fire, and can be very powerful and deplete shields quite fast. This weapon is quite similar to the Plasma Pistol. It is best at short-to-medium ranges. It is dual-wieldable.
The Needler. The Needler is a very powerful weapon that shoots pink needles. They are capable of doing lethal damage when shot for enough time. The needles are also semi-homing. The Needler has a fast rate of fire, and can kill enemies quite quickly. It is best at short-to-medium ranges. It is NOT dual-wieldable, as it was in Halo 2.
The Beam Rifle. The Beam Rifle is the Covenant equal of the Sniper Rifle. They are mostly the same, however, there are some noticeable differences. Instead of shooting bullets, the Beam Rifle shoots beams of energy. The Beam Rifle cannot reload and has a limited amount of shots before it must be discarded. It can also shoot two consecutive shots in a row, at the cost of temporary overheat. It is best at long range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Carbine. The Carbine is a semi-automatic weapon that has high accuracy and shoots beams of energy. It can zoom in and be potentially deadly when shot at the head. It is best at medium-to-long ranges. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Gravity Hammer. The Gravity Hammer is an extremely powerful melee weapon. It is feared by all because of its 100% lethality at close range. It can also deflect a rocket. When an enemy is hit with this weapon at close range they will either be pushed back or killed. This weapon can only be used at close range. It is not dual-wieldable. Its location should be memorized on every map.
The Spiker. The Spiker is a weapon with a fast rate of fire. It is a very good weapon to use to beat down enemies. This weapon is best at short-to-medium range. It is dual-wieldable.
The Brute Shot. The Brute Shot is a very powerful grenade launcher. Because of its power, this weapon can kill enemies very fast. It can also, in a few shots, destroy vehicles. It is best at short-to-medium range. It is not dual-wieldable.
The Mauler. The Mauler is a small weapon not unlike the shotgun. It is less powerful but smaller. It can kill enemies quite fast when dual-wielded. It is best at short range. It is dual-wieldable.



