 Nobody likes a stinker. Take daily showers and cleanse your face twice a day with moisturizers. Brush your teeth twice each and every day and wear nice perfume (be 100% sure it works on you, since not all perfumes smell the same on certain people than what they do when you sniff it from the bottle) Wear deodorant, too.;
, Sleep at least 10 hours , otherwise you'll wake up looking like a raccoon. Make sure you wash your face at night and the next morning, so you look fresh and clean and so your skin doesn't look oily.




Wash it every other day, because shampoo dries it too much if used daily. If you do this and your hair becomes oily, choose a different shampoo/conditioner or wash daily. Make sure that you don't fall asleep at night with wet hair, because it's really unhealthy for it and that could make you really sick. Get a haircut you really like, and trim your hair once a month to keep it that way and to prevent split-ends. Buy spray that makes your hair shine, but don't use too many products on it because it can cause dandruff and it could even fall out. Don't iron it too much, because this will dry your hair out. If you don't have a lot of hair but want it, check with your doctor to make sure it's safe for you and take one folic acid pill once a day, which you can buy at your local Walmart.

Brush your hair really well, maybe a little blow-drying. Don't straighten it, though. This will damage your hair. Many girls do it everyday and later on, they struggle to grow it back to the way it was before they started straightening.
 Apply some concealer, foundation, mascara, blush and chapstick. Some people choose to wear chapstick instead of lip gloss because it smells good and it also makes your lips shine. The mascara will open up your eyes and make you look effortlessly fresh.


Wear light eye shadow, a little eyeliner, and mascara. If needed, wear lip gloss. Lipstick only looks good on some people, and it makes your lips feel sticky. Don't over-do it. You will look like a poser. Also, not all girls need make-up, so if it makes you look flimsy, don't use it.
 If you wear a uniform, pull your skirt up a little bit, so you look cute and stand out. Make sure you iron your uniform the day before so you look clean cut. Simple and clean cut means elegant, and most girls that don't worry about that just look messy and trashy.


If you don't wear a uniform, never wear the same outfit more than once every two weeks. You could wear the same shirt twice in that time period, but not the same shoes/bottoms with it. Make sure you have cute hair clips and/or headbands, and wear cute bracelets, earrings and necklaces. Don't be afraid to shop at stores where no one else is shopping. You could find really cute things that could make your look unique, so that no one else copies you, make sure to say "I forgot" or "my aunt bought it for me" when someone asks where you got it. If you have uniforms at your school, find your way through them. Buy the cutest belt you see, wear shoes that stand out, and wear accessories.
 Be very polite, but stand up for yourself and your friends. Also, don't be quiet and shy, just be confident. Make good grades, study hard, don't do anything stupid, and make good friends. Don't roll your eyes or gossip about a person for no reason. If someone is bothering you, just ignore that person. You have a life to live, and you don't have time to argue with someone. Just laugh and walk away. Wear clothes in your comfort zone so that you'll look relaxed. Everyone will love how effortlessly cool you are.

