 For most cacti of desert origin, a good general soil mixture consists of two parts garden soil, two parts coarse sand, and one part peat.This mixture is meant to drain well, and not harden when it is dry.Use a clay pot as well--their heaviness helps keep bulkier cacti from tipping over; they also allow the soil to breathe, preventing the roots from rotting., Test the moisture level by pressing your finger into the top inch of the soil. If it is completely dry, water the cactus fully, allowing excess water to drain out the hole in the bottom of the pot , Cacti need different amounts of water depending on whether they’re growing or dormant. During the growing season of March to September, water them, on average, once a month. During the dormant season of October to February, water only once per month at the most. Watering too much during the dormant season is the main cause of complications with cacti., Most cacti need lots of sun. In the summer, keep the cactus outdoors, being careful not to let it get too much rain. Start it in a shady area at first, gradually moving it into sunnier areas to avoid sunburn.In the winter, place the pot in a southern- or western- facing window, which have the best sun exposure.
 Cacti like cooler temperatures during their dormant period in the winter. But be careful to keep them out of the way of drafts--away from leaky windows and off the floor near doors.A healthy temperature range at night in the winter is 45 - 60 degrees Fahrenheit (7 - 16 degrees Celsius),so a basement or a room that gets less heat would be suitable storage areas during this period.


Unless you have a cold-hardy cactus, be careful not to let the room temperature drop below freezing, since most cacti can’t tolerate frost., You’ll know it’s time to transplant your cactus to a larger pot when either it becomes too top-heavy for the pot to support it, or when it grows within one inch of the edge of the pot.Use a standard potting mixture consisting of two parts garden soil, two parts coarse sand, and one part peat.Replant the cactus at the same level in the soil as it was in the original pot.
 A common result of over-watering is root rot, which happens when roots sit for too long in poorly-drained, moist soil. Before repotting, gently brush away the soil from the roots after removing the old soil ball from the original pot. Inspect the root system, and cut away any soft black roots, or any dried-up roots that appear dead. Cut just up to the part of the root that is still living.You can avoid root rot by making sure the your pot has a hole in the bottom for drainage, and that it never sits in excess water that collects in a saucer underneath the pot., If the roots are damaged when you remove the cactus from its original pot, or if you needed to cut away dead roots, let the cactus sit for about ten days out of its soil. This will allow it time to form calluses around the damaged or cut areas. Place it on a piece of paper, out of the sun but away from cool temperatures.Cacti do best after repotting if you transplant them during the growing season (March to September).Most cacti should generally be repotted every one-to-two years., Most fertilizers are given a number rating that indicates how much nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium they contain (in the form: N-Ph.-Po.) An example of a low-nitrogen fertilizer appropriate for cacti is 10-30-20, where the Nitrogen content is rated at 10.Too much nitrogen gives the cactus a flabby texture that impedes its growth.Never fertilize a cactus during the dormant season (October to February)., If the skin of your cactus is dusty or dirty, it may not be able to photosynthesize properly.Wash off this residue with a rag or sponge and a solution of with one drop of dish soap. Then rinse the plant under a faucet or with a soaked sponge.

