 When you, through your gestures and attitudes show that you are the kindest, the most obedient, the most caring and humble person in the world, an abusive person is likely to take advantage of your goodness in a negative way. Avoid being compliant in this manner, to avoid being taken advantage of. Stand up for yourself and make it clear that you won't tolerate any breaches of your personal safety and dignity.;
, Never ever ignore the first signs of abuse and related signs. When you let abuse go, by offering excuses for the bad behavior, it tells the abuser that you won't do anything about it, allowing the abusive behavior to intensify. When you accept the first abusive demands, he or she will take it for granted that this situation will be maintained and that he or she can get away with anything. The more abuse you tolerate, the more difficult it becomes to put an end to it.


At the first sign of abuse, signal your disapproval by stating clearly that it is unacceptable. If possible, pack an overnight bag and go and stay with someone you trust. If this is done the first time a fist is raised in anger or you are harmed in some way, it tells the abuser that you won't hesitate to take action to protect yourself. If you feel that it is unsafe to return, do not do so unless someone accompanies you (such as to collect your things).
 When you are in an intimate relationship, set clear limits, boundaries and values to follow. By indulging bad behavior in a relationship blindly and setting no boundaries on what is, and what is not, acceptable, you risk opening wide the doors for "anything goes". Show the other person that you are there for him or her if they respect you but that you will withdraw and protect your own needs if they cross a boundary that you have clarified as unacceptable. If you fail to do this, abuse can creep in and may become more severe over time.
 Being abused is not a form of martyrdom; there are people available in all societies to take you in, shelter you and defend you from ongoing abuse. The trick is to be willing to reach out to such people, even if you don't yet know them. When you realize that you are being abused by your partner, talk to your friends, family or supportive social workers and institutions about seeking help to get out safely. Even if you feel that your family won't be supportive, there are people who will be able to give you this support and help you to work around cultural preferences that sometimes hinder help and keep abuse silent. Remember, It is not a private matter anymore; once you have been abused, it is about violence that needs to be dealt with appropriately.
 Even if you feel that you can tolerate the abusive atmosphere and actions in the home environment, realize what this is teaching your children, who witness it all the time. Abusive language and actions in the home environment destroy the emotional health and well-being of children. Remove yourself from the abusive situation for the sake of both you and your children, so that they can grow up with a healthy mindset and learn the right way to interact with other human beings.


Do not use abusive language in front of your children, whether in the form of abusive beliefs, thoughts, or attitudes. Research shows that children who are exposed to abusive environment are more likely to become abusive partners in their adulthood.