 Set your oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit (165 degrees Celsius) and let it warm up while you mix up the batter. When you’re done making the batter, you can immediately pop it into the oven. Depending on your oven, it can take anywhere from 10 to 20 minutes to preheat., Crack open both eggs into a mixing bowl. Using a whisk, begin beating the eggs together. Continue doing this until they’re a light yellow color.If you do not have a whisk handy, you can use a fork for this step., Once you’ve beaten the eggs thoroughly, you can add the other ingredients. After adding each one, give the mixture a stir to ensure everything is well combined. After everything has been added to the mixture, stir it gently for a few moments to make sure everything is blended., This recipe will make enough to fill four large ramekins, which are baking dishes.You can find these at any home goods store, or even Target or Wal-Mart. The great thing about baking your baked fudge this way is that everyone will get a personal dish, and they can top it with whatever they like!, After you’ve poured the batter into the ramekins, pull out a larger pan that all of the ramekins will fit into. Place all of the ramekins in the pan, and then carefully fill it about halfway full with water.The water will absorb the heat of the oven, helping your fudge bake evenly and slowly., Carefully place the pan into the oven, and set your timer for 40 to 50 minutes. Keep an eye on your fudge as it bakes, however. You want to pull it out when the top appears crispy. The rest of the fudge will not be firm, but will continue to solidify a bit as it sits. You don’t want your fudge to be cooked completely through.If you notice that the water has evaporated, carefully pour a bit more into the pan as your fudge finishes cooking., Once the top layer of the baked fudge is crispy, it’s done baking. Don’t worry if the inside is gooey – that’s the best part of this dessert, after all. Let the ramekins cool a bit before serving so that no one burns their fingers. However, these are best served warm so don’t let them cool completely!, The best part about making your baked fudge in ramekins is that everyone can top theirs with whatever they like – or they can choose to skip the toppings. Different flavors of ice cream are a great option. The cold ice cream with the warm fudge is always a crowd-pleaser. Whipped cream is another solid option., If you want to add a bit of extra flavor or crunch, don’t hesitate to add some toppings. You can easily turn your baked fudge dishes into brownie sundaes, Chopped fruit, a handful of nuts, or some crushed candy will take this dessert from delicious to positively decadent.