 If you received a physical note, like a handwritten letter in your locker, or a note left in your backpack, you can consider clues like the location, the timing, the handwriting, and the tone. If your admirer has approached you online through an anonymous email or a chat message, you will need to consider clues like the screen name or email address, the tone and content of the message, and the timing.


If the note is handwritten, look at the handwriting on it. Compare the handwriting with the writing of people that you know. Think about your friend, your crush, or the person who sits next to you in English class.
If you have gotten an email or chat message from someone that you don't know, look at the email address or screen name. The person may not have used a personal account to send you the message, but you might be able to draw clues from the name that he or she chose.;
, Perhaps you received a bouquet of flowers, a bag of your favorite candy, or a mix CD. You can use clues from the gift to figure out who gave it to you.


If your secret admirer gave you a plate of fresh cookies, they probably likes to bake. Think about the people you know—especially anyone that you suspect might have a crush on you—and whether or not they like to bake.
If your secret admirer gave you a mix CD, they probably care a lot about music. Think about the music lovers in your life. Keep an eye out for people who are always humming, or who always have headphones plugged into their ears. Think about the songs on the mix: they probably include some of your admirer's favorite songs, so you might be able to identify him or her by her music taste.
If your secret admirer bought you something from a store, consider just asking the clerk who bought that item.
 Think about who would have been able to send the message at the time that it was sent. Think about who would've had access to the place that you found a note or gift. Piece together the circumstances to give yourself a clearer picture of how your admirer operates.


If your secret admirer left a note in your locker at school, there's a good chance that he or she goes to your school and has seen you using your locker. If your secret admirer left a gift at your house, he or she either knows you well or found out your address from someone else.
If you suspect that a specific person is your secret admirer, but they were home sick from school on the day that you found the note, then that person may not be the admirer. He or she may, however, have asked a friend to place the note. The note may also have been planted a day or two before you found it.
 If you received an anonymous email or chat message, reply to the message and try to strike up a conversation. If someone left a handwritten note for you, consider leaving a note of your own in the same place in case your admirer finds it.


Get to know your admirer via chat or email. Ask questions. Without being pushy, try to get your admirer to reveal his or her true identity.
Avoid leaving personal notes out where anyone could find them. Not only does this reduce the chances of your admirer actually finding the note, but it opens up the possibility of someone else finding the note and using that information to mess with you.
 How does your admirer write? How does he or she usually contact you? Does he or she have any quirks (e.g. figures of speech, unique spellings, references) that might help you identify him or her? Think about people you know that display those traits. Your admirer might not realize that he is giving himself away by using words that he uses in real-life conversations.


Does your admirer say a certain word or phrase a lot? For example, maybe he or she says "awesome" a lot during your chats, or maybe uses the word "totally" to emphasize points in a handwritten note. Think about people you know who use that phrase often.
Does your admirer make spelling mistakes? If you can identify any, do you know anyone who makes those spelling mistakes? For example, you might notice that a friend of yours always misspells "definitely" as "definetely."

