 This is a great way to meet people you would run into if the world were a bit smaller. You'll find friends of friends, or maybe friends of friends of friends, and have something in common with everyone. You'll be more likely to come up under the "People You May Know" section and may even have a few friend requests come to you.


When you do join a network, be active in it! Post on the wall, ask people questions, like their comments, do some commenting of your own, and make your presence known. Plenty of people want more friends on Facebook; you'll be a clear person to ask.;
, If all of us only friended the people we actually know and know well, our Facebook accounts would be sorely lacking. To gain access to people you don't know but would like to be friends with, join groups! Those with similar interests, of course.


Do a few quick searches for the things you like or the things you're a fan of. This way you can post on the group page and get into conversations with other members. This creates the base of your next round of friendships.
 If you sat at home waiting for that cute boy or girl to ask you out on Friday night, it wouldn't happen. The same goes for Facebook: people won't always be coming to you – you have to go to them sometimes, too. When you find someone you want to be friends with, ask them! What's the worst they can do? Not accept? Not a biggie.


You may want to be at least a little discerning with this. If you go about friending every person within a 500-mile radius, you may wind up getting blocked. Stick to people that are reasonable to friend and then you can branch out from there.
 Let's say you're throwing a wild party at your house next weekend. Make a Facebook invitation page and keep it open! Let friends invite friends. As soon as those friends see the page and decide they want to come to the party, they'll likely friend you. Or they'll see how popular you are and want a piece of the action!


You can do the same with fan pages or your own personal business, too. The more popular they are and if you're clearly associated with them, the more people may come a-knockin' on your door.
 Most people see a friend request from someone they don't know and assume they're just some creeper that just wants more friends. Don't be that creeper! Instead, include a message with your friend request.


Let's say you're friending someone who's in your "I Love Bubble Tea" group. Along with your friend request, say something like, "Hey Tina! I see that you're in the "I Love Bubble Tea" group, too! What's your favorite tea place in the area?"

, It's a little contrived, but people respond to it. If you're friending them and all they see is your name and a picture of you with Angelina Jolie, you're way more likely to get accepted. You could be the next big thing (they don't have to know), so they can't turn you down!


There are some types of people that this won't work on. Others will be like putty in your hands. Especially if your photos are public and you have a few with captions like, "Chillin' with Lina Jo getting our French fry on at the Grove." The ones anxious for some credos will eat it up.
 If, on that same picture, you have, "Chiln wit lina joe getin r french fry on @ da grove," people are less likely to be inspired. Resist the urge to use textspeak over Facebook; it just makes you look dumb. This goes double for friend request messages!


If your profile is public, this goes for your entire page. Most people will scope you out before they friend you. You want them to see a page that's interesting and polished – not one that your little brother or sister threw together.
 Apart from your profile picture (which should also be interesting), it's useful to have good pictures at the top of your lineup. When people go to find out just who the heck you are, they might go through a handful of your pictures. If they're funny, eye-catching, or somehow remarkable, they'll be more inclined to say yes.


Try not to be too repetitive; too many people get obsessed with the vacation they're on and post dozens of photos of the same mountain. Keep your photos of different, notable things. And that doesn't mean your empty dinner plate!

, There are tons of things people do that are just huge turn-offs to their friends. Here's how to post the "right' kind of post:


Ask compelling questions. If you just want a handful of likes, ask people for their thoughts. "Hey guys, what's the best movie to curl up to when you're sick and feeling terrible?" or "Kittens or Puppies? GO."
Keep them appropriate and inoffensive. Posting, "Man, women are the worst. Why don't they just stay in the kitchen where they belong?" will not do you any favors.
Make sure they're not all the same. If your entire wall is dedicated to "The Bachelor" or some other idea (regardless of how popular it is), you're likely to get hidden constantly. No one will comment and you'll be left with empty posts that don't look good to potential friends!
Make sure they're not embarrassing. "Just cried for hours over my boyfriend dumping me...AGAIN," isn't something the Facebook world has to know. Don't use it as a platform for airing out your dirty laundry. You won't feel better and you won't be more popular.
 When people look at your profile, whether they're your friends yet or not, you want them to see someone who looks like they have a life. Posting "Just drank a Coke!" and "Just went to the bathroom!" every five minutes will surely make people second-guess whether or not they want to be your friend. Keep your posts to a few a day, tops.


If your wall is just post after post of you updating everyone on the trivialities of your life, people can hear the groans of their future newsfeed from miles away. They'll know that being your friend will just bombard them with useless information consistently. So pace it!

, Facebook is busiest at night and on the weekend. If you want to look more popular, post at these times. 6-9 PM is a great time after work (people are just dying to see more pictures of cute cats after a hard day at the office), and weekends (morning, especially), people are lazing around killing time on the Internet.The more buzz your posts get, the more Facebook bumps them up in your friends' feeds. And if loads of people are commenting on your stuff, it may even get into feeds of your friends of friends. Time it right and you'll be even more popular.
 Newsflash: people don't read. At least, they try pretty hard to avoid it. If you want people to go gaga over your Facebook page, think in pictures. Short, quippy captions and intriguing pictures will make your page buzz with activity.


The same general principles apply for pictures, however. You don't want to post too much, you want to post the right pictures (read: interesting ones), and you want to post at the right times. Pictures can get just as boring as type can.
 If someone looks at your page and sees that it's dedicated to rants and gossip, they'll either never friend you or de-friend you straightaway. No one wants that stuff in their feed! Stick to things you find funny or interesting and you'll be good to go.


If you do feel that urge to get a little negative and you just have to tell everyone about it, frame it appropriately. Instead of saying, "No one go to Pizza Hut ever again! They're all criminals who will steal your money!" go for, "Guy at Pizza Hut triple charged me. Who wants to go to Pizza Hut, walk in with Domino's in hand, and make inappropriate amounts of eye contact?"

