 The amount of clubs, groups, and events on most campuses is staggering. The best way to meet people is to dive in feet-first. Pick something you love doing, or pick something totally new and weird that interests you. Remember, there is no commitment to most of these groups, so it's okay to go try things and see if you like them. Student activities are your chance to find a small group of people and get to know them, bonding over a common interest.


If you played sports in high school, try out a low-key club sport or intramural team. You can usually sign up as a "free agent," meaning you'll be placed with a random team and get to know new people.
The local arts groups, such as the radio station, newspaper, and theater teams are big, inclusive organizations on 99% of campuses., In high school, you're forced to be with the same people every day for 7-8 hours. Many people feel stifled by their options, their classmates, and their schedule, and worry that the same thing will happen in college. But in college you're free to join whatever clubs and classes you want. You go to lunch whenever you want. You can always go back to your room if you don't like someone or some situation. So be you and enjoy the kind of life you want to live.


Following your passions, however odd or quirky, will lead you to like-minded people.
A college social life does not have to revolve around drinking. Check your activities board or student groups for a wide variety of other activities and events.
Realize that the teen-like judgment common in high school starts to disappear with age. If you want to hang out with someone, you can. If not, then you don't have to see them again. People have little need to become bullies at universities.
 Don't be afraid to get to know people deeply. Ask questions and listen genuinely to the answers. Get to know your dorm mates and ask fellow classmates to come grab lunch with you after class. Everyone has a story, a history, and a passion worth following. If you show kind, genuine interest in that, you'll naturally find a few people you happily call your close friends., Whether you're about to become best friends or worst enemies, you should make your own expectations clear early on to avoid trouble. This isn't (and shouldn't be) a Constitution or set of laws, but rather a basic understanding of how you'll be living together. Doing this early on will ensure that, no matter how well you get along, you'll at least have general respect established. In the first week, casually let them know:


What you brought that is communal, and what is only for you.
Where your "area" or side of the room is.
Any major concerns, worries, or pet peeves.
How to get in touch with you., Stress is going to happen, and you will never complete remove it from your life. But you need to find a way to manage it on your own now. While studying is important and classes essential, college is also about having fun. If you make it a priority to do something fun every day, you'll see your stress melting away.


It is natural to feel extra stressed during finals or midterms. Just know that they'll be over soon enough.
Get to know your counseling center if you're struggling to manage stress. They are there to talk to you once a semester or once a week, even if just informally., The first thing many people forget in the whirlwind first year of college is themselves. You start to eat (and drink) much worse, drop your old exercise habits, and stay up until the crack of dawn every night. This is totally to be expected when you're suddenly left with the freedom and resources to decide what you do with your life. But you need to remember to put yourself first. Your social and academic life will both succeed as a result.

