 If you want to prevent a developing yeast infection, you need to be able to recognize the signs of one. There are three types of yeast infections. There are infections that affect the skin, the mouth, and the vagina.


Symptoms of a mouth yeast infection, also called oral thrush, are creamy patches of white in the throat or mouth region or painful cracks at the corners of your lips.
Skin yeast infections cause blisters, red patches of skin, or skin rashes, which are most commonly found between the toes and fingers, under the breast, and around the groin area.Skin yeast infections can also affect the penis. The symptoms can be the same, but the penis can also develop white patches of skin or moist areas of skin with a white substance collecting in skin folds.Vaginal yeast infections are common, and causes increased vaginal discharge that may be thick, white, and curd-like, mild to moderate itching, and internal vaginal skin irritation and redness.
 There are many risk factors that can contribute to yeast infections. If you suffer from a disorder that compromises the immune system, such as HIV, it will open up increased possibilities for infection because the body is unable to properly defend itself against outside sources. If you are taking antibiotics, you are also more likely to get a yeast infection. Antibacterial therapies, such as antibiotics, serve to fight against inspections, but they can also reduce the number of bacteria that live on your body and play a role in protecting you from other types of infections, such as yeast infections. In these cases, a yeast infection may occur if it is provided a surface to effectively multiply on, such as the skin, penis, or vagina.


People who are overweight can also suffer from increased changes of yeast infections. This is typically due to the overabundance of skin folds, which can cause bacteria and yeast growth.Babies are also prone to yeast infections that present as diaper rashes or in the mouth., Women with hormonal fluctuations, due to menopause, birth control pills, pregnancy, or premenstrual syndrome, can be more susceptible to yeast infections because of the physical stressors the hormonal changes cause. Women may also be prone to yeast infections through the use of douches and chemical irritants. While well-intentioned, these can alter the natural pH balance of the vagina, which naturally creates an environment that is difficult for foreign bacteria to infect.


Men are more prone to yeast infections if they are uncircumcised. These men have an increased risk for the yeast bacteria that causes the infections due to the increased ability of bacteria to grow on or under the foreskin., There are general ways you can prevent yeast infections. Only use antibiotics when absolutely necessary, so your body keeps its natural bacteria that fights off yeast infections.Since steroids can cause immune system problems, reduce or minimize the use of inhaled and other steroids. Try to stay away from moist environments and clothes. If you are in moist clothes, try to change out of them as soon as possible.Yeast infections can grow in the mouth, especially in those with diabetes and those with dentures. To prevent this issue with dentures, keep your dentures clean and use well-fitting dentures. For other instances, the yeast will remain dormant until a trigger, such as antibiotic use, causes it to manifest.Women should avoid douching if at all possible.If you have diabetes, always do your best to keep it controlled and keep your skin healthy.