 Consider your guests when choosing a time. People often host tea during the afternoon. Work and/or school may be a problem during the afternoon on weekdays, however. A weekend afternoon tea could be ideal if you let your guests know about the date you choose in enough time. You should choose a date at least a month before the tea. A couple of weeks ahead of time could be okay for a less formal gathering.If possible, ask your guests what times would be best for them.;
, Choose and send out invitations about one month before the intended gathering. You can purchase invitations and send them out through the mail. It is also possible to find invitations online, print them out, and send them. If you don’t want to send out invitations through the physical mail, you can also send out emails or call your guests.You can find invitations made specifically for teas on invitation websites.
 If you’re hosting a high tea, it is necessary to serve a variety of teas. Hot tea is the most traditional beverage to serve. You should purchase a variety of teas. Black, green, chamomile, fruit tea, and oolong tea are some of the types of teas you can serve. You should also provide some beverages outside of hot tea for guests that don’t like hot tea.You can also serve cold tea, juices, and cocktails if mostly adults will be attending.
You will also need sugar and milk for the tea.
 Food at a tea is usually light and easy to pick up and eat. Small sandwiches are usually served. Some type of sandwiches common at teas are carrot and raisin, crab, and salmon and avocado. Along with sandwiches, scones, teacakes, and buns are also served. Some common desserts that are put out at teas are biscuits (cookies), cakes, and pastries.Some options for scones are lemon drizzle, walnut, and cherry. They should be served with jam.
Shortbread, carrot cake, gingerbread, and coconut cookies are some options.
 Even if you’re not decorating extravagantly, you will need some supplies for the tea. A tea set consisting of a teapot and tea cups. You will also need plates and cutlery. Along with the basics, you will need a tablecloth, napkins, and serving trays for the food., If you will be decorating, put up the decorations the night before or the morning of the tea. Some options for decorations are lanterns, flowers, ribbons, candles, and streamers.If you want to diverge from the classic English tea, you can choose to decorate based on a theme, like Alice in Wonderland.
 Set up the area you will be having the tea on the morning of the tea. Put the tablecloth on the table or tables. Set out the napkins, cutlery, and dishes, and cups. How much you set up depends on how you plan to serve the tea and food. If you plan for your guests to serve themselves, you can set out the tea cups and plates at this time. If you plan to serve your guests, you will bring them out once your guests are seated., Once all of the preparations have been made, get dressed for the event. How you dress depends on how formal the tea is. Typically, an English style high tea calls for not quite formal, but nice attire. A dress or casual suit will work. If you’re following the English style, you may want to wear an elaborate hat that the British are so well known for.If you’re having a themed party, dress in costume according to that theme.
 If you’re not serving the guests, set out the tea five to ten minutes before the tea is set to start. Put out the teapot with boiling water. You can either set out tea bags around the teapot, or put out several pots with the teabags already in the pot. Put out milk and sugar next to the tea., There are a few different options for how to serve tea. An easy and common way is to set the food out on trays so that the guests can serve themselves as they please. You can also choose to set out some food and serve some food. Or, you can serve all of the food., Play some light music as your guests begin to arrive, and let it play softly in the background as the tea goes on. Classical music is a great choice for a tea. If that doesn’t work for you, soft jazz work well too.You can also find an “Afternoon tea” playlist on websites like YouTube and on music streaming services like Pandora and Spotify.
 As your guests arrive, welcome each guest in the way that is most comfortable to you. Show your guests to the area where the tea is being held. If you have places set for each person, show the guest to their place. Offer a drink to each guest as they arrive., Once most or all of your guests have arrived, begin the tea. Serve or offer food in the way you’ve chosen. Anticipate the needs of your guests during the event. Bring out more boiling water when the teapot begins to empty. Have extra food available in the kitchen if food begins to run low., Having food, tea, and conversation is enough for the event. If that falls short, there are some activities you can plan. For example, you can have guests make their own teas by setting out tea bags, tea, strings, and staples to close the bags. You can also purchase plain, white teacups, paint, and paintbrushes and have guests decorate their own teacups to take home.If you will be having children at the party, you can plan some activities specifically for them, like a treasure hunt or tea bag toss.