 Be pleasant and keep a sincere, interested smile on your face whether listening or speaking (not a pasted on grin). Preppy girls don't cuss; develop your college-bound level of vocabulary. Be taken rather seriously but not way too seriously, still know how to have serious fun. Practice good etiquette, being mannerly: be very mild-mannered and good natured.;
, Be kind and helpful to others around you by doing simple things such as: helping an elderly neighbor with yard work, asking someone how their day was, and any other simple act of kindness. It is amazing how much a simple act of kindness can affect a person -- and change your own outlook.
 Always be talking to a friend. Switch the friends you are talking to so one friend does not get annoyed with you. Get a boyfriend. If you are not allowed to have a boyfriend don't worry about it, because it is not essential to being preppy. Preppy people are supposed to seem innocent, so do not ever throw a fit in public. Don't spread rumors about others. Spreading rumors about others can hurt their feelings and that is not what preps do. Socialize and build friendships. Have sleepovers often. Don't forget to bring a blanket or sleeping bag if you are going to someone else's house. Chances are that if you host sleepovers and invite your friends, then they will invite you when they have sleepovers.
 Family is important. Don't give your parents attitude because they did not get you the new brand name jacket then stomp off to your room, no prep really does things like that (its just a stereotype). Offer to tutor or babysit younger children. You should be doing this for free not for money, but if they offer money just kindly take it and say thank you. Have the best birthday parties you can afford to give and invite friends and family. If all you can afford is a cake and some games to play then that is okay, the important part is that you made it the best you could.
 Good grades in school are essential. This means if you get bad grades you should study more and ask your teachers for extra credit. If you already have good grades then just do everything you can to keep them up. You may consider getting a tutor for yourself if your parents are at work when you get home.
 Play sports like volleyball and cheerleading. Although many preppy girls play volleyball and participate in cheerleading you can still do other sports such as cross-country or basketball (gymnastics is a great choice as well) or horseback riding. Tennis, golf or sailing (or rowing) with the styles of skirts, shorts and shoes that go with them are all possibilities, if appropriate.
 Make your own version of "it's the good life", serious fun, thoroughly living your life in all its aspects.

