 This part may be hardest to define, especially at the beginning. Examine your thought patterns. Does your mind tend to analyze artistic projects, social habits of people around you, and the visual aspects of the everyday world? Many lunar individuals come off as spacey or day dreaming because they are so often absorbed in thought.;
, There is no such thing as 'lunar music' but music is a large part of a lunar individual's life. Many lunar people are musicians themselves. A lunar person might listen to music that is often misunderstood and overlooked by the mainstream, such as techno and trance, various forms of metal/acid/goth/grindcore, and albums from other countries and eras. Lunar people don't choose music based on the popularity of a music genre, but rather the lyrics and instrumental value. Songs are poetry and prayers set to music and Lunar people know this. They are looking for something liquid to pour into their souls.
 If words related to subcultures come to mind, then you may be lunar. While lunar is not a subculture, lunar individuals often fall into one of the subcultures perceived by others to be darker or exotic (emo, goth, cyber, rave, scene, etc.). Some individuals may recognize themselves as one of these subcultures, but many tend to believe that they are who they are and that doesn't take any name but their own. The subculture link may be related because a lunar individual may realize that their minds and what is on the inside is completely unique from social norm and feel that the only way to accommodate that is to shift it to the surface. They'll wear what they want, whatever makes them feel comfortable.
 Many people would say no, even lunar people; but lunar people do tend to be intellectuals in one form or another. That is not to say that Lunar people are genuinely smart or do well in school; someone who is Lunar may do exceptionally poorly in school. But a divine sense of curiosity in the observed world and how things work is often linked with lunar qualities. You may be a philosopher or have a fascination with technology or maybe have an overwhelming gift with Literature.
 Creativity is one of the gifts most associated with lunar people. Many lunar people are artists, musicians, poets, authors, or simply creative thinkers. Consider what your passions are and how important they are to you. Creativity and lunar thinking go hand in hand.
 This can actually vary widely in lunar people, but they are often social outcasts. It is likely linked to the abstract thinking that is so ground into them that pulls them from inner social circles. Alternatively, a lunar individual may be widely popular and social; lunar do have a tendency to take profound interest in the individual, and they are often quite open to different ideas. This open mindedness can attract people from all different walks of life.


If you are something of a social outcast, don't let it bother you. Social norms can often be bleak and filled with dead ends so perhaps you are dodging a very apathetic and monotonous bullet.
 Many lunar people do have profound faith, and it may influence their thinking tremendously, because it is such a leap to believe in something that the world puts down at every turn. Therefore, it's another example of opposing the social norm.
 If you can say yes to at least five out of the seven qualities (especially the first one), you are likely a lunar individual.

