 Drinking enough water helps to keep your skin looking and feeling its best.In general, men should drink around 13 cups of water and other fluids daily (about 3 liters), and women should aim for 9 cups (2.2 liters).Drink more if you sweat a lot, work out, or live in a hot climate.
 Limit your exposure to the sun during the middle of the day (10:00 AM - 2:00 PM) when rays are strongest. If you must be in the sun for extended periods, be sure to wear protection like a wide-brimmed hat. Cover exposed skin or wear sunscreen of SPF 15 or higher. Too much sun can cause skin cancer and dark splotches on your skin.Try to use sunscreen made from natural products, or consider making your own organic sunscreen at home.
Reapply sunscreen every 2 hours, or more often if you’re swimming or sweating., Smoking lowers blood flow to your skin and causes skin damage and early wrinkles. Stop smoking now to benefit your skin (and the rest of your body, too).If you don’t smoke, don’t start.


Talk to your doctor if you need help to quit smoking. There are patches, gums, and medications that can make quitting easier.
 Hot baths and showers can strip your skin of oils and cause dryness and irritation. Stick to warm, not hot, baths and showers and limit how long you soak.Chemicals like chlorine found in pools and hot tubs can irritate your skin. Be sure to shower after swimming and soap off with a gentle cleanser to remove harsh chemicals.
 The average teen uses 15 to 25 cosmetic products every day.Remember that the more products you use, the more chemicals you may be exposing your skin to on a regular basis. Wearing a lot of makeup can make your skin oilier and more prone to breakouts.Try to use minimal makeup and products and stick to those with simple ingredients.


Always remove your makeup before you go to sleep.
 It can be tempting to pick at acne or scars, but do not rub or touch your skin lesions. In fact, avoid touching your face unless you’ve washed your hands first, as oil and germs from your hands can contribute to breakouts., High stress can make your skin more sensitive and prone to breakouts.Try yoga, meditation, deep breathing, taking a walk – anything that helps you relax. If you have a stressful lifestyle due to work or family, practice mindfulness meditation or learn stress management skills.

