 This will assist with circulation, which makes sure your hair follicles are nourished. Your body relies on essential vitamins and proteins to build hair cell by cell, and improving blood flow to your eyebrows can help ensure your cells get what they need.








Use the tips of your fingers to rub your brow with gentle, circular motions.Try massaging your eyebrows twice a day--once in the morning and once at night. You only need to do it for a few minutes., The omega fatty-acids are said to nourish cells and assist in hair growth, while also strengthening and moisturizing the hair. It is easily absorbed into the skin but should not block your pores and cause breakouts.








Castor oil is sticky, so you may want to dilute it with a little coconut or almond oil. Dab some on your finger and then massage it into the area where you shaved your eyebrow.If you don't have castor oil, try a little extra virgin olive oil, which is supposed to have a similar effect., Your eyebrows grow in a three to four month cycle. You may see some regrowth right away from hairs that were about to emerge before you shaved your brows, but it may take several months for your brows to fully grow out. By applying a growth serum to your brows, your hair will be in the growth stage longer than normal, or it may believe it is always in this stage.Most growth serums must be applied daily for at least a month before you see any results, and the growth will not continue once you stop using the product., Providing your body with the building blocks of hair (proteins) plus vitamins that help with circulation and cell-repairing antioxidants may speed up hair growth. Hair growth stalls and can enter a resting state when you don't have enough protein, and hair can even begin to fall out if you don't get enough vitamins.Make sure you get plenty of these foods:


Greek yogurt, lean meats (like chicken and turkey), eggs, and nuts for protein.
Sweet potatoes, carrots, and mangos for vitamin A.Eggs, almonds, wheat bran, salmon, low-fat cheese, and avocados for biotin (a B vitamin) that is hugely beneficial to hair growth.Spinach, kale, broccoli, and Swiss chard for vitamins A and C.