


Washing your face is like becoming a new person, it makes you feel fresh, it wakes you up in the morning, and it invigorates your skin to make it look healthy, clean, and glowing. When your face is clean, you feel clean and ready to take on the hectic day ahead.
Use face washes that double as scrubs. Exfoliating beads or gritty textures help clean out your pores and purify your skin from any dirt and oil below the surface of your skin. It also clears out dead skin!
Some of my favorites are Saint Ives Apricot Scrub and Kiehl's Pineapple Papaya Facial Scrub.;
,


Sometimes, you don’t always have time to get that extra hour of sleep or take the time you need to completely recover from the flu. So when you can’t do these things on your own, you need a little help.
That’s where tea comes in! Drinking tea is excellent for your body. Herbal teas especially clear out a lot of toxins in the body and provide you with the boost needed to fight sickness, stress, and sluggishness.
Yogi is a brand of tea that offers tea for every occasion. They have excellent teas for the cold season, but also stress-relieving teas, energizing teas, and even teas modified for the woman’s body.
For when you need an extra boost of energy, drink Yogi’s Refreshing Mint Vital Energy tea. It’s a black tea blend that has peppermint, ginger and cinnamon, to wake you up.



Congrats, you’re in college. No more restrictions, no more rules. What an exciting time for soda and waffle fries to be in abundance.
Unfortunately, these two things are nowhere on the food pyramid. It’s hard as a college student to get the nutrients you need. Red meat is scarce and all the vegetables look gross. But, you have to try to eat balanced and to eat at least three times a day.
Nuts, fruit, cheese, and yogurt are all great snacks to eat on the go. Don’t eat foods too high in sugar or fat. It won’t provide lasting nourishment and too much can lead to weight gain.
Try to incorporate something from every food group.
 Eating breakfast helps you get going in the morning and it will keep you from gorging at lunch and dinner. If you can snack during the day, bring some snacks with you.

