 Ideally this should be done before you even book the time in your diary. The space may be in your own home but ideally it should be a room that is both peaceful and calming as well as having minimal distractions. A spare room in your house maybe ideal if you live in a quiet neighbourhood, but a suitable alternative may be to stay at a friends, go camping, or a peaceful B&B, according to your budget.;
, Organizing meals can be a delight or a burden depending on your mood. A common option is to precook meals and freeze them, rely on a home delivery service, or have a friend to cook for you. You may always return the favor when your friend wishes to have their own time out. Ideally, the food should be healthy - you may plan to have a detox diet, or vegetarian, but the food should give you energy but not make you feel heavy.
 Many retreats may simply be a relaxation weekend with some peaceful music, a spa or pamper session. Other retreats may be meditation focused, reconnecting with the environment, such as bushwalking or hiking, or simply some quiet time to recollect and to reflect. You should consider the clothes, gear and other supplies you may need.
 These are not essential, but the talks and guided meditations can offer great benefit, inspiration and insight from experienced teachers from a wide range of backgrounds being secular or spiritual. If you regularly listen to such talks on YouTube or have a favourite soundtrack, its worthwhile using them on your retreat if they already lift your mood or inspire you.
 A friend or relative are very useful for retreats, not just to let someone know you are taking some personal time, but also in case you have other duties they may cover for you, such as looking after pets, your home and garden or collecting mail if you are away. It is also important to let your work place know so they can find someone to fill your role if needed.
 A weekend is good for a light break but maybe insufficient if you plan for a deeper retreat experience. Usually, as people do work far more than they realise, your time is best allocated as a few days rest. However for a week away, you may still find yourself sleeping more than meditating. It is important to remember that this is perfectly OK.
 Even if your retreat is hiking through the wilderness, it is very important to be kind to yourself. Many meditation retreats lose momentum or can cause unexpected stress due to striving too hard.
 If you feel hungry it's best to to consume a light, healthy a snack rather than starve. Likewise, it's better to vary your routine if needed by taking a walk, doing some exercises or taking extra rest. Monitor and explore any feelings that arise by using a diary, brainstorming or any other creative means that inspire you.
 By reflecting on your goal, you can stay in contact with the purpose of the retreat. This may mean switching off your computer, "losing" your phone for a few days, turning off the TV and putting away your distractions until you come back. It also helps to remember that if your goal was to be more peaceful or healthy, has this method been effective and can you improve it? This helps you as you go as well as in future.
 In practice, it is actually better to have an extra day between your personal time and the work or school world. This allows you some time to adjust, pack away any gear you may have taken on a camping trip or simply to get motivated to start work again. Many people have experienced shock to some degree when they rushed back into a hectic lifestyle.

