 Drinking plenty of water is one of the best things you can do to prevent a hangover in the first place and to help treat the symptoms if you already have one.Try to drink one glass of water for every alcoholic drink you have throughout the night.
Drink water before going to bed and keep a glass within reach in case you wake up thirsty.
Start drinking plenty of water as soon as you wake up the next morning and continue throughout the day to keep your hangover at bay.
If you can't get yourself to drink that much water, try a flavored water, mineral water, electrolyte drink, or coconut water. Avoid drinks with a lot of added sugar and caffeine.;
, This may be hard after a long night, but try to fit in as much sleep as you possibly can before work to give yourself the best shot at having a productive day.Set your alarm for the time you actually need to get up instead of setting it earlier and hitting snooze. Waking up and then going back to sleep for a few minutes disrupts your sleep cycle and will leave you feeling more tired.
If going in to work a little late is an option, you may want to consider getting some extra sleep so you will be more productive when you are there.
The quality of your sleep might not be great after a night of drinking, but don't take any sleeping aids unless you have a full night to devote to sleep.
If you get the opportunity to take a nap during the day, go for it.
You can go to bed a little early the night after your late night out, but try to avoid going to bed so early that you will not be able to sleep through the night.
 Even if you're feeling nauseous, eating will usually make you feel better. Your body will be depleted of many important vitamins after a night of drinking and it needs to be replenished.Resist the urge to skip breakfast. If you can't eat much, have a small breakfast and multiple small snacks throughout the day.
Try to avoid junk food. Instead, fill yourself up with healthy foods like lean protein, whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, which will provide your body with the vitamins and minerals it needs.
Overeating at lunchtime can leave you feeling more tired, so watch your portions.
 Wake yourself up with a cup of black coffee or tea in the morning, and one or two more throughout the day.


Don't overdo it with caffeinated beverages, as they can dehydrate you, which will make your hangover symptoms worse. Remember to keep drinking water.Try to avoid caffeinated beverage with lots of added sugar.
Stop drinking caffeine by 3 p.m. to avoid disturbing your sleep cycle.
 Although you might not feel like moving much, getting some exercise can help you feel more energetic, especially if you can go outside.If possible, get some exercise in before work, whether it's a jog or just a slow walk.
Try taking a break from work to go on a quick walk if you're starting to feel really tired.
 A headache can make getting work done seem impossible, so take some over-the-counter medicine to combat it before work, and continue taking it throughout the day as needed.


Be sure to read the label and only take the recommended dose, no matter how bad your headache is.
Medicines that contain acetaminophen can be damaging to your liver when combined with alcohol, so choose another pain relieving agent, such as ibuprofen.If you decide to take medication for a stomach ache as well, carefully read the warning labels to make sure that the two medications will not interact. Some medications for nausea may also contain pain relieving ingredients, so you may not want to take additional pain relieving medications as well., Try to stick to your regular morning hygiene routine as much as possible. You want to look clean and fresh, so don't skip washing your hair or shaving.Take some extra time brushing your teeth to make absolutely sure that you don't smell like alcohol. Mouthwash may help too.
Wash your face before you go to bed as well to clear your pores and prevent breakouts.
 A cold compress can help decrease the puffiness of your eyes, which will help you look less tired.An eye cream may help decrease puffiness as well. If you can, try applying some before you go to bed and reapplying in the morning.
 Keep your makeup light and simple. Don't use any harsh colors or any products that require a lot of skill to apply.Use concealer to hide dark circles around your eyes.
Alcohol can dehydrate your skin, so use products that moisturize, like tinted lotions and cream blushes. Avoid powders and products with a matte finish.
If you don't normally wear makeup, make sure to at least moisturize your face.
 If your eyes are looking a little red, put a two drops of eye drops in each eye before leaving the house.


You might want to bring the bottle to work with you in case your eyes start looking red again.
Make sure to always follow the directions on the bottle.
 Choose your outfit carefully. You will want something that is comfortable and easy to wear, but also extremely professional looking.Don't take any risks with your outfit. Today is not the day to draw attention to yourself with a loud outfit. Wear something you have worn before so you know it will look good.
Make sure to check yourself in the mirror before you leave to make sure that nothing is inside out, wrinkled, unbuttoned, or otherwise unprofessional looking.
Style your hair conservatively as well. Try a low bun or a french twist for long hair.
 You will draw less attention to yourself if you show up to work on time, so do your best to stay on schedule.


If you're going to be late, call or email your boss ahead of time.
 While you might be tempted to procrastinate, you will only get more tired and dreary as the day goes on, so take care of important tasks right away.If an important task can wait until the next day, you might want to put it off so you can take care of it when you are feeling more alert.
 As the day goes on and you get more and more tired, try to occupy yourself with tasks that don't require much skill or concentration.Take advantage of this opportunity to do things you have been putting off, like cleaning out your inbox or organizing your files.
You probably won't be able to stay focused on any one task for more than a few minutes at a time, so choose things that won't take long.
 Try to avoid contact with your boss and coworkers as much as you can without letting them know that something is going on.


If you do need to talk to your boss, keep your interactions brief.
If you can reschedule meetings, it may be best to do so. If rescheduling will cause suspicion, power through them, making sure that you take good notes and are extra personable.
 Try to avoid letting your boss or your coworkers see how tired you are.


Keeping yourself busy will make the day feel shorter, while watching the clock will make it feel longer, so do your best to actually focus on your work.
Even if you're not functioning well enough to do anything important, try to make yourself look busy.

Get up from your desk if you're feeling like you're about to fall asleep. Even a short walk to the bathroom or the water cooler can help wake you up.
Don't make any mention of your night out. If someone asks you why you look so terrible, say you have a migraine or a cold.

