 Get one that is several sizes bigger (taller is more important then wider, but you may want it to be wider as well) because you will be wearing something on your shoulders, and that will make you seem taller. You must get a dress with full-length sleeves. ;
, If you don't have access to this, use a thick poster board. 

, It should be big enough for your head to fit through, but not so big that the cardboard sags. Cut it in about 3/4 of the way up.
 Lay the paper down horizontally, then secure the short ends together. This is the top of your "body."

, The bottom should reach down slightly past your armpits. They should be perpendicular to the hole for your head.
 If not, cut the shoulder holes to the correct size. If they are too large, consider staring again.
 Choose a strong piece of cloth, as it will be supporting pieces of newspaper/cloth and even a papier mâché neck. You can also hot glue gun it to the cardboard directly, though it will ruin your cloth.
 Make sure the shoulders fit on the cardboard.
 You can either use cloth, bubble wrap, plastic bags or newspaper. This will also help keep the dress in the same space.
 An easy way to do this is to get a jar (pickle or something similar), then put newspaper next to it. Put paper dipped in glue over it, then wait until it dries. Paint a severed neck.
 It doesn't have to be an entire hole, you could even cut a slit. Make it smaller than you think; that way, if it is too small, you can just cut it open a little more, instead of having to sew the fabric back in place.
 You can use a glue gun, tape, or even staples, though a glue gun is recommended. You can also get white gloves and stuff them, then attach them to the arms.


White gloves can often be found secondhand in thrift stores or through online auctions or clothing sellers.
 This will give the impression your head has recently been severed off.
 Make yourself very pale, with bags under your eyes and red/black lipstick. You could also add wounds.
 This costume is almost easier than a headless bride:


Wear pants that come up to your armpits. Secure with a belt, or hot glue to a t-shirt (or any other shirt).
Put on a long button-down shirt, as well as a blazer. Keep one button on the bottom unbuttoned, to see through.
Stuff the arms, then tie a Halloween trick-or-treating bucket to one arm.
 This is also similar to the headless bride:


Use the same method as the Headless Bride, but wear the same costume as the headless horseman.
Unbutton two or more buttons so that you can stick your head through.
Stick your head into a pretzel jar. Be sure to leave the top open so you can breathe easily!

, Almost the same as the head in a jar, you:


Wear the same costume as the headless horseman and head in a jar costumes. Unbutton two buttons so you can stick your head through.
Secure a platter to the hands.
Rest your head on the platter. You can add any plates, forks, etc. you want!

