 To make your child more interested in their food, consider offering two different courses that are from different food groups.


This is especially helpful to ensure that your child will not get bored of eating the same thing.
However, do not mix your child’s food with sweets like candies or chocolate. This will just create a craving for sweets and discourage them from eating normal foods.
 You may include at least one nutritious food that your child likes with every meal.


Then you can dice small portions of vegetables into it, to make sure your child eats enough vegetables.
For example, you can grate carrots onto your child’s macaroni and cheese.
You can also cover the vegetables that you wanted your child to eat with their favorite sauce.
You can serve your child a smoothie, which contains milk and healthy fruit.
Give fruit juices in moderation to avoid tooth decay.
 Making vegetable art can be a good way to get your child interested in eating their vegetables.


Use healthy ingredients like olives for the eyes, mushrooms for the nose, and pasta for the hair, etc. to create colorful and funny faces.
 Just put a small portion in your child’s plate, because big servings will overwhelm your child and lead to a lessened desire to eat.


You can also slice or mince your child’s food into smaller pieces, so he will not have difficulty chewing them.
You may also want to offer your child a nibble tray since children usually binge on one food at a time.
Make these finger foods more enjoyable by cutting them into small different shapes.
 Switching up the environment can add some novelty to your child's eating experience and make it more fun and engaging.


You can try having a barbecue and eat by the poolside for a change.
For added fun, having a picnic might also excite your child.
You can also go to a restaurant that your child likes to get him into the groove of eating. Remember to stay away from eating food with too much salt.
In case you are going to a restaurant where you are uncertain of the food that they serve, bring some fruit or snacks just to be sure that your toddler can still eat properly.

