 You'll see a list of any pending friend requests.


The advanced search techniques in this section are only available through the Facebook website. To find friends using the Facebook mobile app, click here.;
, This will open a new page with Facebook's friend-finding search tools.
 These are Facebook's suggested friends based on mutual friends and how likely you are to know each other. The list can get pretty long, so you may not be able to make it through the whole thing.
 On the right side of the Find Friends page you'll see a sidebar with several search fields. You may have to scroll up if you scrolled down through the suggested friends. Each one of these fields will help narrow down your search.
 You use any one field or combine multiple ones to try to find the person you are looking for. Each field that you fill out will filter results, and people you are most likely to know will be listed at the top of the results list.


If you only know someone's first name and the city they are in, you can type the first name into the "Name" field and enter the town or city into the "Current City" field. You'll likely get a lot of results, but it will make finding a near-stranger much easier.The "Mutual Friend" field can be very useful if you met someone through a friend but didn't catch their whole name.
You don't need to enter anything into the "Name" field. For example, you can just use the current city field to see everyone in your town that has their location set as that town.
As you enter terms into the fields, you may get suggestions. Select these suggestions for the best results, if they match what you're searching for.
 The box in the upper-right corner of the Find Friends page allows you to enter your email account information and have Facebook scan for anyone on the list that is using Facebook.


Select your email service from the available options. If you don't see yours, select the generic email icon.
Enter your email login information. For most services, this is all you will need to do. For Gmail, you'll need to export your Gmail contacts and then upload your contacts file to Facebook.

