 Cannabutter is butter that has been infused with THC from marijuana leaves. It is essential for making marijuana cookies. Making cannabutter is easy, but it is also time consuming and you need a decent amount of marijuana to make it. You will need:2 sticks of unsalted butter
1/2 ounce of marijuana (ground and with seeds/stems removed)
1 cup of water;
, The double boiler will melt the butter and allow the marijuana to steep without using too much heat. If you have a double boiler, then you can use it. If not, then you can just set one up on your own.








To set up a double boiler, place a large stock pot on your stove and fill it about 1/3 of the way full with water. Then, place a medium sized bowl over the stockpot. The bowl should be large enough to overlap the edges of the stock pot, but small enough so that the bottom of the bowl will be in or near the water.
Heating cannabis is necessary to extract the THC and reap the psychoactive effects of the herb.You cannot digest the THC in raw marijuana, so eating raw marijuana would have no effect., Place your two sticks of butter into the bowl of the double boiler and turn the heat on low to medium. The water will heat up and the steam will cause the butter to melt slowly.








Keep the heat low. Do not allow the butter to come to a boil.
The THC in cannabis is fat soluble, not water soluble. This means that it is necessary to heat the cannabis in butter or oil to capture the THC for use in baking.If you do not eat dairy and do not want to use butter, then you could use some non-dairy margarine or coconut oil instead.
 While the butter is melting, you can prepare the marijuana. Place a piece of cheese cloth on a clean surface and fold it in half twice. This will help to ensure that no marijuana escapes the cheese cloth. The place your marijuana on the center of the cheese cloth.








Fold over the shorter edges of the cheese cloth first. Then fold over one of the long edges and roll the marijuana towards the other edge, as if you are rolling a burrito.
Use the cooking twine to tie up the burrito. Make sure that you wrap the string around the burrito evenly and secure it well or it might fall apart.
 Put your marijuana tea bag into the melted butter. You may need to bend it slightly to make it fit into the bowl. You can also use a metal spoon to push it down into the butter a little further.
 Adding water will help to cover all of the marijuana with liquid and it will also help the marijuana to release its THC. Pour one cup of hot water into the bowl with the butter and marijuana tea bag.








Remember that the THC in marijuana is fat soluble, not water soluble. That means that water alone will not extract much of the THC from your marijuana.The water will just help to heat the marijuana so that the THC can be absorbed by the fat in the butter.
 Next, cover the bowl with a heat proof lid and let the marijuana steep in the butter and water for four to six hours. Keep in mind that the longer you steep the marijuana in the butter, the more potent the cannabutter will be.








If you do not want the cannabutter to have too much THC in it, then you might want to stop steeping it at around three to four hours. However, if you want it to be strong, then let it steep for a full six hours.
 When the marijuana is done steeping, the butter will have a green tinge to it.Remove the bowl from the double boiler using oven mitts to protect your hands from the heat. Then, remove the marijuana teabag from the butter with a slotted metal spoon and set it aside.








You may also want to use a second metal spoon to press the marijuana tea bag and squeeze out any excess liquid from the teabag back into the bowl.
 You can leave the marijuana butter in the bowl to cool or transfer it to a different container if you prefer. Let the bowl and marijuana butter cool down to room temperature slowly and then transfer the bowl to the refrigerator.








You can leave the butter in the fridge for a few hours or overnight.If you transfer the liquid to a foil pan, then you can easily drain away the water after it cools.
 After the butter has cooled down to room temperature, it will be back in a solid form. The butter will also have risen to the top of the bowl and the water you added will be at the bottom of the bowl.








Pour out the water and keep the butter. You can use a strainer or just punch a hole in the bottom of your foil pan if you transferred the butter.
The butter is now ready to use to make chocolate chip cookies or as a one to one substitute for regular butter in your favorite cookie recipe. For example, if the recipe calls for ½ cup of butter, then replace the butter with ½ cup of cannabutter.
 Measure out your 1 and 1







, Measure out ½ cup of cannabutter, 2








Make sure that the cannabutter is at room temperature before you start mixing the cannabutter and sugar.
 Next, add 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract and the egg to the cannabutter and sugar mixture. Use the hand mixer to combine all of the ingredients together until they create a uniform mixture.
 Measure out 1 and 1







, To complete the dough, you will need to sift in the dry ingredients that you prepared. Add the flour, salt, and baking soda to the wet ingredients. As you add the dry ingredients, use a spatula or spoon to mix the dry and wet ingredients together until a dough forms.
 Line the cookie sheet with parchment paper or spray it with some non-stick cooking spray. Space out the dough balls evenly on the cookie sheet.For large cookies, scoop ¼ cup of dough at a time onto the cookie sheet.
If you want smaller cookies, then try adding one tablespoon at a time onto the cookie sheet.
 For small cookies, bake your cookies at 375 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes.If you want your cookies to be chewier, then cook them for around 10 minutes. If you want them to be crunchier, then cook them for around 12 minutes.








For larger cookies, bake the cookies at 325 degrees for 18 to 25 minutes. Closer to 18 minutes will result in a chewier cookies, while closer to 25 minutes will result in a crunchier cookie.

