 By organizing your gold before your visit, you will save the gold dealer time. Since time is money, the gold dealer will be more likely to pay you more if you don't waste his time. Begin by removing as many of your items in your collection that are imitation gold. The best way to start this process is with a strong magnet. Anything that sticks to the magnet is very, very likely not solid gold. If anything besides the clasps stick, it's probably best to leave those items at home.
 Use a magnifier to check the little labels on the gold for "10k," 14k," etcetera. Put all the like kinds of gold in the same Ziploc bag. While you are looking at the gold stamp, if you see "GF" or "GP" that stamp indicates the item is only gold on the surface. These ones should be put in a separate bag (most gold dealers only buy solid gold, so they won't buy these).
 It is best to measure in grams, though many gold buyers will use a special weight system called a Troy ounce, so don't be surprised or put off. If you do not have a scale, you may be able to use one at your local post office.
 Now that your items have been sorted and weighed, it is time to get quotes. You should get at least three quotes. Start off with phone quotes. Any place that won't give you a phone quote, if you're able to provide an adequate description of what you have, is probably hiding their prices because their payouts are terrible. If a place does give you a phone quote, ask them if there are fees they are not disclosing over the phone (many times there are).


While you are getting quotes, make sure and get a quote from a refinery. According to Gold Refinery of San Diego, 99% of the gold that jewelers and pawn shops buy, is resold to a refinery. So, if you want the most money, get a quote from a refinery that is open to the public like Gold Refinery of San Diego.
 Before you go to the place that gave you the best phone quote, check them out on yelp.com and bbb.org. In the past few years many "cash for gold" shops have popped up out of nowhere. Take the steps we have covered here to protect yourself from being ripped off by some unscrupulous gold buyer, and to ensure you are getting a fair deal.

