 Tongue twisters are a great way to improve your speech clarity as mastering them will allow you learn how to keep your voice clear and speak with confidence. Many actors and public speakers will practice tongue twisters before going on stage to warm their voices up.


Start off slowly and gradually build up until you can say them at a normal conversational speed. When speaking them, exaggerate the words, making your tongue, jaw, and lips work hard. As you become surer of them, begin to project your voice and exaggerate the words more. This helps you gain skill and strengthens the muscles in your mouth for speech.Try some of these tongue twisters to improve your speech clarity:

You know New York, you need New York, you know you need unique New York. (Repeat).
Red leather, yellow leather. (Repeat).
While we were walking, we were watching window washers wash Washington's windows with warm washing water., If you’re reading a book or even just the news in the morning, practice reading it out loud. Doing this will help you become more familiar with how you sound when you speak. Oftentimes when we are talking to people we aren’t really listening to ourselves and how we sound. By reading something out loud in the comfort of your own home you can begin to listen to yourself and pay attention to areas where you may not speak clearly.


You can also record yourself talking and then play it back while taking note of where you may mumble or not speak clearly.
 Many actors and voice actors do this exercise to increase clarity and diction, especially when it comes to something like Shakespeare.By putting a cork between your teeth and speaking aloud you train your mouth to work extra hard to really pronounce every syllable, and the cork will also prevent your tongue from tripping you up on certain words.


This exercise can tire your jaw, which will help you learn to relax it, but you shouldn’t do this for too long so you don’t get sore.
You may also want to have a napkin with you as you produce a lot of saliva with this method.
 Tone also plays into clarity and diction as it can affect how you pronounce certain words.


Are you giving a speech that is supposed to excite people? They may have a harder time understanding you if you are monotone or disinterested.
Your tone, whether you're excited, informative, or conversational will affect how people pay attention to your speech, and can improve your clarity.
Tone is everything from your attitude when speaking to the pitch of your voice. Take note of how high or low your voice is when speaking.
 Uptalk is that nasty habit of ending your sentences with an upward inflection that makes you sound like you’re asking a question.End your sentences on a strong note with authority. Speak with declarative statements and invoke confidence.A lot of times uptalk happens when we don’t feel confident in what we are saying. Maybe someone asks you what you do and you respond with “I’m a designer?” This is uptalk and it makes you sound almost apologetic. Instead, own your response and statements. “I’m a designer.”

