 You will act as a middleman between the producer of the product and the consumer without ever touching the product. Be sure to choose a product that you believe is in demand and underrepresented by current advertising.You will need to buy a domain name, but you will not need to set up a website, as your domain name will redirect people to the product's website.


Generally, you will get the biggest commissions on digital products. Digital products are defined as something that is downloaded directly to a customer's computer after purchasing, like electronic books or software. Since there is no extra cost per unit, no inventory and no shipping, the commissions are much greater than on regular "physical" goods. The most common commission on digital products is 50%.
Sign up for an affiliate membership site as a reseller. This will allow you to build a residual income and the retention rate is much higher than just selling a product once and getting paid. After you sign up, you will get a unique affiliate link where you need to send people to purchase the product. Your affiliate link will have a special code that will tell the product owner that it's you who referred the customer. The affiliate link code will allow your commissions to be tracked correctly and assigned to you.
 These can be purchased cheaply from a hosting website. It's important to note that unlike having your own website you don't have to pay for hosting which is usually more expensive than buying and registering a domain name. When someone types in your domain in their browser, it will go to your affiliate link. The visitor will see the website with the product you promote, and the commissions will be tracked correctly.
The reason why you need a domain name is that it's memorable and it makes you look more trustworthy. Affiliate links tend to be too long and arouse suspicion. For example, most people would rather click on the link bestwidgets.com as opposed to abcwidgets.com?reseller=john.
 In order to make sales, you need to get visitors to your domain name (which will forward them to the website of the product that you resell). You can pay for advertising and hope that your profit will be greater than advertising cost, or you can use free ways to generate traffic.The most effective way to get free targeted visitors to your domain name is by writing and submitting articles. You can write short articles on the topic related to the product that you promote and include your domain name at the end. You will then submit your articles to various websites, and allow them to publish your articles as long as your link is included. Your articles may be published in many places on the Internet (depending upon quality and relevance of the article to the website owner), and will be advertising your affiliate link at no cost to you whatsoever. People will read your articles, like what you have to say and click on your domain name link ready to buy.

