 A balloon decorating strip has perforated holes to attach the tied ends of balloons to and it will naturally arch up as you fill it up. Purchase balloon decorating strip anywhere that sells party supplies. Then, measure and cut how long you’d like your final arch to be. You will need at least 12 feet (3.7 m), Before you start filling up the decorating strip with balloons, hang it on the wall in an arch shape. Use a staple gun to hang it and make extra curves in your arch if you want to. If you want to move the arch somewhere else, be gentle relocating it.
 Blow up balloons of various sizes to fill up the arch with. Use an air pump or your lungs if you have enough breath.
 You don’t want to weigh your arch down with heavy flowers. Silk flowers will work great as long as they don’t have a lot of heavy plastic. Look for vines to hang from the arch and lightweight silk flowers. Use fresh flowers if you have the money to spend.
 It’s easy to attach balloons to a decorating strip. Simply pull the tied end of each balloon through the holes on the strip. Start with the largest sized balloons and work your way down to the smallest. Glue extra-small balloons to larger balloons with Elmer’s glue., Decorate the balloon arch with flowers and greenery by arranging greenery through the spaces between the balloons first. Space vines apart equally and pull the ends through the back so that several inches or centimeters lay over the front. Place the flowers similarly, being careful to show off the top of each flower.
 Tie 6 inches (15 cm) of twine to the base of a flower, pull the string around the decorating strip, then tie and hide the end behind a balloon.
 Make sure your floral balloon arch is arranged nicely by double-checking the placement of the balloons and flowers. Be careful not to have too many of the same kind of flowers or too many similarly sized balloons in one spot.
 Keep the arch on the wall or stand it up in a room. A balloon arch is a great place to take pictures under or in front of.

