 Application of cold causes temporary numbness of the nerve endings leading to reduced sensation. It soothes the skin and reduces the urge to itch. Less itching means less skin irritation and reduced development of rash, too.


Put some ice cubes in a plastic bag or towel and hold it on the itchy skin for a few minutes. If you don't have ice, you can use a bag of frozen peas or beans. Be sure to always wrap your ice packs in a cotton towel or cloth to avoid direct contact of ice on your skin,
Do not hold it on the area for a prolonged period of time. With cold there is blood vessel constriction leading to reduced blood supply to the area that may cause tissue damage.
Dry the skin immediately after using cold compression because moisture often worsens itching and rash.;
, These are convenient, easy, often effective remedies to reduce itching. They are most effective when the main problem is general dryness like in cases of psoriasis, tinea, lichen planus, etc. Choose an oil based cream as it keeps moisture in the skin for extended periods of time.


Depending on need, you may apply the cream three to four times a day.
Do not buy creams which contain scent or dye. The chemical used in those kinds may worsen hypersensitive skin lesions., Aloe is a plant that has been used for many years for skin care. The gel of the aloe vera leaf reduces itching and helps to benefit many skin conditions like the common rash, eczema, and psoriasis.To extract the gel, break a leaf and cut it along its mid-length. Then squeeze the leaf with a spoon keeping it on a hard surface. Apply the gel directly on the skin and keep it for on an hour or so.You can also buy pharmaceutical topical creams or gels that use aloe vera gel in their content. These can be applied three times daily for several weeks.
 Both of these products have anti-septic, anti-bacterial and anti-fungal effects. They can calm your urge to itch, sooth your skin, and prevent dryness to boot. Here's how to use them:


Take a teaspoon or so of lemon juice and gently massage it into your rash. If your rash is on the larger side, use more lemon juice as needed. After 5 minutes or so, wash the area off with warm water.
Apply apple cider vinegar with a cotton ball or swab directly on the affected areas or add it to your bath to cover larger areas on your skin., There are a number of natural herbs that purportedly have natural skin-soothing effects. Some are even thought to be anesthetic, anti inflammatory and antiseptic. Here are the details:


Mint contains menthol and rosmarinic acid, thyme contains thymol, and basil contains eugenol, all of which share the same powerful effects that can ease your symptoms. You can make your own replenishing skin wash of each one by adding some of the fresh leaves of any of these herbs to a cup of water and bringing it to a boil. When it cools, apply it to your affected skin using the aid of a cotton ball or swab, let sit for 5 to 10 minutes, and then wash off with warm water.
 There are many over the counter topical products for itching widely available. They primarily act by numbing the skin temporarily and hence reduce the urge to itch. Apply these lotions or creams several times a day as needed. There are usually no side effects because systemic absorption is negligible.


Topical lotions containing calamine, camphor, glycerol, menthol, thymol, phenol, chamomile, or olive oil all have soothing effects to reduce and inflammation calm the affected area.
 Antihistaminics are also available in topical form to be applied directly on the affected skin areas. Common, popular examples are Fenistil gel (Dimethindene) and Insect bite gel (Dimethindene + Zinc acetate). Topical creams or gels can be applied up to four times daily to sooth and calm the irritated skin.
 Steroids can be used topically to avoid all their systemic undesirable side effects when ingested. Applying the topical applicants on your affected skin can produce an immediate soothing effect, and reduce irritation and inflammation. Common examples are Dermovate (Clobetasol) and Elocon (Mometasone). Most are available as creams, ointments or lotions.


Certain varieties are available over-the-counter at your local pharmacy. For stronger topical agents, you'll likely need a prescription from your doctor.
 Your rash will likely get worse if your skin stays damp and hot. Such conditions breed bacteria and slow the healing process, making it itchier for a longer period of time. Here are a few things to keep in mind:


Having cool showers and baths are very helpful in case of rash that's spreading. Avoid using soaps and shower gels that can irritate your skin; substitute them with soaps made from natural moisturizing substances.
Always wear cotton clothes, especially those that are in direct contact with your irritated skin. Make sure that all your clothes are from fine cotton, not irritating artificial materials.
Avoid exposing your rash to hot water or very hot climates – this can irritate your skin more and worsen your condition, bringing about stronger urges to scratch your skin that can lead to tiny cuts that may develop secondary bacterial infections.
 Another kind of bath you can take that may be effective for your rash is the Epsom salt bath. It can soothe your rash by decreasing inflammation and calming your irritated skin. To make it doubly effective, add some natural oils such as olive or chamomile to help seal in moisture.


Make a bath by adding a cup of Epsom salts to your warm bath, stirring lightly, and adding a few drops of oil. Sit in it for about fifteen minutes three times every week.
 Colloidal oatmeal acts as a cleanser and moisturizer as well as a soothing and protective anti-inflammatory agent.It can be used in place of soaps which are alkaline and often irritating to your skin.


Take one cup of oatmeal and grind it in a blender or coffee grinder. You will have a fine powder of oatmeal.
Put a quarter cup of this oatmeal powder in a water filled bathtub. Stir the water with your hands to ensure even distribution of the powder.
Spend 15-20 minutes in the tub soaking your whole body. Get up and dry your skin with a soft towel.
 Baking soda can inhibit the itchy sensation and pain in your rash and sooth your skin. When it's mixed with water, an endothermic reaction gets created, releasing baking soda's antiseptic nature. Here are two ways to use it:Add 1/2 cup (4 ounces) of baking soda to a warm bath and relax in the water for 20-30 minutes. This is great for hard-to-reach rashes.
If you don’t have time for a bath, make a paste by adding baking soda to warm water at a ratio of 2:1. Mix and apply to your skin, leaving it on for 20 to 30 minutes. Then, wash it off with warm water and pat dry.

Do be careful not to use this remedy too often. Baking soda in excess can actually dry out your skin.
 Similar to the herbs discussed above, turmeric and ginger are thought to be powerful anti-inflammatory substances. When they're ingested, your entire body reaps the benefits from the inside-out.


Add them as spices to your dishes, drink them as teas, or mix one teaspoonful of each with one cup of cow's milk or coconut milk to be boiled, filtered, and then add honey or sugar as a sweetener to drink.
 These should be the first line of medication sought when treating any kind of itchy rash, as they are generally effective in blocking the H1 receptor that histamine needs to bind to to create your rash. Having an antihistamine in your system stops the initiation of the inflammation process, leading to a half in the inflammation process, decreasing pain, swelling and warmth sensations.


Non-sedative antihistaminic drugs are widely used and preferred over the sedative category to avoid the dizziness and drowsiness feeling as a side effect commonly experienced otherwise. Antihistamines are usually administrated as just one dose on a daily bases until the rash is gone.
Examples of the most commonly used drugs that are available OTC are Zyrtec (Cetrizine), Aerius (Desloratadine) and Claritin (Loratadine). They are available in both tablets and syrup forms (except Claritin, which is available in tablets only). Zyrtec is available in drops, too, which is often easier for young children.
Tab Chlorpheniramine 5mg, Diphenhydramine 10mg, Tab Promethazine 10 mg are examples of first generation antihistamines. Take one tab at night initially. Then increase the dose as necessary.
Tab Cetirizine 10mg, tab Fexofenadine 30/60/120/180mg, tab Levocetirizine 5mg, and tab Desloratadine 5mg are newer antihistamines which are take once at night.
 Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs “NSAIDs” can also be taken to help decrease pain and inflammation. Common examples are Voltaren (Declofenac salt) and Brufen (Ibuprofen), available in various dosage forms as tablets, syrups, injections, suppositories, and topical forms.


They’re also very useful in reducing fever as they act by stopping the release of prostaglandin (one of the chemicals involved in the inflammation process) by inhibiting the enzymes COX-I and COX-II.
Talk to your doctor about how much is the appropriate dose for you. You can find various NSAIDs at your local pharmacy, and while those may be effective, stronger versions will only be available by prescription.
 Steroids are known for their ability to stop the inflammation process – however, they're not generally used in mild cases as they tend to come with a handful of side effects. However, with a prescription from a doctor and, of course, following his or her advice, they may be an effective method of treatment.


The most commonly used steroids are Urbason tablets or Predsol syrup (Prednisolone). These may also be recommended as immunosuppressant agents in the case of autoimmune skin diseases.
Tab Prednisolone 5 or 10mg may be taken for 5-7 days to suppress acute attacks of rash. Long term treatment must be avoided because these medications suppress natural steroid production and can make you dependent on the drug.
 Antibiotics are also prescribed in some cases where a bacterial disease is suspected, like in cases of insect bites. What's more, scratching the irritated skin can cause injury and secondary bacterial infection, making antibiotics useful. Talk to your doctor about this being a viable option for you.


Broad spectrum antibiotics such as Unasyn (Ampicillin + Sulbactam) or Cefdin (Cefdinir) are generally prescribed to fight common causative bacteria and are available in both tablets and syrup forms to suit many ages and conditions.
Follow the course of treatment as prescribed by your doctor and follow the doses to a T. Be sure to take the full course, too – if you don't, the infection could lie dormant in your system and spring back up in the future.
 This is an itchy rash caused by a trigger that leads to fluid leak from blood vessels under the skin surface. The rash develops suddenly with small raised white or pink areas (wheals) surrounded by a red area of skin (flares). The rash can appear at any site of the body and usually lasts less than 48 hours. There are several causes of acute urticaria:



Food allergy. Some people are allergic to particular foods like egg, milk, prawn, shrimp, tomato, chocolate, nut, brinjal, etc. Just sight or smell of these foods may provoke itching and rash in some susceptible individuals.

Insect bites and stings. A bee, wasp sting, or ant bite may cause development of rash and itching. It is usually localized and less severe.

Contact dermatitis. Some people develop hypersensitivity to particular chemicals like latex, cement, plastic, cosmetics, ointments, etc. Contact with these chemicals may provoke a rash.

Drug hypersensitivity. Rash can be the result of a side effect of the drug or an allergy to the drug. If it is a side effect then the rash will usually develop over a few days and is indolent in nature. The rash disappears as the drug is stopped. But if it is due to allergy, the rash will develop within minutes to hours of drug ingestion.

Viral infection. A simple cold or flu may cause urticaria in some people. These are non-specific and often the cause of urticaria is not found if the flu is very mild. These should be differentiated from infections causing specific patterns of rashes like chicken pox, measles, etc.
 Physical urticaria is less common than acute urticaria, but it's pretty easy to pinpoint once you put two and two together. With this condition, your rash develops as a result of heat, cold, exercise, or even vibration. If your rash doesn't seem to have a cause, experiment with these factors and see if your rash gets better.


As these physical events are difficult to avoid, susceptible people often suffer chronically, not realizing what is affecting their skin.
 This is a pruritic (itchy) disease of unknown origin that starts at an early age. The disease presents itself in many forms including food allergy, asthma, hay fever and eczematous skin disease. The eczema manifests as intense itchy skin with development of small vesicles on red, swollen skin. The vesicles break and fluid leaks out along with the formation of thin crust. Gradually the skin may become dry, rough and thickened. The skin lesions tend to have a relapsing and remitting course.


Some unique characteristics of atopic dermatitis are:Onset younger than 2 years
Itching at skin creases
Eczematous changes that vary with age
Chronic and relapsing course
Atopy (IgE sensitivity)
Personal history of asthma or hay fever or history of such diseases in first degree relatives.
 This is a rash characterized by intensely itchy, flat-topped, pink-purplish elevated areas of skin that commonly occur on the front of the wrists and lower back. Some lesions have a fine white network on their surfaces.


The lesions may occasionally appear inside the mouth, genitalia and nails.
The cause is unknown but viral hepatitis, gold, heavy metal, anti-TB drug, anti-malarial drug and thiazide diuretic may provoke the disease., Ringworm of the body is also known as tinea corporis. It is a fungal infection of the skin characterized by red, scaly, ring like lesions in the body that may be single or multiple. The ring grows outward with central clearance.


If your rash looks like this, visit your doctor immediately. This type of rash requires medical treatment.
 This is a chronic disease characterized by rapid turnover of skin (epidermis). In this condition, there is formation of reddish areas of skin elevation with silvery white scales. You will see pinhead sized bleeding points if the scales are removed.


The rash commonly occurs on the scalp, elbows, knees, lower back, skin creases and around umbilicus.
Some patients develop joint disease after a long period of time leaving psoriasis untreated.
The condition tends to have a relapsing and remitting course. Sunlight, infection, injury, emotion, and drugs can cause a flare up.
 This is a parasitic disease caused by a house mite known as Sarcoptes scabiei. The mite lives beneath the skin and lays eggs there. There it causes intense itching particularly at night and after a hot bath.


The rash appears as bumpy red areas that usually occur in and around the finger clefts, wrist, axillary folds, nipples and areola, umbilicus, belt lines, genitalia, buttock and inner aspect of thighs.
The characteristic sign is linear or curved skin burrows. However, it is not always seen.
The disease is contagious and spreads by skin contact. There may be more than one affected person in a family due to close contact.

