 If you got kittens from a breeder, the best course of action is to provide your kittens with the same food the breeder was using. Switching foods, especially quickly, can shock your kittens' systems and cause vomiting or diarrhea. If the breeder's food is within your price range, stick to feeding your kittens that.If you do not want to use the breeder's food for any reason, start off feeding your kittens that food and gradually mix in the food you want. You should not abruptly switch your kittens to a new food.;
, If you don't know what food your breeder was using, or if it's unavailable to you, make sure to opt for the highest quality kitten food possible. Look for a recognizable name brand kitten chow. Check the label for a stamp from the Association for Animal Feed Control, which should indicate the food is safe for your kittens' stages of life.Read reviews of various kitten chow brands online before making a purchase at a pet store or grocery store.
Ask your vet for recommendations if you are unsure.
 Your kittens' total food for the day should be split into four to five small meals a day until kittens are six months old. After six months, your kittens' should eat two larger meals a day. Feed your kittens by spacing out meals at roughly even intervals, starting first thing in the morning.The precise amount of food per day depends on your kittens' ages, as well as the type of food you are using. Most foods have guidelines on the label somewhere advising you how much food to you use.
If you're unsure about portions after reading your food's label, talk to your vet.
 Keep clean, fresh water out at all times. Refill the water as necessary. If the water becomes dirty with food or dust, replace it with clean water.Make sure the water bowl is low enough to the ground so your kittens can easily reach it.
 Taurine is a mineral that helps with heart and eye health. As a breed, siamese are prone to eye problems. A taurine supplement, or a food higher in taurine, may help prevent these problems from developing. Talk to your vet about whether your siamese kittens would benefit to extra taurine in their diet., If you do not already have a vet, find one as soon as you adopt kittens. Kittens need extra vet visits during their first year. An internet search for vets in your area should help you find a quality vet for your kittens.If you purchased your kittens through a breeder, ask them for a recommendation.
Read reviews of vets online before settling on a vet. Make sure the vet you choose has a good reputation.
 Kittens need a number of vaccinations to prevent common diseases like feline distemper, calicivirus and rhinotracheitis. Your kittens will also need rabies shots. Vaccinations start at around 8 weeks. Your vet will be able to put your kittens on a schedule to get them all their necessary shots.Make sure you obtain medical records from your breeder or shelter. These records will tell you which vaccinations your kittens have already received.
 Worms and parasites may be a problem for kittens adopted from the shelter. Many shelters test for worms and give cats dewormers prior to adoption, but your vet may recommend testing anyway. If your kittens have worms or parasites, these are easy to treat via a round of deworming medications., Siamese cats are generally fairly healthy. However, all breeds are prone to certain genetic problems. Talk over breed-specific issues with your vet to determine whether your kittens may be at risk.The shape of your kittens' heads may lead to respiratory or dental problems. Your vet may be able to determine which kittens are at risk by examining their heads. If any of your kittens are at risk, talk to your vet about how to manage potential dental or respiratory issues.
Other problems include bladder stones, certain cancers, and glaucoma. Talk about the early symptoms of such conditions with your vet. If any of your kittens develop these problems later on, knowing the early symptoms will allow you to act fast and treat the problems promptly.
 Due to their small bone structure, siamese cats are particularly prone to obesity. Make sure you talk to your vet about how to control your kittens' weight through proper feeding. Your vet may recommend a specific diet and exercise routine to keep your kittens at a healthy weight., Siamese cats are high energy and love to climb and play. Provide perches throughout your home so your siamese kittens can climb.Invest in cat perches, which you can attach to windows and mantel, so your kittens have a place to climb.
Buy a kitty condo if it's within your budget.
Clear out a space on a drawer in your home, like a bookshelf, for your kittens to enjoy.
 Siamese kittens need lots of toys due to their high energy level. Pick up some safe, kitten-friendly toys at your local grocery store.Opt for toys without small pieces or strings, as these can pose a choking hazard.
Pick lightweight toys, such as small balls, your kittens can easily bat around the floor.
Pick things like fishing pole toys so you can play with your kittens.
 Siamese cats are curious by nature, so they need stimulating toys. Look for puzzle toys, where you place a treat in a contraption your cat must break open. These are great toys to prevent siamese kittens from becoming bored, especially at times you're unable to play with them.Kittens should not use puzzle toys with small parts without supervision.
 Siamese cats are social by nature, so spend a lot of time with your kittens. Allow them to snuggle with you on the couch while you read and watch television. Some siamese cats enjoy being brushed, as it feels like petting. If your kittens enjoy being brushed, brush them each day as a form of socializing.If you're comfortable with it, allow your siamese kittens to sleep in your bed. Many siamese cats enjoy snuggling with their owners at night.

