 Monitor what you do on a daily basis and make a note of how much time you spend doing it. You might be surprised by how much time you actually waste throughout the day when compared to the actual amount of work you get done.Remember to also keep track of mundane tasks, like making breakfast, cleaning the house, showering, etc.;
, Once you have figured out what you do each day and how much time you spend doing it, write it into a notebook. Putting all of this information into one place and seeing it on one page will allow you to identify patterns and, potentially, areas where you may be wasting your time.Be comprehensive and clear when making entries into this notebook. Don't conflate separate events into one entry, don't overlook minor tasks, and be sure to write out exact times when assessing how your day breaks down.
It can be helpful to categorize certain types of activities. For example, write household chores in blue, work activities in red and leisure activities in black. This will help you visualize how your time is being spent.
 An hour a day spent zoning out? 2 hours to decide where to eat? 8 hours surfing the internet? Look for patterns in how you spend your time and determine what is necessary and what it is not.Do you waste time because you lack self-control? Do you procrastinate too often? Do you take on too much responsibility? These are all questions you need to ask yourself while assessing how you spend your time.You may find that you break up activities throughout your day in ways that don't make sense. For example, it is probably not wise to work for a half hour, then spend 10 minutes dealing with trivial matters, just to come back to work for another half hour. You will be more focused and productive if you just work for an hour and deal with trivial matters at a later time.
It is best to attack your tasks by "chunking". Chunking is a method in which you dedicate a predetermined amount of time to a single task without distractions.
 Now that you know exactly where and to what your time goes, start making active adjustments to your schedule. Make sure you identify areas that can’t or shouldn’t be reduced simply for time concerns. Just because something takes a long time doesn’t mean it is time wasted., However, if you are sending four or five personal emails between the work emails, you can definitely reduce the amount of time you dedicate to emails.
 Whatever your time management problem may be, there is a solution. Once you have decided where you waste time or how you should be spending your time, you will need to make a concerted effort to change your time management habits.If you are spending too much time cleaning your house or cooking your meals, considering hiring domestic help like a maid or a cook. For some people, their time is more valuable than their money.
Maybe you spend a good chunk of your day surfing the internet aimlessly. You can restrict your access to the certain internet sites or social networking accounts when you are supposed to be working on something else.

