 Acupressure and acupuncture utilize various points along 12 basic meridians in the body. These meridians are energy pathways, which are believed to carry “qi” or “chi”, the Chinese terms for life energy. The basic concept is that illness is caused by a blockage in qi. The needles in acupuncture and the pressure in acupressure can unblock these energy pathways and restore the easy and unimpeded flow of qi.
 In TCM, weight loss can be encouraged by allowing excess “heat” and “moisture” to be expelled and by supporting the organs of digestion.The terms “heat” and “moisture” don’t necessarily have literal meanings. In other words, applying pressure at these points won’t significantly change the temperature of the skin or cause any dampness on the skin. The terms should be understood to indicate imbalances of energy that are viewed as heat and moisture.Some studies have indicated that acupressure on the ear points in particular can significantly help people achieve weight loss.Another somewhat related technique, the Tapas Acupressure Technique, has shown some positive results for maintaining weight loss, though no significant results for weight loss., Unless the point is on the center of your body, make sure you apply pressure on both sides for the same amount of time. The amount of pressure is generally light to medium-- find a level of pressure you are comfortable with. Never press hard.


Think of three levels of pressure — light pressure is the amount of pressure it would take for your finger to depress your skin slightly and moves the skin around the pressure point slightly. You won’t feel a pulse or bone —but will feel a muscle moving under the skin. Medium pressure depresses the skin more — and in areas where the skin is thin (e.g. around the ear) you should feel some bone and will feel joints and muscle moving. You may also feel a pulse around (for example) around the knee, elbow or ankle points.
You can apply acupressure anywhere: at work, at school, at home, or after (or during) a shower. Though it is usually best to be in a quiet and peaceful environment, it is not absolutely necessary.

