 You can strap and support your thumb using different techniques and materials.Purchase medical tape or tubular bandages that reduce your range of motion, decrease stress on the injured thumb tissue, and promote healing blood flow to the joint.You may want to use either a trainer’s or kinesiology tape to strap your thumb as these are often optimal for injuries to the muscle. Either type of tape is designed to flex whenever your joint moves. Not only does this make the strap comfortable, but it is also a practical solution for an an active lifestyle.Some tapes can irritate your skin if it is sensitive. In this case, purchase a quick release medical tape. This option has the strength and flexibility of trainer’s and kinesiology tapes without adhesives that can inflame or irritate your skin.Another option for sensitive skin is tubular medical bandages, which are sometimes called ACE bandages. Tubular bandages are fashioned into a strap by wrapping them around your thumb and then fastening them with medical tape or a small fastener.Tubular bandages are often the best option for wrapping joints. They also serve as effective cover wrappings for tape.Trainer’s tape, kinesiology tape, and tubular bandages are available at many pharmacies, medical supply stores, and sports stores.
There is some evidence that black tape adheres better to sweaty skin.;
, Buy either tape or bandages — or both — to wrap, strap, and support your thumb.Bandages have the added benefit that they can reduce any swelling or inflammation present on your thumb.To reduce swelling, you must be sure you are not wrapping too tight while still applying pressure.


Most pharmacies, medical supply stores, and even some sports stores sell bandages and tape.
Make sure to get bandages and tape in lengths long enough to effectively support and immobilize your thumb.
If you decide to use tubular bandages, you also need medical tape or pins to secure the bandage.
 Get the skin around your thumb ready to tape or bandage. You’ll need to wash with soap and water and dry well and, if necessary, shave the area. This removes dirt and debris, and can create a better adhesive surface. It could also minimize discomfort when you remove the strap.Use a gentle cleanser and warm water to clean any oils, sweat or dirt on your skin. This can help the tape or bandage adhere properly hand.Any kind of mild soap is good enough to clean your hand. Thoroughly rinse or wipe off soap so that lingering residue doesn’t disrupt the bond between skin and tape.
If you decide to forego an underwrap or have an especially hairy hand and forearm, you may want to shave a small area around your thumb. Shaving may help tape stick better to your skin. Shaving can also make it far less painful to remove the tape when your thumb is healed.Be careful when you shave so that you don’t cut or otherwise injure your skin., If you want to avoid direct contact with your skin, put an underwrap between the tape and your skin. Be aware that an underwrap can render the tape slightly less effective.An underwrap or skin adhesives are not necessary when taping or bandaging your thumb and are not commonly used.Use either a skin adhesive and an underwrap only on the areas of your thumb and forearm you plan to strap.Underwrap and skin adhesive are available at most pharmacies, medical supply stores and some sports stores.
 If you are able, consider buying pre-cut tape. If not and you bought a round of tape, cut the tape into strips before you strap your thumb. Cutting the tape before you begin wrapping it help you more effective strap your thumb while minimizing how much you waste.Cut the tape into pieces that are approximately the length of your hand.Taper the edges by rounding them so that it is easier to apply.Remove any backing from the tape before application.
 Although you can strap your thumb yourself, if may be easier if someone helps you. Ask a friend or family member to help you tape or bandage your thumb to help ensure proper application., Raise whichever hand you are taping or bandaging. Keep your hand straight and flex your thumb so that it is horizontal or perpendicular from your palm.Prop up your hand with a table if necessary.
Apply one piece gently around your forearm, just below your wrist in a loop like a bracelet. This is the anchor tape for your strapping.Use the same principle with a bandage.
The tape or bandage should be taut, but not tight. Tape that is too tight could cut off your circulation.If your skin begins to throb, the tape or bandage is probably too tight and may be cutting off your circulation. Take the anchor tape off as soon as you can and then reapply it more loosely., Starting at the level of your anchor tape, loop the tape around and then across the side of your thumb, back down to the starting point.This can help provide extra support to your thumb and wrist.Add up to one to three additional side loops of tape, depending on how much support you need., Starting at the anchor tape level, place a strip of tape in the middle of your wrist and loop it over to the front of your hand.Finish off the front loop by bringing back around your wrist and fastening the tape or bandage just above your wrist.Depending on how much support you need, you can add extra pieces of tape or layers of bandage.
 After you completely wrap your thumb and surrounding forearm, fasten the bandage so that is it doesn’t loosen or fall off. You can fasten the bandage with a safety pin, clip, or a piece of medical tape.
 Move your wrist, forearm, and thumb before you start any activity. If you experience any discomfort from the tape or bandage, remove the wrap and re-apply it in a looser and more comfortable manner.
 Your pulse should be between 60 and 100 beats per minute. If it’s not, remove and reapply your strap.


Pressing down on one of your fingernails can also help assess your circulation. Push on your nail and see how long it takes the pink color to return. If the event that it takes longer than four seconds, you may have constricted your blood circulation. Remove and reapply your strap in this case.
 Either completely rest your thumb or undertake lighter activities while you’re having problem. Immobility, rest, and undertaking lower-impact activities can help promote healing and help prevent further injury.Don't write or type with that hand.
Avoid sports such as skiing, racquetball or tennis, which require that you use your thumb more extensively than other sports. Consider doing lower-impact activities such as biking or walking.Consider resting your thumb completely for a week or so to help promote healing.Move the affected area slowly once you’ve rested it. Slow, gentle movements can promote healing and minimize stiffness. If this causes significant pain or discomfort, discontinue movement, consult your doctor, or rest the thumb for a longer period., Apply an ice pack or cold compress to your thumb, wrist, and forearm. Cold can help minimize swelling and inflammation and relieve pain.You can place an ice pack on your thumb and forearm as often as necessary for 20 minutes at a time. You can do this up to five times a day.
Fill a plastic foam cup with water and freeze it to gently massage your thumb and wrist.Make sure you always wrap the compress or ice pack in a towel or cloth to prevent damaging your skin.
 Use an over-the-counter pain medication to relieve discomfort or pain. Many pain medications can also help reduce swelling and inflammation.Over the counter pain relievers such as ibuprofen, acetaminophen, aspirin, or naproxen sodium.Ibuprofen and naproxen sodium can also help reduce swelling and inflammation., If strapping doesn’t relieve the issues with your thumb, or pain is severe, see your doctor. She may be able to diagnose a more serious injury and come up with an effective treatment plan.A regular doctor or orthopedist, who specializes in treating disorders such as strains and sprains, can help you treat your thumb.Your doctor may manually examine your thumb and wrist to feel or recognize signs of injury. She may also inquire about your health history, including the activities you do. Your doctor may also ask what measures you’ve taken to reduce pain and promote healing.Your doctor could order additional diagnostic tests including an MRI or an X-ray to see your thumb and forearm from a more detailed perspective.

