 Snoring or breathing heavily through your mouth at night can increase the likelihood of bad breath. Most snorers and mouth breathers sleep with their mouth open, causing dry mouth and letting bad breath-causing bacteria flourish.Your saliva acts a biological cleaner, as it removes food particles in your mouth that cause bad odors. So drying out your mouth also means there is less saliva in your mouth, and this allows bad odors to linger.If you suffer from nasal congestion, take steps to remedy this so you can breath through your nose rather than your mouth while you sleep. Use a nasal drip, like a Neti Pot, or apply a decongestant, such as a chest rub, to open up your nasal passage., Before you go to sleep, think of the proverb: “The nose is for breathing, the mouth is for eating.” Try to train yourself to breath through your nose as you sleep by doing several rounds of conscious nose breathing.


Sit up straight in a comfortable position.Relax your upper body and close your mouth. Rest your tongue behind your bottom teeth, away from the top of your mouth.
Place your hands on your diaphragm, or your lower belly area. You should try to breathe from your diaphragm, rather than from your chest area. Breathing from your diaphragm is important because it helps your lungs with gas exchange and it massages your liver, stomach and intestines, working the toxins out of these organs. It will also relax your upper body.
Take a deep breath in with your nose and inhale for two to three seconds.
Exhale through your nose for three to four seconds. Pause for two to three seconds and breathe in again through your nose.
Practice breathing like this for several rounds of breaths. Extending your inhales and exhales will help your body get used to breathing through your nose, rather than your mouth.
 Dehydration is a big cause of bad breath; a dry mouth or a lack of saliva can lead to the development of odor-causing, volatile sulfur compounds. Drink at least eight glasses of water per day and have a glass of water before bed to clear your mouth of any lingering food particles or smelly bacteria.Drinking a glass of milk or taking two antacids can also help neutralize any bad odors in your mouth.
 Several dry mouth products on the market will increase the saliva in your mouth. You can also keep a stimulant in your mouth when you sleep to avoid dry mouth.