 Start lifting weights, doing yoga or getting in some form of weight-based training regularly. Resistance training firms and tones muscles, which can result in a smoother appearance around the hips and thighs as those muscles press against the skin. Muscle also burns more calories in a resting state than other types of tissue, helping decrease the overall amount of fat stored in the body.Make time for 3-4 hour long resistance training sessions every week.
Emphasize movements like squats, leg lifts and lunges that target the muscles in the thighs.;
, In addition to weight training, spend a few hours a week on the treadmill, stationary bike or elliptical. When kept up at a moderate intensity, steady-state cardio training burns a massive amount of calories, shrinking pockets of concentrated fat that cause that pocked, dimply cellulite look. Exercise is one of the best steps you can take to begin reduce cellulite right away.Start small and pace yourself as you increase the intensity of your workouts. Simply going for a long walk is enough to make a difference when you’re just getting started.
Try fasted cardio once or twice a week (performing cardiovascular exercise on an empty stomach or after only having a small snack). Without stored glycogen in your muscles, your body will go straight to burning fat for energy., Even if you lack the means or the motivation to make it to the gym, you can find healthy ways to be physical and rid troublesome areas of unwanted fat. As often as you can, get out and go for a jog, swim or bike ride. Take some yoga classes, go kayaking or toss a frisbee at the park. Taking part in a sport or pastime you actually have fun doing makes you more likely to get active, and stick with it.Finding a friend to join you in an activity can make it more enjoyable.
Since you’re trying to target cellulite in the thigh area, make sure your physical pursuits require you to use your legs extensively.
 Reverse the effects of sitting all day by spending more time on your feet, even if that just means standing up to work. Make use of frequent breaks to walk around, get your blood pumping and do a few repetitions of squats or lunges. Take the stairs instead of the elevator. At home, stretch out or do some challenging static poses rather than just posting up on the couch. Simply put, find ways to move your body more. Every little bit helps.Limit the amount of time you spend doing things like watching TV throughout the week.
Give yourself reasons to move when you otherwise wouldn’t. For instance, walk to the mailbox to collect the day’s mail instead of grabbing it as you drive by, or stand up more often when you’re at work or talking on the phone.