 This could be as simple as traveling to a cabin in the woods or pitching a tent by the beach, depending on where you live in the world. If you want to get away from the weather in your usual locale, you may need to book a flight to a different part of the country or even to go overseas. If you've left it till the last minute, your own backyard or a local park might be just the place to celebrate in.
 Again, this may depend on where you live and how far your budget stretches but if you're celebrating in winter and want a summery New Year's Eve, consider flying to Australia, New Zealand, South Africa or South America, where you'll find plenty of different nature destinations to soak up the sun and see the New Year in. On the other hand, if you love winter, perhaps all you need to do is book a cabin in the local mountains and drive up there for a few days.
 What wildlife and scenery do you wish to see? Marine wildlife is amazing but can be difficult to perceive if you're in a winter climate, while you'll be able to see plenty of ocean animals if you're in the southern hemisphere for New Year's Eve and charter a vessel with a nature guide. If you're happier on land, there are many options including nature parks, safari parks, the woods or a forest, savannah or grasslands, mountains or coast, etc.
 Decide whether to stay the night among nature or indoors overlooking nature. Your choices here can range from sleeping in a nice hostel, hotel, cabin, tent or under the stars. Consider the temperature and your comfort when selecting suitable accommodation––while a tent in the campgrounds of anywhere in New Zealand for New Year's Eve may be just perfect, you'll probably prefer the warmth of a cabin with a roaring log fire in the Adirondacks or Banff for New Year's Eve.


One problem you may experience is that popular places tend to be booked out well in advance, so thinking ahead a long way is required for such destinations.
 As midnight approaches you may decide to be on anything from a ship, car, horse drawn sleigh, train, or just on foot.


For those celebrating New Year's Eve in the winter: Your choices as midnight approaches can include skating or playing some hockey on a pond or lake, skiing under lights or snowboarding on a well-lit slope. If you wish to spend the last evening of the year with a sedentary activity in a northern location and sleep indoors, you may wish to view the northern lights, take a scenic drive, or enjoy a sleigh ride.
For those celebrating New Year's Eve in the summer: You could go rock climbing, mountain biking, hiking, horse riding, camping and even climb a mountain. An active trip to a warmer climate involving water could include windsurfing, rafting, scuba diving, snorkeling, canoeing, sailing and parasailing.
 If you are planning to stay outdoors by camping, your list will be quite different then if you plan to spend the night in a hotel.


For a hotel or cabin: Bring your outdoor clothing, a bottle of champagne to share outdoors, any gear needed for outdoor activities and some things to do to pass the time. Bring some bedding if required and have the food you'd like to eat for the time spent at the place.
For camping: Your tent and bedding (unless supplied). At minimum, you will need your sleeping bag, and an air mattress or cot might be helpful. Some items that would be helpful for cooking include matches or a lighter, pots or pans, utensils, plates and bowls, a thermos, dish rags and towels, and dish soap. You will also need to bring proper clothing for the environment and personal items that allow you to clean up.

