 Once you have done everything listed above, you are ready to send your fax. With the paper properly inserted and the number dialed, you are ready to press send. This button will usually be large and well-labeled. That’s it! You’ve sent your fax!


You will notice that, after pressing send, the machine will make a series of beeps and whirring sounds. This is normal. These sounds are how the fax machines communicate with each other. When a fax has successfully gone through, you will usually hear a long, clear beep after a few minutes. When a fax encounters a problem and does not go through, you will usually hear it make a horrible sort of death-keen. If you hear this horrible sound, you should check on the fax machine to assess the problem.
 It is also possible to use the internet to send materials to a fax machine. There are a number of services which can be used, most of which cost money. This can be a wise investment, however, if you do not send faxes very often and do not wish to buy a fax machine or deal with services like FedEx.


PamFax is an excellent faxing service for Skype. This program charges a small fee, however.
HelloFax is a service which integrates well Google Drive, allowing you to easily fax Google documents. It includes a certain number of free faxes and then charges a fee.
 Depending on the number you are sending the fax to, it may be possible to simply email the file to the fax machine at no charge. However, you should keep in mind that this method only covers a limited number of fax numbers and can only send limited information.


You can check if the fax number is covered by looking online.Use this formula to create the address to which you will send the email: “remote-printer.First_Last@12345678910.iddd.tpc.int”
Remove the quotations, exchange the numbers for the fax number (including country and area code), and first and last for the name of the person you are sending it to.
Note that only the text in the text box will appear on the fax. You cannot attach PDFs or any other material with this method.

