 Encourage your to stick with their and have fun with what they are doing. Some teens may have unique or odd hobbies that you don’t understand. Don’t discourage them or tell them how weird you find it. This could hurt a core part of your teen’s personality. Instead, support their interests.It would be terrible to convince your teen to do something and then be too busy to help them enjoy it. Always be proud of what your teen accomplishes.
If you know a lot about the hobby, offer a small amount of constructive criticism if asked.
Avoid taking over a project. Remember, this is their hobby and project, not yours.
 One of the most important things you can do is help structure family life so that there is time to enjoy hobbies.This means making sure there is some free time for the teen, along with making sure this free time is not devoured by things like video games, social media, and TV.Provide resources and support. You are probably the one in charge of funding the hobbies to some extent. You may also have knowledge, expertise, and social connections that might help out.
Place limits on media use. For example, no video games after dinnertime. Instead, your teen can spend time on their hobby.
Avoid over-scheduling. Sometimes there is a fine line between a happily occupied, busy kid and one that has no time to just hang around with friends at the comic book store.
 You are most likely to get a positive response to your teen choosing a hobby if you engage in hobbies. By participating in a hobby, you are modeling how rewarding and fun hobbies can be and how important they are for a balanced life.For example, if you want your child to read for fun, model this behavior by reading in your spare time and talking about books.
 Teenagers are constantly changing, growing, and discovering new things. If your child does not want to do a hobby, respect it. A teen may have been really excited about knitting last year, but not this year.Insisting your teen finish a class, camp, or semester is sometimes a tough call. Some teens have a tendency to give up too easily and need a parent to help prevent them from quitting too quickly. Generally, insisting on finishing a certain amount of time will help prevent that, like a week-long tennis camp. However, if it really looks like a teen is not having fun, discontinuing the hobby may well be wise.
 Sure, doing things together is one of the great pleasures of being a parent. But parents and children may not share the same hobbies. The idea behind hobbies is to enjoy it for its own sake, whether or not your child shares the same hobbies. Don’t force your teen to like only what you like or discourage hobbies that you do not understand.For example, it may be easy to make fun of a teen's achievements in Minecraft. But doing so would certainly put them off to opening up to you.
Sometimes you may not think you have the exact same interest, but discover they are not so different. For instance, maybe your teen shows no interest in playing poker, but they love getting together and playing role-playing games.

