 Sometimes people can simply be a bit too happy for your taste. If their optimism isn’t harming anyone (or anything) and you just can’t handle their sunny outlook, then try to limit your time around them. Keeping your interactions to a minimum will keep you from becoming annoyed.Without being rude, try not to sit next to them or loiter in places you know they frequent.
For example, if you are at a dinner party with them, try to sit at the other end of the table so that it’s not so easy for them to talk to you.
 People usually don’t take it personally if you are a bit dismissive if you seem very busy or in a hurry.One way to avoid overly optimistic people is to seem deeply engaged in some other activity. When you see the person coming, try to look as if you are in middle of doing something or going somewhere and can’t really be interrupted.


You don’t have to run when you see them coming, but try excuse yourself when they come around.
For example, you can politely say hello and then quickly walk away (as if you have somewhere to be) before they start telling you about all the wonderful things that can happen.
If you are at your desk and see them coming, frown at your monitor, shuffle some papers, type a few lines, give them a quick smile and then go back to frowning and typing.
 Sometimes you can’t entirely avoid someone that is overly optimistic, but you can tune out the unimportant chatter. In particular, if they are making small talk, it’s better to let your mind wander a bit than to let their extreme happiness annoy you.This doesn’t mean ignore them completely. That is rude. It does mean that you don’t have to hang on to their every word.
For example, if you end up on the elevator with them and they start excitedly telling you how great life is, it’s okay to smile slightly and nod a little while you mentally go over your to-do list.
Sometimes, like when receiving feedback, ignoring the fluff just means looking through their euphemisms to see the heart of what they are saying.

