 Visit the website of your chosen social media platform and sign up for an account. Follow the instructions and complete the verification process. If you are required to put a last name, just put your own. Narrow down your options and choose one to three different platforms so that you can concentrate on building certain accounts first.

If creating an account on Facebook, make sure you use the "Pages" option instead of creating a real account, or it may get deleted.
Other platforms care less about "fake" accounts or accounts created for people's pets.
You may have to try multiple account names because they may have been already created.
 Think of entertaining or cute content that you can use to fill up your dog's profile page. Find a profile picture that embodies your dog's personality. Upload photos and videos that you've taken of your dog and share them with people that are following you so that they can like and share them with their networks.

If your dog is fun-loving and energetic, use a photo of them being active, like swimming or catching a ball.
If there is a place for hobbies you can put something like, "running after squirrels, playing catch, and cuddling with my owner."
Remember to include contact information for potential advertising opportunities.
 When you launch your dog's social media page, you'll want to make sure that you have enough content for people to look through. Try to catch your dog during candid moments when he's not paying attention to make photos more organic.Think of the photo's composition and whether it's capable of eliciting an emotion out of people who see it. Make sure that your dog remains the focal point of the picture and that it's interesting or impressive.

Turn off the flash, as it can often startle or scare dogs.
Try to capture times that make your dog interesting and unique.
If your dog is camera shy, try offering some treats to get them to open up.A panting dog often looks like they are smiling. If you want a happy looking dog, go for a brisk jog or walk with them before the photo shoot.
Make the background engaging and interesting to look at as well.
 Some portions of your dog's social media pages will require specific sized images. This means that you'll have to use a photo editing software to get them exactly right, or the page may look strange or broken to some people. Edit and resize the most important photos that are on your page.

For instance, the cover picture image size for Facebook is 851 x 315 pixels.
The header image for Twitter is 520 x 260 pixels.
The profile size for Pinterest is 165 x 165 pixels.Read how to Resize an Image in Adobe Photoshop.
 Once you finish all the details for your dog's social media pages you can alert all of the people in your social circle that your dog now has his own social media pages. Do this by posting a link on your own personal page, or sending an email to family and friends. Finally, you can start to add people that have met your dog or people that you know personally to gain friends or followers.