 The most embarrassing thing that could happen would be having to send home all of your invited guests because your parents weren't told about this! Inform them that you would like to host a party for (insert event here) because (insert reason here). Tell them how many guests you want to invite. Be willing to make sacrifices and changes to your plans...after all this is your parents' house and they are in control of you. For example, your parents might not let you invite the whole 8th grade but they'll let you invite a few close friends over, or they might let you invite girls but not boys. Also understand that they will most likely want to be present when your party is taking place to make sure nothing "bad" is happening. You'll just have to accept whatever your parents want from this or there might not be a party!;
, Is it to honor someone? Is it for a special event like a birthday or anniversary? Is it for a holiday like Halloween or Christmas? Or is it just a fun gathering of all your friends after school? You will need to determine the reason behind your party so you can get the appropriate supplies. For example, if you're throwing a Halloween party it'd be inappropriate to have Santa Claus napkins and plates, just like if you were having a Christmas Party you wouldn't want pumpkin decorations. Once you've determined the meaning for your party, you've already got one part down!

, This includes games, decorations, food and drinks, etc. Make sure you buy things that match the meaning for your party. If you have a budget, consider borrowing or making your own things, or visiting cheaper stores with on-sale prices. You don't have to spend a thousand dollars on supplies, just make sure that your party is going to be furnished and your guests will have something to munch on and play. For example: if you're having a Halloween party, a good drink to buy would probably be orange punch, apple cider and/or soda. If you're having a birthday party good decorations would be balloons, streamers, lights, etc. Don't be afraid to go all-out but don't overdo it too much or it will look stupid, overdone and tried too hard!

, Decide who you're going to invite. Make sure that every person you invite isn't going to ruin the party, cause a scene, harass any guests or get you in trouble by your parents. If they're known for wrecking parties or toilet papering someone's front lawn, it probably won't be the smartest thing to do to invite them unless you want a mess to clean up, unhappy guests or an angry parent or two. You might just want close friends or the whole school, but whatever you choose make sure it's A) okay with your parents and B) a good and safe choice. Don't feel bad about not inviting someone who is only going to ruin your party anyway...if they truly are party wreckers they don't deserve to be invited to the party! It's not like someone forced them to do those bad actions in the past, it was THEIR doing and THEIR decision and you shouldn't feel obligated to invite anyone.
 These can be hand-made, bought, or computer printed. If this is for close friends or a very serious subject, hand making each card is probably your best choice. If you're inviting a lot of people you should probably save the hand pain and time and just buy or print off every invite. Make sure the invites are decorated nice...you don't want it to look silly or stupid because believe it or not, people might think it will be a terrible party just based on how your invite looks! You might want to paste or hand draw a pretty picture or design. You could also consider making an event on Facebook, that way you won't have to make any invites AND you can already have a good estimate for how many guests are coming (it notifies you every time someone says they are, aren't, or might show up). Make sure to include:


Who it's for/the host
The time and date: your guests need to know when to arrive!
The location: Your guests need to know where to go.
Reason for the party: rather it be a Valentine's Day party or an anniversary party, make sure to include it.
RSVP section: this needs to have your phone number so they can call or text and let you know if they are coming so you will know how many guests to expect

, Make sure your house is CLEAN. No socks on the kitchen floor, no unmade beds and no mac and cheese stuck on the ceiling. That's just embarrassing! Clean up everything and begin setting up the scene. Put up all of your decorations in their designated place and begin working on the food and set that out, too. You can also get a radio and play a likable radio station or get a DJ/ make your own CD of party hits (or songs for your event...for example, if it's a Christmas Party Santa Claus Is Coming To Town might be on the CD).
 When your guests arrive, show them around the house or introduce them to other guests they might not know. Make sure every guest is having fun. If you see a guest crying in the corner because they just got dumped by their boyfriend, ask what's wrong, take them to a private place to lend a shoulder for crying, and offer them a ride home. You want to balance being there for everyone and having fun. You have big shoes to fill. Also make sure that everyone is safe and no drama is going on. You have the authority and right (since this is your party and house) to kick anyone out if needed. Don't hesitate if someone is getting hurt or if someone is the cause of drama and stress for the rest of your guests to kick them out of the scene.
 Make sure you don't expect your parents to do the cleaning-you might not ever be able to have a party again. Store or throw things away, refrigerate left over food, etc.

