 If you notice a rash on your breasts, try a cold compress. This can help reduce inflammation and lead to an improvement in symptoms.


You can simply wrap ice in a cotton towel or plastic bag. You can also purchase ice packs from a local supermarket. Keep in mind store bought ice packs should not be applied directly to the skin — wrap them in a towel before applying.Apply the ice pack for 10 minutes at a time. Then, take a break and repeat as symptoms persist.You can also use a bag of frozen corn or peas as an ice pack.;
, A warm bath or shower can help with any skin rash, including one under the breasts. You can also run a washcloth under warm water and place it under your breast for a few minutes., For some, tea tree oil can soothe skin rashes. Tea tree oil has excellent antimicrobial properties. Keep in mind tea tree oil should never be applied directly to the skin as this can make problems worse. Always dilute tea tree oil in olive oil before use.


Mix four tablespoons of olive oil with six drops of tea tree oil. Dip a cotton ball in the mixture and dab it gently on the affected area.Massage the affected area lightly for a few minutes to work the oil into your skin. For best results, do this after taking a bath or shower and again before going to bed.As with all home remedies, this will not work for everyone. Some people may have sensitivities to tea tree oil. If you notice symptoms get worse in response to tea tree oil, cease use immediately.
 Basil is an herb that may help soothe skin for some. Crush fresh basil until they form a paste-like substance. Then spread the paste gently onto your rash and let sit until dry. Rinse the paste off with warm water and pat the area dry. Use this method once a day and see if you notice an effect.Once again, home remedies do not work for everyone. If you notice this worsens your rash, do not repeat this method. You should not use basil leaves if you know you have an existing allergy to basil.
 Certain lotions and moisturizers might help alleviate a rash. Try using a fragrance-free moisturizer, aloe vera, or calamine lotion.


Calamine lotion can prevent itching and irritation, especially if you believe your rash was caused by something like poison oak or ivy. Use twice a day and apply with a cotton ball.Aloe vera gel is a gel sold at most supermarkets and drug stores. For some, it provides relief to rashes and skin irritation. It has antifungal and antibacterial properties that can help a rash heal. Apply aloe vera gel to the affected area. You do not need to wipe it off but you should let it sit for about 20 minutes before getting dressed. Repeat as needed.You can buy a fragrance-free moisturizer at a local drugstore or supermarket. Make sure it is unscented, as the oils and perfumes used in scented lotions can make irritation worse. Apply to the rash as needed, following any specific instructions on the bottle.