 An insurance policy is a contract between the insured and the insurance company. The insured pays premiums and the insurance company, in exchange, agrees to cover the cost of certain claims. Typically, an insurance policy will cover two types of claims: first-party claims and third-party claims.


A "first party" claim is one paid directly to the insured. In these claims, the insured, if covered by their policy, will be paid directly by the insurance company. An example of a first party claim would be the insured making a claim for property damage under their homeowners insurance policy.
A "third party" claim, on the other hand, is one involving damage or harm to a third party (i.e., not the insured or the insurer). In these cases, any money paid will go to the third party, not the insured. The most common third party claims are automobile liability claims. There, a third party will sue the insured and the insured's coverage will protect them.;
, When drivers get into an accident, they often sue each other. They do not sue each other’s insurance companies. Instead, the insurance company will “indemnify” its insured, i.e., it will pay some or all of the damages owed, provided that the claim falls within the insurance policy agreement. If the insurance company refuses to pay a valid claim, then its insured may sue it for bad faith.
 When an insurance company interacts with you, the insured, they have an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means they will have to act reasonably when conducting their business.When an insurance company unreasonably refuses to pay a claim or indemnify the insured, this can be the basis of a bad faith lawsuit., The legal definition of bad faith varies by state and can take any number of forms. In general, look for the following actions that can usually be considered bad faith conduct:


Deceptive practices or deliberate misrepresentations to avoid paying claims;
Deliberate misrepresentation of record or policy language in the hopes of avoiding coverage;
Unreasonable delay in resolving claims or a failure to investigate;
Unreasonable litigation conduct;
Arbitrary or unreasonable demands for proof of loss;
Coercive or abusive tactics used to settle a claim;
Compelling an insured to contribute to settlement;
Failing to investigate the claim thoroughly according to its own procedures;
Failing to maintain adequate investigative procedures; or
Failing to disclose policy limits and explain applicable policy provisions or exclusions., Law is very detailed. So many different things are likely to impact your case and judges have great latitude for discretion. If you can afford a local attorney who knows the types of things your judge favors and disfavors, it would be best to hire one. If you need help finding a good attorney look at the following wikiHow article: https://www.wikihow.com/Find-a-Good-Attorney.Many attorneys who handle car insurance claims accept a contingency fee arrangement, which means the attorney will get paid a portion of what you win in court or at settlement.
Be sure you know how costs, such as copying, expert witnesses, and postage will be handled. Will you need to pay those up front or will the attorney pay them and deduct them from the amount won.
Even if you cannot find an attorney to take your case, many attorneys now offer unbundled services in which they will provide you with advice, document preparation, or education on an hourly or flat-fee basis.
 Before deciding to sue, review your policy to make sure your policy covers your claim and that you followed the proper procedure when filing your claim. Some common reasons for claim denials include:Seeking medical treatment too late according to the policy.
Failing to take evasive actions that were available to avoid the accident.
Failing to provide the proper documentation with your claim.
 Since you will be suing your insurance company, your correspondence with them will become very important in court. You should preserve any letters, emails, voice messages, and notes you create after face-to-face conversations. In addition, keep anything related to the incident that may come into play later down the road. For example, if you are suing on a theory of bad faith and your insurance company is refusing to indemnify or defend you in a cause of action, keep records of all the costs you incur defending yourself.
 States often require you to make certain attempts at settlement prior to filing suit in court. These will be found in your state statutes. These steps often include:Making sure you are within the statute of limitations. These are frequently within three to five years, but some state statutes of limitations require you to initiate suite as short as one year.
Sending a demand letter. You should send a letter informing the insurance company of exactly how much money they owe you and what parts of the policy make them responsible for those amounts. You should also outline the steps you have already taken to get this debt satisfied. Do NOT threaten to taken any specific action. Instead give a deadline (such as 30 days) after which further action will be taken. You should not define what that further action is.
Some states require you to reach out to your insurance company and provide them with an opportunity to cure before you can file a lawsuit. For example, in Florida, you must notify the insurer and the Florida Department of Insurance.The insurer will then have 60 days to cure before you can file a suit.Obtaining medical or other experts. Some states will not allow you to file suit for medical injury unless you have already hired a medical expert that will testify on your behalf.
 Often, your adjuster or agent can help you get wade through paperwork to get a claim paid. They cannot usually waive policy requirements, but you may be able to provide information or documentation that changes the initial determination. This may include:A doctor’s statement saying that your injuries were attributable to the accident, but not immediately obvious.
A statement from a witness that you could not avoid the accident or that you took certain evasive actions.
Submitting the proper forms or documents.
 Most insurance policies include an appeals process through which you can dispute the company’s denial. When completing your appeal, be sure to attach any documentation that supports your position, such as medical and witness statements. Even if you do not believe the appeal will be successful, you should complete this step because:


You may be able to resolve the issue without resorting to the stress and expense of a lawsuit; and
If you fail to pursue the internal appeal, the insurance company may be able to get your lawsuit dismissed., A cause of action is the legal theory along with the specific facts that allow you to bring suit. There are two common causes of action when suing an insurance company:


Breach of contract: This is that you had a contract and the other party did not perform their duties. Your damages are usually limited to the amount you would have received had they performed. You may be able to get some other costs, but not many.
Bad faith: This is when the insurance company’s denial of your claim was unreasonable and/or malicious. Not all states allow this claim, and the things you are required to prove are different between states that do recognize it. You can claim additional damages, including punitive damages under this theory. If possible, this is the most lucrative and important claim to make against your insurance company.
 Look at the website for your state’s court system for a description of the courts. Locate the court that handles the dollar amount you are trying to recover. Then, find that court in the county or parish in which you live., You and your attorney will have to get together and prepare the required documents. While your attorney will formally prepare the documents, he or she may ask your for information that will help them. Prepare and deliver any documents or information your attorney asks for.


Complete your forms, making sure you have stated facts that support everything you have to prove in your state. Your attorney will help you complete the required forms.
Sign your petition and other documents except the summons or citation, which the clerk will sign. Your petition likely needs to be signed in front of a notary.
Make copies of your documents for yourself and all other parties.
 Take your documents to the clerk of the court you located above. If you have an attorney, they will file your case for you.


You will give the clerk the originals.
Write down your case number.
Ask the clerk to sign your summons or citation.
Ask the clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.
Pay any filing fee or apply for a waiver.
 Ask the clerk to sign or issue your summons or citation. You will then need to serve your insurance company, usually within 90 or 120 days of filing the case. Check with your state’s Secretary of State to see if that office will provide out-of-state service and the process for requesting it. You will follow the laws of the state in which the insurance company is being served. Check the civil procedure rules of that state to see what they are, but usually they include:Paying the sheriff’s office to serve them.
Paying a private process server to serve them.
Having a person over 18 who is not a party to the case serve them and complete the appropriate proof of service document.
 In most states, the insurance company will be required to respond to your petition within 21 or 30 days.


If you do not get a copy of their response, ask the clerk for a copy.
If they do not respond, consider filing for a default judgment. This is very unlikely.
If they respond by filing a motion to dismiss, you will have to oppose that motion.
 At the beginning of the legal process, you and the other party will take part in discovery, which is the process by which you and the other party exchange information about the witnesses and evidence that will be presented at trial.The most common methods of discovery include:


Depositions, which are live interviews between an attorney and a witness or party. During a deposition, the attorney will ask a series of questions about the case in order to ascertain what that person is likely to say at trial.Interrogatories, which are a series of written questions that a witness or party will be required to answer. The questions will be very similar to a deposition, the only difference is the medium in which the questions are asked (i.e., on paper and not in person).
Requests for documents, which are formal requests to the other party to have them submit documents for you to review. In general, you will request documents you think will have important information or that you think the other side will use during trial.
 Before trial, the insurance company will likely file a motion for summary judgment, which asks the court to resolve the lawsuit in their favor before a trial ever happens.When another party files for summary judgment, it will be awarded if the judge decides there are no "triable issues of fact."If the judge agrees with the other party, the judge is in essence saying there is no possible way for you to win the case at trial.


To oppose a motion for summary judgment, your attorney will need to convince the judge that there are triable issues of fact (i.e., there are factual disputes). In order to do this, your attorney will write a motion stating all the facts that are in dispute. For example, you might provide evidence that your insurance policy might cover the claim being presented (i.e., provide a copy of your insurance policy).
 Most states require cases attempt mediation prior to going to trial. In mediation, a neutral person tries to help the parties compromise and reach an agreement.Mediation will be confidential, and what was said or offered in mediation cannot be used at trial.
The mediator makes no decisions in the case, so you do not need to bring any evidence to mediation.
If mediation is successful, the mediator will prepare the necessary paperwork.
If mediation is not successful, you will proceed to trial.
 Throughout the legal process, there will be a number of pre-trial hearings to determine if a full blown trial is necessary. At various pre-trial hearings, your attorney will attempt to resolve a number of issues.Most pre-trial hearings revolve around the following issues:


Filing and obtaining pre-trial motions (e.g., motions for summary judgment);
Settling undisputed facts; and
Presenting settlement offers;
Agreeing to or denying various claims., If your case goes to trial, you will be required to show up, with your attorney, on the day trial begins. Dress appropriately and be there when your attorney tells you to be. At trial, you will set next to your attorney and follow along with the proceedings. In general, your attorney will present your case, which will involve questioning witnesses and submitting evidence. At the proper time, your attorney will cross-examine the other party's witnesses and will try and poke holes in the other side's case.


If you are called to the witness stand, be honest and answer every question as precisely as possible.
At the end of the trial, the judge or jury will find for you or the other party. If the trial is resolved in your favor, that will conclude the legal process unless the other party appeals the decision. If the trial is resolved in the other party's favor, you may want to consider an appeal.
 If you choose, you can appeal the trial's final judgment so long as you believe the trial court made a legal error that affected the outcome of the case.For example, you may want to appeal if you and your attorney think the court applied the incorrect law to your set of facts.Be aware that appeals cost a lot of money and often take years to conclude. Think about these things before you choose to pursue an appeal.

