 Fill a small saucepan halfway with water. Set the saucepan on the stove over high heat and allow the water to reach a rolling boil.


Meanwhile, prepare an ice bath. Add about 1 cup (250 ml) of ice to a medium mixing bowl, then fill the bowl halfway with cold water. Allow the ice to cool down the temperature even further as you work on the remaining steps.;
, Use a sharp knife to slice the root end off each cipollini onion. If any of the skin starts peeling away when you remove the root, use your fingers to peel off as much as possible.


At this point, you do not need to worry about removing any skin that does not lift off the onion on its own.
Note the difference between the root end and the stem end. The stem end will be marked with a cluster of thin, paper-like skin extending past the top of the onion. The root end will have a thick root that is visible above the skin layer of the onion. For this method and this step, you only need to remove the root end.



You'll only need to boil the onions enough to loosen the peel from the sides of the top edible layer. If you keep the onions in the boiling water for more than three minutes, they onions themselves may start cooking and become soft.
Do not cover the saucepan as you boil the onions.
 Quickly dunk them into your prepared ice bath and keep the onions there for two to three minutes—the same amount of time you used when blanching the onions.


If you do not have a slotted spoon, you could also drain the water by pouring the contents of the saucepan through a colander or sieve.
 Grab each cooled onion at its stem side. Squeeze the papery peel, pushing up against the onion as you work. The cipollini onion should gradually pop out of the skin as you push.


Repeat this step as many times as needed until you remove all the skins off all the onions.
As you squeeze the onions out of their peels, make sure that you direct them toward a bowl or container that you can catch them in.
 If any moisture remains on the surface of the onions, wipe it off using clean paper towels.


This step completes the process.

