 The plaintiff will begin the lawsuit by filing a complaint in court. In the complaint, the plaintiff will allege the protected characteristic you discriminated against, as well as the credit transaction in which you discriminated. You should read the complaint closely.


Also pay attention to the summons, which should come with the complaint. The summons will tell you when you must respond to the lawsuit.;
, You should read the complaint in particular to discover what protected characteristic the plaintiff claims you discriminated against. Consumers are protected from discrimination based on the following protected characteristics:race or color
national origin
religion
disability (home loans only)
age (not applicable to home loans)
sex or marital status
receipt of public assistance income (not applicable to home loans)
exercising rights in good faith under the Consumer Credit Protection Act

, Also read the complaint to see what transaction the plaintiff claims he or she was the basis of the discrimination. For example, consumers can claim to have been discriminated against in the following ways:you refused credit or a home loan to someone who qualified
you discouraged someone from applying for credit
you offered credit on less favorable terms, such as a higher interest rate, than to someone with similar qualifications
you closed someone’s account or treated them unfairly in collections upon default or in loan servicing

, As soon as you receive the complaint, you should contact a lawyer. If you work in a large company (like a bank or mortgage company), then you should have general counsel on the payroll. If you work for a smaller business, you may already have an attorney on retainer. Ask a supervisor for the name of your lawyer.


If your business does not have a lawyer, then you will need to find one. You should ask other creditors in your area who their attorney is and if they would recommend the lawyer or law firm. If you have no leads, then you can contact any industry organizations that you belong to and seek a referral.
 You should find all documents that relate to the discrimination claim. For example, if the plaintiff claims you discriminated during a loan application process, then you would want to gather all information that relates to the application: the application itself, any notes made during the interview, email communications about the consumer, etc.


Find all documents and put them in some sort of logical order to show to your attorney.
Also gather examples of company policies. A discrimination lawsuit will turn on your actions. Since you are unlikely to admit at trial that you illegally discriminated against someone, discrimination will have to be based on your conduct. If you deviated from your company’s policies, then there is some proof that you might have been motivated by a discriminatory purpose.
 Your lawyer will review the information in order to come up with defenses. The specific defenses you raise will depend on the unique circumstances of your case. Typically, however, you will argue that the adverse credit action was taken for non-discriminatory reasons.


For example, the applicant may have had bad credit and wouldn’t have qualified for credit anyways. In that situation, you can argue that you didn’t take into consideration the plaintiff’s protected characteristic, such as race or national origin.
The applicant may have been a credit risk for another reason, e.g., a spotty work history or an income that is too low for the amount of credit requested.
The applicant could have lied on the application. For example, the applicant might have claimed greater income than you could verify.
You can also argue that you were never aware of the protected characteristic when you declined the loan. For example, you might have rejected an application without ever meeting with the applicant. In this situation, you can argue that there was no way you could have known someone’s national origin, religion, or race.
 Your lawyer will respond to the complaint by filing an answer. In the answer, you admit, deny, or claim insufficient knowledge to admit or deny each allegation.


You then file the answer with the court and serve a copy on the plaintiff or the plaintiff’s lawyer., After you have filed an answer, both parties will engage in fact-finding, called “discovery.” In addition to turning over documents, you can depose witnesses by asking them questions face-to-face, which they must answer under oath. As the defendant in a credit discrimination case, you can expect to be deposed. To prepare, remember the following:Get a good night’s sleep beforehand. Depositions can be long and exhausting. The more rested you are when you walk in for the deposition, the better.
Dress professionally. Wear a suit, if possible.
Avoid showing anger or annoyance. If you need to take a break, then ask your lawyer if you can break.
Don’t guess. If you don’t remember or don’t know the answer to a question, then say so.
Take as much time as necessary to answer.
 After you and the plaintiff trade documents and give depositions, your lawyer can file a summary judgment motion. In this motion, you argue that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law because no issues of material fact are in dispute.It might be difficult to win a summary judgment motion in a discrimination case, because so much depends on what you were thinking when you took the adverse credit action. However, your attorney might consider bringing the motion in any event, particularly where there is little objective evidence of discrimination (such as discriminatory comments).
 Your lawyer will handle the nuts and bolts of the trial: selecting a jury, delivering opening and closing statements, and examining witnesses. You may or may not be the company representative chosen to attend the trial on a daily basis.


If you do attend, then make sure to stay engaged. Trials can be boring, but you can stay engaged if you take notes. You can sit with your lawyer at the defense table and ask the lawyer questions as well.
If for some reason your company cannot afford a lawyer, then see Represent Yourself in Court (U.S.) for advice.
 If you had to give a deposition, then you will probably have to testify at trial. Testifying at trial is similar to a deposition, so you should follow the same advice. Remember the following additional tips:Sit up straight on the witness stand and look at the attorney who is asking a question. When you answer, turn toward the jury and make eye contact with the jurors.
Answer simply and honestly. Don’t try to hide information from the lawyer. The lawyer will get it out of you anyway.
Speak loudly and confidently. Also answer in whole words. Don’t mumble or answer with gestures (such as shrugging).
Listen carefully to the question and answer only the questioned ask. Although you shouldn’t be evasive in your answers, you also do not need to volunteer information.
 If you have a jury trial, then the jury will retire at the close of evidence to deliberate. If you took a bench trial, then the judge may deliver a verdict immediately or take the issue under advisement. In the second situation, the judge may not issue a written decision for several months. Your lawyer will be notified when a decision has been reached.


If you lose at trial, then your company will need to decide whether to appeal the decision. There are many factors to consider when deciding whether to appeal: the strength of your case, whether the judge made an obvious legal error, and how much money the plaintiff was awarded.
Discuss these factors with your lawyer soon after trial. If you want to appeal, then you generally have a very short amount of time (10-30 days, usually) to fill out a Notice of Appeal form and file it with the court.
 In order to avoid future lawsuits for credit discrimination, you should make sure that employees are trained in the relevant law. Federal law limits the kinds of questions employees can ask. For example, you can’t ask about an applicant’s spouse or former spouse except in certain narrow circumstances.Your lawyer can provide training programs for appropriate staff and can help you draft employee manuals or handbooks which lay out the relevant federal requirements.
 Employees also need to properly document why they approve or reject someone for credit. You are vulnerable to a lawsuit where you do not properly document decision-making.


Make sure all reasons for rejecting an applicant are put down on paper. Also make sure that papers are properly dated so that someone can tell when the decision to extend or deny credit was made.
You also need to make sure that you notify applicants whether they have been approved or denied credit in writing. Federal law will spell out what must be in the notice.You should hire a lawyer to draft form notices for your company.
 If you give consumers a way to complain about how they have been treated, then you might be able to pre-empt a lawsuit. You should set up a hotline that consumers can call.


Be sure to print the complaint hotline on your marketing materials, so that consumers can find the number quite easily.

