 Place clues around town that lead the way to a final surprise or date. She will be appreciative of the effort and thoughtfulness of the game.


Scavenger hunt together by entering the world of geocaching. You follow coordinates to find hidden treasure in cities, parks or forests.
Personalize the clues and make them fun for her.
To make it into a surprise, tell her to meet you in a public café to "help you shop." Instead of being there, give an employee a photo of her and a tip, and have them hand her a note with instructions for finding the next clue.
Make sure you have your phone in case she doesn’t get the first clue or doesn't want to do the hunt alone.
The final surprise can be something like tickets to see her favorite musician, or a gorgeous meal you've already prepared and laid out for her.
 It may not be her birthday, but planning an impromptu party for her might make her day. Surprises are more fun than planned activities, if they're timed right. Invite over a bunch of people she loves, buy food and drinks, and give everyone balloons to release and streamers to throw when she comes in so that the house is instantly "decorated."


To ensure the surprise is welcome, ask her to do you a favor and attend an evening with your coworkers at your house. Tell her how much they want to meet her, and that you'll make it up to her later. That way, she'll come on time and be overjoyed that her boring obligation has turned into an elaborate present.
Make sure the party is personalized to her tastes. Ask her friends to bring music or games that she enjoys.
Have the guests dress in a style she enjoys or in honor of her favorite book or tv show. When she's been surprised, hand her a costume or accessory she can wear. She'll feel like a queen.
Ask her best friend for costume/style advice if you feel like you can't be quite that smooth.
 Treats don't have to be a surprise. If your girlfriend has been overworked, stressed, or down on life, promise her a day where she doesn't have to lift a finger. Plan every detail, morning to night. Make sure some of the activities are freeform, some are organized, and that there is plenty of time to relax as well as enjoy.


If she's someone who likes being involved in plans, plan a perfect day together. Even planning is fun when you do it with someone you love.

