

If already familiar with drawing molecules, proceed to Part 2: "3-Dimensional Structure of Organic Molecules.";
, Review IUPAC molecule naming at Name a Hydrocarbon Chain Using the IUPAC Method and identify the molecule being studied., This will be denoted by using the prefix on the name of the chemical, see the list below.

1 carbon: Meth
2 carbons: Eth
3 carbons: Prop
4 carbons: But
5 carbons: Pent
6 carbons: Hex
7 carbons: Hept
8 carbons: Oct
9 carbons: Non
10 carbons: Dec

,


Be sure to include hydrogens attached to the carbon atoms.
 Refer back to the IUPAC name to see where the inorganic groups are located.


Examples of inorganic side groups include -OH, -COOH, NH2, Cl, Br, etc.


If already familiar with stereochemistry, proceed to Part 3: "Drawing a Newman Projection."

, A stereocenter is a carbon atom that has four different groups/atoms attached to it and contains 3-Dimensional characteristics (wedge and dash).


A wedged line means the atom is coming "out of the plane" or towards you. A dashed line means the atom is going "into the plane" or away from you.



Each side group on the stereocenter can be on a wedge or a dash.
 A Newman Projection focuses on one specific bond of the molecule, and note which atoms are attached to these carbon atoms. Add an eye with an arrow looking down the carbon-carbon bond being studied.


Example: 2-3 means looking down the carbon 2 and carbon 3 bond. Notice how the two hydrogens have 3-Dimensional structure. While not a stereocenter, drawing the hydrogens in this way makes drawing the Newman Projection much easier.
 Note: molecule being drawn in the Newman Projection is 2-butanol.
, Look at the 3-Dimensional Drawing from above and label which atoms are attached to this carbon and where each is located.


Atoms on a wedge point right
Atoms on a dash point left
Atoms in the plane of the molecule go up or down.
 Look at the 3-Dimensional Drawing from above and label which atoms are attached to this carbon and where each is located.


Note the 3-Dimensional location of all the atoms from the structure above and check to make sure the Newman Projection matches for each.
 Each 60 degree turn of the atoms creates a new conformation, and there are six total conformations for each Newman Projection.


Staggered is most stable, eclipsed is least stable.











Completing the other three conformations is done in a similar way, with 60 degree rotations done for each.

