 If you don't then there can be many misunderstandings and fights. Be with them whenever you can and get to know them better. A lot of families now don't get to know each other too well because they're too busy. Plan some family time, like, a movie, or a family game, or even as little as eating dinner together.;
, Your children, your wife/husband are now yours but remember at the end of the day they are also humans. They also have an opinion or suggestion. Sometimes it can be bad or good. Never be angry with someone's opinion, they have their opinions, and no one's perfect.
 No one wants to be ignored just for some meeting or work. Give time to each and every one of them so you can understand every individual properly and this can prevent any misunderstandings in the future.
 Whether its your maid or stepchild, they also deserve love and affection from you as you deserve from your wife/husband or from your own child. Treat everyone like you would want to be treated, and getting along with your family should be easy

, This can create hatred for you in their hearts. By simply making them understand can do a lot. Why waste energy when you can do it calmly?



Try not to fight with your siblings. Fighting can tear your relationship apart and you'll regret it when you get older. Treasure the time you have with your siblings, you can't get it back.
, When you or someone else in your family wants the total opposite of each other, find a way to work it out to give you all what you want.
 When you see your sibling or parent needs help, help them. Doing little things such as holding the door for them, or helping someone with homework.
,, First ask them about it and if they don't want to share then its OK. It's just hormones. If you think that something is really bad, ask their close friends and help him/her.
 This can hurt them or make them feel that you are a liar and every time will break promises.
, Scolding can be good for them but never overdo it.
 If someone in your family has done something wrong or have betrayed your trust, make them realize their mistake in an easy way. Do not yell or use abusive language. 

