 Meditation is a great way to focus your mind on body and breath, rather than on whatever may be bothering you. Find a comfortable spot free from noise and distraction. Try meditating for a few minutes at a time and as you get more comfortable, you can practice this more frequently and longer.


Sit comfortably for a few minutes and take note of how you’re breathing. Deliberately take a few slow, deep breaths and focus on how and where the breath flows through your body. Notice any distractions that come up, but always return your attention back to your breath. Repeat 6 to 8 times., Grounding techniques help to keep you present and focused on reality, rather than on what may be bothering you or causing you anxiety.You can practice grounding anywhere by simply focusing in on one of your five senses.


For example, concentrate your mind on hearing everything in your space, focusing on a certain color in your surroundings, or feeling everything your body is in contact with.Notice the details and say out loud the sensations you're experiencing.
 Yoga is a great way to stay present and focused on your body and breath. Try staying in a yoga balance pose, such as tree pose. Focus your attention on your muscles and keeping your foot firmly planted on the ground. Every time you sway represents your mind wandering., When something’s bothering you that you cannot control at the moment, make a list of what you can do, then attempt to cross something off the to-do list. This will help you to re-focus on something different and will give you back a sense of control. Write down a list of everything you want to do and are capable of doing, then separate everything into three categories:What you can do today.
What you need to get done soon, but not immediately.
What can wait a few days or longer.
 To help keep you energized and focused on important things, try to stick to a routine. Set regular times for meals, sleeping, working, exercising, and socializing with others. This will train your brain to stay on track and will help preserve energy for any difficult decisions or tasks you face.

