 Look for things you both enjoy. Try to be grateful to have one or more siblings who have things in common with you, no matter how different you might be at first glance. Think about how great it is to be in it together, whether you’re an older sibling sharing your wisdom or a younger sibling who can look up to a mentor.Even if you think you and your sibling seem completely different, you’ll find you share a lot in common if you look closer. Make it clear to each other that you’re a team within your family unit and within the broader world because of your history together, your family values, and other circumstances and influences.Try saying, “Hey, it’s really cool to have someone else around who shares my genes, parents, and has gone through some of the same stuff as me!”
In addition to genes and upbringing, think about activities you and your sibling both enjoy. Maybe you both love a sport, a television show, or to sing. Narrow down some areas of common interest or activities that you both would have fun doing.
 Siblings often spend lots of time together, and sometimes not all of it can be spent on doing things you both love to do. It’s considerate, fair, and often necessary to play a game that your sibling loves, but isn’t your favorite. Keep track of who chooses each game or activity, and take turns choosing to make sure you each get to do what you like to do.Your sibling might love playing hide and seek, but you might find it boring. On the other hand, you might love playing video games, but your sibling isn’t so great at your favorite game. To compromise, spend an hour or so playing hiding seek, then the next hour playing the video game. Consider playing a video game that your sibling is better at playing to make things more fun for everyone.
Definitely go for things you both like to do first. If there are only a couple activities you both enjoy, playtime can get pretty boring. Just make sure you both have equal chances to choose the activities.
If you’re older by several years, give your younger sibling the choice of what games to play. Ask them, "What are some of your favorite games? What do you think we could do that's really fun?" Allow them to make more selections, as long as the activities are safe.
 While it’s great to look for common ground, try to remember that you’re each individuals and allow each other to be good at different things. Try not to force your sibling to be the person that you want them to be. Give each other space when necessary, and respect each other’s talents.If they’re really good at something, do your best to show your interest and support, and try not to be jealous.
It’s great if you both enjoy a sport or activity, but don’t, for example, start playing basketball just because your sibling plays and you’re jealous of the attention they get for it. Play because you like it, or perhaps because you actually want to spend more time with your sibling.
 Try to avoid being a tattletale. Do go to mom, dad, or a teacher about every little disagreement. Try to get to know the difference between little and serious issues.If your sibling hit you or was otherwise violent, you shouldn't hesitate to tell a parent or trusted adult.
If your sibling used your hair gel without asking, you can probably talk to them about it without tattling, especially if it’s the first offense. Try saying, "It bothers me when you use my stuff without asking. I really need my own space and for both of us to respect each other's belongings."
If your sibling tattles on your for something silly, tell them, "It hurt my feelings that you tattled on me, especially over such a little thing. I want us to be close and to be able to trust each other, but that won't happen I can't tell you anything without you going to mom and dad."
Developing trust in each other early will lay the foundation for having fun together while growing up, and help you continue to enjoy each other’s company into your teen and adult years.
 Try not to look at your friends’ relationships with their siblings and think they’re better than yours. Remember, even with your closest friends, there are often less attractive aspects of their relationship that you don’t see.Every relationship, including the one between you and your sibling, is unique and has positive and negative aspects. Everyone has their own way of communicating and showing affection.
Thinking someone else’s sibling relationship is better can undervalue your own, creating a negative mindset and causing you to assign blame. Focus on the fact that relationships are unique instead of thinking in terms of better or worse.

