 Make a deal with your parents. Tell them that if they drive you to the store, you will wash the dishes after dinner. Since they are taking time out of their day to drive you, offer to do something that will give them one less thing to do that day.Offer to do the favors ahead of time. If you want them to drive you to the dance Friday night, offer to do laundry on Thursday so they know your word is good.
 It might not hurt to butter your parents up a little bit. Clean your room, complete your homework, or vacuum before you ask them for a ride. This might help you get on their good side and show them that you really want to go.


By completing chores and schoolwork before asking, you put yourself at an advantage. If you ask your parents to drive you somewhere and they ask, "Is your homework done?" or "Have you cleaned your room?", you can say yes.
 If the gas money is an issue, offer to pay for the gas. Use your allowance or money from your paper route to cover it. This shows you are responsible and willing to share some of the responsibility for the ride.


Don't offer to pay them for the ride. This might be seen as a bribe or make them feel like a taxi service, which is not what you want.
 If you are trying to get rides to frequent events, like practice, meetings, or rehearsal, suggest setting up a carpool. Have your parents come together with a few other friends' parents. Decide on a carpool schedule that benefits everyone. That way, you get rides to all the things you need, your parents give you a ride, but the responsibility is spread among multiple people.
 One of the best bargaining strategies is compromise. Maybe your parents can't take you to the movies this week, but they can next week. It's not exactly what you want, but it's not a no. Your parents are still willing to give you a ride. Accept that gratefully.


Another compromise might be deciding on which ride to take. If you need to go to practice, the store, your friend's house, and the movies, your parents might not have time to take you to all those places. If your parents offer to take you to practice and one other thing, then compromise with them.

