 Show your respect to Brazilian culture by learning at least basic Portuguese. True, English is spoken in many of the larger cities, but because Brazil as a whole is so diverse, Portuguese is the go-to as most people understand it.


There are a number of apps, YouTube videos, and websites (wikiHow included) that can facilitate your language acquisition – without the hefty fees of a CD program, like Rosetta Stone. Do a few quick searches online and start teaching yourself if shoving out a chunk of change isn't your style.;
, To fit in, it’s imperative to know how to greet people. The “air kiss” is stereotypical: one in some contexts, two in others. It's more of a cheek bounce than anything, though. Don't try to lip-lock a local!


Word of warning: Paulistanos (those from São Paulo) kiss-greet only on the right cheek. Cariocas (those from Rio de Janeiro) do their greeting with two kisses (beijos), one on each cheek. If you don’t know how many to give, pause after the first kiss. The other person then will or won’t initiate the second. , Many foreigners come to Brazil and are shocked by how late they eat – 8 PM is pretty normal for the start of a long, casual dinner. Taking a siesta or spending hours to eat are totally accepted, normal, and, in fact, important to life in Brazil.


This is mirrored in all of life in Brazil. They naturally take everything easy and go at a slower rate. At first it will seem strange, but after getting used to it, you'll never want to go to the harried pace that's overtaken the West.
 "Feijoada" (black beans and pork stew) and "Churrasco" (all you can eat barbecue) are sure bets. In the state of Minas Gerais, try dozens of kinds of cheese with doce-de-leite (custard-like paste) and homemade jams.


Craving a taste of the West? Ordered a pizza? While the pizza in Brazil is very, very good, it’s also different. It will come with olive oil drizzled on top, and mayo and ketchup for dipping.
Do not always buy snacks at the beach because there's a possibility of food poisoning. On the other hand, drinking in public on the beaches is perfectly normal and allowed.
 In Rio, you’ll likely see fabulous colors donned by both men and women (though women in particular). But in the south and in the interior of the country, people tend to be a bit more conservative.


If you’re in a business setting, wear a full suit if you’re a man or a women (for women, skirts are acceptable). This is true even if it’s a whopping 43°C (110°F). And in church or government buildings, don’t wear shorts, tank tops, flip-flops, or a miniskirt – you won’t be allowed in. But everywhere else, just about everything goes.
Let your body acclimate. Don’t always turn the air conditioning on (if you have it). The more your body experiences the heat, the easier it will be to take. The extreme heat and humidity can tire a person very quickly. Allowing your body to adjust to the different weather is important for thriving in Brazil.
 Pedestrians do not have the right of way, especially in larger cities. Those crosswalks and signs you’re seeing? Most of those are considered as decorations to the drivers. Always be on the lookout – you may not necessarily be stopped for.


Avoid the commuter hours if you can, whether you're on foot, in a car, or using public transit. Imagine LA or New York at 5 pm, and that’s Brazil more often than not. If you need to get somewhere by a specific time, allow a lot of extra time for traffic.
This also means you’ll be dealing with loads and loads of pollution, at least in the big cities. Plan rural escapes to get away and literally get a breath of fresh air when you need it.
 The average Brazilian has three religions: futebol, dancing, and Christianity. Deadline at work? It can wait until the game is over. Friday night? They'll be out dancing at their favorite club. And as for when things get tough, 88% of them turn to a Christian God. If you want to be in the mind of a Brazilian, try out these 3 things. Take time out to go to a game, go dancing, and participate in a mass. You'll fit right in!


For the record, 73% of Brazilians are Catholic, and 15% of Brazilians are Protestant."Catholic" also encompasses regional religions like Umbanda and Candomble.
They don't literally have three religions – these are just three things Brazilians really, really, really take to heart. Brazil would not be the same without any one of these three ways of life.
 It’s traditional to bring the hostess flowers or a small gift. Orchids are considered a very nice gift, but make sure to avoid purple ones. In fact, avoid giving the host anything purple or black – these are mourning colors.


Don't give handkerchiefs, either – they are associated with funerals and do not make good gifts.
For the record, the gifts will be opened when received, right in front of you.Be at least a half hour late! When they say come over for dinner at 7:30, they don’t mean it. Even an hour late is fine. They likely won’t be ready for you anyway!

, Brazilians are notoriously chill. Have a deadline at work? No big deal if you’re late. Two hours late to dinner? No problem (that’s normal). Need to get something done? Wait till the last minute and then rely on your luck – Brazilians do, and they call it “jogo de cintura.” They believe that everything will be fine in the end.The hardest part of this won't be doing it yourself, it'll be remembering that everyone else does it. When you make plans with a friend, you'll have to keep in mind that they won't be on time. It's easy to get frustrated, sure. However, you will get on "Brazilian time" eventually.
 Expat women generally find it harder to adapt to Brazilian culture than men. There’s a large machismo culture in Brazil, which most men don't find too hard to adapt to. However, women are largely expected to take on submissive, traditional roles.Needless to say, Brazil can still make strides in its gender equality.


If you're a woman, think about this. Is it something you can deal with? It's not the Middle East, but it will be something you "have to put up with" if you're used to a more gender-equal lifestyle.
 Need to get your visa renewed? Give it a few weeks, and don’t be surprised if it’s difficult to get back. There’s generally a lot of red tape when dealing with official paperwork, and as you’ve seen, Brazilians don’t care much for a “sense of urgency.”


This is another aspect of the "don't worry about it" mentality. It's the same for the government! As long as you give everything more than adequate time, you should be fine in the paperwork arena. Try to account for lateness when possible.
 Many expats make a good living in Brazil, being able to afford at-home help and taking trips often, and often overseas. However, there are a few differences in Brazilian culture, and, believe it or not, some things will be ‘’more expensive.’’


Stock up on your children’s toys ‘’outside’’ of the country. They are, in general, around four times as much due to duties and demand.Have a bit of money on hand for the parking people, or flanelinha. This is the guy that’s ushered your car to its spot, if even that. You may see him pop up next to your window never having seen him before. But everyone pays them anyway – it keeps the economy moving!

, Think America is bad? Brazil has embraced plastic surgery with open arms. And no one is ashamed! In fact, they’ll likely let you know what you should get done, too.


They're fairly open about their opinions on your weight, hair, and look, too. If they think they have a good idea to make you more attractive, they'll likely let you know. Try your best not to take it personally – they do mean well in their own way.
 Assimilating to a culture’s ways is a very important part of feeling like you fit in and feeling “at home.” Embrace their traditions and etiquette to get a feel for their way of life and to truly experience the country. However, if something doesn’t make sense to you, don’t do it! You still have your own mind. No culture is better than any other, and therefore their way of life doesn't necessarily have to be adopted.


Take traffic rules, for example. If you see a pedestrian timidly crossing the street, you may wish to resist that Brazilian influence growing inside of you and let him or her pass. Never compromise safety or your happiness just to fit in.
 Going to Brazil on your own can, at least initially, be very daunting. To make the transition easier, find other expats to help pad the culture shock. They are going through the same thing, or have at one point or another.


They can point you to all the wonderful "bits of home" they've cultivated. Brazil is huge and multicultural – you'll be able to find certain comforts (brand names, certain foods, etc.) if you know where to look.
 In addition to expat friends, you need native friends, too, to show you the ropes. They’ll know all the happening spots, the best places to get food, and show you a side of the country that expats aren’t able to. They'll be the ones that give you the most memorable stories, too.


Don't know where to start? You can meet people hanging out at cafes, clubs, at futbol games, or through your students if you teach them your language. What's more, some families love taking in foreigners. Next time a friendly looking older woman smiles at you, initiate a conversation just by saying hello and asking her name. You may be a few minutes away from a home-cooked meal!

, Many expats take trips back home often, or at least take many opportunities to travel. The pollution may get to you if you're in a bigger city, so you’ll literally need some fresh air!


Listen to your body and mind – when are things starting to get to you? It’s then that you need to take a break from life – that way you can come back rejuvenated and ready to go.
If Brazil does start getting to you, sleep on it. Don't write it off quite yet. Sometimes homesickness seems like it's staying forever, but it can be fought through. The rewards, stories, and memories will be virtually limitless if you stay!

