 Being successful in getting a degree online requires certain skills and characteristics. The following characteristics are helpful in knowing whether pursuing an online degree will suit you:Self-discipline: Since an online degree requires that students attend class on their schedule, it takes some degree of self-discipline to obtain an online degree. If you're the type of person who needs someone else to be accountable to in order to get things done, an online degree may not be right for you. On the other hand, if you're happy organizing your schedule, getting on with regular studying and meeting deadlines, it's likely to work well for you.
Reading comprehension: Without traditional classes, lectures go out the window. Online programs require you to read the lectures. If your reading comprehension is not that great, you may want to consider traditional classes over online ones. You may find more video lectures accompany many courses online though; ask what the mix is and decide if that works for you.
Writing skills: Online classes require students to communicate with each other and with professors mostly in writing. If your writing skills are not so great, you may find online classes more difficult than traditional face-to-face classes. However, this is a great opportunity to improve them too, so don't use this as a barrier to getting started.
Computer skills: Taking classes online means you will be on the computer for much of your day. You will need to be proficient using email and the internet and will have to learn how to use your school’s online software. Usually there will be clear instructions for using the software and a contact person should you run into problems.
 If you're studying online, how will this impact others in your household? Will they be accommodating or supportive? It can be helpful to explain to them that even though you're not going to a college physically, you're still working just as hard (if not harder) to obtain your degree and that you'll need space and peace at certain times of the day in order to study. Consider carefully how this will work within your own household dynamics.
 This includes both personal and career goals. What career path are you interested in taking? Are you looking for the college experience, a flexible schedule, more time at home with your family, or new social opportunities? If you're looking to meet new people or to live the college experience, you may not want to choose an online degree. On the other hand, if you're after spending more time with your family or having a flexible schedule, you may find that an online degree is a good choice.

