 Spend some time thinking about how your room looks and feels now, and what you want to change or keep. Are there features in the room you want to play down or emphasize? Do you want your room to feel airier or cozier? The color you use can help you achieve the look and feel you have in mind.High contrast either in color or intensity can create a visual focal point of some feature in your room that you really love.
Avoid sharp contrasts between color or intensity if you want to downplay areas or features in your room.
Light or neutral colors can open up a small space.
Deep, rich colors in warm tones will create a cozy, inviting space.;
, You want to have a sense of the proportions of the room as well as how much paint you are going to need based on the square footage.
 Wall color can change the way room size feels or appears. If you have a very large or a very small room, select a color that will make the most of your space.Avoid sharp contrasts between colors in small rooms. Try cooler tones in neutral shades to help the room feel larger.
Large rooms can feel more cozy with medium to deep colors in warm tones.
 How large or small the room feels or appears to be can be affected by the ceiling. For instance, a large room can feel smaller if the ceiling is low, and a smaller room can feel bigger if the ceiling is very high.With a large room and a high ceiling, or a small room with a low ceiling, a contrast in color tone or intensity can visually separate the walls and ceiling. This will make a larger space feel more intimate and a small space feel more expansive.
If your room is small and has a high ceiling, or is large with a low ceiling, keep the color tones the same. Make sure that the contrast between the walls and ceilings is moderate or low.
 Room color appearance can change depending on how much light the room gets. Also, the kind of light in the room is a factor in how the color looks.Natural light will change during the day, so how it affects wall color will change too. Try out your color options first. Paint sections of the walls and check to see how it looks throughout the day.
Lighting fixtures also impact how colors will look. Paint a few sections in your color options, and then turn on the lights you will use most often to see how they affect the color.
 If your room has one or two large unbroken walls, the color you choose will have a big impact on the room overall. If there are multiple doors and windows throughout, your room will have a lot of color contrast between trim and door colors, and the wall color., When you change the wall color and trim color, you need to make sure the ceiling coordinates and looks just as fresh as the newly painted walls. In addition, just as the tone and shade can change how the room’s proportions feel, the ceiling color will have the same effect on how high or low the ceiling seems to be. 