 It is best to be at a healthy weight and have a healthy body if you are striving for the look of a Victoria’s Secret Angel. This workout circuit inspired by the Victoria’s Secret Angels will make you firmer all over (*credit to celebrity-diets.org):. Also, Victoria's Secret models are curvy. If you do not have big breasts (size 32C-36C) you may have some problems with looking like an Angel. So, do 30 push ups, tricep push ups, side push ups, wall push ups, chest press, overhead raises, etc. Do exercises that relate to anything that works out your pectoral muscles, and be sure to do about 30 of them everyday. If you have humongous breasts that are size D, you might have to lose weight to get that small waist you want but that is okay. Angels have small waists too. Do crunches, dancing, sit ups, V ups, oblique crunches, twist crunches, the hundred, twist crunches, and bicycle crunches to shrink your waist and get nice abs. Preferably your waist should be between 23 and 25 inches.To be part of the Victoria Secret family, you will need a nice butt. Usually, models butts are usually as large as their breasts. The models do exercises such as leg raises, kickbacks, lunges, calf raises, etc. This is to tone, enlarge, and tighten butt muscles. Perfect measurements are 34-24-34 but if you are pretty close to this measurement you are perfect enough to be a Victoria Secret Model.;
, Try your best not to count calories obsessively and try to focus more on concentrating on eating mostly organic foods. Organic fruits, veggies, whole grains (whole wheat bread and brown rice are good choices), yogurt, and limited fats make for a balanced diet (for more information, research how many servings of each food group you should consume for optimum health). Don’t deprive yourself…have an ice cream cone, candy bar, or some salty snack once a week for a treat! Try to follow the food pyramid recommendations and continue to eat healthy. You can achieve this by making an account on Super Tracker. This will help you monitor how much you need to eat, exercise, and help you set weight goals. The plan is personalized to your needs, even to weight gain or loss, making it perfect for you.
 Some good gradual self tanners are Jergen’s Natural Glow body moisturizer (don’t use this on your face, they carry a variety for the face too) and Olay Touch of Sun. I wouldn’t recommend drugstore self-tanners, they may make you look orange. Before applying the lotion, it is best to exfoliate all over (shave too!) and then apply the lotion before bed. To play up the tan, use a shimmery body lotion to give you a sexy glow. Apply it to your collarbone and cleavage, where it will be noticed most. Bath and Body Works carries a good variety. Don't forget bronzer! Dust some bronzer on your cheeks, nose, and forehead to give you a nice tan.
 When you wake up after having your essential 8 hours of sleep (sleeping too much will make you more tired), play with your hair. Blow-dry it to give it some volume and use a wide barrel curling iron (don’t set the heat too high or else you’ll risk burning your hair) to create soft waves. On other days, you can wear it straightened or in a high messy ponytail. Don't get side bangs, just run your hands through your hair to the side. Also, for less damage, you can shower at night (remember to wash your hair every 3 days and condition daily) and around your bedtime, spray in a curling spray and wrap your hair into a tight bun (or two) on top of your head to give you pretty curls in the morning. Use a deep conditioner once a week and use either a moisturizing, shining, or volumizing shampoo and conditioner on your hair. Ombre is also in right now. That is when you have darker hair near the top of your head and lighter hair near the bottom. It kind of looks like you are growing your hair out and it has been 6 months yet you won't dye it or get highlights. Actually, that is a great way to get ombre hair.
 If it is dull-looking or brassy, you can consider getting it colored (please, go to a salon for this). Otherwise, work with what you’ve got! However, don't forget the power of highlights. If you have ashy colored hair, you can give it some warm highlights with lemon juice and sunlight. If you have black hair, highlights aren't necessary, but midnight blue look fabulous. If you have dark brown hair, auburn or caramel look enticing. For medium browns, light brown, dark blonde, and caramel look amazing. For light brunettes, dark blonde, light red, and medium brown are awesome. Blondes of all shades look good with lighter and darker shades of blonde along with strawberry blonde. Red heads can go with other shades of red and light brown.
 If you have bad acne, consider using topical treatments found in your local drugstore. Otherwise, use a face wash, scrub, toner, and moisturizer that are designed for your skin type (normal, dry, oily, or combo). If you are unsure of your skin type, get an acne face wash. Use lemon juice as a toner, sugar as a scrub, and a light moisturizer to get great skin. If you notice a pimple or breakout on your face, you can apply tea tree oil to it immediately to make it disappear faster.
 First wash your face. Then, steam your face. Next, exfoliate and tone. Also, apply a facial mask. Wash it off and finally, moisturize and massage. For your body skin, use a body brush everyday before you shower. Wash your body with a nice soap and use baby oil in the shower. Rinse off the baby oil. If you have dry skin, you can moisturize afterwards, but the baby oil does feel good. Remember to shave every other day, at most, and always use a lotion after shaving.
 Start with a foundation which matches perfectly (don't use a foundation that is too dark to look tanner, that's what the self tanner is for). Maybelline Dream Matte Mouse is great. Then apply bronzer or blush for a glow. Then apply eyeliner and lots of mascara (despite the fact that the models are almost always seen with the smoky eye, it may be too much for school or work...save it for nights out). Apply champagne colored eyeshadow. Also wear a pink lip stain with lip gloss on top. To create a look of bigger lips, apply a sparkly white eyeshadow to your cupid's bow.
 Do the same for your toenails. If you have the extra cash, go get your nails done. It's super-relaxing and fun if you go with a friend. Give yourself or get a mani-pedi once a week. . Your toes should be red or pink. If you paint your fingers pink, get your toes pink. If your fingers are French, your toes should be red or pink.
 The Angels are often seen in the magazines in good quality jeans and shorts (dark wash is the most flattering), casual and sexy tops (basic tanks and v-necks are casual and lace camisoles and off-the-shoulder tops are some of the sexier tops they carry), and, of course, lingerie. For cute casual looks and pajamas, look at the VS Pink line. Check out victoriassecret.com for ideas on how to create a VS-esque wardrobe. Tank tops, camisoles, short shorts, skinny jeans, yoga pants, heels, push up bras, cute panties, charm bracelets and blouses with the first few buttons unbuttoned and the sleeves rolled up, crop tops, scoop neck tops, sweaters, purses, lockets, studs, lip gloss, flip flops, tights, sneakers, yoga shorts, sweatpants, scoop necks, Dolman tees, cardigans, UGGS, tennis shoes, flats, perfume, strapless floral summer dresses, robes and bikinis and pajamas are cute. In the winter wear cute ankle knitted UGGS, with shorts and tights, a cute scarf, mitts and beanie and a warm hooded sweatshirt. For school, wear a pastel polo shirt, navy blue skinny pants, and black flats, UGGs, or tennis shoes. Accessorize with a lacy tank underneath, a charm bracelet, and stud earrings. Recommended shirt colors are pale pink, bright pink, carnation pink, any shade of pink, red, white, lavender, pale blue, navy blue, and black. If you can have any color polo at school, get two pink, two white, one pale blue, one navy blue, and one red. Wear purple, black, grey, and/or white tank tops underneath.
 Make sure you seem warm and playful. Be modest. Don't boast about your appearance. VS models have a fun and playful outlook on life. They aren't called Angels for nothing.
 After they see your holy hotness and how much the boys are loving you, give them some tips and tricks. If they comment on your hair, tell them what shampoo you use to make it so soft. If they like your shirt, tell them the brand it is. If they comment on the cleanliness of your shoes tell them how you clean them. If they comment on anything, tell them just one little thing about how you get it to look so good. They will eventually learn more and more over time. They may even want to try it out. Soon, they will become Victoria's Secret model look-a-likes.
 Boys will whistle, look, stare, gawk, talk, and flirt with you after you become the hottest girl. So, you need to be prepared with comebacks. If they whistle, turn and wink. If they look at you, look at them. If they check you out, return the favor. Staring is solved by fluttering your lashes, turning your head down, and looking straight at them. Gawking is cured by swinging your hips and ignoring them. If they talk to you, start a friendly conversation with him. If he is just plain flirting with you, flirt back using his tactics. If he touches you, touch him, runs fingers through hair, run your fingers through your hair, etc. This will make boys like you even more. You may even get a new boyfriend.
 If you are known as the weirdo, nerd, or loser, this may help some. But, don't drop your grades, lose your personality, or drop your friends because of this. If you are known as a slut, skank, or hot mama already, this will make your reputation even worse, so act and dress innocent and don't flirt, repeat act and look innocent and don't flirt until you aren't seen as a slut anymore. But, if you are unbelievably hot, a flirt, pretty, sexy, and curve-a-licious, you may gain a reputation as a slut. If this occurs, tone it down a bit.

