 Massages can help relieve stress and relax you. Combining peppermint with your massage can relax you even more.Mix 15 drops of peppermint oil with a carrier oil such as coconut or olive oil to minimize the risk of skin irritation. This can also moisturize your skin. Start by massaging your feet and work upward towards your head. Massage in a pattern such as circles or broad strokes that you find relaxing. Focus on your feet, legs, wrists or temples.Massage gently so that you don’t stimulate your circulation, which may make it more difficult to relax., Let your body and mind relax as you soak in a bath infused with peppermint oil. This may also soothe other conditions such as sore muscles and joints or headaches.Fill the tub with water that is 37 and 39 degrees Celsius.Mix 15 drops of peppermint oil with 1 ounce of carrier oil such as olive, coconut, or sweet almond. You can also use 15 drops of oil and 16 ounces of Epsom salts.Pour your oil mixture into the bath by holding it under the tap to distribute it evenly. Stay in the bath for 15-20 minutes.Dim the lights and use bath props such as pillows or a warm washcloth over your eyes to enhance your relaxation.Consider burning a peppermint oil candle to relieve tension., You might have sensitive skin and can’t apply peppermint oil. You can still enjoy the calming benefits of peppermint oil by spritzing your bed linens. This can relax you without irritating your skin.Mix 30-40 drops of peppermint oil with 1.5 ounces of distilled water in a clean spray bottle. Add more peppermint oil if you want a stronger scent. Mist your sheets, comforter, duvet, or towels with the peppermint oil spray.


Avoid spraying too much because it might irritate your skin.
 Spread the scent of peppermint oil with candles, humidifiers, and scent diffusers. These offer the same types of calming effects as baths, massages, or spritzes.Purchase candles containing natural, pure peppermint oil and made of beeswax, soy or another vegetable-based wax.Light candles for 30 minutes to help the scent circulate for a relaxing environment.
Use a scent diffuser to disperse your peppermint oil through the air. A humidifier or cold-air vaporizer can also diffuse the scent to relax you.Build your own diffuser by putting peppermint oil in a bowl of hot water.