 Cut out two cardboard circles and then cut out a wedge and a small hole in the middle of each circle so that your disks look like they have keyholes. Remember, the bigger the circles, the bigger your pom pom will be (and vice versa).








You can cut out a circle freehand or you can use a bowl or glass as a guide to trace the area you want to cut and then cut out the circle.;
, Place a piece of yarn so that it is going around the keyhole and then place the other cardboard disk over the yarn. Arrange the circles together so that the keyholes are lined up.








This piece of yarn will serve to secure your pom pom later on. Make sure the piece is long enough so that the ends hang out on either side of the keyhole., Insert the yarn through the wedge and into the center of the circle. Then, begin wrapping the yarn around and around the circle. Wrap the yarn around the circle about 100 times or until the yarn is as thick as you want it to be.








The thicker your yarn is, the denser your pom pom will be.
 Put the scissors in between the two circles of cardboard and cut open the wound thread or yarn around the outer edge. Go slowly and cut evenly.








As you cut the yarn, hold onto the ends of the extra piece of yarn that you placed between the cardboard circles. This yarn is what will secure the pom pom.
 Tie and knot the ends of the extra piece of yarn. Because of where you placed the yarn before you started, it should be in the perfect position to hold your pom pom together.
 After you secure the pom pom with the extra piece of thread, you can set the cardboard disks aside. Keep in mind that you can reuse these disks to make more pom poms, so do not discard them.
 Trim around the outside of the pom pom to even out the threads. Keep trimming until you are happy with the look of your pom pom. Trimming will make the pom pom will make it fluffy, dense, and round.








Make sure that you do not trim the ends of the yarn that you used to secure the pom pom unless you do not need them.
 You can now use your finish pom pom by attaching it to a knitting or crochet project. Use the yarn tails to attach it to a hat, scarf, sweater, or whatever you want.

