 You will first need to get an old newspaper or some recycled paper (lets go green here), some papier mâché glue (you can buy a set or make some) and some filling of your choice (tissue paper, Kleenex, newspaper, ect.) You can also get some plastic gloves.;
, Take the newspaper and roll it up into a ball. Make sure it's nice and tight so it doesn't unroll. After, make another smaller ball and tape it to the head for the snout. Do the same with two small ears and two small horns.
 Take some newspaper (or whatever you're using) and roll it in your hands like you'd do with clay to make a snake. Once it's thick enough and long enough, tape the head you made to it. Make sure the neck is thick enough to hold up the head or else your giraffe will be headless.
 After the head and neck, you have to make the giraffe's main body part. Take the newspaper (again) and squeeze it real hard to make a round cylinder. It needs to be big enough to attach legs and the other parts. Now, tape the neck (with the head on top) to the body. You don't want the head and neck to be too heavy!

, Roll up the newspaper like you did with the neck, except make four of them. When you've done that, tape them to the main body. You might want to flatten out the bottom of the legs to get your giraffe to stand up straight.
 Tape them all and test to see if your giraffe stands up straight and is ready to be papier mâchéd!

, You can do this next part with a paint brush (a big one) or with your hands. Take the glue and paint it onto all parts of the giraffe. Once it's completely covered, put it somewhere where it can dry.
 Once your giraffe is dry, you want to paint it. This is optional, though. If you want yours to be a newspaper-giraffe, great! But if you want to paint it, go ahead. Look at some images online or read a book on giraffes to see how they look. You can paint it like a real one or you can paint it pink.
 Let it sit overnight standing up. You don't want to lay it on it's side, because then the paint will rub off on the surface you put it on. Once it's dry, you're done! Now you can go and show off you amazing papier mâchéd giraffe to everyone.

