

Consider that at what time on Valentine’s Day you break up with your partner may have a big impact on how your break up goes. Weigh the pros and cons of breaking up as early as possible in the day, versus waiting to the middle or even end of the day.

Doing it early in the day may be the gentlest time on Valentine’s Day to break up. Going through the motions of caring for someone during Valentine’s Day can end up doing more damage than breaking up.Also, this way your new ex will hopefully still have time to cancel any plans she may have made for the day.
Consider the end of the day. Breaking up with someone on Valentine’s Day morning might leave her (and you) miserable for the entire day. It also gives her the whole day to try to talk to you about it or out of it. This is an option, though remember that you should not go through the motions of being into the relationship all day and then suddenly give her the news at the end of the day. This may be a good option if you are both working all day and don't have an opportunity to talk or see each other until the evening.
Rather than choosing Valentine’s day or night, think about both of your schedules to determine the best time of the day to break up. Considering what you both have on the agenda for the day will guide you in picking the best time of day to do it.


Unless you have absolutely no other choice, you should generally avoid breaking up via chat, text, email. It is impersonal and even a bit rude and disrespectful — especially if you have been together for some time. This is even more so the case on Valentine’s Day because of the romantic and sensitive nature of the day.Avoid romantic locations. You should also try to find somewhere that doesn’t hold any special meaning for the two of you.
Pick somewhere with privacy. Unless you have no other choice or you are trying to hurt or embarrass your partner, breaking up without an audience, especially on Valentine’s Day, is the best option.Places that may work include a community park, library, or any other public area that isn’t full of happy couples and big red hearts splashed throughout the landscape.
 You want your soon-to-be ex to understand why you are breaking up on Valentine’s Day and also know that you mean business. Being honest with him about why you are ending it will hopefully help him accept the facts better and you won’t have extra explaining to do later.Although it may hurt him to have you say that you are leaving him for someone else, it’s better they find out from you than some other way.
For example, you could say, “It’s hard to me to admit this, but we’ve always been honest with each other. I’m breaking up with you because, over time, my feelings have changed.”

, Saying things you know will hurt the other person or causing a scene is not the best way to break up with someone, especially on Valentine's Day. Don’t be mean or take shots at the other person’s character or personality, but be sure the person understands that you are breaking up with her and why.For example, saying something like, “I’m leaving you because you are lazy, ignorant, and annoying” is mean and hurtful.
Instead, you might try saying, “I’m not happy in this relationship anymore, so I’m ending it. I don’t think we are compatible and don’t see a future for us.”

, During the break-up don’t allow the other person’s reaction sway your resolve. If you need to, recall why you wanted to break up with the other person and why you needed to do it on Valentine’s Day (and couldn't wait until another day). Be strong. Even though Valentine’s Day is not the best day to end a relationship, remember that breaking up will ultimately be what’s best for both of you and that in all likelihood, you're not the only couple breaking ties this holiday.

