 Information regarding the effects of artificial sweeteners on pregnant women is still limited. While many artificial sweeteners have been listed as safe for use in moderation, others should be avoided for the health of your baby.Saccharin (the main ingredient of Sweet ‘N Low) has been found to remain in fetal tissue after consumption. Cyclamate, another artificial sweetener, is banned in the U.S. due to insufficient information about its safety for pregnant women.
Rebaudioside A (stevia), acesulfame potassium (used in Sunett), aspartame (used in Equal and NutraSweet), and sucralose (used in Splenda) are considered generally safe in low amounts during pregnancy.
 Individuals with certain conditions – including phenylketonuria (PKU), liver disease, or high levels of phenylalanine (an amino acid) in their blood – should not use certain artificial sweeteners. Aspartame, especially, is off-limits for people with metabolic illnesses or disorders.If you have PKU or another metabolic disorder, talk to your doctor to determine if it is safe for you to consume artificial sweeteners.
 The Food and Drug Administration has developed levels of acceptable intake amounts for most artificial sweeteners. The limits are set at about 100 times less than the amount that could cause negative health outcomes. To determine the amount, you’ll need to know your body weight in kilograms and the amount of artificial sweetener (in milligrams) in the product you’re interested in consuming.Divide your weight in pounds by 2.2 to find your weight in kilograms.


For instance, the ADI level for aspartame is 50 milligrams per kilogram body weight per day. If you weigh 60 kilograms, you would simply multiply 50 milligrams by 60 (your weight in kilograms), yielding a sum of 3,000 milligrams of aspartame per day.
The ADI limits can be seen at http://www.fda.gov/Food/IngredientsPackagingLabeling/FoodAdditivesIngredients/ucm397725.htm#SummaryTable.
Check the nutrition label to find the amount of artificial sweetener in the food product you’re interested in consuming.
 If you believe you are experiencing a negative health outcome because of artificial sweetener consumption, contact your doctor immediately and stop using the artificial sweetener. In addition, contact the FDA and report your situation. The FDA can be reached:by email at CAERS@cfsan.fda.gov
by phone at 240-402-2405
by mail at: FDA, CAERS, HFS-700, 2A-012/CPK1, 5100 Paint Branch Parkway, College Park, MD 20740

