 Though there's no sure fire way to know if the guy returns your feelings, there are a variety of signs that can let you know how he really feels about you. It's best to make sure that there's at least a chance that he likes you before you move on and tell him how you feel about him. Here are a few ways to see if he likes you as more than a friend:


Notice what he says. See if he's always complimenting you, asking if you like anyone, and telling you that he wishes he had a girlfriend.
Notice what he does. If he likes you, then he'll look for every excuse to hang out with you, try to make physical contact, and may even do sweet favors for you like dropping off your lunch.
Notice his appearance. If he always takes extra care with his looks when he knows he'll be around you, then this may mean that he likes you.
See if he's always asking you to hang out. If he's always asking you to spend time together, even it may not be at a date-type of event, then he may like you.
 If showing him that you like him just isn't doing the trick, then it may be time to tell the guy how you feel about him. You should pick a time and place where you can both be alone and free of stress, and then keep cool as you tell him that you have feelings for him. Don't put a lot of pressure on him or yourself and wait for a response.


Just relax. If he doesn't return your feelings, at least you'll know instead of worrying about it.
Keep it simple. Don't overwhelm him by talking quickly and telling him the 150 reasons why you like him so much.
 If the guy likes you, then you can hug him or just show him how happy you are, and begin to talk about going on a date and moving your relationship forward. If he doesn't return your feelings, that's OK too -- just show him how mature you are by not getting too upset, or even getting angry, because he doesn't share your feelings.


If it turns out he likes you, then you can even laugh about all the ways that you tried to show him that you liked him.
If he doesn't like you, don't despair. Be proud of yourself for working up the courage to share your feelings and move on.

