 Cut pictures out from magazines and tape them onto paper, then run a photocopy of them. Or, make digital copies on your computer, using pictures from the Internet. Print off the pictures and send them out. Be creative!;
, Put up a bunch of Jonas Brothers posters all over the house. If you want a more 'Hollywood' theme, have a red carpet in the party room. Also, make or buy stars such as the ones on the "Walk of Fame". Write your guests names on the stars, and don't forget to write Nick, Joe, and Kevin's names on the stars too! Buy Jonas Brothers cardboard cutouts and put them on the red carpet. This will make your guests feel like they're at a red carpet event with the Jonas Bros! You can even get some family members or friends to dress as paparazzi and take pictures of them with the cutouts. Have the 'paparazzi' throw roses onto the carpet too.
 Since it's a Jonas Brothers party, you'll obviously want to play Jonas Brothers music! If you don't already have them, buy Jonas Brothers CDs, or download their songs off of iTunes. Play the music on repeat in the background while your party is going on. If you don't want to go out and buy/download the Jonas Brothers music, have your guests bring their Jonas Brothers CD's.
 Here are some ideas to get you started:


Jonas Trivia: Make a trivia game all about the Jonas Brothers! Where were they discovered? Who's their little brother? What's their favourite food?
Pin the tie on the Jonas: Blindfold your guests and have them pin a tie onto a poster of the Jonas Bros. Whoever gets the tie the closet wins!
Jonas Bros scavenger hunt: Buy a bunch of Jonas Brothers-related things such as ties, pins, rings (like their Purity rings), etc. and hide them around the house.
Name that Song: Play snippets of Jonas Brothers songs. The first person to guess what song it is gets a point. Whoever has the most points wins.
JB Karaoke: Sing Jonas Brothers karaoke songs. To make it more competitive, whoever messes up is out. Whoever can make it through a whole song with no mess ups they get a point! For extra JB karaoke fun, make up your own dances to go with the songs!

, If you're serving lunch/dinner, try pizza, sushi, Chinese food, etc. Make sure to have munchies such as chips and cheese as well. Find out some of the Jonas Brother's favourite foods and serve them as well. Have a cake with the JB logo or an edible picture of them on it! Yum!

, If you're doing the "Hollywood" theme, tell them to dress fancy, because they'll be on the red carpet. You could also tell your guests to dress like a Jonas Brother! Wear ties, vests, skinny jeans, leather jackets, etc. Or, keep it simple and just wear a JB shirt!

, Don't forget a thank-you card!

