 A baby significantly changes the lives of everyone around it from individuals to couples and families. Talking about and welcoming the inevitable changes about to happen can help you better prepare for your baby.Some things a baby may change are:


Personal relationships
Finances
Living situations
Lifestyle

, The concept of labor, delivery and a new baby may cause fear and anxiety because they involve things you can’t necessarily control. You may ask yourself questions like “Am I able to provide support during and after the birth?” or “What happens if I pass out?” You are not alone in having these feelings and it’s important that you recognize these are completely normal concerns.Avoid bottling up any fears and concerns you might have. Talk with the baby’s mother, family members, friends, and doctors any questions you have about preparing for your baby.
Remember that having a baby can really change your life and your relationship. Keeping in mind things such as the biological inclination for mothers to nurture a baby can help you prepare for the baby., Even if you are not together with the baby’s mother, a baby is likely to thrive when its parents have a positive and/ or healthy relationship. Maintaining a strong and healthy relationship throughout pregnancy can prepare and help you be as supportive as possible during birth and beyond.Discuss anything related to pregnancy, delivery, your baby and your relationship with the mom. You may not agree on everything, but finding compromises can help you better prepare for the birth of your baby.
Talk about your role during pregnancy and birth. There are many different ways you can provide support during pregnancy and birth. Talking about how you can help her may reduce your fears and also promote a healthy relationship.Ask if you can attend doctor’s visits and about your role during the baby’s birth and beyond.
 Babies cost a lot and need large amounts of your time and attention. Discussing your finances and how you’ll tackle the considerable workload can prevent miscommunication.See how you can reduce the overall workload. This may include figuring out how to do household work with a newborn or who will pay for basic expenses.
Keep an open dialogue about career plans, such as when and if mom wants to return to work. Talk about childcare, who and how you will pay for it. You may want to meet with a financial counselor to develop a budget that works for everyone.
 Your baby is a new family member, which can cause the dynamic in your home and other relationships to change considerably.Let your family and friends know that you are expecting a new baby to help them get ready for any changes and offer you support.Send out pregnancy announcements if you like.
 Just as a new baby can change your interpersonal relationships, it also creates new dynamics with your other children.Letting your other children know about the new baby can help them understand the changes they may experience.Let other children know in person so that you can answer any questions or fears they may have. Give siblings an idea of what to expect at a level they can understand. For example, “The new baby will sleep, eat, and cry a lot. She won’t be able to play right away, but you can help me change diapers and feed her.Recognize that smaller siblings may not understand the concept of a new baby. Put it in terms they understand such as, “We’ll have a new baby when the Easter bunny visits us.”