 A home has to be listed by a broker to make it onto the MLS. In the old days, that meant a person had to find a local broker and pay them a flat fee to get their house listed if they didn’t want to use the services of a realtor. These days, there are literally dozens of services on the web that will take care of the listing for you, including FSBO.com, MLSMyHome.com, and ForSaleByOwner.com. The biggest decision you’ll need to make is deciding how much coverage you’d like to get across platforms. For example, you might pay a flat fee to get listed on the MLS and realtor.com (which overlap), the MLS, realtor.com, and a for-sale-by owner website, or by all of the above, plus Trulia, Zillow, and national real estate brokerages like Keller Williams and ReMax.
The fees increase in proportion to the amount of coverage you get. While you can get listed on only the MLS and realtor.com for less than $100, you might have to spend as much as $800 to get coverage on all available platforms., In addition to coverage across platforms, the flat-fee listing sites have different packages claiming to offer ever increasing marketing advantages. These might the length of time a home will be listed, the number of pictures that can be added to the listing, placement of your listing at the top of a page, and yard signs.Although all of the flat-free listing services promise better results the more money you spend, it’s nearly impossible to find independent verification of these claims. Your best bet is to find a flat-fee company doing a lot of business in your area and checking their reputation with the Better Business Bureau (BBB).
The BBB is a nonprofit funded by businesses that rates, reviews, and credentials businesses in order to ensure consumer confidence. You can look up a business at http://www.bbb.org/ by entering the business’ name, URL, or phone number, and narrowing down the geographic area as much as possible.
 You need to try and write a listing which is as compelling as possible without overpromising. Be sure to include the following elements:A descriptive and succinct heading. Instead of listing the address and the price in the title, be a little creative. For example, instead of “123 Red Robin Lane, $100,000,” try something like “Charming turn of the century craftsman home in the popular Red Robin neighborhood.”
As many pictures as possible. Humans are visual creatures, and the more pictures you have on the listing, the more likely you are to sell the home.
Specific details about the house. Be sure to include details like number of rooms, square footage, size of the lot, and any amenities that come along with the house—sunrooms, porches, a fenced-in yard, attractive interior styling, etc.
The price. Make it as easy as possible for someone to buy your house. Don’t be the person who creates a listing without a price, or worse, “inquire” where the price should be.
 Remember to add your listing to sites like craigslist.org and backpage.com if you’re selling independently. While most buyers will start out their search on the larger sites like Realtor.com, widening your exposure can only work to your benefit. In addition, most listings to sites like these are free or low cost.In most areas, listings on the MLS are added to sites like Trulia and Zillow, but not every locality’s MLS shares information with these sites. Make sure to check with your flat-fee listing service to find out. If the listings aren’t automatically shared, you’ll need to upload your listing yourself.

