 If, however, you want that that city to grow and don't mind making a little bit less every turn, move it to the lowest tax rate until you upgrade it.;
, As long as you have the money, try to make sure that all of your settlements have at least one building being produced on the construction panel.
 If you have conquered a city and it already has a religious structure from a different culture, destroy it and build your own. The only exception to this is when that city's happiness rating is too low to last a turn without that building without revolting.
 However, if you have the ability to upgrade the city and the citizens are becoming too restless, delay whichever current structure you are building with the new one that will advance your city.
 It's good to build some strong allies early. Don't ally yourself with a faction though if you plan on waging war on them any time soon.
 Include spearmen to defend against cavalry, heavy infantry to combat the enemy's spearmen and other infantry, cavalry to outmaneuver your enemy or to match theirs, archers or javelin-men to harass your enemy before your melee units engage, and when you have a city advanced enough to build some, siege equipment to attack a town without waiting another turn or more.
 unless they are at risk from being attacked by the outside. You don't want your best unit to be cut down by arrows before even engaging the enemy. When you've brought siege equipment, such as onagers and ballistate, try not to destroy any buildings that appear in the campaign map. When you've finally broken the gate or a section of their wall, you should group the units you plan to send in and press Shift+8 to move them into column formation. This is best for storming a city.
 If it's red, you should massacre or enslave the citizens. In that situation, massacre them. If it's blue, enslave them. If it's yellow, you could still enslave them just in case. If it's green, neither massacre nor enslavement is necessary, but then again, you are the king, so it's completely up to you.
 It is possible to defend a city with 21 weak Greek Cavaliers against 350 Macedonian spearmen and archers and win with 15 men remaining and your general still alive. When you're the one whose city is about to be stormed, place the troops with the strongest defence near the place where the enemy has penetrated your city, and put them into guard mode. There are all types of different methods you can attempt to try to save your city. Something that often works is to put some spearmen a few yards back from wherever the enemy has come in and let them advance. Then, order any swordsmen, no matter how strong or weak, to attack it's now unprotected flanks since it is trapped between your defending army and the gate.
 Always try to place your army on a hilltop when it's about to be attacked. This hill will be on the battle map as well, and the slope could be the difference between defeat and victory.
 Leaving your ranged units on fire-at-will can cause them to fire and hit your own men if they are close to the enemy.
 Put yourself into win-win situations.
 Chariots on the run can still cause casualties to you by the blades on their wheels.
 Morale is as much a weapon as any conventional one, don't overlook it.
 The first is military, take over a settlement to make defending your empire easier, or to weaken an enemy. The second, and most important, is economics. Your main drive in attacking a settlement is to make more money, either by opening up new trade routes or merely adding more people to tax.
 Only family members (Generals with portraits) can build forts. These forts must be manned by at least one unit at all times, or they will fall into disrepair, and disappear. Forts can be used to prevent war, and they also makes sure you'll be calling the shots once it starts.

