 Translucent paper works well for this project and allows the most light to shine through. If that's not an option, grab a brown paper bag from your pantry.


Some decorative papers can be expensive, so if you are looking for a budget-friendly lantern craft, brown paper lunch bags are your best bet. These are usually 3.5 inches (8.9 cm) wide and approximately 7 inches (17.8 cm) tall. Decorate the lunch bag as you would the decorative paper.
 It needs to be approximately 5 or 6 inches (12.7 or 15.2 cm) high and 9 to 10 inches (22.9 to 25.4 cm) long. 9 inches (22.9 cm) in length is preferable; however, you may need to make the base wider if you need to fit it around a large votive holder.


Cut another strip of paper that is 1 inch (2.5 cm) tall and 10 inches (25.4 cm) wide. This will serve as your base, keeping your lantern sturdy.
 The following are ways you can decorate your table top lantern:









Paint watercolors onto your paper. Choose a holiday theme so that it reflects the season.
Use light markers or brush pens to draw words or images onto your paper.
Collage the paper with holiday designs from other scrapbook papers, wrapping paper, or magazines.
Use holiday stencils on construction paper. Cut out the stencil and glue the image onto the paper, or you can place the stencil directly over the paper and paint the design onto your paper.

If your paper is sturdy enough, you could cut holes into the paper in a pretty design to emit even more light through. However, tissue paper may not be strong enough to use this idea.
 The thinner the paper, the more you'll want to avoid glue -- so double stick tape is necessary.









Then, wrap the lantern around to form a cylinder. Align the opposite edge below the tape and stick it together firmly. Run your fingers along the edges to ensure all of it has adhered.
 Place a piece of double-sided tape along your 1 by 10 inch (2.5 by 25.4 cm) strip. Adhere it to the bottom of your lantern for extra stability. Your lantern is now ready to be displayed!








, Place your lantern around the glass holder and it will light up through the top. If you are using a brown paper bag, then carefully stick the glass votive holder inside the paper bag lantern.








