 Students who live in dorms often do better academically. It's easier to stay on task with less distractions. If you're on campus, you may also have easier access to places like the library.Be honest with yourself. Are you a responsible person? Will you be able to get to classes on time if you live off campus? Will you be able to stay on track with your homework with the freedom of off-campus life.
If you're generally the responsible type, living off campus will still be an adjustment. However, if you tend to finish assignments on time and have a solid work ethic, you have a good chance of staying on track off campus.
 If you move off campus, you may be farther away from things like libraries, resource centers, and similar buildings. If it is more difficult to run to the library, for example, you may find you're doing it less often.

. But if you are living off campus, you might have more entertainment and socialization options out in the community that would be harder to access while on campus such as movie theaters, restaurants, shopping, etc. These options may be more expensive but you can sometimes get community discounts if you have a campus ID.

A lot of this will depend on where apartments tend to be located in your area. If you're attending school in a college town, apartments may tend to be close to campus. This would make this less of an issue.
You should also factor in the cost of parking and gas. If you end up needing to drive to certain locations, the costs can add up each month.
 The freedom of an apartment can be great. You can have guests over whenever you want, and are generally able to make more noise. However, this can prove to be a distraction. In the dorm, there may be things like quiet hours. You also will not be able to have a lot of people over at once.If you're the responsible type, you may be able to better cope with distractions. However, it will always be an adjustment. If you decide to live off campus, be prepared to work extra hard to stay on track.
It's okay if you think you cannot handle the responsibility. Many students live on campus for all four years. Remember, the most important thing about college is learning.

