 Make sure your potential gastroenterologists are board certified and formally trained. In addition to a three year residency, a gastroenterologist must complete a two to three year residency for specialized training.Look for one with an active license and no known charges against them.

Look up the website for your state's medical board. Click the link for "licensee search," and type in the gastroenterologist's name, city, and address. This will tell you when the doctor was licensed, what year their license expires, and if they have any complaints or disciplines registered against them.
 Many physician private practices and hospitals have profiles on review websites, such as Yelp. Search for your prospective gastroenterologist on specific review sites, and run a general search on a search engine. You can also contact the office or hospital and ask if they can provide patient satisfaction surveys or testimonials.Remember that online reviews aren't always objective or authoritative, so take them with a grain of salt.
 Contact your local business boards or view their websites. Look for your prospective gastroenterologists’ private practices or for their hospital and check their rating.A Better Business Bureau or Chamber of Commerce rating will give you information about your prospective physicians’ business practices.
You can also get a referral to a gastroenterologist from a Better Business Bureau or Chamber of Commerce.
 A good gastroenterologist should have years of training and plenty of experience performing procedures like colonoscopies. If you have a specific disorder, you should contact your prospective physicians to ensure they specialize in your illness.For example, if you’re having a colonoscopy, you should choose a gastroenterologist who performs more than 100 procedures per year. They should routinely remove any polyps they find during the colonoscopies they perform.
If you have a specific disorder, your best option is to get a referral from your primary doctor.
 Have a conversation with a prospective gastroenterologist to get a feel for their personality and bedside manner. Choose one who makes time for you, communicates clearly, and thoughtfully engages your questions.Ask their office if the physician can spare a minute or two for a quick phone or in-person conversation. If not, you may need to make an appointment to visit them.
Ask the gastroenterologist questions about your required procedure: "Will I need to be sedated? Do I need to fast before the procedure? Are there any potential complications?"
If you feel that they're rushing you or using unfamiliar, unapproachable jargon, try to find another specialist.

