 You should ensure that the rig is registered and road legal. A specialised mechanic is able to inspect your rig, or you can get the vehicle inspected by the Roads and Traffic Authority. You can also do a basic safety check on the Gooseneck, you should check the following:- Break lights, Indicator lights, Tire pressure and tire tread, Gas or fuel, Water and any necessary fluid or oil, Rig Attachments

, Ensure that the horse is ready for the haul, a Gooseneck is quite comfortable for a horse to travel in style in, but some horses may get a little suspicious of the size. Keep everything familiar, by doing the same preparation procedures to what you would do with a horse float. As with horse floats, the horse can become quite warm inside, and horses only require a light travel sheet, however, Goosenecks can also be drafty if they have open vents rather than closed windows. A light sheet would probably suffice, but be prepared by having a heavier rug available for when the weather cools down. Travel boots are essential; the ramp of a Gooseneck is quite flat with not a steep slope, mainly due to the back also having an additional swing-open door. Take all safety precautions; if a horse was to slip off the edge, worst-case scenario, then the horse would injure its legs. A breakaway halter is best suited for travelling; however, a good quality halter will suffice. Again leave the horse's head free.
 If you have a steep ramp or tailgate or a horse is used to being stabled, then it will be necessary to put some wood shavings on the ramp to make it more inviting and so the horse doesn’t slip. Most Goosenecks will be enclosed, and have windows for ventilation, open these to make the inside brighter. This will make it more inviting for the horse. Horses are easily bribed by using a feed temptation. To temp stubborn or nervous horses, place a hay net or feed bucket on the floor of the Gooseneck. For horses that easily travel and float, simply have a hay net or feed bucket available for the trip. Because a Goosenecks ramp is not very steep, a horse will usually walk on without difficulty, but make sure that the ramp and swing door are opened prior to bringing the horse to the rig. Make sure that you have all necessary equipment for the trip, including:- Registration papers and horse documentation, a first aid kit for both humans and horses, a mobile or cell phone, a torch, spare tyre, mechanical equipment, such as jack, wrench etc. As well as water and food for both parties. Ensure all or most equipment is stored within easy access, such as in the glove box or in the cab.
 If you have a horse that is green to travelling, load an experienced and gentle horse first, the greener horse will get confidence from the first horse, and will be less likely to baulk or become agitated. If you have only green travellers, ensure that the greenest horse goes on first, as if a horse gets agitated, it may spark a chain reaction amongst the other horses. If travelling with multiple horses, load them as normal, but try putting the easier to handle horses towards the rear, if there should be a problem during the trip, you can take them off and you will have less of a problem if you have to stop on the side of a road, because the horses will be easy to handle. Make sure your horses head is not restricted, so do not tie your horse.
 Many people simply drive away and don’t worry about the load until they get to their destination. If you are travelling for a short time, then this will probably be the case, but if you plan to travel for longer than 2 hours, then it is best to plan for stops along the way. The horses will probably be ok, but if you become tired you may be putting you and your horses in danger. Plan your stops, and if you are going to a show, allow extra time for stops or breaks. If your are travelling extreme distances, make sure that you let your horses off the Gooseneck and walk them around, like humans, they need blood flow to the legs and body. If you were to sit for hours on end, you legs may become numb and fall asleep, horses are the same, and require movement for blood flow. You may be fortunate enough to be able to have a stop over at a friend’s house, or at a horse motel, but if not, plan your trip and allow time for stops. Many Goosenecks may be fitted with easy yards. If a suitable position is available, then this may the best option for multiple day trips, or when travelling across state or Country.

