 Plug the USB cable into the camera’s USB port. Then plug the larger USB 2.0 end of the cable to a vacant USB slot on your computer.


If you’re using a USB card reader, remove the memory card from the camera (consult your camera’s manual for the card slot’s location) then insert the memory card into a compatible slot in a USB card reader. Afterwards, plug the card reader into a vacant USB port on your computer.;
,


On Windows, go to My Computer and access the camera’s memory from there. Click on the removable disk, or camera, that comes up in the list of accessible storage devices. Select the DCIM folder, which is where all the videos and pictures taken by the camera are stored.
On Mac, the camera’s storage will appear on the desktop automatically. Simply click the hard drive icon that comes up to access it. Click on the DCIM folder to access the photos.
 Copy photos by highlighting the ones you want to copy and pressing CTRL + C (Windows) or CMD + C (Mac).
 If you want, you can create a new folder by right-clicking an empty area of any directory in your computer then selecting “New” and “Folder.”


Make sure that the folder can be easily located and accessed.
 In the folder of your choice, or the one you created, hit CTRL + V or CMD + V on your keyboard to copy the photos there.
 Head to the folder where you transferred the photos from your camera then highlight the photos you want to copy into your Kindle Fire by pressing CTRL or CMD + C.
 Do this by plugging the micro-USB jack into the Kindle’s charging port, and plugging the USB 2.0 jack into a vacant USB port on your computer.
 It will detect the connection and notify you on its screen.



On windows, you can go to My Computer to see your Kindle in the list of accessible storage devices. Click on the Photos folder to gain access to where photos are stored in your Kindle’s internal memory.
On Mac, the Kindle should appear on the desktop as a hard disk icon. Click it to access the Kindle’s internal memory, then head to the Photos folder.
 Once you are in the Photos folder, you are free to paste the photos into it by pressing CTRL or CMD + V.


If you want, you can also organize the photos by folder, which will be displayed as different albums in the Kindle Fire Gallery. Create a new folder and rename it to what you want the album to be called, and then transfer the photos to that specific album.
 After all the photos has been transferred, just tap on the “Disconnect” button on your Kindle’s screen. You will hear a sound notification from your computer, letting you know that disconnection was successful.


After hearing the notification, remove the cable both from the Kindle Fire and the PC.
 On your Kindle Fire’s home screen, tap the Gallery to open it. You’ll see albums indicating the folders that the photos are in.
 If you copied the pictures directly into the Photos folder, then select the Photos album from the gallery to view the pictures you transferred. If you created a new folder, locate the album with the same name as the folder you created, and select that.