 If you're impersonating a powerful, confident figure, like Bill Clinton or Idris Elba, you'll want to stand up straight, chest puffed out and chin up. If you're after a lazy or chilled-out impersonation, like The Dude or Cheech and Chong, sag your shoulders and move slowly. Instead of trying to perfectly mimic the person's unique body language, take their general mood or personality and use it get a rough approximation your audience can recognize.


If you've got an energetic subject (Kanye West, Robin Williams, Tom Cruise, etc.), be sure to keep moving and speak quickly.
Note and incorporate any big, broad, or uniquely personal gestures. A Michael Jackson impersonation, for example, would benefit greatly from a spin and crotch grab.
 One of the best ways to easily mimic a person's movements is to stick to the hands, as everyone has slightly different habits when speaking. Broadly speaking, big and energetic personalities (or Italians) move their hands all the time when talking, while quieter folks tend to keep them down. Politicians tend to point with their thumb and fist, while amorous or sexually prolific subjects (think Prince, or maybe a bad Bill Clinton) tend touch other people frequently.
 If you're doing a Donald Trump impersonation, you better be able to smirk sheepishly into a camera. Bert Reynolds impersonators might keep their jaw moving, a-la Norm McDonald's Saturday Night Live impression of the actor. Oprah impersonators are experts at the wide-eyed smile and enthusiasm that comes with one of her coveted recommendations. Someone's eyes, in particular, are wonderfully expressive, meaning you can nail an impersonation if you can mimic them appropriately.The best places to study are extreme emotions, where people tend to have more unique expressions. What is your subject like when overjoyed, angry, excited, or surprised?

, Sometimes putting a costume together will be easy -- if you're impersonating a politician, for example, you'd wear a suit or pantsuit. Bill Cosby impersonators pretty much have to wear a big, colorful sweater. Some costumes will be a little less simple, but remember that you just need to get general idea across. Instead of going out to buy a new outfit, use smaller cues and ideas to get the point across:


Even one piece of clothing, like a hat, shirt, piece of jewelry or tie, can be used to get the point across if well played.
Imagine you ran into them at a coffee shop -- what are they wearing?
Thrift and second-hand stores are the best places to get outlandish and unique clothes cheaply.
 This can be obvious, like a jeweled glove for Michael Jackson. You can also go a little more humorous or outlandish, such as an empty jar labeled "Iraq's WMDs" for a President Bush impersonation. A famous soccer player might carry a ball, a chef a spatula, Bugs Bunny a carrot -- simply think about the one object that will pull the impersonation together for your audience.

