 This is the big, circular piece the holds the light in place. Take it off, leaving just the cylindrical light fixture at the end of your light kit for now., Take the end of your hanging light (where the bulb is screwed in) and trace it out on the lid of the mason jar. You'll need to punch through this top to get the light in.









Make sure you're using both parts of the lid -- the round, flat piece and the circular "cuff" that screws on.
 This is the simplest set of tools to use, but you can also use a power drill if you have one on hand. Punch a small hole into the lid using the nail or your drill, then remove the nail.









Punch along the inside of your tracing line. You'd rather make it a bit too small at first than too large.
 Use your hammer and nail to keep working around your traced circle until it falls out.








If you have a pair of tin cutters or strong scissors, you can use these to speed up the process., Make sure that the wire runs out of the jar and the light fixture points into it. If you need, use the back of your hammer to bend back any sharp or rough edges in the jar. The connector, however, should keep the whole light fixture in place on the lid.









If the hole is a little small, push and twist to try and get it through and keep a nice tight seal between the light and lid.
 While few people will notice a rough cut on the top of a light, you can tighten this connection easily with a hard, quick-drying adhesive. While it will not affect the light much, it can prevent the fixture from wiggling around if your cut isn't snug.
 Turn it on to make sure it works, and voila!








, If your pendant light cord is covered in thick plastic, you may be able to knot it and hang the light from a hook from the knot for more support.


Aim to install your hooks in a ceiling beam. They can fall if they are simply screwed into plaster.You can also make 2 or 3 similar pendant lights and knot the chords together. Hang them from 1 sturdy ceiling hook to create a larger light fixture.
 If you want your mason jar lights to hang directly from the ceiling, you should not try to install them on your own, unless you have extensive experience with electrical wiring. Alternatively, you can string the cord along your wall or ceiling, outside of the wall plaster, and plug it into an electrical outlet.