 Don't jump ahead of yourself. Start off with some casual conversation, shoot her a compliment every once in a while. If she blushes, smiles, or reacts in a positive way you're on the right track.;
, If you can get a little closer, do so that she can adjust to your wavelength and she might even know what you're trying to say without you saying anything.


Of course, be mindful of her personal space.
Don't be creepy. Inappropriate closeness, touching, or jokes that seem like no big deal, can be considered harassment if she is uncomfortable.
 She is the one who will say "Hi" every time you log on, never ever start the conversation off, the same with texting, she will be the one who texts 50000 times a day, and you WILL respond to every single one of them, that way she knows you're listening. You don't have to act interested, but don't let her know this, crack a few jokes over the phone when you get to that stage and if you can, keep her on the line as long as possible, it might give you an expensive phone bill but a woman usually admires anyone who will take the time to listen to her.
 When you've gotten closer ask her out. Always do so in person. Never over the phone, text, or internet., Make sure the venue is nice. While it doesn't have to be ultra high class you may have to drop some money on this.
 You will know she is really liking you if she looks at you, looks away and flutters her eyelids at the floor. If she tries touching your hand and gives silly excuses you know are lies, that's good too, she wants to get physical with you, but don't overdo it. Look at her face, not at her chest, this shows you respect her and she'll like this. If she stares into your eyes and smiles, take this as a definite sign she enjoyed tonight, but don't assume she loves you, that will come later.
 Walk her or drive her, when you get there, walk her to her door, this will definitely let her know you're loyal and really really like her, it would be better to walk her home rather than drive her there, if she tries to hold your hand, let her and hold her like she's a piece of delicate glass. If she starts blushing or sweating, this is a very very good sign, if she says "I had a wonderful night" this is good, if she pecks you on the cheek, even better, but let her kiss you then leave her to go in her house, never ever try to go for the lips, unless she goes for yours first.
 Send friendly gestures. Chocolates, teddy bears, and flowers are all classics but they work. This will tell her what you wanted to say, you really love her, she knows you love her but you need to get her side of the story as well.

