 When someone else is talking, you should be paying close attention. Focus on what they are saying and the meaning behind their words instead of thinking about what you want to say next. Maintain eye contact with the person, and give subtle gestures like leaning forward or raising your eyebrows to show that you are interested.This is known as active listening. A key component is to listen more than you talk.
 One good way to make connections with people is to help them. Making yourself available to someone else is a great way to bond with someone you don’t know. This is crucial to being popular, since you will need to expand your circle of friends quite a bit to reach such an elevated social status.For example, you could offer to help a new friend clean up after their birthday party.
You could also offer to help someone study or let them see your notes from a class.
 In addition to helping other people, you can bond by letting them help you. Avoid being needy or pushy, but ask someone you’ve met recently to help you with a small task. They will feel valued and appreciated by the request.For example, you could ask a new acquaintance to help you move your desk around the room.
Avoid asking for money. This can make people question your intentions.
 Connecting with other people requires thoughtful, considerate communication. This means that you should really think about what you are going to say to the other person, especially if you are upset for some reason. A spontaneous reaction to a comment or action by the other person could make them upset with you. It could also make other people feel like you are too quick to fly off the handle.For example, if someone says something you find insulting, you should not immediately start screaming at them. Instead, take a deep breath and explain to them calmly why their comment was inappropriate. You might say something like “I think that you should consider how something like that might make other people feel. I was very uncomfortable with what you said.”

