 Place the beans in a medium glass bowl and completely cover them with cool to room temperature water. Allow the beans to soak overnight, or for 8 to 12 hours.


Leave the beans out on your kitchen counter as they soak. You do not need to keep them in the refrigerator or on the stove.;
, Discard the water by pouring the contents of the bowl through a colander or sieve. While the beans are still in the colander, rinse them thoroughly with cool water.


Check the beans before draining them. Any that floated to the surface might be broken or otherwise bad, so you should discard these and continue working with the rest of the batch.
 Place the beans in a medium to large saucepan and cover with water. Bring the water to a boil, then allow the beans to boil for 1 minute.


After blanching the beans for one minute, quickly turn off the heat and remove the saucepan from the stove. Pour the contents of the saucepan through a colander to drain the water.
While the beans are still in the colander, it's a good idea to rinse the saucepan. That same saucepan can then be used later in the process.
 Quickly rinse the beans in cool, running water.


By rapidly cooling them in this manner, you stop any residual heat from prematurely cooking the beans any further.
If desired, you can blanch and cool the beans once more. Doing so is not strictly necessary, however, and you should be able to move into the next step after only blanching and cooling once.
 Return the beans to the rinsed saucepan and cover them with water. Sprinkle a pinch of salt into the water, as well.


The water should only cover the beans by about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm).
 Place the saucepan on the stove over medium-high heat. Allow the water to reach a rolling boil, then reduce the heat to low or medium-low.


Leave the lid off the saucepan as it reaches a boil. After lowering the heat, though, place the lid back on.
 Allow the beans to cook at a low simmer for 60 to 90 minutes, or until they become very soft.As they cook, you should occasionally use a slotted spoon to stir the beans and push them beneath the surface of the water.
If scum starts forming on the surface of the water, carefully skim it off with a spoon.
Also note that some of the water may evaporate as the beans cook. When this happens, add just as much water as needed to keep the beans covered.
When you think the beans are ready, carefully fish out one bean and pinch it between your fingers. You should be able to easily crush the bean once the batch is ready.
 Pour the contents of the saucepan through a colander or fine sieve, draining the water and retaining the beans.


If desired, you can reserve the drained cooking liquid for use when making the paste. It isn't a big deal if you drain it away, however, since fresh water can be used in its place if necessary.
 Pour the dry beans into your pressure cooker and add just enough water to cover them by roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm).


Note that you do not need to pre-soak the beans when using a pressure cooker.
 Keep the lid off the pressure cooker and place it on the stove over medium-high heat. After the water reaches a boil, let it continue at a boil for 1 minute.


Pour the contents of the pressure cooker through a sieve or colander as soon as that minute ends. The point of this step is merely to boil away any surface impurities, not to cook the beans.
If desired, you can blanch the beans twice for an even cleaner taste. Doing so only once is usually sufficient, though.
 Place the rinsed beans back in the pressure cooker. Add the same about of water as before—enough to cover the beans by about 1 inch (2.5 cm)—and sprinkle in a pinch of salt.


Make sure that you rinse the pressure cooker before placing the beans back inside. If you don't rinse the pressure cooker, some of the impurities you boiled away will still linger and may affect the final flavor.
 Put the lid on the pressure cooker and lock it into place. Allow the pressure to build over high heat.


Follow the manufacturer's instructions to determine the proper rated pressure to use. This will vary depending on model and manufacturer, so you will need to rely on the instructions that come with your particular pressure cooker for specifics.
 Once the correct pressure has been reached, lower the heat and continue cooking the beans for 20 to 25 minutes.Do not attempt to open the lid of the pressure cooker at any time during the cooking process.
 Turn off the heat and set the pressure cooker aside for approximately 10 minutes. Let the pressure release naturally, then open the lid.


At this point, the beans should be soft enough to easily smash in between your fingers.
 Pour the contents of the pressure cooker through the colander, draining the water and retaining the beans.


If desired, you can save some of the cooking liquid for use when making the paste, but doing so is not strictly necessary.
 Place the beans in a colander or sieve, then rinse them for several minutes under cool water.


When using a slow cooker, you do not need to pre-soak the beans or blanch them. You should still rinse them under running water to remove most of the dirt clinging to the surface.
 Place the beans in your slow cooker and cover them with roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of water. Add a pinch of salt, as well.
 Cover the slow cooker and turn it onto "low." Allow the beans to cook for approximately six hours.


Do not stir the beans or otherwise remove the lid during the cooking process. When you remove the lid, you release some of the built-up heat needed to help cook the beans. As a result, you may need to increase the overall cooking time.
When you think the beans are ready, test them by picking one up and squeezing it between your fingers. It should be soft enough to crush without any difficulty.
 Pour the contents of the slow cooker through the colander to drain the water.


If desired, you can save some of the cooking liquid to use when making the paste, but doing so isn't required. Fresh water can be used instead.
 Return the cooked beans to the pot and add 1 cup (200 g) of sugar.If using the standard stovetop method or slow cooker method to cook the beans, place the beans in a saucepan. When using the pressure cooker method, you can return the beans to the pressure cooker, but leave the lid off.
 Place the pot on your stove over medium heat. Stir the sugar and beans together with a spoon or spatula until the sugar completely melts, coating the beans evenly.


Taste-test the beans during this step. You can add up to 1 cup (200 g) of additional sugar if you would prefer sweeter paste.
 Continue cooking and stirring the beans and sugar together over medium heat for 10 to 15 minutes. There should be no visible grains of sugar remaining when finished.


If the contents of the pot start becoming too dry or sticky, add a little reserved cooking liquid or fresh water into the pot 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) at a time.
 Smash the beans against the bottom and sides of the pot using your mixing spoon or spatula. Continue until all the beans have been crushed into a chunky paste.


Alternatively, you could crush the beans using a potato masher. Doing so will still create a chunky paste but may save time.
 If the beans aren't already in a colander or fine mesh sieve, transfer them into one now. Use the back of a spoon or spatula to mash the beans through the colander.Most of the skins will be too thick to fit through the gaps of the colander, but with some effort, the tender interiors should pass through.
Place your stockpot or pressure cooker beneath the colander as you mash the beans. The insides should pass through the gaps and fall directly into the pot.
 Add 1 cup (200 g) of sugar to the mashed beans in your pot. Place the pot on the stove over medium heat and begin stirring.


You can combine the beans and sugar in either a saucepan or pressure cooker, but if you use your pressure cooker, keep the lid and pressure off during this stage.
 Stir and cook the beans, tasting them once the initial batch of sugar melts. You can add up to 1 cup (200 g) of additional sugar if you would like sweeter paste.


It's best to add the sugar in 1/4 cup to 1/2 cup (60 to 125 ml) batches to avoid accidentally adding too much at once.
 Cook for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the beans absorb the grainy sugar and a smooth, moderately thick paste forms.


If the paste starts drying out or sticking to the pot, you can add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of reserved cooking liquid or fresh water to help moisten them.
Try drawing a line along the bottom of the pot. If you can see the bottom of the pot for more than 2 seconds after doing this, the paste should be thick enough, and you should turn off the heat.
 As soon as the red bean paste has finished cooking, spoon it out of the container and into a separate bowl or dish.Allow the paste to sit out at room temperature for 5 to 10 minutes. It should continue to thicken as it cools, but may not be moldable yet.
 Cover the bowl of paste with plastic wrap and place everything in the refrigerator. Leave it there until the paste cools completely.


Once the paste completely cools, it should be thick enough to hold its form when molded or otherwise handled.
 Transfer the red bean paste to an airtight plastic container or resealable plastic bag and keep it in the refrigerator for three to four days.


If you want to extend the freshness period so that the paste lasts up to a full week, tightly wrap the paste in plastic wrap before placing it in a resealable plastic bag.
 Red bean paste can be frozen for up to one month, but frozen paste can often become grainy, so this option is less than ideal.


If you do choose to freeze the paste, separate it into 1/4 cup (60 ml) portions and individually wrap each portion with plastic wrap. Place the bundles in a freezer-safe plastic bag, then put the entire package in your freezer.
 Red bean paste can be used in a variety of Asian sweets and other dishes. In most cases, you'll want to thaw the paste to room temperature before using it.

