 Gift cards are an easy way to make a gift to someone without worrying about choosing the right color, size, or brand of whatever it is you intended to purchase for the people on your shopping list. You can get digital gift cards through the websites of most major retailers, and the recipient can use it online. Alternately, you could visit the store in person and get an actual card that the recipient can then use in person.Many grocery stores also sell gift cards to a variety of restaurants, digital retailers, and other big-box retailers.
 According to research, people who spend on experiences rather than objects often experience greater satisfaction. Instead of giving an object to the loved ones on your holiday shopping list, consider giving plane tickets to a favored vacation destination, or (if you’re of more modest means) tickets to an upcoming theater performance.Shopping at the last minute doesn’t mean you’ll have fewer opportunities to make a holiday gift of a great experience.For instance, you can obtain gift certificates or passes for rafting trips, amusement park visits, concert tickets, or movie tickets.
Even dinner at a nice restaurant with your partner can be a great last-minute holiday gift.If you can’t find such an “experience gift” in your immediate area, check online for more options. Alternately, you could create your own gift certificate by using an online gift certificate template and printing out the specific experience you want to give the recipient. Later, the recipient can “cash it in” with you by asking to have the experience in question.
A simple gift certificate, set of tickets, or passes for a unique experience will save you time that you’d otherwise spend wrapping.
 Holiday-themed cookies, tea, and candies could be a good choice for last minute gifts. For instance, pick up some chocolate gelt, blue-and-white cookies, or a relevant tea set for Hanukkah.Consumables are readily available during the holidays, so picking some up at the last minute can help you devote more time to hunting down harder-to-find holiday gifts.
 A tea kettle and/or tea cup set, a cutlery set, or a new blender might be just right for the culinarily-inclined person in your life. Alternately, some quality furniture might be in order. A new bookshelf or nightstand, for instance, could be great gifts for someone who needs or wants them. Identify functional items that someone might enjoy and provide it for them in the form of a holiday gift.Home items are perfect when shopping for a couple. Instead of buying two people two gifts, give the couple a gift they can enjoy together.
 Last-minute holiday shoppers love buying toys and games.If you have a young person in your life, or an adult who has the heart of a child, they might enjoy a new toy or game.Video games, puzzles, chess sets, action figures, and other playthings are great because they don’t need to be matched to a specific holiday.
No matter their family traditions, every kid loves getting new toys and games.
Because of their popularity as holiday gifts, shopping for toys and games (even at the last minute) will give you a wide variety of options to choose from.
 If you’ve waited until the last minute to do your holiday shopping, you might be better off giving a gift that you made yourself like holiday-themed cookies, a homemade holiday card, or a knitted winter scarf instead of trying to find something to buy. Homemade gifts are often prized because they have a personal touch that mass-produced gifts do not.Put holiday cookies you baked in an appropriate tin. For instance, if you’re giving Christmas cookies, put them in a Christmas-themed tin.
If you’re making a card, use heavy-duty cardstock available from an arts and crafts store.
 Use the time you’ve not been shopping to find out what people want, and develop a solid shopping list for all the special people in your life.The best way to find out what someone special in your life wants for the holidays is to ask them. Just ask, “So, what would you like for Christmas?”

, As the holidays approach, retailers that haven’t sold adequate amounts of their wares might decide to boost sales by offering even deeper sales.You might find great deals online and through apps like SlickDeals, too.Holiday sales and deals are especially common when it comes to holiday-themed goods like cards that are aimed at people who celebrate a particular holiday. For instance:If you celebrate Christmas, you might be able to find discounted stockings and tree ornaments
If you celebrate Kwanzaa, you may be able to find discounted candelabras or African-themed décor
If you celebrate Hanukkah, you might be able to find discounted menorahs or dreidels

