 You will have to go through a small amount of paperwork, but your director should be the one who does the real signing up.


Chances are, there will also be fees to pay (an audition fee and a cost for the real sheet music). You can still use copies of the sheet music, but you can't be considered as "legit" until you have the real thing.;
, If you have an awesome choir director, he or she will make one for you. It should have your section part being sung by a professional on each song, the accompaniment of each song, the mix down of each song (full choir sound), and sometimes a word pronouncement guide.


Put this track everywhere you can: your iPod, your phone, your computer, your email, a CD and your flash drive. You need to listen and practice wherever and whenever you can.
 Start as soon as you get your sheet music. If you have time after school, practice. If you have a blow off class, get permission to go and practice in the choir room.


If your parents hate your nonstop singing, then try accessing the music in your room and practice every time they or you are not at home. Notes and rhythms are the basics of learning this music. Make them perfect.
 Make an obvious dynamic contrast, and overdo everything, even the diction.


Spit out the consonants and keep very tall vowels. No matter how dumb you feel, you can never overdo musicality as long as you make smooth transitions.
If there are not many dynamic markings, ask your choir director to sing how it should be sung and mark your music how they sound, with crescendo marks, piano, forte, etc.
Put emphasis on down beats and actions. If your music is in English, and you can understand foreign language, you'd stress a word like waken or remember.
Record yourself. You'd be amazed how dumb you sound to yourself, but how perfect you sound with overdone musicality to others.
 Write down times in the music (2:24) and then go back, find a section and sing a snippet of the song. This is how the audition is. You won't get to sing the whole song. The cuts are a minute or less, so make it good in the small time you've got to prove yourself. Your choir teacher might even make pretend cuts for you.
 Region choir is a UIL thing, and that means you have to be eligible in order to compete. Have a 70 or higher by your grade check, keep your grades up or all that practice will go to waste.
 On audition day, there will be many people. Don't let that fact or they themselves intimidate you.


There will be snots there who are rude or act like they're all that and a bag of chips. The person auditioning before you may even sing like an angel. Don't let anything phase you.
Tell yourself whatever you need to hear and remember the end reward. This can vary from passion of singing to pride to the attractive singers you get to perform with. In the room, judges shouldn't be able to see you, so if it helps, dance or direct with your song.
Go over your music when waiting. If you mess up a little in the audition, ignore it, get back on track and move on. Also, don't forget your music that you've marked all over. You'll need it.

