 Arroz Con Pollo is traditionally served with tortillas in a variety of Latin American countries. For instance, in parts of Mexico, corn tortillas are traditionally grilled until just charred around the edges, then served hot with the meal.For a truly authentic experience, try serving with plenty of corn tortillas (preferably hot) and eating with your hands!


If you're up for a challenge, try making the tortillas yourself. The recipe uses just a few ingredients and is quite simple to make.
 Like your Latin food hot and spicy? Adding heat to your sofrito is as simple as chopping up a chili pepper (or two, or three) and adding them to the mix when you put the rest of the vegetables in your pan. For most, adding a single pepper to the recipe above should provide sufficient spiciness. It's important to note not to use the seeds of the pepper — these are typically hotter than the flesh.


Below is a list of some of the most common peppers available for cooking, ranked from mildest to hottest.Jalapeño
Serrano
Cayenne
Pequin
Habañero
Red Savina

, Paella, a rice dish that often includes seafood, chicken, and vegetables (and the national dish of Spain), is superficially quite similar to Arroz con Pollo. You can make your Arroz con Pollo resemble paella even more by adding the latter dish's signature ingredient: saffron. This spice is very expensive (in fact, it's the most expensive spice in the world)and is sold in very small quantities. Thus, you may want to save it for when you're making Arroz con Pollo for a special occasion.


To add saffron to your dish, simply drop 1/4 teaspoon crumbled saffron threads into the pot with the sofrito right before you add the rice and water, making sure to stir so that the threads are evenly distributed.
 Nutritionally, brown rice is superior to white rice in just about every way: it has fewer calories per gram, it's more filling, it has more fiber, it has more essential nutrients — the list goes on.If you're looking to make your Arroz con Pollo as nutritious as possible, using brown rice as opposed to starchy, carbohydrate-rich white rice is a great place to start. However, as noted above, you'll want to allow extra time for cooking if you're using brown rice.


In addition, be prepared to add extra water in case you boil off all of your water without the rice reaching its desirable al dente texture.

