 If your hair has a natural wave or a texture that takes to curl well, then you may be able to achieve natural-looking curls easily without needing to use any heat.


Begin by either air-drying or gently towel-drying until your hair is damp but not wet.
Evenly spritz your hair with a sea salt spray, beginning about an inch down from the roots and ending about half an inch from the ends of your hair.The sea salt spray will give your air added texture and help promote beachy waves. You can find these sprays at just about any store that sells hair products, or you can easily make your own at home.
Scrunch your hair or gently twist sections into the wave/curl pattern you like, and let it air dry completely.
In order to retain your curls, avoid combing or brushing your hair.
 While sea spray can give great results on many hair textures, if your hair is on the drier side, the salt can further dry out and damage your air.You can instead try using a more moisturizing cream which is designed to promote natural wave and curl and reduce frizziness.


Let your hair air dry until it is damp, and then rub a small amount of cream throughout your locks. Avoid placing too much product at the roots, which can weigh down your waves and make your hair look greasy.
Gently scrunch or twist your hair, and consider using a blow dryer with a diffuser attachment to help the curls set completely.
 This is a great way to save yourself precious time in the morning yet have fantastic looking hair all day. Begin by washing your hair at night and letting it dry almost completely.


Wait until your hair is almost dry but still slightly damp. It's important that your hair not be too wet, or the inner sections won't dry and thus won't curl.
Apply a small amount of gel or mousse throughout, divide it into sections and twist into buns, securing with hair ties (bobby-pins may be uncomfortable to sleep on).
If you want a very curly look, divide your hair into multiple sections and twist your hair into several small buns over your entire head. Be sure to alternate the directions in which you twist your hair.
If you want loose curls or waves, you can place all of your hair into just one or two buns.
In the morning, all you have to do is unwind your buns, shake your head, and/or gently finger-comb your curls. Add a spritz or two of hairspray or sea salt spray if you'd like.