 When explaining sportsmanship, tell your child about the issue using terms they will understand. Explaining it in as simple terms as possible will help your child understand and embrace sportsmanship.Explain it in terms of the golden rule. Tell your child, "Sportsmanship is about treating other people in a game the way you want to be treated."
Say things like, "You would not want someone to brag or make you feel bad if they won. You should not be boastful if you won, as that can hurt your opponents feelings."
Start teaching your child these behaviors while they are still young. If you can, begin these lessons before they start sports.;
, When discussing sports, avoid comparing your children to one another or to other team members. This is not constructive and will only serve to make children feel inadequate. Instead of comparing your kids to one another, focus on their unique qualities and skills.Emphasize your child's general progress as a player. Say things like, "You really improved from the last game" rather than talking about how your child compares to others.
Discourage a child from comparing themselves to others. If your child is saying they feel their sibling does better at baseball than them, say something like, "Everyone is different, and you should focus on what you can do and not what Jamie can do."

, When you ask your child about games played at school, or with friends, talk about things other than winning. Do not say, "Did your team win the game today?" Instead, say things like, "Did you have fun playing?" and "Did you try your best?" Focusing your energy on areas other than winning will help your child develop a sense of sportsmanship.Kids should be praised for their effort, hard work, commitment, and passion, not for their performance or their victories. This will teach your child that they do not always have to win to be strong or successful.
 Use the news to your advantage. If your children love sports, they probably follow a professional team. Pay attention to news surrounding that team and use it to talk about sportsmanship.If a player does something controversial, like refusing to shake hands after a big game, talk about this. Say something like, "What do you think about what this player did? Would you have acted differently?"
When a player does something admirable, point that out as well. When watching a hockey game, for example, say something like, "Isn't it nice how they're all shaking hands, even the team that lost?"
If your child is upset about losing, try to find the stats or history of their favorite player. Point out how this athlete sometimes lost as well. This may help teach them that defeat is a natural element of sports.

