 If you have chronic pain and don’t necessarily need immediate relief, consider applying a dry heating pad. Just like moist heat, dry heat can increase blood flow and oxygen supply and relax tender muscles. Unlike moist heat, you can apply dry heat for longer periods of time over the course of the day.Understand that using dry heating pads can dry out your skin.Use dry heating pads for up to 15 minutes every hour or two., You can easily fashion a dry heating pad with a few items you have around your house. You can either sew them into a proper heating pad for re-use or use it only while you’re experiencing pain. Gather the following items:


A piece of cloth such as a sock, pillowcase, or cloth bag. You can also take a handkerchief or washcloth and sew the ends together to make a pack.
Some type of filling such as rice, flaxseed, buckwheat, or oatmeal.
A needle and thread if sewing your pack.You can also add a soothing oil such as lavender essential oil to your pack. This can help you further relax., No matter what you’ve decided to use to fashion your heating pad, put it together before you use it. If you’re sewing one together from cloth, make sure to use tight stitches to minimize the risk of filling falling out.Check your cloth piece, tube sock, or pillowcase for holes. If you find any, either sew those or select a different type of pad to use.
Fold over the piece of cloth and sew together each side except one where so that you can add your filling. Make sure the stitches are close together and tight to prevent leaking., Once you’re heating pad is sewn or ready for use, add your selected filling. Make sure the pad is sealed tightly so that none of the filling can fall out.Use any type of filling you like. Rice, flax seed, buckwheat, and oatmeal are excellent options because they have small grains that can easily spread over a small or large area.You can also try dried beans such as pinto, kidney, or lentils.
Avoid overfilling the pad. Put enough in it to let it move across the area you want to heat. For example, you might want to put between 4 and 6 cups of uncooked rice in a large tube sock.Place a couple of drops of your favorite essential oil in the filling for a pleasant smell and the benefits of aromatherapy.Sew the unsealed end of the heating pad if fashioning your own from cloth or a pillowcase.
Close up a sock by knotting it at the open end.
 Place your heating pad in the microwave to warm up the filling.The heat from the filling can help relax your muscles and relieve tension.


Heat the filling in the microwave for 1-3 minutes. This can warm up the filling to a comfortable temperature for you and prevent it from exploding.Remove the pad slowly from the microwave to minimize the risk of burning yourself.
Allow the pad to cool if it is too hot or re-heat it if it isn’t warm enough.
 When the pad is at an optimal temperature for you, lay it on your skin. Place a thin cloth or towel under the pad to minimize your risk of burning yourself.Leave the heating pad on the area for treatment for no longer than 20 minutes., If you continue to have pain, you can repeat application of your dry heating pack every 1-2 hours for 15-20 minutes.Talk to your doctor if your pain persists for a long period of time.

