 Some school districts may always be accepting applications, some may begin accepting them as soon as a position becomes available.

Visit the central office location of the district to obtain an application if an online application is not available.
Generally speaking, no special qualifications other than a high school diploma are required. However, previous commercial cleaning or maintenance experience may make you a more competitive candidate if jobs are scarce.
You may be required to pay and obtain clearances and medical evaluations as well as vaccination history in order to work for a school district. This information should be included with the application. Plan on not being reimbursed for these expenses.
In some districts, only substitute custodians will be considered for a full-time or part-time position, so you may need to apply as a substitute custodian first. A substitute custodian only fulfills the role of an absent custodian and does not get guaranteed hours and may be dismissed at any time for any reason even if the full-time custodians are unionized and covered under a bargaining agreement.;
, Fortunately, many good districts will train their new custodial staff to inform them of their standards, equipment, and other essential information, but not all are so generous. You may be forced to learn on the job by asking for help from other custodians.

Ask as many questions as you need. It's better to get things right from the start than having to correct them later when you find out you were doing something wrong.
Learn where supplies are kept, where to get your keys, the layout of the school building and grounds, and the office of your immediate supervisor.
Get to know the other custodial staff as they'll be your allies as you learn the ropes in your new job. Custodial work is not just picking up a spray cleaner and wiping stuff down: there is specialized equipment to use and procedures to follow. There is a right way to do just about everything, although as you gain more experience you will be able to use your own discretion about what to do and when.
 Your district may prescribe a specific uniform for you to wear, but if they don't, you'll have to find your own professional attire that suits the demands of the job.

Generally speaking, long jeans or slacks are required. Shorts might not be permitted during the school year.
Your clothing should be clean and regularly laundered. You don't want to spread dirt and contamination around when you're supposed to be the one preventing that from happening.
Wear a work shirt or T-shirt, depending on your style, the expectations of the district, and your personal comfort.
Affix your ID badge to clothing in a manner that is prominently visible to students and staff in the building.
Affix your keys on a keychain to your belt or belt loops. You will be opening doors a lot. A retractable key holder will be immensely helpful so you do not have to constantly remove your keys from your belt. As a bonus, you won't easily lose your keys.
Wear non-slip work footwear or work boots and heavy duty insoles. Your feet will thank you for it since you will be using them so much.
 Although some schools might be lax on safety standards for custodial staff, this does not mean you shouldn't be practicing it. Even if other custodians aren't using it, doesn't mean you shouldn't!. Commercial cleaning chemicals are not friendly to your eyes and skin so you need to protect them appropriately. PPE should be supplied by your district, so ask your supervisor where it is.

Wear appropriately sized gloves when working with any chemicals that may touch your hands, such as when wiping surfaces or using a sponge.
Wear goggles when working with chemicals and the risk of splashing occurs, such as when mopping, cleaning sinks and urinals, and using mist spraying.
Wear a mouth mask when toxic vapors or dust is present, such as when stripping, finishing, or burnishing a floor, or using chemicals in a room with little ventilation.
 You should be cleaner than the building itself so that you avoid bringing more germs and dirt into it than you take out. Take it upon yourself to avoid creating more mess than you clean up.

Wash your hands every time you take a break or meal.
Shower daily to remove dust, chemical residue, and germs.
Keep your shoes clean so you don't track mud into the school. You'll just be creating more work for yourself or coworkers.
Use a clean rag every time you switch activities and change mop water after every room you mop.
At the end of your shift, put your tools and chemicals in storage. Don't leave dirty rags or buckets of water sitting around, deal with them before you go home. No one wants a bad whiff of something coming from the custodial closet.
Keep your own work area clean, whether this is your closet where you keep supplies and carts or your cart itself. Don't leave trash sitting, take it to the dumpster.
 You'll be using them a lot, and not having to shuffle through all of them to find the one you're looking for will save you a lot of time. Memorize them by reading the code on the back (if present) to identify what doors they open. You probably have a master key for the building you work in, so find a way to distinguish that one from all of the others (like light switches, paper product dispensers, chemical dispensers, electrical panels, and padlocks), Know what's going on in your building and who's supposed to be where. Not only does your awareness help the district with preventing unauthorized individuals in the building, your vast knowledge can help students, staff, and parents who need help getting to where they need to be. Learn as many people's names as you can - this will make the school environment feel like your home and you will instinctively know when something is not right. If you are able, consider attending your school board's meetings as a member of the public to be informed of changes that may impact you, the people you work with, or activities in your building, especially as it pertains to buildings and grounds., Custodians move around the building a lot. This means your face may be seen by more people than any other individuals. As a result, your mood is contagious. A happy custodian makes others happy. When you cheerfully perform your duties, others feel the building and its users are in good hands.