 If you want to lose weight, you may be tempted to start a completely new diet from scratch. However, moving to a whole new diet often results in failure. Instead, focus on improving specific eating behaviours that can add up to significant weight loss:


Instead of eating in front of the television, try mindful eating. You may be consuming too much food because you are eating while “spaced out” instead of focusing on your food. Try to just eat and pay attention to the food, which may help you to eat less.Stop eating late at night. Eating a lot right before bed tends to lead to weight gain. If you want to lose weight, this is an important habit to change.Avoid skipping breakfast. If you skip breakfast, you may end up overeating at lunch, which tends to lead to weight gain. More importantly, you need to eat breakfast because your blood sugar levels are low in the morning, and blood sugar is necessary for your brain and muscles to function properly. Give yourself time to enjoy a relaxed and fulfilling breakfast, which should help you lose weight in the long run.Keep your fridge stocked with healthy fruits, vegetables and whole grains. If you surround yourself with healthy foods, you will be less likely to reach for unhealthy options.
 Try to train your body to recognize when it is full. This will help you lose more weight than trying to lose a certain number of pounds, which can often be a poor diet goal because it focuses too much on the outcome and not enough on the necessary behavior changes.You can train yourself to notice when you are full by serving smaller portions and integrating a “check in” moment at each meal. Serve yourself a small portion. After eating your small portion, check in with your tummy and ask yourself whether you feel full. Give yourself five minutes for the check in before deciding whether or not to eat more food. If you feel full after the five minute wait, you don’t need to eat more.
 Instead of eating every meal according to your new diet plan, give yourself a break. By allowing yourself at least one meal where you can eat anything you desire, you will eliminate the feeling that there is no way out. It is better to aim for improvement, as opposed to perfection, so just try to stick to your diet generally and give yourself a break once a week., If you are following a strict diet with one day of the week where you allow yourself to eat anything, it is not an excuse to binge on unhealthy food choices. Your diet may be unhealthy if it makes you feel like you need to binge eat on certain days and deprive yourself on other days. Instead, try to eat a healthy diet every day of the week and give yourself a break if you slip up once in a while. If you have a “cheat day,” avoid using it as an excuse to eat as much junk food as possible., Your new diet may be unhealthy if you are simply following a new fad diet such as, but not limited to, the Paleo diet or Atkins diet. Although all of these diets can work great for many people and for a variety of reasons, you should not follow a diet simply because it is new and exciting. You should find a diet that works for you and adapt it to your body type, health and fitness goals.