 For at least one month, write down all of the details of your migraine attacks. Make note of when they begin, how long they last, and any other physical symptoms. Most importantly, create a list of details describing what you were doing and feeling when you first noticed the symptoms.You can also include the details of any activities that you were undergoing at the same time as the migraine attack. For example, did you take ibuprofen two hours beforehand?Consider downloading a migraine app to your phone. These apps allow you to record all of the details surrounding each migraine incident. Some of the apps will even go through your data and look for trigger patterns., Read through your notes, paying particular attention to the “before” descriptions. Try to find similarities over time that point toward certain circumstances acting as a trigger. You can find these connections in both actions and emotions. Compile these patterns into a list of possible triggers that you will then explore and address individually.For example, you may notice that you are always sleep deprived prior to each attack, or perhaps your stress levels at work are particularly high.
Some migraines are preceded by a warning before hand which may include flashes of light, blind spots, and tingling on one side of the face or in the arms or legs.
Many migraines are one sided and include a stabbing or throbbing sensation through the eye or one side of the head.
 You simply cannot control all possible triggers at once, so try to focus on a couple, or even one, from your list. Do your best to eliminate this trigger from your life. Make note of your efforts in your diary. See if your migraines reduce during this trial period. If so, then you might be on the right track. If not, then this still could be a trigger, but you need to test out other options as well.For instance, if alcohol consumption is on your list of possible triggers, then go ahead and stop drinking for a few weeks. See if you notice any changes in the frequency and severity of your migraines.
Be aware that it is quite possible that a number of triggers contribute to your migraines. To see real results, you may need to continue testing until you identify more than one.
 It is unlikely that you will be able to eliminate your migraines entirely. Instead, aim to manage them so that they do not interfere with the quality of your work and home life. If your goal is reduction, then you can also celebrate each trigger identification and avoidance. Keeping a positive attitude is important, as stress and depression can lead to even more migraines., If you are concerned about how migraines are impacting your work, then make an appointment with your primary physician, or a migraine specialist, to talk about your options. They will not be able to test your claims, as no migraine test exists. However, they can make sure that your migraines do not stem from other physical conditions, such as illness.