 Visit http://www.kingston.com/us/flash/media_recover from any web browser.;
, Scroll to the bottom of the page. Click the “Download” button for Windows and wait for the installer file to be downloaded.
 Double-click on the downloaded installer file. The file name is “MediaRECOVER.exe.” Extract the contents to your computer.
 Look for the “setupmr.exe” file and double-click on it. This will run the setup for Media Recover. Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation., Click on the Start menu and look for the program under All Programs. Click on it.
 Upon initial launch, you will be prompted for an activation code. The activation code is Kingston’s way to ensure that users of the program have compatible Kingston memory devices. The code is bundled with the media card’s packaging. Click the “Enter Activation Code” button, enter the code in the field, and click the “Verify” button.
 After Kingston verifies your activation code, a message box will appear. Click the “OK” button to proceed., Open on the Start menu and look for the program under All Programs. Click on it. You will reach the main menu this time since you’ve already activated the program from Part 2.
 Plug in the Kingston memory or storage device that contains the files you want to recover to your computer.
 Select a scan option from the main menu.



Do a Basic Scan. Click the “Scan” option from the main menu if you want to do a quick scan of deleted files.

Do an Advanced Scan. Click the “Advanced Scan” option from the main menu if you want to do a more thorough scan of deleted files. This option takes longer as it searches for RAW or formatted files sectors.
 You will be presented with the list of memory or storage devices connected to your computer. This will also include your main local hard disk drive. Select the drive where you inserted your media card from Step 2 and click the “Next” button.
 On the next screen, you have to define where the recovered files will be placed. Enter the destination folder here. You can use your hard disk drive or another attached storage device, but not the media card to be scanned. Click the “Next” button to proceed.
 The program will start scanning the selected drive for files that can be recovered. Wait for it to finish.


You will be able to see the progress on your screen.
 Once the scan is completed, a “Scan Completed” message box will appear. Click the “OK” button to proceed.
 The files that can be recovered by the program will be listed. Browse through them.
 From the list, tick the tick boxes of the files you wish to save then click the “Save” button. The selected files will be saved in the destination folder you specified in Step 5.
 Open the destination folder and you will be able to see the files recovered by the program. You now have your lost or deleted data back.