 Your cat may have gotten tired of a certain food or type of food. Your cat may have been fed dry food for a while and could now be craving something with a higher moisture content. On the other hand, your cat may be tired of wet food and wanting its old style dry food back. Whatever the case, try adding in food that has a different consistency than normal to encourage your cat to eat more of it.The main styles of cat food are dry, semi-moist, moist and wet.
You can try adding wet food to your cat's meals to see if it prefers that style of food.
You can add water to dry food to help change the consistency of it.
Warming the food up to room temperature can also help catch your cat's interest.
 Not unlike humans, cats can enjoy variety in their diet. If your cat has suddenly stopped eating as much as they used to, you may want to switch the food you offer. Changing the food to new flavors and ingredients can make your cat interested again and get them hungry for more. Try adding new types of food to your cat's regular meals and watch to see which types of food it seems to prefer the most.Try offering food with new ingredients and flavors and taking note of which ones your cat eats more of.
Whenever possible, try to offer the freshest food you can.
If you are concerned about quality, try looking for AAFCO certification.
 If your cat's food has gone stale, they may not want to eat all of it at meal times. To help encourage your cat to eat, you'll want to keep its food as fresh as possible. Try using some of these tips to help keep your cat's food fresh and appetizing:


Try to avoid buying more food than you need. Ideally, your cat should eat all of the food before the expiration date.
It can be a good idea to buy small amounts of different foods. This will allow you to switch which foods you offer on a regular basis.
Wet foods can be stored in Tupperware and refrigerated. Try warming the food up before serving it to make it more appealing.
 You'll want to pay attention to how much food you are offering your cat. Offering too much food can cause the excess to go to waste. Your cat may be eating plenty of food, but it may appear as if they are going hungry because of the leftovers. Make sure you are feeding your cat the appropriate amount of food to gauge exactly how much they are eating or not eating.The best amount of food to feed your cat will vary depending on its size, age and activity levels.
Ask your veterinarian for the optimum amount of food you should be feeding your cat.
 Whenever you are adding new types of food to your cat's diet, doing so slowly can help your cat adjust. Changes made too quickly can make your cat uncomfortable and may actually result in it eating less. Slowly add new food to your cat's diet to help encourage them to eat more and learn what they enjoy.


Start by mixing in only a small amount of the new food to their usual meal.
Gradually increase the amount of the new food you offer while reducing the old food.
Eventually your cat will only be eating the new food.
If your cat doesn't seem to be eating the new food, slowly return to the original food before trying another food.

