 When you show your parents your pet, you'll want to put its best face forward. If possible, give your pet a bath. Clean out their cage, and wash their bedding. Make sure that their room is tidy. If your parents see that the animal is well cared for, they may be more likely to let you keep it.
 Just in case your parents say no, make sure you have your back-up plan all set. Find a friend or relative who is willing to take your pet for you. Offer them all of the necessary pet supplies. Avoid taking your pets to a shelter unless you have no other option., You want to make sure you appear mature and collected when you show your parents your pet. Since this can be an emotional topic, write down what you want to tell them. Try saying it in front of the mirror a few times.
 The best time to talk to your parents is at home when no one is distracted. Tell your parents that you want to talk, and ask them to sit down with you. Do not tell them as they are driving, cooking, or cleaning. You may be able to talk with them over dinner.


Be careful about approaching them right after they get home from work. They may be tired and stressed out. Wait for them to relax before you talk to them.
 Be honest and straightforward. Let them know how well you have taken care of the pet. If they haven't noticed, point out that the pet is not as noisy or smelly as they may have thought. Acknowledge that you broke the rules, and apologize for it. Ask them if you can keep the pet. Promise to take care of the pet yourself.


For example, you can say, "I found a cat that needed a home. For the last two weeks, I have cared for the cat in my bedroom. She is very sweet, and I have taken care of her all by myself. I hope to continue caring for her. I know I have broken your trust, but please, can I keep her?"
If your parents say no, you have to live with consequences. Give the pet to another home along with all of their bedding, toys, and food. You may be grounded or punished.
 Bring your pet out to show them. Let them hold and touch your pet. If they form an emotional bond with the pet, your parents may be more likely to let you keep it.

