 A scratched cornea can be caused by some things you might not expect, like improperly fitted or maintained contact lenses, rubbing your eyes vigorously, a bacterial infection, or when undergoing surgery under general anesthesia, in addition to the more obvious causes such having your eye poked or some foreign object or matter getting stuck in your eye.As other conditions can cause symptoms similar to an abrasion, but would be treated differently, go to an opthalmologist or to the emergency room right away. You want confirmation you are dealing with a scratched cornea. Your doctor can also give you guidance on how to treat your condition safely. If you notice any of the following symptoms, see a doctor:Pain
A feeling of grittiness in the eye
Headaches
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Blurry vision, especially after an injury to the eyeSensitivity to light;
, Not all commercial eye drops are safe for treating a scratched cornea. In fact, using over the counter eyedrops may make the condition worse. Eyedrops recommended by your doctor may contain antibiotics or steroids which can help prevent infection, alleviate the pain, and reduce inflammation or potential scarring.If you're in a lot of pain, talk to your doctor about eyedrops during the appointment instead of attempting to select eyedrops on your own.Eyedrops help with pain by keeping the eye lubricated. They can also prevent an infection, which can be a complication of a scratched cornea.
Use only eyedrops your doctor recommends and closely follow the doctor's instructions when using them.
Eyedrops may not require a prescription even if they're recommended by your doctor. However, never use over-the-counter eyedrops unless your doctor advised you to do so when you have a scratched cornea.
 Oral antibiotics are not commonly prescribed for a scratched cornea, but if your doctor does prescribe one, take it exactly as directed. Take all your antibiotics, even after your cornea feels better.Talk to your doctor about any existing medications before taking antibiotics. You want to make sure antibiotics do not interfere with any existing medications you are taking.
While your doctor may use topical painkillers in the exam room, these should never be used at home. They can be very dangerous when not applied by a medical doctor. Oral pain medication may be prescribed if pain or light sensitivity is severe., People who continuously have pain after a corneal abrasion or have permanent and major damage may need surgery. If you need surgery, the doctor will go over the procedure and recovery with you.
 Larger or more severe abrasions will take longer. Deep scratches can cause infections, scars, and other complications. Call your doctor with any unusual symptoms or if you have any concerns. 