 This is the first step to changing your windshield wiper blades. When lifted, the wiper arm should rest unassisted above the windshield without touching the glass.






;
, To do this, you will have to release the connector. There are three common connector designs, and they each release a little differently.









Hook-slot connectors are shaped like a "j" at the end of the blade. This j-hook has a tab that needs to be lifted or pushed to release the blade. Once released, push or pull the blade down toward the base of the wiper arm to remove it from the hook slot.
Pin-type connectors are fitted with a protruding pin that points down from the end of the blade. This pin pushes into the side the wiper arm and has a tab that fastens it in place. The tab will need to be lifted from the top with a flat head screwdriver or pushed up from underneath the wiper arm. Once the tab is released, the blade can be removed by pulling it sideways off of the arm.
Straight-end connectors have grooved ends that slide onto the windshield wiper arm. They also may have a tab on top of the existing blade that must be lifted with a screwdriver to release the blade from the arm. Once released you may have to adjust the angle of the blade to pull it away from the arm.
 This will also depend on the type of fastener used on your car.









For hook-slot connectors, slide the new wiper blade into the hook slot at the end of the wiper arm.
For pin-type connectors you should slide the arm on from the same side that you removed the original wiper blade. Once it is in place, lock down the tab to hold the blade.
For straight-end connectors you may have to change the angle of the blade to make it slide onto the wiper arm. If your design has a clip or tab, make sure that it is locked down as well.
 You don't want a wiper to fly off on the open road. To make sure this doesn't happen, spray water or windshield wiper cleaner onto your windshield and turn on the wipers. If they are wiping properly you are finished. If they appear to be loose or wiggling on the arm then you should make sure they are properly fastened before driving again.








