 You can do just about any shoe with fitted sweatpants as long as you match it to the outfit. Since the pants are cropped, your shoes are going to stand out and give you an opportunity to dress up your sweats or keep them casual.A classic black pump always looks fierce and can even work with more casual ensembles.


Stilettos or heeled sandals are perfect for date-night or a girl’s night out. A fancier shoe is going to elevate your outfit.
For more casual wear, try slip-on sneakers, Chuck Taylors, wedge sneakers, booties, or ballet flats.Avoid Ugg boots or flip-flops, they scream “shlubby” when worn with sweats.
 You need to pay extra attention to the details to make sweatpants look great. Carefully select one or two accessories (like a floating lapel, a colorful shoe, or a pattered clutch) but don’t go overboard with big earrings, plus layers of necklaces, plus a hat and scarf.


Carry a structured or high-end handbag to dress up your outfit. An oversize tote looks cute for running errands on the weekend.
Round or oversize sunglasses will make your look super chic.A beanie will give your outfit a casual, athletic vibe.
Add some glamour with a nice pair of drop earrings or a statement necklace.
Try a large, eye-catching bracelet or watch and simple stud earrings.
 To avoid looking like you just rolled out of bed, use a large-barreled curling iron to make chic waves, or pull your hair back in a sleek pony. Make sure your brows are on-point and your makeup is flawless. Make it clear that you're not shlubbing in your sweats--you're fashion-forward, and you put in the effort to pull it off. Instantly elevate your look with a bold red lip.
Pull your hair up in a trendy topknot or a messy bun—just make sure it’s more chic than sloppy.
 This means taking high-fashion pieces and pairing them with casual, everyday pieces. Remember that when people see sweatpants, they automatically think "lazy," so fight that by mixing your sweats with high-fashion pieces. Wear your sweats as you would a nice pair of trousers.Tuck in a long or flow shirt. A front-tuck or half-tuck will give your outfit structure—the loose fit of the sweatpants plus a loose shirt can look shapeless.Wear a white button-down (front-tucked) with pumps, sunglasses, a maxi-bag, and a long, sleek coat for a sophisticated look.
A structured blazer and heel will make your pants look more like dress trousers than sweats.Try faux leather sweatpants with a stiletto heel, a pretty top, and a bright clutch for date night.
 A trendy crop top works perfectly with sweatpants—it will highlight your waist and contrast with the slouchy sweats. Pair it with a button down (chambray or flannel) for a casual cool look.


A leather moto jacket with a white t-shirt can stay casual with a bootie or slip-on sneakers, or a little more flirtatious with a black pump.
Try a graphic-T, a denim jacket, and ballet flats to meet your girls for weekend brunch.
 Ultimately, that's what fashion is about. Wearing sweatpants outside of the house is already breaking some long-standing fashion rules, so feel free to experiment and wear what you think looks hot. The most important thing is to wear it with confidence and feel good about yourself.

