 Consider cutting your hair, getting some side swept bangs, or fringing it; this change can get you out of that style slump and change your look. Or, change your hair color. A big change like this may be just what you need to pull yourself out of your slump, but a streak of color may be just enough. Look at different hairstyles, and think carefully about what you want to look like.;
, Try something edgier than you normally do; consider a really red lipstick. Go to a makeup counter and get a shade of red selected to suit your exact skin tone. Or, try a natural look instead. Use minimal eyeliner, and mascara, with a natural lip shade, or even forego makeup altogether.


Choose a brightly colored eyeliner. You may be surprised to discover that colored eyeliner can look good on you, depending on your eye color. Purple has been shown to look good with brown eyes, gold with green or hazel eyes, and orange with blue. However, this style may not be for everyone.
 Get inspired by current or different outfits, hairstyles, or makeup trends. Circle what you could envision yourself wearing, or anything that appeals to you even if you can't imagine yourself wearing it.
 Look at individual items, thinking about whether or not you like them, and why. Think about what would make you confident, what gives out the message you want to send. Don't aim to replace your entire wardrobe, but put aside clothes that you've worn too often, and get something different.


Determine the colors that you like, that you look good in, and that make you feel confident in yourself.
 Scout out a creative bag, or use a bag that you haven't used in a while. Look for ribbons or bows for your hair. Try on a few new or old pieces of jewelry; get creative with rings, necklaces, earrings, watches, or bracelets. Start wearing a hat or a scarf. These simple changes or additions in your accessories can really change the dynamic of your look.
 Walk into a store you've been meaning to check out, try a few things on, and try to purchase one thing. Bring along a friend or enlist in the help of a sales associate, with the goal to look for something different.

