 To make your search more manageable, focus on only one industry. For example, you might want to buy a convenience store or a hair salon. These are different industries, and if you don’t pick a focus, you’ll soon be overwhelmed.
 These professionals work with business owners and often know if an owner wants to sell. Ask your own accountant and lawyer for leads., You can find these publications at your local library or by searching online.
 People you know might have leads. For example, they might do business with someone who is looking to move on. Check in with your network and see if they know of anyone who wants to sell.


If you belong to the Chamber of Commerce or another business group, then check with them also. They are usually a good source of information.
 If you don’t have any leads, call up business owners. Introduce yourself and ask if they know of anyone who is thinking of selling their business. Explain you don’t need an immediate “yes or no,” but ask the person to be on the lookout for you., A few weeks after speaking by phone, you can mail a letter to the people you called. Include your own business card. Explain that you are still interested in buying a business and ask them to call you if they have any ideas., A week or so after sending your letter, you can call the business owners back up and ask if they’ve heard of anyone looking to sell their business.Ask for the names and contact information.


If they still don’t know of anyone looking to sell, thank them for their time. Also ask them to follow up with you if they hear of anything in the future.
 Tell the owner how you heard they might be interested in selling. For example, you can say, “I heard from Kathy Smith at Shop ‘N Save that you’re about to retire and looking for a buyer.” Many owners who are considering selling don’t advertise, so they’ll want to know how you found out.You don’t have to seal the deal in your first phone call. However, you need to make an initial contact.
Be prepared to talk about yourself, in particular your prior business experience. You want the business owner to see you as a serious potential buyer.

