 This may sound obvious, but it's likely that part of the reason you're having stage fright is because you're worried that everyone will think you're boring. Well, you may be worried about being boring because your material is boring. Even if you're speaking or presenting very dry material, think of ways to make it more accessible and engaging. You'll be less worried about presenting if you know that your content will be engaging.If it's appropriate, make some room for laughter. Throw in a few jokes that will ease your tension and relax the audience.
 As you create and practice your presentation, consider the needs, knowledge, and expectations of audience. If you're speaking to a younger audience, adjust your content, voice, and speech as necessary. If it's an older and more stern audience, be more practical and logical. You'll be less nervous if you know that you'll actually be able to reach the people who are listening to you.
 Don't show up on stage and make a little joke about being nervous. Everyone will assume that you're confident just because you're already up there. Announcing that you're nervous may make you feel better, but the audience will lose faith in you instead of paying attention.
 Videotape yourself as you give your presentation. Keep presenting and taping until you can look at the recording and think, "Wow, that's a great presentation!" If you're not happy with how you look on tape, then you won't be pleased with how you appear in person. Keep doing this until you get it right. When you're up on stage, just remember how great you looked in the video, and tell yourself that you can do even better.
 You can blow off some nervous energy and reach your audience by pacing back and forth across the stage. If you move around with energy and gesture for emphasis, you'll be overcoming your stage fright just by moving. But don't fidget by moving your hands together, playing with your hair, or fiddling with your microphone or speech or presentation notes.


Fidgeting will only build tension and will make your audience see that you're uncomfortable.
 Most public speakers manifest their stage fright by talking way too fast. You may be speaking fast because you're nervous and want to get the speech or presentation over with, but this will actually make it harder for you to articulate your ideas or to reach your audience. Most people who talk too fast don't even realize that they're doing it, so remember to pause for a second after every new thought, and to leave room for your audience to react to important statements.


Slowing down will also make you less likely to stumble over your words or misspeak.
Time your presentation beforehand. Get used to the pace that you need to finish your presentation at the appropriate time. Keep a watch handy and glance at it from time to time to make sure you're on track.
 If you really want to improve your stage fright, you should ask your audience how you did by asking for feedback afterwards, handing out surveys, or asking colleagues in the audience to give their honest opinion. Knowing what you did well will build your confidence, and knowing how you can improve will help you feel more confident the next time you get on stage.