 Take a few minutes to relax your eyes, shoulders, and hands. Use this time to move different muscle groups. Stretch, refill your water bottle, or walk to another area of your home or office.


Taking a 10-minute brisk walk on your break will improve your blood flow and increase both physical and mental energy.;
, Breathing in fresh air increases the oxygen in your lungs, which increases brain clarity.If it’s daytime, exposure to natural daylight will remind your body that it’s still the active part of the day.


If you can’t get outside, open the blinds, and if possible, move closer to a window to maximize your daylight exposure.
 Music triggers the feel-good neurotransmitters in your brain, helping you stay not only happy, but focused. If you’re doing complicated work, try music without lyrics to minimize distractions.Jazz artists like Miles Davis and John Coltrane both have lyric-free albums that are steady-paced, yet lively.
Classical music typically doesn’t have lyrics and is often upbeat. Try Schubert’s Symphony No. 5 or Vivaldi’s Four Seasons.
 Staring at a screen for a long time can cause serious eyestrain. Try these exercises to keep eye fatigue (and pain) to a minimum:Eye rolls: With your eyes closed, slowly move your eyes around in circular motions for one minute.
10-10-10: Every 10 minutes, look at an object about 10 feet away for 10 seconds. Blink naturally and let your eyes relax on the object rather than stare.
 If your posture is poor, your muscles have to work much harder to hold up your body.Muscles get tired when they work too hard, so readjust to this orthopedic surgeon-approved position when you find yourself slouching:Straighten your spine so your ears are lined up with your shoulders.
Relax your upper arms, keeping them close to your body. Extend your lower arms straight in front of you so that you can comfortably reach the keyboard and mouse. You may have to move your chair closer to the keyboard.
Place your feet flat on the floor (you may need to adjust the height of your seat).
 Dehydration leads to fatigue, so it’s important to drink water throughout the day. Feeling tired could be your body’s way of telling you it’s thirsty. Try to reach for a glass of water instead of coffee or energy drinks. Too much caffeine can make you more tired., This exercise, recommended by both doctors and yoga practitioners, will boost your energy level and restore alertness.Don’t try this if you have a breathing condition.


Sit with your spine upright and make sure you’re comfortable.
With your mouth closed, inhale and exhale rapidly through your nose. Each breath should be the same length, but keep them short (3 in-and-out breath cycles per second).
Continue the short breaths for 15 seconds, and then breathe normally.
If you feel lightheaded, stop immediately.
 These back exercises will keep your spine bright and your focus sharp.Upper and lower back stretch: While seated, extend both arms to the ceiling, your fingers interlaced. Make sure your arms are straight, then lean slowly from side to side.
Back arching: Stand up and support your lower back with your hands. Gently arch your back backward, holding the pose for 5-10 seconds.
 Long-term computer use can cause strain on the neck, especially if your computer setup is not ergonomically ideal. Use these techniques to keep your neck muscles from getting stiff. Repeat each of these exercises several times:Head rolls: While sitting, lower your ear to your shoulder and hold the position for about 10 seconds. Then, slowly roll your neck down, and over to the other side (so that your other ear is lowered to the other shoulder).
Head Turns: Turn your head to the right and look over your shoulder, holding the position for 10 seconds. Then, slowly turn your head to the left and do the same.

