 Some conditions lead to persistently red face. The primary suspect is rosacea, which can cause facial redness and inflammation. However, other diseases can lead to temporary redness, such as scarlet fever. Visit your doctor if you're concerned about redness., Antibiotics are a common treatment for rosacea. For a particularly bad flare-up, your doctor may recommend a round of pills. Generally, though, you will use antibiotic creams or lotions to treat this condition., Your redness may also be from acne. However, certain acne treatments also help treat rosacea, such as isotretinoin. This drug lessens the appearance of lesions on the face, whether from acne or rosacea., Even if you don't have rosacea, sun damage can cause your skin to become thick and leathery over time. If you do have rosacea, the sun can cause your skin to be inflamed. Pick a sunscreen that is SPF 30 or higher, and make sure to apply it every day. Be sure to choose one for sensitive skin.You can find moisturizers that have sunscreen built in, which cuts out steps in your morning routine.
 These treatments can help particularly bad cases of rosacea. Talk to your dermatologist about whether this treatment is viable for you.Mainly, these treatments help lessen the appearance of redness and blood vessels. They can also help smooth out leathery skin., Certain foods and situations can cause rosacea to flare. For instance, hot foods, whether through temperature or spiciness, can cause flareups, including soups and hot drinks. In addition, alcohol can be a problem. Heat in many forms can cause irritation, including hot baths, exercise, and hot temperatures. Finally, stress can cause flareups as well.Also, skip facial products that use alcohol, as that can irritate your face., This step helps remove any irritants from your face, including your makeup, dirt and grime, bacteria, and microorganisms, which can help your skin to heal. Pick a gentle cleanser that is appropriate for your skin type, whether you have oily, dry, or mid-range skin. Most cleansers say what skin type they are designed for.After blotting your skin dry, wait half an hour before applying makeup or medication. If you're applying both, put the medication on first and wait an additional 10 minutes before moving on to your makeup, sunscreen, or moisturizer.