 If the situation seems threatening or dangerous, it's best to get away from the bully. Even if it is not a dangerous situation, remember that you don’t have to listen to someone say mean things to you. The best thing to do might be to calmly walk away from the person. This will send the message that you won’t put up with this kind of treatment.


Try to walk towards people, such as towards a teacher or someone else who will not put up with bullying.;
, It is important to report bullying right away so that it will stop.By telling someone that you are being bullied, you will be standing up for yourself and showing the bullies that you will not put up with their abuse.


Find a teacher, parent, school counselor, or someone else who can help you and immediately tell them what the bully has been saying or doing to you.
Try saying something like, “Joyce is bullying me. She keeps making fun of my weight and she will not stop. I have asked her to stop, but she is still doing it. I think I need some help to make it stop.”
You can also write a note to explain what is happening deliver the note to your teacher, school counselor, or principal.
Tell someone else if the first person you tell does not do anything about the bully. Don’t accept that you will have to put up with the bullying.
 Using direct, assertive communication and body language is the best way to address a bully.If a bully continues to harass you even after you have walked away, then let him or her know that you will not put up with the behavior. Turn and face the bully and tell him or her to stop.


To use assertive body language, stand up tall and face the bully. Look the bully in the eye when you are speaking to them. Don’t look down and don’t try to make yourself smaller, such as by folding your arms or bringing your knees in close to your body. Pull yourself up to your full height, keep your arms at your sides, and your feet about shoulder width apart.
Keep your request short and direct. Try saying something like, “Stop it, Jennifer.” Or, “Cut it out, Craig.” As you say this, make sure that you look the bully directly in the eye and speak in a calm, clear voice.
Don’t compliment or insult the bully. If you say nice things to a bully after he or she has been insulting you, putting you down, or physically threatening you, then this will only increase his or her sense of power. Calling the bully names may enrage the bully and increase his or her efforts to hurt you.
 It is the bully’s goal to get an emotional response out of you, so do your best to keep calm and avoid showing the bully how you feel. Try your best not to show that you are angry, sad, or frightened. The bully may feed off of these emotions and increase his or her efforts.



Take a few deep breaths and think about something that makes you happy, such as getting a good grade on a test, playing with your dog, or something fun that you are planning to do with your family over the weekend. Doing this may help you to take a step back from the situation and avoid reacting to your emotions. Make sure that you keep your eyes open and maintain eye contact with the bully as you do this.
Respond to the bully in a calm way. For example, you might say, "Jack, I know you think you're funny but you're not. Stop." Or, "Stop now or I'm asking the teacher to move you away from me."
Be sure to talk about how the bully made you feel with someone later on. Talk with your parents, a school counselor, or a teacher.

