 Go with your friends, or even your mom .. as long as she's got style that makes that song, "I got it from my Mama" true! Don't buy the same things as your friends, because then it just looks like a uniform, and you don't want that .. and looking like your betas? Well, that's not the best idea.;
, Turns out your friends can't go shopping today! Well, hold it for a minute. Maybe you can bring another person .. maybe from another group that you've been meaning to hang out with (be a social butterfly, obviously!) or go shopping with your gorgeous cousins .. you can trick the crowd, can't you?

, Something, even just a small signature like Chanel No. 5 perfume! You don't need to buy any of this, because it's extremely expensive, but it's nice to wear something like that. Don't buy knock-offs, people will know. Especially not Fuggs .. those are so obvious, and those are starting to get out of style, anyway! And by Fuggs that means the kind that look exactly like Uggs but without the Ugg tag.
 They have really cute clothes that you can mix-and-match into a 10.


Avoid clothes with big logos across the chest as those can very easily turn tacky.
 Try on outfits, and make sure that it's not like, a one hundred dollar tee shirt. Buy fleeces and classics at Abercrombie; and find accessories that look like it's a whole new outfit when you wear it a few times in the future.
 Those places have diseases, or so we've heard, only get a pedi at a non-second hand spas. Second hand spa's are not good quality. More gossip points for you, if you let your friends know about someone who got foot fungus there! Get your eyebrows waxed, too. Make the girls see that you're brave, obviously!

, Make it an at home spa, too. I know, we all want an at-home spa like Massie does, but we probably can't afford that, can we? Get a few massages, or ask your mom if you can hire someone for the day to come to your house as a special treat, and, with your friends, get awesome, relaxing massages!

, Get different, all the rage hair styles. Nothing too short, but something that makes your hair fresh, clean, bouncy, and has lots of volume. Ask for the greatest products that will keep your hair smelling delicious, and so it'll look shiny, glossy, and smooth!

, That way people can rate them to make sure they're fabulous and alpha-licious.

