 Before you can consider using a TV as a second monitor, you'll need to determine if your computer has any open ports available to connect it to. On desktops, the ports are located on the back, while laptops may have them on the back or on the sides.An open HDMI port is the most ideal, as setup for HDMI is relatively straightforward and most modern widescreen TVs support HDMI. HDMI looks like USB, but a little longer and with notched ends.
The other possible port you can use is a DVI port. This looks like a traditional parallel port with lines instead of pins on the right side. If you have a DVI but no HDMI, you can connect to your TV but you'll likely need an adapter.;
, Once you know the ports you have on your computer, you can check the ports that are available on your TV. You'll find the input ports on the back or along the side of the TV.


An open HDMI port on the TV and an HDMI port on the computer will result in the easiest connection with the highest quality.
There's a small chance that your TV will have a DVI input, which will allow you to connect to a DVI port without any adapters. Most TVs don't have this port.
You won't be able to easily connect your computer to stereo A/V (three prong) or component (five prong) inputs without multiple adapters.
 If you have matching open ports, you'll just need a regular cable to connect the two. For example, if you have an open HDMI port on your computer and your TV, just get a standard HDMI cable that will reach without straining.


If you have mismatched connectors, such as a DVI port on your computer and an HDMI port on your TV, you'll need an adapter or special cable. You can get cables that have a DVI plug on one end and an HDMI plug on the other. You can also get adapters that turn DVI ports into HDMI ports.
 HDMI cables can be simply plugged in, much like USB. DVI cables will need to be screwed in to secure them using the thumb screws on each side of the connector.


Both HDMI and DVI connectors can only be inserted one way, so don't force the connection.
 If you are connecting your computer to your TV using HDMI, you don't need any extra cables to send audio to the TV. If you're using a DVI or other connection, including DVI-to-HDMI, you'll need to use a separate audio cable to send audio from your computer to your TV.


Use a standard 3.5mm stereo cable to connect the Audio Out port on your computer to the Audio In port that matches the input you're connected to on the TV. The Audio Out port on your computer is usually green, and may have a symbol indicating that it is sending signal out.
 Use your TV's remote to turn it on and switch to the input that you connected your computer to. The inputs will usually have labels, such as "HDMI 1."

, This menu allows you to select which connected monitor you want to display your screen on.


If this doesn't work, open the Start menu and type "displayswitch." Press ↵ Enter to open the Projector menu.
 You'll have several options to pick from:


PC screen only - This is the default option where your computer's monitor is the only display.
Duplicate - This will show the same image on your computer's screen and the TV.
Extend - This will extend your desktop so that it spans both screens.
Second screen only - This will make the TV the only display.
 This will allow you to set where you want your computer's sound to be played.
 It may just say "Digital Audio (HDMI)." It should say "Ready" underneath it.
 This will make your TV the default playback device whenever it is plugged in. Any sounds your computer makes will now come out of the TV speakers.
 If you are extending your desktop so that both your monitor and the TV are being used, you can adjust the virtual positioning of the TV so that you can easily move the mouse and windows between the two. For example, if the TV is to the left of your computer, you can reposition it virtually so that when you move the cursor off the left side of your computer screen it appears on the right side of the TV screen.


Right-click on your desktop and select "Display settings" or "Screen resolution."
Click and drag the box representing your TV in the layout until it's in the position you want. If you don't know which one is your TV, click "Identify" and then match the number displayed on the screen.
 By default, your TV will likely automatically pick the correct resolution, especially if you connected via HDMI.


Open the Display Settings by right-clicking your desktop and selecting "Display settings" or "Screen resolution." Click "Advanced display settings" if you don't see the Resolution menu.
Select your TV. If you aren't sure which screen is which, click "Identify."
Choose the resolution from the drop-down menu. Most modern TVs display at a resolution of 1920x1080.

