 Some therapists use cinematherapy to address major depression, addiction, obsessive compulsive disorders, eating disorders, and problems related to self-esteem.Your therapist may find certain movies that connect to certain life situations, traumas, or family situations that you can relate to easily.


Watch a movie that addresses certain situations and life events that are relevant to you and your therapeutic process. For example, if you or someone you love struggles with substance abuse, check out the movie “Clean and Sober” or “When a Man Loves a Woman.” If struggling with the loss or serious illness of a loved one, consider watching “Steel Magnolias” or “Beaches.”;
, It’s unlikely you will work with a therapist who exclusively works with cinematherapy. Often, a therapist will include cinematherapy as a supplemental treatment to help you reflect on your relations with the movie.Make sure that you attend regular therapy that allows you to process emotions and build skills to help you improve your life.
 Once you meet back with your therapist, be prepared to talk about the movie therapeutically. Your therapist may ask you, “Was there ever a time in your life you felt like the main character? What was that like? What would it be like to imagine yourself as the character? What traits do you have that would have helped the main character with the dilemma?”A big part about cinematherapy is reflecting on the movie and your emotions around the movie and integrating the experience therapeutically.
 Much of therapy allows for you to relate to your thoughts and emotions more effectively. If you tend to dissociate or avoid your own emotions, it may feel safer to see someone else working through emotions. You can create a bond with a character yet feel safe in the person’s emotional experience and not your own. This can help you take on a different perspective and feel safe in experiencing your emotions.For example, if you suffer from PTSD, you may fear connecting to your own emotions and setting yourself up for a flashback or nightmare. A movie can help you safely experience emotions regarding a situation that doesn’t directly involve you. Some movies that address symptoms of PTSD include, “The Cider House Rules” or “American Sniper.”

