 You do not have to limit yourself to designing at a job or school. With the proper tools and materials, you can practice making your designs come to life. Materials and tools can become expensive, so you may want to start out with just the basic materials. Here are some general tools to get you started:


Scissors that are professional-quality are great for cutting into extra small places with ultra-sharp precision.Thread Clippers are useful for quick snipping work.
A standard graphing ruler is a basic piece of jewelry equipment that will help you visualize and create your designs.
Use less expensive materials than what you imagine your design ultimately having. If you are envisioning a piece with silver or gold fill, practice with copper wire or other base metal wire just to get the hang of things.
Hammers and mallets can be vital for forming jewelry., There are so many different types of tools required to make the wide range of jewelry available. The type of equipment you buy will become more specific once you decide what type of jewelry it is you want to create. Here is a list of common equipment used to make jewelry that you may or may not need:


Bead boards
Disks and templates
Anvils and blocks
Wire jigs
Stamps and punches

, Pliers may be one of the most helpful tools you use to help you create your designs. They are many different pliers out there, and they all offer a unique way to help you create jewelry. Here are essential pliers to have in your tool kit:Wire cutters are great for cutting headpins, eyepins and wire to string jewelry.Round nose pliers are good when you want a smooth curve and will help you in you make loops, bends, clasps and jump rings for wire work.Chain nose pliers have a flat surface and taper towards the tips which makes them great for getting into small spaces and gripping wire. They are also useful for opening and closing jump rings.Crimping pliers are a perfect tool for stringing beads because they have two notches on the jaws that easily secure tubes and beads.