 Lined paper will help you write each letter evenly and uniformly. It will also help to distinguish the difference in size of the upper case and the lower case letters.Lined paper is especially useful when learning how to write the alphabet in cursive, as the loops and dashes of cursive can be difficult to complete without the use of lines as a guide.
When learning how to write cursive letters, start with lowercase letters first, followed by uppercase letters. Lowercase letters are more accessible and will give you a beginner’s sense of how to write cursive letters.
 Start with downward slope, making a lowercase O shape. At the top left side of the O, draw a line sloping downward and curving out at the end. This is a.
 Make an upward slope and then loop it around as you make a downward slope. Continue the downward slope to make a lowercase U shape. End the U with a small curve to the right side. This is b.
 Slope downward in a circle and then end the slope with a long slope towards the right side of the paper. The slope can move upward at the end of the letter. This is c.
 Then, draw a vertical line from the top of the page down the meet the right ride of the O. Curve the slope out at the bottom towards the right side of the paper. This is d.
 Make a loop and then end the letter with a long slope towards the right of the paper. This is e.
 Start with a long slope upward, forming the beginning of a lowercase b. Bring the bottom of the loop downward to form another loop underneath the lowest line on the paper. Draw the end of the loop towards the right side of the paper in an upward curve. This is f.
 At the bottom right side of the O, add a slope that moves downward, underneath the last line of the paper and then curves back upward. This is g.
 At the end of the downward vertical line, add an upside down lowercase u shape. This is h.
 Make an upward slope to the middle line in the paper, then bring the slope downward from the center to the bottom right of the paper. Place a dot over the middle point, where the two lines meet. This is i.
 Draw an upward slope to the middle line of the paper. Then, bring the slope downward, past the last line of the paper. Loop the bottom of the slope and bring it upwards, towards the right of the paper. This is j.
 At the end of the downward vertical line, slope back up to form a lowercase O shape. Draw a line from the bottom of the O shape downward to the right of the paper. This is k.
 This is l.
 At the end of the upside down u, slope back up to create another upside down u. End with one more upside down u. This is m.
 At the end of the upside down u, slope back up to create another upside down u. This is n.
 Make a round, sloped circle. At the top of the circle, draw a curve upward to the right of the paper. This is o.
 Make a small slope upward and then slope downward to make a loop underneath the bottom line of the page. Draw a slope upward to form a lowercase O shape. End with a slope from the bottom of the O shape that curves upward to the right side of the page. This is p.
 Make a round O shape, similar to how you drew the lowercase letter a in cursive. On the right side of the O shape, draw a line downward and form a loop underneath the last line on the page. Then, draw a line from the top of the loop to the middle line of the page. This is q.
 Make a small vertical line to the right from the top of the upward slope. Curve down from the end of the slope to the bottom line. This is r.
 At the top of the curved line, make a rounded line downwards until it meets the bottom of the first line. End with a curved line upwards. This is s.
 End the downward vertical line by curving upward to the right of the page. Draw a small horizontal line in the middle of the vertical line. This is t.
 Start with an upward slope from the bottom line to the middle line. Make a curve downward and then make another curve upward. This is u.
 Finish with a small curve to the right of the page. This is v.
 Make an upward slope from the bottom line to the middle line. Then, make a curve downward and then another curve upward. Repeat this again and end with a vertical curve to the right of the page. This is w.
 Create a loose n shape. Draw a curve from the bottom line to the middle line and then up again to the middle line. Finish with a slanted vertical line from the right side of the page to the left side of the page, across the middle of the n shape. This is x.
 Start with a slope upward from the bottom line to the middle line. Then, curve back downward to create a loose n shape. At the end of the n, make a slope that curves downward and loops underneath the bottom line of the page. Finish by drawing the slope at the end of the loop upward to the right of the page. This is y.
 A cursive z does not look like a printed z. Start with a slope from the bottom line to the middle line that forms a curve that is leaning to the right. At the end of the curve, make a curve that rises up and then slants downward, underneath the bottom line of the page. Make a loop underneath the bottom line and then finish with a curve upward towards the right of the page. This is z.

