 This section will give you a few tips on how you can decorate your classroom bulletin board. You do not have to use all of the ideas in this section. Choose a few that appeal the most to you.


You can buy most of the supplies in a teacher supply store. Some well-stocked art stores may also carry these supplies.
 Most classroom bulletin boards use solid-colored butcher paper. This hides the corkboard and make it look more colorful. You can be more creative and use wrapping paper or colorful fabric instead.


Wrapping paper is great because it adds a lot of texture and pattern. You might want to use a solid-colored background and letters, as well as large, simple shapes, when decorating it. This will keep the designs from clashing.
Fabric is great because pins and staples won't leave holes in it. It also won't fade, rip, or tear. If it wrinkles, all you have to do is iron it out., Most borders will be either solid-colored or patterned (and usually based off of a holiday, such as hearts for Valentine's day and shamrocks for St. Patrick's day). However, you can use almost anything you want for the border. Here are some ideas:


Consider layering the border. Lay two to three pieces on top of each other.Each bottom piece should be sticking out from beneath the upper one by about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters).
Use paper cutouts, such as hearts, snowflakes, leaves, or clover, to make your border. They should be smaller than your hand. Try to use different shades to add variety. For example, if you are using hearts, use red and pink paper.
Use other items for borders, such as pompoms, playing cards, fake flowers, or even crumpled tissue paper.
 Most bulletin boards will use the same color and font for each word or phrase. You can make your board look more interesting by using different colors, sizes, and fonts for the letters. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Use a different font for each word. Make one word bold and the other cursive or italic.
Use a different color or pattern for each word.
Make the words you want to emphasize larger.
Make your own unique letters by tracing letters onto patterned scrapbook paper, and then cutting the letters out.
Get a pennant banner (it looks like paper squares or rectangles attached to a long string) and write each letter on each pennant.
 This is a great way to tie in what you are teaching at the moment to the rest of the classroom. Here are some ideas to get you started:


If the class is learning about ancient Egypt, write the message on the board using hieroglyphics. You can use colored butcher paper to create a desert scene, including sand, palm trees, and pyramids.
For an English classroom, you could make the bulletin board book or grammar related. If your students are studying a particular book, then base the bulletin board off of that book. Include the name of the book, as well as a phrase. You can even include a symbol or some characters from the book as well.
 These sorts of decorations can stay up for the entire month that the holiday takes place in. They are a great way to make your classroom look more festive. Here are some ideas to get you started:


For Valentine's day, use a soft pink or white for the background, and red for the borders and letters. Consider decorating the board with a Valentine's day craft project that the kids did. Leave the decorations up for all of February.
For Halloween, use orange for the background, and black for the boards and letters. Decorate the board with black cats and bats. You can even add a cobweb and a spider to the corner. Leave the decorations up for all of October.
For St. Patrick's day, green for the background, and white for the letters and board. Use colored butcher paper to create a rainbow and a pot of gold. Leave the decorations up for all of March.
 Students have to spend a lot of their time indoors. This does not mean that they have to miss out on all that the seasons have to offer. You can decorate your board according to the season. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Use lots of earth tones for fall. For example, use tan for the background and red or orange for the borders and letters. Staple paper pumpkins and red, orange, and yellow fall leaves to the board.
Use lots of blue and white for winter. For example, use light blue for the background and white for the borders and letters. Create a snow scene using white butcher paper and lots of paper snowflakes. You can also use green butcher paper to create pine trees.
Use bright colors for spring. For example, use light blue for the background and a cheerful yellow for the border and letters. Decorate the board using bright green paper for the grass, and pink, purple, and white paper for the flowers.
Use tropical colors for summer. Use a light blue for the background and yellow for the border and letters. You can decorate the board with colorful hibiscus flowers, seashells, palm trees, and a sun.
 It will also save you the trouble of having to buy supplies to decorate it with. Try not to staple the student's artwork to the board, as this can create holes and ruin it. Instead, try to use some poster putty instead. It comes off of paper easily. Most people use it to stick posters to walls.


If you must staple the artwork, try staple only the top of the artwork. Do not get too close to the edge, however; the art piece by rip off, creating a tear in the student's artwork. This could end in lots of tears.

