 If you are a therapist and want to incorporate EFT into your practice, complete a training or certification program first. You can search for programs in your area, or look for EFT courses and workshops online.AAMET International (https://aametinternational.org/) for instance offers information on the process and specific certifications that are available.
EFT training will help you master the nuances of the technique before using it, and getting certified will make patients more likely to seek you out.
 Get to know your patient before you start using EFT. Express interest in their life, and empathize with their problems. EFT — and any other therapeutic technique you use — will be more effective if you build a personal connection with your patient first., Before you introduce EFT, ask your patient questions about what happened to them. Find out how their PTSD affects them and what their goals for treatment are. This will help you guide their recovery process effectively., Based on your patient’s goals and your knowledge of their situation, help them come up with a focused setup phrase for each issue they want to address. Make sure their statement is clear, positive, and in the present tense.For example, instruct your patient to end their phrase with “I accept myself,” not “I will accept myself.”

, Tell your patient to follow along with you as you go through the tapping sequence. Have them repeat their reminder phrase every time they tap., Trauma is deep and layered, and EFT often causes other, long-buried issues to surface. Your patient might find themselves facing secondary issues after resolving one traumatic memory with the technique. Be ready to address these other problems, too.If a patient says EFT isn’t working for them, this might be the reason why. Ask them how they’re feeling about the original issue they wanted to solve. If that issue is fixed, investigate what else is bothering them, and repeat the tapping process.
Remember that EFT simply may not work for everyone. If your patient is not benefitting from EFT, try a different method of treatment. EFT should be one of several tools you have to address your patient's trauma.

