 Then plane the thickness down to 21mm (0.82 of an inch). Glue any boards that aren't wide enough with simple rub joints.;
, Then clean up the sawn edges with a fore plane.
 You can cut these by hand using a bench hook and shooting board combination jig.
 You can cut these with a router with a 12mm (0.4 of an inch) straight two-flute cutter and a guide rail to keep the grooves straight.
, Aim to have a slightly tight fit and pare back with a shoulder plane or paring chisel.



Part 2







, Mock up the separate components into a rectangle then mark with part triangles on each front edge as a reminder of their finished position.
 Remember to allow for a half pin at either end.

For aesthetic reasons, you may want to keep the spacing between tails to a minimum because machine cut dovetails on the best commercially available dovetail jigs can't cut much below a 6mm gap between tails, translating into a fairly wide minimum pin width. You can use this to your advantage! If you see a set of dovetails with very narrow pins you'll know, and others will know, that they must have been cut by hand.






Vary the width of the tails. You can create the tails wider in the middle and narrower the closer they get to each edge. The theory is that this creates more support where the stress is greatest, meaning that those dovetails nearer an edge will have more stresses exerted on them because they're not so supported by the next in line. This rule also makes for a more interesting layout and emphasizes the fact they're cut by hand.
 Leave the marking gauge set because you'll need the measurements for both your tails and pins.
 A Veritas dovetail marker makes life easier.


If you're using a sliding bevel it should be set at a ratio of 1:8 for hardwoods and 1:6 for softwoods.
, These saws have fine kerfs with rip set teeth which are ideal for this kind of work.
,, When chiseling, remember to cut no more than about halfway, then turn your workpiece over and work from the other side so that both external cuts are clean. It can help to secure your workpiece with a clamp.
, Hold the timber in the vice with the end grain facing upwards, then place the finished tails over the end grain. Pack this up on the workbench to allow downward pressure to be exerted with one hand, while your free hand scores a line with a craft knife along the tail sides.
, It's so easy to cut on the wrong side of the line, so be careful! Here's what to do: With the tail positions clearly marked, use a pencil to crosshatch these areas as a reminder of which parts are waste and which side of the line to cut.
,


Part 2







, You can use a keyhole cutter; it's a great solution to an age-old problem. You simply plunge the cutter to a set depth, move it along for a short distance then switch off the router, wait for the cutter to stop spinning, then carefully pull the cutter back to the initial plunge location and remove.
 You can use a small round-over bit in a quarter inch (6.3mm) router to soften the shelf fronts. It's surprising how these subtle touches add up to a pleasing whole., When all is done, try partially assembling everything dry just to make sure nothing has been forgotten.


Note: Only ever push the dovetails halfway home during a dry assembly; this ensures the best possible fit when gluing up.
 You really don't need that much; it's better to avoid squeeze out by using just the bare minimum. Use a glue brush for best results as these ensure a thin even coat over the gluing surface.


Immediately wipe away any excess glue that oozes out upon assembly. This will prevent it from drying in an obvious lump.
 Dovetails don't need clamping but housings do, so make sure you have enough clamps ready to go.
,, You can use a shellac-based sanding sealer, then wax with a beeswax and pure turpentine mix. It's an easy finish to apply and looks great against the wall.
 Place where you want the cabinet on display and add your objects to it.
