 If you're not allowed even small indulgences, see if you can find substitutes to satisfy your cravings. Think about what you want to eat and how you can get it from healthy foods that adhere to your diet's rules.For example, if you crave some of the cookies sitting out, try having some fruit instead. If you're eyeing the tortilla chips and dip, try whole wheat crackers with hummus instead.
It can help to see if your diet has any suggestions for substitutes. Diet plans often lists suggestions online of food to substitute for your favorite dishes. You can also talk to your doctor if they're supervising your diet.;
, If at all possible, bring your own food to a party. You can bring a dish that adheres to your diet to share. This way, you can make sure there is something for you to eat even if other party goods are off limits. Other guests may also appreciate there being a healthy food option.Make sure you check with the host first. You do not want to look rude by bringing your own dish.
 Dips can contain a lot of calories, fat, and sugar. If you're on a strict diet, many dips may be off limits; however, salsas and guacamole dips tend to be healthier and they're mostly made with fruits and vegetables. When selecting dips, go for these options over things like sugary yogurt dips or cheese dips.You may want to ask about ingredients first to make sure you do not consume any food that your diet forbids. Guacamole, for example, is sometimes made with sour cream and may not be a good option if you're trying to avoid dairy.
Go for healthier chip and cracker choices. See if the host has provided things like whole wheat crackers to snack on. You can also try dipping fruits and vegetables instead of chips or bread.
 Many parties provide a snack tray stocked with fruits and vegetables. As most diet plans allow plenty of fruits and vegetables as a healthy snack, try filling your plate with fruits and vegetables first. Filling up on healthy fruits and veggies may make you less likely to snack on less healthy options later in the night.Remember to be mindful if the fruits and veggies are served with dip — you may need to skip it.
 If your diet allows meat, look for leaner options. Your best options are usually things like poultry and fish.Seafood is a popular snack item at many parties. See if you can find foods like shrimp cocktail, smoked salmon, or sushi. Sushi is an especially good option, as it often contains healthy carbs, fruits, and vegetables in addition to protein.
See if you can find lean poultry. For example, chicken kabobs can be an easy, low-fat choice.
 Diets can benefit from a small amount of wiggle room. If you're allowed to cheat on occasion, do so at a party. This way, you will not feel left out at a social event. Have one small piece cake or go for a small cookie or piece of candy.