 You can catch a snake using a long slender object like a badminton or tennis racket, or a long broom handle attached to a mosquito net. When you see the snake, you'll want to get quickly to the scene. Place your net in front the snake's head and coax the snake into the net. The long slender object you attach to the net should be long enough to keep your body a safe distance from the snake, while attempting to net it. Once the snake enters the net, lift up the net immediately to prevent the snake from getting out. Make sure your net is large enough for the snake you're aiming to catch.
The net in front of the snake's head is effective because the snake will interpret it as a place of safety and willingly enter it.
Approach the snake carefully and quietly. If you run over to the snake loudly you will provoke it to move away quickly, or worse, bite.;
, This is a simple way to catch a snake without having to directly handle it. Take a large garbage can and lay it on its side. Coax the snake, using the broom, into the garbage can. You can then move the garbage can to where you would like to release the snake.
 Do this by placing a forked stick directly behind its head and applying pressure. The amount of pressure you will need to apply all depends on the size of the snake but it should be enough to keep it from moving its head without hurting the animal.


There are special snake forks that can do this more effectively than a common stick.
 If a snake gets into your house and you want to quickly remove it, you may have to act quickly with the items at hand. Use an old shirt, and a pillow case. Toss the rumpled up tee shirt over the snakes head and upper body. The snake will generally be afraid and coil up under the cloth.


Without delay, place the pillowcase down over the shirt. Slide the edge firmly along the floor, scooping up the shirt and snake together. This can be done with a lingerie bag if it is large enough and you are not squeamish and know the snake is not venomous.

