 If you are asked to give a presentation on a certain topic it is likely because you are knowledgeable about the material. If this is not the case, you need to make sure you fully understand the material inside and out prior to the presentation. The best presenters are those who understand the topic and are clearly passionate about the material they are presenting.For example, if you are asked to present on ethics in business, for a university business class you are likely not an expert on the topic. However, you should still thoroughly research the topic and communicate to your classmates why this is an important topic.
Keep in mind why you are presenting on the topic and what should be achieved at the end of the presentation.;
, The most engaging presentations are easy for the audience to follow. Make sure that the material you are presenting is arranged in a logical order and flows between topics. This will help you maintain the attention of your audience. The audience should not struggle to follow the presentation because this will detract from the information being communicated.For example, if you are giving a presentation on how to engage with social media you should begin by outlining different social media platforms. Then explain how each one works, and then provide more detailed information concerning different types of posts, when to post, how to respond to comments etc.
 Some presentations will include complex concepts or key terms that require special attention. It is a good idea to isolate these terms and concepts and clearly explain them to the audience.If you are teaching an undergraduate class in geography, for example, you may want to spend some time defining the difference between human geography and physical geography.
Often these definitions will warrant their own slide if you are using visual aids.
 The most engaging presentations are always accompanied by some form of visual aid, usually a slideshow presentation. Slideshows allow you to provide graphs, charts, images, and text to accompany your oral presentation. Often these materials provide a fun way to enhance the learning experience for the audience. For example, if you are presenting financial reports to your coworkers a slideshow will allow you to include graphs and charts that can help the audience visualize the numbers you are explaining.Consider using one of these helpful tools:Powerpoint
Keynote
Google Slides
Zoho Show
Prezi

, Audio and video material can also be included to make a presentation more dynamic and fun. When possible, include a video or audio clip from a relevant movie, television show, music video, or commercial. This will help to break up your presentation so that the audience does not become bored listening to your voice the entire time. Depending on the type of presentation, videos or music can be played before a presentation begins while people are still taking their seats.If you are giving a lecture in history you may want to provide video footage of the event your are discussing, for example, the Vietnam War or Iron Curtain Speech.
You could also use a recent clip from a television show to highlight a specific point you are trying to make in your presentation. Be creative.

