 Focusing upon others' needs is a wonderful way to reduce your fixation upon your own cravings. Helping others produces the feel-good chemical dopamine in your brain. Your happiness will divert your brain from cravings.


When a craving hits, ask yourself "What can I do to help someone right now?"Perhaps you might call an elderly relative or write a letter. Maybe you can perform an act of kindness for your partner or a friend.
Build opportunities to help others into your regular routine. Consider volunteering for an organization with a mission you find appealing, or find ways to help out at work or at school.
 Exercising not only burns calories, but also suppresses your appetite for up to two hours following a high-intensity workout session. Aerobic exercise suppresses the appetite hormone ghrelin. Maximize the impact of your workout by alternating high-impact intervals with brief periods of rest., Women, in particular, tend to experience strong emotional reactions to music. Create an upbeat playlist that you can listen to when cravings strike. The music will distract you and provide an emotional release, redirecting your brain., Create a message to repeat to yourself when cravings hit. Mental conditioning can take time to become effective, but as you continue to repeat your message it will sink into your consciousness and help redirect your energy from cravings.


Target the effects of succumbing to your craving — "A moment on the lips, a lifetime on the hips" would be one example.Consider positive messages you can substitute for the negative feelings associated with your cravings. Remind yourself of your best attributes or qualities. For example, you might train yourself to remember, "I am a compassionate person. I keep my body healthy so I can serve others well."
Visualize yourself as healthy. When you begin to experience a craving, consciously tell yourself, "Stop!" Then replace the image of your craving with a healthy image. Over time, this image will sink in and override the craving., Humans need community in order to thrive. Networks of friendship and shared interests will help you manage stress and fulfill your needs in positive ways.Consider your interests. Do you enjoy art? Music? Reading? Playing a sport? Research opportunities for becoming involved in activities you enjoy.
Contact a friend when you feel the urge to succumb to your cravings. You'll distract yourself and replace a negative impulse with a positive connection.
 Do you tend to turn to food, alcohol or other substances when you're bored? Staying busy is one of the best ways to curb cravings. If you’re on the go, you won’t have time to worry about what you’re craving. Fill your schedule with activities that require you to be up and about.


If you spend a lot of time sitting at a desk, mix things up by going outside for quick walks throughout the day. Doing so will prevent you from becoming bored and giving in to cravings.
Meet with people in person instead of talking on the phone or texting, since it's easy to eat and use the phone at the same time.
Examine the foundations of your craving and target your distractions accordingly. After all, when you crave you are hoping the object of your craving will make you feel better. If you're craving chocolate and recognize that you're actually lonely, taking a solo walk likely won't help — but visiting with a friend probably will.