 Apply for a passport if you do not have one. A passport is a form of identification that verifies your citizenship in a country and allows you to travel to other countries.


Check to see if you need a visa for entry into Thailand. This is required for visitors from some countries. A visa is a document that authorizes a non-citizen to enter a country for a period of time or for a specific purpose. Citizens from most countries can enter and stay in Thailand for 30 consecutive days with a valid passport. Your time in Thailand can be extended for up to 90 days. After the 90 day period, you must apply for a visa to remain in the country.Some foreigners use this loophole to avoid getting a visa. They simply leave the country for an afternoon and return later that day. This restarts your 30-day, passport period.
Make sure you acquire a tourist or retirement visa before entering the country if you are planning to live in Thailand for longer than 90 days or are retiring there. Contact the Thailand Immigration Bureau or the Thai Embassy in your country. You may obtain a work permit on your own through the Thai Embassy; however, if you accept a position with a company that operates in Thailand, the company will obtain the work visa on your behalf.;
, Choose accommodation based on your proposed visit length. Thai hotels provide modest to expensive accommodations for short term living in the country. For long term stays in Thailand, non-citizens may rent an apartment or house, live with a host family or purchase a condominium. Condominiums are the only property non-citizens are allowed to buy in Thailand. It is not difficult to find accommodation after arrival, depending upon the season (high season or around holidays it is more difficult).


Investigate the costs of utilities, including electricity, water, and phone, and learn how and where you will need to pay them every month if you won't be staying at a hotel. In general, utilities and cell phone service is relatively inexpensive compared with other countries. One exception is the use of air conditioning can inflate the electricity bill by $100-$200 USD/month, possibly more for continual use. Residents of some apartment complexes, for example, receive an itemized statement at the end of the month that includes their rent and utilities.
 You may think that Bangkok is the place for you. Many expats settle in Bangkok because it is the central financial, political, economic, and cultural hub of the country. There are many great places you might consider moving. Perhaps, city life isn’t your preference. See what the other provinces have to offer.


Chiang Mai, Phuket, Hua Hin, Chiang Rai, and Rayong are other popular, more off-the-beaten-track places you might consider researching., Do you like milder temperatures? Do you like seasons? Thailand is a temperate location with warmer temperatures year round. If you go into Norther Thailand, the higher elevations will bring milder and even colder temperatures. Light layers, sleeve-shirts, and shorts are a must in most of Thailand.


Thailand experiences 3 seasons. The rainy season (May-October) is produced from monsoons that emerge over the Gulf of Thailand and the Andaman Sea. The cool season (November-February) is the nicest time of year to visit Thailand. Despite its sometimes cooler temperatures, it can still get to around 30 degrees celsius or 86 degrees fahrenheit in the afternoon. The hot season (March-May) can witness temperatures well above 35 degrees celsius or 95 degrees fahrenheit. This is the prime beach-going season in Thailand., Review your transportation options. In the urban areas of Thailand these usually include bus service, car taxis, motorbike taxis, samlors (also called rickshaws), train and boat services. Walking is also an option based on where you live in proximity to work, shopping and entertainment. Renting motorbikes and bicycles by the day, week and month is widespread. Also purchasing a motorbike (used or new) is much more affordable if staying in Thailand for 6 months or longer.


Non-citizens can purchase cars and motorcycles in Thailand. It is pretty easy to drive in Thailand. In the cities, people often double and triple park. It is not unusual for a triple parked car to be left in neutral. You can just push the car out of the way, if they’ve blocked you in., If you want to live in Thailand, you'll need a source of income. Some people who work exclusively online or for themselves manage to find ways of living in Thailand without finding a job located there. Most likely, you'll want to find employment in the country.


Consider teaching English, a popular job for non-citizens in Thailand. The pay for teachers in Thailand is modest. Work permits are needed for all kinds of paid employment.Research companies operating in Thailand that hire outside of the country. The industries that offer the greatest opportunities for non-citizen workers are finance, computers and engineering. Many companies operating in Thailand will offer potential non-citizen employee packages that include the offer for work and subsidies for housing.Certain jobs in Thailand are restricted to Thai natives including barber, beautician, carpenter, and secretary., If you plan to live and work in Thailand, having a bank account will be helpful for navigating everyday life. This is one of those activities that you really can only do, once you’ve made the move.


There are international bank locations located in Thailand you can use, if you decide to keep your original bank.The Thai Baht (THB, ฿) is the currency of Thailand. The US dollar or other currency are rarely accepted, though most banks are able to change currency.
Decide on the type of account you want to open. Your choice will be determined based on your work visa. Very few banks allow foreigners to open banks without a visa. Some banks require proof of residence, which a lease or affidavit from your embassy or consulate can provide. The vast majority of accounts used are savings accounts, which include ATM and Visa/Mastercard logos. Some banks restrict where the Visa/Mastercard function can be used (SCB Bank), some do not (Kbank, Bangkok Bank).
Almost no one uses a current account (checking account). Checks are rarely used. Bank transfers are much more common and can be done using ATMs or online banking. PayPal also operates in Thailand and though they do not have a credit card option like in other countries, it is possible to transfer funds between your Thai PayPal account and Thai banks as well as US banks.
 It is pretty easy to get a cell phone in Thailand. There are hundreds of retailers and all of them offer no-contract, pay as you go service. So just buy a phone, get some credit, pick a phone number, and start making calls right away.


Many expats complain that Thai phone companies charge you based on time rather than data for using the internet on your smartphone. Some people find that their data deteriorates quickly, especially if you have several apps that constantly use 3G to update themselves., Most of Thailand is still on the dial-up system, but the urban areas like Bangkok offer cheap high-speed internet. If your internet reliance is not that high, most bigger cafes and restaurants have free wifi internet., In general, health treatment costs are cheaper than in the United States and Europe. You have two options. You can either pay for international health insurance form your home country or you can sign up for Thai health insurance, which functions like health insurance elsewhere in the world. If you plan to permanently relocate to Thailand, international insurance may not work. Ask your provider before you move. Sometimes, they place time limits on how long you can hold health insurance in specific countries., Most people who relocate to the country find it nearly impossible to distinguish between sentences or even individual words. As with any language, it will take some time to develop an “ear” for the language. Get cracking. Moreover, the Thai people love it when foreigners put forth an effort. You’ll find that you’ll be received with greater hospitality, if you at least try to speak the language.The vast majority of residents in Thailand speak some form of Thai, and most business is conducted in the Thai language. In tourist areas, there are usually some English-speaking customer service people (for example, the main branches of the Internet and Cell phone service providers). It is wise to learn as much of the Thai language as you can to assist with navigating daily life among the Thai people.
Options for learning Thai include taking classes facilitated by native Thai speakers; learning to read Thai using text books and Thai-English dictionaries; hiring a native Thai speaker to be your conversation partner; or taking an online course that offers free and fee-based materials.Watch a lot of Thai TV too. One of the best ways to improve your language skills is to watchTV in the language you’re learning. You’ll be able to pick up context clues from their actions.
 If you move to Thailand, you'll inevitably have to deal with its government. Thailand has technically been a constitutional monarchy under a parliamentary democracy since 1932. Yet, since its foundation, the military and the monarch have intervened repeatedly and temporarily disrupted democratic proceedings. Despite this, the bureaucratic system works pretty well and is relatively open to foreigners who want to relocate.


The Thai people are very serious about their nation and their government. Do not show any signs of disrespect., The Thai people are fiercely proud of their country and their history.Theravada Buddhism is an important part of Thai history. Roughly 95% of the population is Buddhist. There are temples throughout the country you can visit and monks are the most revered members of society. You can even see images of monks in graffiti, in taxi cabs, and on TV commercials.


Embrace the spiritual side of Thailand. The primarily Buddhist country offers meditation retreats and tours of several shrines and temples throughout Thailand.Chiang Mai in particular has many beautiful Buddhist temples that are open to the public. Be sure to show respect when you enter any of these temples. Wear appropriate clothing and be sure to remove your shoes before you enter.The next largest minority in Thailand is Islam. Accounting for about 4% of the population, the majority of Muslims live in the southern provinces near the Malaysian border. There are also sizable Christian, Hindu, Confucian, and Taoist communities in Bangkok., Like most countries, Thailand has a number of polite customs you’ll want to observe. Most importantly, avoid raising your voice or getting angry. Signs of anger are frowned upon in the “land of smiles.”


Greetings in Thailand are different from in the Western World. Rather than shaking hands, waving, or giving the “what’s up” head nod, the proper way to greet in Thailand is the wai. Place your finger tips together just below your chin like you are about to start praying. Bow your head. Avoid excessive physical contact and take your shoes off before entering any Buddhist temples or Thai personal residences.
No matter what, the Thai population will see you as a foreigner. They will probably call you "farang" rather than by your name. For some this is a derogatory term. For others, it is just a common phrase. Just go with it. Don't be confrontational. The Thai people pride themselves on their politeness. Most likely, they won't use "farang" in a negative sense, unless you give them a reason to be upset.Thai people have a strong sense of nationalism that pervades their entire culture. They will proudly tell you of their nation, its history, and its unique culture. At the same time, they will always see you as different. This manifests itself in strange ways. If you get in a car accident, for example, most likely you will be blamed for it. If you weren't in the country, you wouldn't have been in the car in the first place and no accident would have occurred. It doesn't make too much sense, but there is little fighting it., There are cruises and all kinds of ecotourist activities. Try taking biking tours, hiking, kayaking, and other water activities.Travel around the country is fairly cheap as well, with many train routes to dozens of far off destinations. Train travel is safe and incredibly cheap. A 48 hour train trip from Bangkok to Singapore is only about $60. In addition, you'll get to see great views from your seat in the train car., Thailand offers a variety of eating options. Food can range from very inexpensive to expensive, and cuisine (in the tourist/larger cities) includes various international options as well as fast food chains.