 It is estimated that up to 74% of Americans have some level of speaking anxiety. While that large of a number experiences the fear in differing levels, many of them report that they are more fearful of public speaking than death.CA may start early in life as it is very prevalent in elementary school-aged children.


Communication apprehension may come about as a result of genetics, as a personality trait, or even only in certain circumstances., You may be making a bigger problem out of the “worst case” than it really is. Consider what’s the very worse that you expect to happen. If you have been exaggerating the power of your fear, you may start to notice that the potential repercussions that you have been worried about aren’t all that bad.Regardless of how one interaction goes, for the most part it is not going to make or break anything major. You will probably not lose your job nor will one error ruin your life or health. If you fear speaking in front of strangers, in all reality there is a good chance they will not remember what happens for very long. You may also never see your audience again.
 Redefine what success means to you and acknowledge that using your voice, even with a bump or two in the road, is a win over the fear.Remember that the majority of the people listening to you at any given time also report some level of speaking anxiety. You taking the step to make the speech or communicate with others in any way is brave.
 There is a good chance what you are thinking is far worse than what the audience is thinking. Self-talk like “I’m an idiot” or “I’m going to make a fool of myself” will only make matters worse. Strive to attack these negative thoughts and think thoughts that are realistic and positive. You can challenge your negative thinking with questions like:What would a friend say about my thoughts?
What evidence do I have that this is true? What evidence do I have that this is not true?
How many times has this terrible thing actually happened?
Is my thinking based on how I feel rather than on facts?

