 Mix baking soda with water until you have enough spreadable paste to cover the ink-stained desk or table.Baking soda can be used on almost anything, including laminate, metal, plastic, wood, and glass.


Spread the paste thickly over the stain and rub it in with your finger tips or a toothbrush.
Use a clean, damp cloth to gently scrub the are to remove the paste. Don’t scrub too aggressively, as this may scratch the surface of various materials.
Repeat the steps if necessary.
Wipe the area clean with a cotton ball moistened with rubbing alcohol.
 Toothpaste with baking soda in it works especially well. Coat the area healthily and gently smooth the toothpaste over the surface of the stained area.Wipe the toothpaste away with a water-dampened cloth. Wipe gently, so as not to scratch softer surfaces.
If any toothpaste remains, wipe it away with a cotton ball moistened with rubbing alcohol.
If the table or desk is wood, allow the paste to set for 10-15 minutes.For other surfaces, a shorter period of time will likely suffice.
 The cleaning strength of acetone is so well known it’s used to remove nail polish! It will likely readily remove your ink stain as well.Place a cotton ball on the opening of a bottle of nail polish remover and shake gently to allow the cotton ball to absorb the liquid.
Gently rub the ink stain until the ink is lifted.
Take extra care when using acetone or nail polish remover. Wear gloves and remember to test the surface for colorfastness.
Acetone can be used to clean metal, glass, plastic, and even leather.
 Spray-on applications designed for your skin can also be used to effectively remove ink by seeping beneath the stain itself.These will work especially well on plastic surfaces.


Be sure to test an inconspicuous area, as the varied strength of these products can sometimes damage the surface of a table or desk.
Spray a stain until it is fully saturated with the repellent or sunscreen.
If the stain is particularly small, apply the spray to a cotton ball and softly rub the stain.
Wipe the spray away with a clean, soft cloth. Repeat the steps if the stain does not wipe away too.
 Removing an ink stain that’s been around a while, particularly from a wooden surface, will require a heavy-hitting cleaning product. Bring in the mayo.Slater a thick layer of mayo onto the stain and let it set overnight.
Wipe the mayo away with a wet paper towel and rinse the wood with another sheet of water-dampened towel.
Buff the wood’s surface with a cloth and wood polish to go the extra mile.

