 All of these will be available at your local craft store. Set them out in your large flat work area. The items you will need at hand are:One 18 to 24 inch (45.7 to 61.0 cm) wreath base, grapevine or pine
One full 6' or longer greenery swag
Brown or green pipe cleaners OR light floral wire
One bunch large-headed silk focal flowers selected for the season (Poinsettias for Christmas, Sunflowers for Fall, Pastel Daisies for Spring, etc.)
One bunch silk filler flowers, small-headed clusters, tiny long branches, etc. in colors that complement the focal flowers.
Two 9 foot (2.7 m) rolls of wired ribbon to match the season/holiday.
Hot glue and glue gun
Wire cutters
Wreath hanger
Optional accent items: large bunch of berries, pods, or other unique-looking accent flowers in a deeper accent color; three to five focal accents, pods, tiny flags, iced branches, plastic Easter eggs, Christmas ball/gift picks, birds etc.;
, Cut the individual flower stems from the bunches. Arrange them by variety and length. Plug in the glue gun and fill with hot glue cartridge. Cut the pipe cleaners in half, or cut 6-8 inch lengths of light floral wire -- whichever you have chosen to attach your wreath pieces.
 Wrap it around the base a couple of times. Secure it to the base with 6-8 pipe cleaners or pieces of light floral wire, evenly spaced around the base. This greenery will remain on the wreath throughout all of the seasons and should look thick and full. If you choose to use real greenery, keep in mind that your wreath will last for a few weeks to over a month, and you’ll end up disassembling the wreath to get the old branches off to reuse the base for another holiday., Insert the main focal flowers evenly around your wreath. Wind the stem into the wreath base, using the shortest stems at the top and bottom. The top flower will face forward and stick out about three inches, with each following flower tilting down slightly at an angle and lying closer to the wreath., The flowers and everything else that you place into the wreath should be inserted in a clockwise manner with the heads/faces of the flowers all facing the same direction as they go around. This will make your starting focal area be the top flower.
 Wrap the first 9 foot (2.7 m) section of ribbon loosely around your wreath, looped three times. Leave a long tail hanging on the front of the wreath. Attach it by securing it with pipe cleaners or light wire., Decide whether you want your bow to be on the very bottom of your wreath, or slightly to one side, about 1/3 of the way up from the bottom of one of the sides. This will become your new focal area. Make a large bow with the other 9 foot (2.7 m) piece of ribbon, leaving two 10 or 12 inch (25.4 or 30.5 cm) tails, and secure it with another pipe cleaner. Fluff the bow fully.
 Place the filler flowers around the wreath in the same manner as the focal flowers. It looks best to be symmetrical. For example, you might want to attach one after each focal flower, a little to the left of center of one, then a little to the right of center of the next one. Continue until you've used up most of the flowers. Shorter ones will be attached at the top and bottom, just as before. Allow a couple of the longer stemmed ones to extend past the edges of the wreath a little to give it a designer look. Hot glue two or three pieces of the flowers and some of the individual leaves into the folds of the bow., Place the filler berries, etc. that you chose in the same manner as you did the filler flowers, this time placing them before and to the right and left of your focal flowers. Again a couple can be glued into the bow. Don't forget to make sure a few pieces are sticking out of the outer edges and into the center of the wreath, not just on the flat surface., Make sure that the pipe cleaners that attach the ribbon are covered by flowers. These are called your "mechanics" and should be covered with these last pieces of flowers and greenery. Make sure your pipe cleaner ends, etc. are all tucked into the wreath. Don't forget to make sure that everything you put into the wreath is in the clockwise direction. This consistency is what makes your wreath look professional., Hang your wreath if you were working on a flat surface. Step back about 6 feet (1.8 m) and squint your eyes to "see" where your "holes" are. These are areas that lack color, fullness, or look somehow uneven. Attach your final embellishments, the picks, flags, etc., into the empty areas. Make sure to save one to go into the middle of your bow, you will glue it in and make sure it sticks out about 4 inches (10.2 cm), which will be the farthest thing of all to stick out of your wreath, making it the final focal point. Any small leaves or pieces that you have left can be hot glued into the bow or other areas as desired., Replace the flowers and embellishments, as well as the bows, three to four times a year, as desired. Change it to reflect the closest holiday. Replenish the swag when it starts to look thin.

