 Although people may occasionally make rude or insensitive comments, they may not intend to hurt your feelings. Sometimes people stigmatize others because of lack of understanding about a situation or condition.Sometimes they may do it just to make themselves feel better. Instead of letting their comments or actions bother you, remember that you’re a good person and don't let them get to you.


If someone says something negative about you, view it as a reflection of them, not a reflection of you. People usually say these types of things as a way to make themselves feel better about things they are insecure about. For example, if someone makes a rude comment about how often you use the bathroom, don’t feel bad about yourself. Recognize that the person obviously knows very little about you or Crohn’s disease.
Or, for instance, if someone is being insensitive, remember that they can help their bad attitude, you can’t help having Crohn’s disease.;
, It can be easy to begin believing the negative self-thoughts you have, as well as the comments you may hear other people say. Don’t do this. Instead, constantly and consistently say positive things to yourself and think positive thoughts about yourself.Using positive self-talk can help boost your self-confidence and help you ignore it if someone else says something negative about you.


Make a list of all of your positive qualities. Include your personality traits, talents, skills, interests, and hobbies. For example, you might list your piano skills, sense of humor, and fashion sense. You can even ask a trusted friend or family member to help you with your list. They might think of some things to add that you had not considered.
Refer to your list when you are having negative thoughts. For instance, if you catch yourself thinking no one could like you because of your health issues, instead, think to yourself, “I’m unique, funny, and kind. Everyone has challenges and Crohn’s disease is mine.” Try posting your list somewhere that you will see it often, such as on a mirror or your closet door.
Make a point of starting your day with positive self-talk by giving yourself a compliment or two.
 You may sometimes find yourself thinking about all the challenges of having Crohn's disease. Don't allow yourself to give in to negativity. Make a conscious effort to think about all the things that you have to be grateful for. Practicing gratitude may boost your self-esteem and help you realize that you have many other positive things going on in your life besides the stigma you may experience.Start a gratitude journal and write about all the things you have to be grateful for. Include large things as well as small things. For example, you might write that you are grateful for your family and for your short commute to work.
Write in your gratitude journal each day. For instance, you can start each day by adding two to three things that you are grateful for.
 On top of the stress of coping with Crohn’s disease, you may have other things going on in your life that are stressful. For example, you may have financial, relationship, career, or school responsibilities that are stressing you. When you're overly stressed it can be hard to maintain your self-confidence and manage the stigma associated with Crohn’s disease. Do things to help you manage your stress.


Practice deep-breathing techniques. Slowly inhaling and exhaling a few times can help calm you in tense and stressful moments. Practicing deep-breathing regularly may help you reduce your stress overall.
Meditate as a way to manage your stress and boost your physical and mental health. Start with just a few minutes a day and try to increase the time over the course of a few weeks.
Delegating some of your responsibilities might also help to reduce your stress. Think about what you have on your plate right now and decide if there is anything that you could let someone else handle. Remember that it is okay to say no and don’t set unrealistic expectations for yourself. Try to be realistic about what you can accomplish.

