 People often tend to take on more responsibilities than they can actually deal with, and the end result is exasperation, frustration and stress. If this sounds like you, your responsibilities at work, school, or home may make you feel overwhelmed. This could mean you are under too much stress. This type of over commitment can result in chronic stress, which is stress that appears over time.


This can include things like work stress, continuous monetary worries, or even long-term relationships issues. A study conducted by the American Psychological Association found that many Americans reports stress being caused largely by occupational, financial, or economic factors.Being overwhelmed with many obligations or external pressures can leave you feeling unmotivated, irritable, or angry.;
, If you notice that you are feeling unfulfilled or bored with your work and it is causing you to be restless, anxious, or depressed, this could be a sign of stress.There is conflicting research evidence whether boredom causes stress. Some research studies have found that boredom at work causes stress and can even cause anger or withdrawal. They also found signs of decreased competency and increased stress levels for surgeons on the frontlines of war who had no incoming patients.However, another study showed that merely being bored in itself was not a cause of stress, but that if a person was bored and under a state of expectancy, such as in the case of the surgeons, or has a high need for activity, this combination can cause stress.
Additionally, there is some evidence that suggests that it is not the amount of work that fixes this type of boredom, but rather how engaging and fulfilling the work it. So in other words, you can be busy and still be bored. , Another common indication of stress is feeling anxious or depressed, which can cause changes in mood. You may feel like you don't have the energy to interact with people, or that you just can't connect with them anymore. You may be more irritable than usual, that you snap at others, or that you shut people out.These feelings of disconnection may cause you to isolate yourself and avoid socializing with others., An inability to concentrate may be an early indication of stress.You may find your mind wandering when trying to complete a daily task, or find yourself distracted in the middle of a conversation with another person.


In addition, you might experience memory problems, such as extreme forgetfulness.This could manifest itself in something as simple as forgetting your keys or forgetting what you were about to say in the middle of a sentence.
As a result of this difficulty concentrating, your judgment may also be impaired, you may make decisions you wouldn't normally make, or start to behave recklessly.