 Whether you are working at a desk, sitting in a car, riding in an airplane, or spending a lot of your day sitting down at home, make sure you stretch a few times a day. Sitting all day can cause your veins to become swollen because of decreased blood circulation. There are several good stretches you can do, even while sitting down.Sit with your legs straight out in front of you under your desk with only your heels touching the ground.
Curl your toes so that they are pointing towards you and hold this position for 30 seconds. You should feel a stretch in your calf muscles, however, do not stretch so much that you feel pain.
Point your toes away from you and hold this position for 30 seconds. You will feel a stretch in the front leg but make sure that there is no feeling of pain.
 Your legs are not the only thing that need to be stretched. This chest stretch helps your chest muscles and strengthens your back muscles to combat poor posture. Having good posture helps to keep your blood flowing smoothly throughout your body.


Sit up tall in your chair. Imagine that there are strings from the ceiling that are pulling your chest upward. Interlock your fingers, and turn your palms toward the ceiling. Lift up your chin, tilt your head back, and gaze at the ceiling. Take a deep breath in this position, exhale, and release., Whether you are sitting at your desk for work, or in the car for a long ride, look for chances to get up from sitting. If one isn’t coming up, make some time for a break to happen.


While in the car, use trips to the gas station, bathroom breaks, even sightseeing to get up and stretch for a bit. These can work even if you aren’t actually filling up the tank or using the bathroom. Just a little break from sitting can be helpful for the veins in your legs.
When you are at work, look for excuses to get up during the day. Rather than sending an email, walk to the person’s desk or office to have a conversation in person. When you go to lunch, walk somewhere for food instead of just sitting at your desk.This can be tough when flying, but for long flights consider getting up and walking to the back of the plane and back to your seat. Maybe get up and go to the bathroom once during the flight as well.

