 Lotion helps to keep your skin soft by combining hydrating ingredients (like water or aloe) with humectants that trap the moisture against your skin (like shea butter, lanolin or cocoa butter). Dermatologists recommend using lotion right when you get out of the shower to keep your skin as hydrated as possible.Many commercially-produced lotions have ingredients that can actually dry out your skin, like alcohols and fragrance chemicals. Even when a bottle of lotion proclaims to be formulated for very dry skin, it might do more harm than good.
Look for all-natural lotions with high-quality, nourishing ingredients like shea butter, lanolin, cocoa butter, aloe, and oils.
For very dry skin, talk to your dermatologist about getting a prescription for medicated lotion containing a corticosteroid or an immune modulator., Oil has taken off as a great alternative to lotion for those with drier skin. Simply smooth on some baby oil or an adult-formulated oil after you take a bath or shower. The oil will keep the moisture from leaving your body too quickly by acting as a protective barrier between your skin and the air.Baby oil, almond oil, argan oil, coconut oil and jojoba oil are all great choices.
If you don't like the feeling of being covered in oil, try rubbing some oil into your skin where it tends to be extra dry, like on your elbows and knees.
 If your skin has been feeling rough and dry, doing a rejuvenating, hydrating skin mask can help bring it back to life. Once a week or so, set aside about half an hour to treat yourself to a full-body mask. You can make your own skin mask using ingredients you probably already have on hand. Take a warm shower, spread the mask over your wet skin, and let it sit for 20 minutes before rinsing.


To make your own mask, try mixing 1/2 cup cream, 2 tablespoons honey, and 1 banana. Blend until smooth.
Or try 1/2 cup aloe, 2 tablespoons honey, and 1 avocado. Blend until smooth.
These masks are safe to use anywhere on your body, including your face.
 If your skin is dry and rough no matter what you put on it, you might need to focus on hydrating your body the good old-fashioned way: with water. Drinking plenty of water is an important way to keep your skin healthy, supple and soft. As a general rule, drink water whenever you're thirsty. Drink more water when you're physically active to keep yourself well hydrated.Try replacing coffee, alcohol and soda with water whenever possible.
Bring a water bottle with you so you'll be able to stay hydrated throughout the day.
 If you're surrounded by dry air, it can be difficult to keep your skin feeling soft and fresh. Depending on where you live, the air may be drier during the summer or the winter. Either way, it tends to leave your skin flaky and irritated. The solution is to add moisture to the air using a humidifier. It's a simple machine that pumps a fine mist of water into the air to increase the air humidity in your home.


The ideal humidity level for a home is between 30 and 50 percent.You can measure your home's humidity using a hygrometer, an instrument similar to a thermometer available in hardware stores.
Humidifiers have the added benefit of helping prevent sinus and breathing problems and healing cracked lips.

