 Until you detach yourself from the harassment of a hater, your life will be consumed by willfulness, fear, or discomfort, none of which makes for a happy existence. You never want to give up on somebody in life, but sometimes you have to prioritize your relationships and what fits your lifestyle. A relationship with a hater is usually toxic, draining, and unhealthy. In an already busy world, these are surely three things that you do without.Life is fragile and it is important to surround yourself with healthy and supportive people who care about you. Make sure to seek out friends and family when dealing with a hater to support you through the experience.
When dealing with a hater, make sure you spend time everyday building up your emotional stamina by performing relaxation exercises, focus on your goals, and be social. This will help ease your mind and reduce your anger and anxiety towards the hater.
 Remain positive by doing the things you love and engaging with the people you care about. This will distract you from the situation and help you find your inner peace. You might even want to be nice or friendly to the hater. It is generally harder to hate somebody who is consistently friendly and makes an effort to include everybody. In other words, give them fewer reasons to hate you.Keep your energy focused in a positive direction and ignore the negative dialogue that the hater is trying to fill your mind with. Try image training. Think of a happy time, your favorite picture, or a movie role you cast yourself in and think about these things when you are being harassed by the hater.
Take what the hater says with a grain of salt. Whatever a hater says, no matter how close to the truth as they twist it, never take it to heart. Just let it bounce off your skin and forgive and forget.
Keep a list of your positive traits and accomplishments. If a haters becomes too harsh or overbearing, get the list out and think about all of the positive contributions you made to society to wash out the negative commentary.
 The more you build your self-confidence the more able you are to overcome the obstacles in front of you. Self-confidence gives you the power to look at all situations in a positive way even with haters. The stronger your self-confidence is the less likely a hater can hurt you emotionally. Don’t allow the hater to make you a victim.When you meet with friends and family try to engage with positive enthusiasm. Instead of languishing with the problems and haters in your life, keep your focus on solutions and achieving goals.
Make sure you are exhibiting positive body language and exuding confidence. Somebody who is always smiling and making friendly eye contact is harder to hate.
Always be prepared to deal with a hater. The more prepared you are the better you will handle yourself and the situation.

