 If you are going to take a prescription medication, you will obviously need to see a doctor first. However, you may need to call your doctor before taking a non-prescription medication in some cases as well, especially if you have medical conditions or take other medications. While many over-the-counter medicines are safe for healthy adults, there are many circumstances which would complicate self-treatment with OTC medicines.









Never give medication to children that is meant for an adult, as many cold medicines are not recommended for children.
Women who are pregnant are likewise restricted from many cold medicines, and nursing mothers may need to check with a care provider or lactation consultant before taking OTC medications.
 If your physician prescribes antibiotics for a bacterial sinus infection, be sure that you take the entire course of antibiotics, even after you begin to feel better. This will minimize the possibility of the infection to return or become resistant to the antibiotic.









Antibiotics commonly used for bacterial sinus infections include amoxicillin (most commonly), augmentin, cefdinir, or azithromycin (for individuals who may be allergic to amoxicillin).Side effects common to these antibiotics include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and a skin rash. More serious side effects such as fainting, trouble breathing, or hives should be reported to your doctor right away., If your sinus problems are associated with seasonal or systemic allergies, antihistamines may help. Antihistamines are medications that directly work against your body’s reaction to allergens by preventing histamine from attaching to receptors in your cells. Antihistamines can stop the symptoms of allergic sinusitis before they start.








Antihistamines generally come in pill form, such as loratidine (Claritin), diphenhydramine (Benadryl), and Cetirizine (Zyrtec). Liquid, chewable, and dissolvable forms may also be available, particularly for children.
Consult with your doctor or pharmacist to determine which antihistamine will be most effective for you.
Do not take an antihistamine for acute sinusitis without consulting with your doctor. Antihistamines may complicate acute sinusitis by thickening your nasal secretions., Pain relievers will not cure a sinus infection, but they can reduce some of the unpleasant symptoms associated with it like headaches and sinus pain.








Acetaminophen/paracetamol (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil) help relieve pain from headaches, sore throat, and can reduce fever.

Be mindful that ibuprofen should not be given to children under 6 months of age.
 An over-the-counter nasal spray may provide some immediate relief to blocked sinuses. There are three main types of nasal sprays; saline sprays, decongestant sprays, and steroid sprays.









Decongestant sprays such as Afrin should not be used for more than 3-5 days, as doing so can actually worsen your congestion.Saline sprays can safely be used frequently and help clear out mucous.
Fluticasone (Flonase) is a steroid nasal spray that is used to treat symptoms of allergies. This type of nasal spray can be used longer than decongestant sprays, but may not help with sinus infections, as it is meant to help with allergy symptoms.
 These medications can help relieve stuffy noses and sinus pain. Do not take a decongestant for more than 3 days. Using a decongestant for too long can cause “rebound” congestion.








Common choices include phenylephrine (Sudafed PE) or pseudoephedrine (Sudafed 12-hour). Some antihistamines include a decongestant, such as Allegra-D, Claritin-D, or Zyrtec-D.
Many medicines marked as “D” contain pseudoephedrine and may be held behind the pharmacy counter due to purchasing restrictions.
Some decongestants contain acetaminophen. Do not take additional acetaminophen if you are taking a decongestant that already contains it. Overdose can cause serious complications., A mucolytic (such as guaifenesin/Mucinex) thins mucous secretions, which may help improve drainage from your sinuses.There is not strong evidence that these help treat sinusitis, but you may have success with the medication.








