 These are basic tools required for changing motorcycle tires that you should be able to purchase at a motorcycle shop.


Spray-on silicone lubricant (or Windex)
Tire irons
Breezer tire tool
Valve core tool
Bead breaker (or two C-clamps)
Compressed air pump
Rim protector (optional);
, This tool is either snapped on or screwed into the valve to keep it open. The force of the air coming out is usually quite strong, so you will need to hold the valve core tool tightly.


This loosens the tension in the tire, making it much easier to work with.
 If you're unsure. hold the tire back up to the motorcycle, the way you took it off. Note how the wheel needs to spin, as this is essential when putting the next tire on.


Wheels spin towards the direction the bike is going.
 This is a metallic tool that can be inserted between the tire and wheel rim. You will hear a pop sound when the bead breaks loose. Continue to separate the tire from all edges of the rim on both sides.


A "bead" is a curved lip of the tire that goes right where the tire meets the rim and hold it in place.
If the bead isn't coming out, try to push more air out of the tires.
 This will allow you to slip the tire off the rim easily by entering tire irons under the bead and pulling the tire away from the rim. Remove both sides of the tire until the tire can slip off completely.


Every time you expose some of the tire bead, give it a spray. It will prevent it from re-sticking and making you start over.
You can also use some Windex.
 Take a large clamp and set it over the tire, right before the tire tucks into the rim. Tighten it so that the tired presses down and the bead starts to bend off. Then add one more clamp 6-8" to the side of the first and repeat. Once they're both on, pull them towards the edge of the tire to pop the bead out. You might need to move both clamps a quarter turn down the wheel or so and repeat once more to get the whole bead off.


When down, the tire should sit just outside of the rim.
 Tire levers are simply long metal tabs. You shove them under the bead, so that the back side sits against the rim, and then push down to pull the tire up. The rim acts like a fulcrum, allowing you to pop the tire up and over the rim. Move in a circle around the tire until the tire is off.


This may chip or nick your rim if you're not careful -- buy some rim protectors, little foam pieces that fit between the tire iron and the rim, to protect it if you're worried., Repeat the procedure on the opposite side to take the wheel out completely. It should be easier on this side.

