 Currently, there is no known scientific cause for this disease, but there are several factors which may increase the chances of getting it.

Children under five are most at risk, particularly ages 1 to 2.
It is not contagious in any way.
Boys are more likely, only slightly, to develop the disease.
Asians and Pacific Islanders have higher rates of this disease.;
, There are three phases, each with their own symptoms.

Phase one:

Fever higher than 102.2 lasting longer than three days
Extremely red eyes
Rash on trunk of body and genitals
Dry/cracked lips and swollen tongue
Swelled skin on palms of hands and soles of feet
Swollen lymph nodes in the neck
Irritability


Phase two:

Peeling skin on hands and feet, often in large sheets
Joint pain
Diarrhea
Vomiting
Abdominal pain


Third phase:

In this phase, symptoms typically start to fade. It can take up to eight weeks before energy levels return to normal.
 If a fever lasts more than three days or if they have a fever and four or more of the above symptoms, visit or contact your medical provider. Early diagnosis and treatment can often prevent future heart problems., Giving your child acetaminophen or Ibuprofen can help ease the fever, but may make it difficult to judge the severity of the fever. You can try to lower a child's fever naturally., Even if you don't think it's significant, write everything down and tell your doctor about it.,, In this stressful time, you might want to bring a friend or family member with you who can remember something you might forget either to tell the doctor or that the doctor tells you., It's impossible to guess exactly what your doctor will ask you, but these are some of the most common:

When did the symptoms start?
How severe are they?
How high has the fever ever reached? How long did it last?
Has your child been exposed to any diseases?

,, Although there is no specific test for the disease, the first step is ruling out other things that it could be. The list typically includes:

Scarlet fever caused by bacteria that often results in fever, rash, and sore throat
Rheumatoid Arthritis
Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Toxic shock syndrome
Measles

, There are several other tests after that will help narrow it down further:

Urine test
Blood tests
Electrocardiogram (which uses electrodes attached to the skin to measure electrical impulses of the heartbeat)
Echo cardiogram. This uses ultrasound images to show how the heart is functioning.
 This is given through a vein and can lower the risk of further problems with the artery., High doses of this medicine help to treat inflammation, reduce pain and fever, and lower the risk of blood clots. This is a rare exception to the rule about giving children aspirin, and it's important to follow the doctor's rule exactly. Do not give aspirin to your child without talking to your doctor, and do not give them any more than what the doctor prescribes., Even after the fever fades, your child might need to continue with low doses of aspirin for up to six weeks. Your child may be tired and fussy, and his or her skin may be dry for a month or so. Try not to let your child get overly tired. Use skin lotion to help keep the fingers and toes moist., The doctor may recommend follow-up tests often 6-8 weeks after and again after six months, but if you notice any other problems, especially around the heart, take them back to the doctor for treatment and follow-up tests.

It may take a few weeks before your child feels completely well. But most children who have Kawasaki disease get better and have no long-term problems. Early treatment is important, because it shortens the illness and lowers the chances of heart problems. Follow-up tests can help you and your doctor be sure that the disease did not cause heart problems.
Some children will have damage to their coronary arteries. An artery may get too large and form an aneurysm. Or the arteries may narrow or be at risk for blood clots. A child who has damaged coronary arteries may be more likely to have a heart attack as a young adult. If your child is affected, know what to watch for and when to seek care.

