 If your crush is on the other side of the room, move to the general vicinity they are in. If they are sitting down, go sit down at a nearby table with some friends. If you and your friends are friends with your crush, join them where they are sitting, and try to make sure that you are sitting next to your crush. If they are dancing, dance with a group of your friends either in a group next to your crush, or join their group of friends.Hanging out near your crush before you approach them makes going up and talking to them less abrupt and more natural.
 Say hello to your crush and ask them how they are doing. Say something like, “Hey Jamie, how are you?” or “Hey, what’s up?” If you’ve never talked to your crush before, introduce yourself.If at this point, your crush’s friends and your friends are hanging out together, it should be easy talk to him or her.
If your crush is with his or her friends, approach them with some of your friends. This will make approaching your crush easier and won’t put you on the spot. While your friends talk to your crush’s friends, you can talk to your crush.
If you and your friends don’t know your crush’s friends well enough to talk with them, wait to talk to your crush when they are alone getting food, checking their phone or coming back from the bathroom.
 Giving your crush a compliment is a good way of keeping the conversation going. Since it’s a dance, your crush probably put a lot of time into their appearance, so complimenting them will make them feel happy that someone noticed.Say something like. “You look nice” or “I like your dress.”

, If you don’t know what else to talk about with your crush, just talk about the dance!


You could ask them how they are enjoying the dance by saying something like, “So are you having fun?”
You could also talk about something specific about the dance by saying something like, “I really like the decorations that they put up!” or “Have you tried the punch? It’s really good.”

, If you and your friends are on the dancefloor near your crush and you start talking to your crush, don’t go on and on. A lot of people talk on the dancefloor while dancing, but the dancefloor isn’t the right place for a long conversation, since your crush might be more in the mood to dance than to talk.


If your crush seems like they are into the conversation, by all means keep talking. However, if you are doing most of the talking, keep in mind that your crush may be more in the mood to dance.
 If you are talking to your crush while you both are sitting down, allow for pauses in the conversation and look over to the dancefloor as you pause. This is a non-verbal way of indicating that you are interested in dancing. You can also tap your feet or move a little to the music to show that you like the song. If your crush wants to dance with you, they may pick up on these cues and ask you to dance.If you are talking to your crush while dancing, a pause is also a good way to give them a window to ask you to dance.
Giving non-verbal cues is a good method for girls to use if they don’t feel comfortable asking a guy to dance. Since the societal norm is for boys to ask girls to dance, girls may prefer to use this method of non-verbally communicating that they want to dance.

