 Once you've established yourself as a popular, fashion-conscious person, you may find yourself starting trends without realizing it. Just wear whatever you want and think looks nice. Your peers are likely to adopt aspects of your personal style to be more like you. If enough people follow suit, a new trend is born., One popular strategy among fashionistas is to be a contrarian. Look at whatever trends are hot in the mainstream and craft a look around something completely different. More people will notice your look and are more likely to think of you as a trendsetter instead of a follower.For example, if everyone is wearing baggy pants, try wearing skinny jeans. Or, if you notice many of your classmates with the same short pixie haircut, consider getting long hair extensions.
Don't go too overboard. If dark colors and long pants seem on trend, don't start wearing bright yellow shorts in the middle of winter.
 Make sure to maximize visibility for whatever look you want to trend. If it's something simple and not too flashy, such as a dark pair of pants, you can wear it up to once a week. However, if it's more memorable, such as a bright patterned blouse, make sure to bring it out only about once every two weeks.Consider getting multiple versions of your item of choice that look different enough that people won't think you're constantly wearing the same thing. For example, if you want a certain style of shoe to catch on, buy pairs in multiple colors. That way, you can encourage the trend every day.
 Setting trends is a creative process. You will need quiet time to take in and process all of the information you absorb in a day.Getting too caught up in forcing yourself to come up with the next big thing may actually stifle your ability to do so.
 If you have a sizable following or friends list online, you can start trends without leaving your house. Start posting about or reblogging things related to whatever trend you want to start. Mention how much you and your friends love the potential trend. Think of it as a method of marketing where the product you're selling is something's popularity.


Be sure to also keep posting your usual content to avoid losing followers.

