 This method is used when a person is injured and needs to be moved or transported by other people. Find detailed step by step instructions in Logroll an Injured Person During First Aid.
 Keeping the spine stabilized and maintaining consistent motion is vital to a successful log roll, and a minimum of 4 people is needed to do that.
 The leader will be in charge of coordinating movement and maintaining the patient’s head and neck alignment.


The other helpers will take orders from the leader and perform tasks such as rolling the injured person onto their side, inserting a stretcher underneath them, or performing bandaging if necessary.
 The leader will be positioned at the head. The leader will place their hands on each side of the injured persons head, making sure their head is facing straight ahead. It is very important to keep their neck and head stable.


The other 3-4 helpers should be kneeling on one side of the injured person. Each helper will be in control of moving a different portion of the injured person's body, and the helpers should be spread out evenly.
One helper should be designated to slide a stretcher under the injured person as the rest of the helpers roll them on their side. This helper should be kneeling on the opposite side of the injured person's body.
 On the leaders command, the helpers will roll the injured person onto their side. Each helper must place one hand under the injured person's back, and reach their other arm across the top of the injured person's body to grab the side opposite side of them. The helpers will then roll the injured person toward them, so that the injured person ends up on their side.


As the helpers move the injured person, the leader must keep the head and neck aligned with the body. As the body turns, so should the head.
 Once the injured person has been rolled onto their side, the designated helper will slide the stretcher underneath them. The rest of the helpers will then roll the body back down onto the stretcher.