 A playful kiss can be very romantic. It indicates that you are comfortable with your girlfriend, and that you are having fun. It also indicates that you feel confident in expressing your affection towards her.Slowly brush your lips up and down the side of her neck. This type of kissing is playful and teasing. It will lead your girlfriend to wonder what is to come later.
As you work your way up the neck, you might playfully nibble on your girlfriend's earlobe. Just make sure to be gentle!

, Come up behind your girlfriend and surprise her with a kiss on the neck. The element of surprise makes this type of kiss seem romantic and spontaneous. Just remember to make sure you are in the appropriate environment--and don't scare her by sneaking up too quietly.If your girlfriend has long hair, gently move it out of the way with your hand. Then deliver quick, warm kisses to the nape of her neck.
 Instead of delivering a series of multiple, quick kisses, try one longer movement. Begin your kiss at the top (or bottom) of her neck. Without breaking contacts between your lips and her neck, slide your mouth up and down her neck.Since this kiss is more prolonged than others, it is probably best to try this method when you two are alone in a private place.
Try wrapping your arms around her waist or resting them on her shoulders. Do whatever feels natural for you. If it's a longer kiss, you'll probably want to draw her close to you and hold her in your arms.
 Kisses convey a lot of emotion. The way you kiss her neck can say something about your intentions. For example, a kiss can promote affection and bonding. A quick kiss on the neck can tell your girlfriend, "Hi, I'm glad to be here with you."Kissing can also convey that you are attempting to arouse and seduce your girlfriend. If this is your intention, up the intensity of your kisses. Let them linger a little longer, and make them a bit more persistent.
If you are intending the kiss to lead to more affection, try gently massaging her shoulders or arms. You can also hold her hand to add intimacy.

