 Locate the shutoff valve and turn it clockwise to cut off the water flow to the toilet. Remove the toilet tank lid and set it aside.Since your toilet will be out of commission for half an hour or more while you clean it, schedule the project for a low-traffic time so that it won’t be an inconvenience.
 Pour in roughly ½-1 gallon of pure distilled white vinegar. Depending on the exact size of your toilet tank, you may need to use slightly more vinegar—it should be enough to totally submerge the flush valve.Vinegar contains mild natural acids, which makes it perfect for disinfecting and dissolving dirt and grime safely.Make sure the rubber flap of the flash valve is securely closed before pouring in the vinegar.
 The siphon jets are the small openings around the rim of the toilet bowl that release the water from the tank into the bowl when the toilet is flushed. Work your way around the bowl, smoothing a strip of tape over each of the jets. You may have to use several pieces of tape to cover every last jet..


Over time, mold, mineral deposits and other gunk can build up in the siphon jets. This makes it more difficult for water to flow through them, and the result is a much weaker flush.
If you’re having trouble getting the tape to stick, try dabbing the area around the jets with a towel before applying it.
 As the vinegar drains from the tank, it will fill the siphon jets. With the duct tape in place, however, it will have nowhere to go. It will therefore stay in the jets, clearing them of troublesome clogs. Leave the vinegar to sit for at least an hour.For best results, allow the vinegar to soak the clogged jets overnight.
 After ample time has elapsed, peel off the strips of tape and turn the water to the toilet back on. Scrub the area around the siphon jets vigorously with a stiff-bristled brush to clear away any remaining surface buildup. Then, flush the toilet a couple of times to get water moving through the jets. You should discover that the toilet’s flushing power has improved considerably.Plan on cleaning out the jets of all the toilets in your home about once a year, or whenever you observe that flushing power is suffering.