 Each state sets different requirements for the education and training for home health aides, but no formal education is required to apply for a home health aide position. Certificates and training courses are often offered in many online courses and college campuses.Call the Department of Health in the state where you plan to work. Ask if you need a high school diploma, and whether you need formal experience in a healthcare setting.
Ask whether you must get a certification or license and what kind of exams you must take.
Find out whether you must complete on the job training with a home health aide employer before you receive final certification or a license. In particular, ask if you must become a Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) before taking state exams.
 There is no national credentialing, training, or education requirements for home house aides. You can, however, take certain steps to not only demonstrate your professionalism and skill but also to climb the career ladder beyond work experience.Get your high school diploma or GED, even if your state does not require one. Having a diploma makes it easier if you want to advance to become a home health aide coordinator or supervisor.
Call a home healthcare employer and ask if you can observe for a day or two so you can experience first-hand what the work involves.
Attend community college or take an online class from the National Association for Home Health Care.
Complete the pre-employment training that many health care companies require. This usually requires you to work under a licensed aide for several months. It may also require you to attend workshops and lectures. At the end of the training, you must pass a competency examination.
 It is difficult for employers or patients and their families to assess your ability and knowledge. A Personal Care and Support Credential, however, provides a way to demonstrate your professionalism and skills.In order to apply for this exam, you must have completed forty hours of coursework, six months of personal support services, or worked for two years in the profession.
Successful completion of this exam demonstrates your knowledge as a competent and professional home house aide, increases market value, and widens career opportunities.
For consumers, this exam assures that you have met national industry standards, you are qualified, and that you take your job seriously.
This credential looks good on a resume. It proves to potential employers that you are of higher quality, competent and professional, and better qualified.

