 Be prepared to take a few hours and empty your closet, dresser and gather all your clothes, shoes and accessories from around your house (and your car). Do a load of laundry to ensure all your clothes are clean.;
, You may want to put on some music or invite friends over for a fashion show to help move along this part of the process. Remember to try on all your clothes, shoes and accessories. Create enough space to make five piles:


Keep. Keep any clothes that you have worn in the last year or have sentimental value (try to keep the sentimental value clothes to a minimum). These clothes should fit well, be in good condition and represent your personal style.Donate. If you want to have a truly organized closet, then your goal should be to get rid of as many items of clothing as possible.






Trash. Trash any mold ridden items or items beyond salvage.






Alter. Set aside those clothes you want to keep that need a little TLC like alterations or sewing.






Sell. Sell the clothes that are still current or valuable that do not flatter your shape, are not the right size or no longer reflect the image you want to project. Check out local consignment shops or online storefronts that specialize in buying and selling used clothes., While you clean your empty closet, start planning how you are going to utilize your space. Take a break and do a little research on how to maximize closet space by using shelving, shoe organizers or accessory organizers that hang over the door or stack. Clear plastic bins are excellent containers to let you see exactly what you have in them. Cloth boxes are a little more expensive, but provide you durable and attractive storage solutions. Remember to create a clearly defined space for everything and label all containers. Try to beautify and personalize your space with a fresh coat of paint, cedar hangers or a new light fixture.
 Decide which clothes you will store. You should store the clothes that you won't be wearing for a while because they aren't seasonally appropriate. Then decide which clothes will go back into your closet and which clothes will be stored in a dresser or other location. If you have the space to hang everything, hang everything. If you really want to step it up a notch, you can use different colored hangers to mark a different type of clothing. Start by hanging up all your clothes by type (tank tops, shirts, pants, skirts, dresses, etc.) and color. If you really get into the organization process you can sub-divide the clothing types further (short-sleeved shirts, long-sleeved shirts, blouses, dress pants, casual pants, etc.).


Put additional clothes in other parts of your closet. Boxes with lids can be stacked on upper shelves all the way to the ceiling to maximize storage space.






If you have room for a dresser, consider putting one in your closet.






Don't waste the space under your hanging clothes. Add shoe storage, clothing bins or even another shelf or hanging pole to double storage. The clothes that you put in the bins should be used less frequently than the clothes you hang up.
 Enjoy your clean and organized closet every day when you get dressed. Make sure to maintain all your hard work by creating a schedule to do a quick weekly clean up. If this project is too much to take on, call in a professional organizer.

