 An investor in your company will be a person or organization with money to spare that expects a return on their investment (usually by taking partial ownership of your company). Start by talking to local business owners and friends that may be able to introduce or recommend you to an investor. Look out for high net-worth individuals who have a passion or business similar to yours and try to get introduced to them. If your business is already up and running well, you may also be able to seek the help of a venture capital firm.The success of such an agreement usually depends on your connection to the investor (who introduces you) and how well you are able to pitch your company's current and future successes.
There are online platforms, like Gust, that can connect you potential investors., Make sure that your investor will be a good partner as your business continues to grow. A good venture capital firm or investor will be able to provide you with advice and industry contacts. In addition, these investors will own a piece of your company, forcing you to sometimes act in their interest. Look over the details of any investment agreement before signing and make sure they are not taking too much equity for what they are paying.Controlling interest (over 50% of the company) means that the investor will be able to make all important decisions, regardless of what you think should be done.
 This type of funding is similar to gaining a private investor, but the money given to the business is from a financial institution. A third-party, like a high-net worth investor, acts as a cosigner on a loan made to the business in exchange for equity in the business. The business gets money to fund growth and development and the investor gets free equity. Should the business fail, however, the investor is liable for the loan balance., These organizations provide support to startups, usually in exchange for equity in the company. Accelerators and incubators are often tied to universities, communities, or large companies, but there may be other accelerators that exist in your area. From these organizations, you may be able to get office space, consulting, and even startup capital.Find accelerators/incubators in your area by searching online.

