 A white blouse works best, but a solid color may also work if you opt for dull shades over vibrant ones. Choose a simple, “no-nonsense” blouse with a collar. Small ruffles are fine, but avoid large frills, bows, or other similar elements. Leave the top few buttons undone., It can be a full-length or three-quarter sleeve cardigan, and if you don’t have one that buttons down you can use one that doesn’t open in the front. The key with this item is to make sure that it sits comfortably around your shoulders.Alternatively, you can wear the cardigan. Keep the buttons undone to increase your sex appeal.
 Black and gray skirts are ideal, though you may choose from either a solid print or subtle pinstripes. If you are unable to find a black or gray skirt, choose another neutral color in a solid print, like beige or dark brown. Avoid bright colors and bold patterns.Keep the length at the knee-level or just above. A shorter skirt makes the look too bold, but a longer skirt reduces the sex appeal.
 Choose dark pantyhose, such as black or dark brown, matched to the color of your skirt. You can also choose a lace pair for added drama. The idea is to draw attention to the fact that you have nylons on, so avoid flesh-tones., Pumps are a great option for this look. Again, black or dark brown colors work best, and you should avoid bold, flashy colors. Pick a heel height you feel comfortable with. The way you strut your stuff matters just as much as the clothes themselves. If you feel uncomfortable with tall heels, opt for shorter heels you can walk around in confidently., This look is great if you have short, as in chin-length, hair. Make your hair as smooth and straight as possible, and avoid adding any "cutesy" curls or flips.


Tuck a pencil behind your ear to really play up the librarian look.
 Pulling your hair back into a tight ponytail works especially well if you have medium (shoulder-length) hair. Whether you have straight or curly hair, gather as much of it as possible and tightly pull it into a low ponytail at the base of your neck. Use bobby pins to secure any loose strands in place.
 A bun is a great way to get the sexy librarian look. This style works well with longer hair, such as below the shoulder. Slick your hair back before twisting it into a bun to achieve a no-nonsense look. Secure the bun with bobby pins., Be sure to choose a shade that matches your skin color exactly. Apply it sparingly, and choose a light blush to put on the apples of your cheeks., Apply a thin line of dark eyeliner to your upper and lower lids. You want to make your eyes stand out but your lips will be the focal point so avoid creating a smoky eye., Play up your lashes by adding a couple coats of mascara. Choose a black shade if you have darker lashes, or go with brown-black if you have fair lashes.
 Be sure to pick one that compliments your skin tone. This is the one aspect of your look where a bright pop of color is desirable. Wear a bright red lipstick if you think you can pull it off. Otherwise, choose a deeper red.Stay within the red color range if possible, since red connotes passion and seduction more clearly than pinks and beiges.
Because deep red colors of lipstick tend to bleed easily, make sure to apply a lip liner in a matching color to secure the color in place.
A matte or moisturizing lipstick is more complimentary to this conservative look than a glossy coat.
 Glasses are a must for the sexy librarian look. Rectangular lenses work best, but oval lenses are also fine. If you do not own a own pair, purchase a pair of cheap reading glasses from a drugstore. If you don’t need prescription glasses for near- or farsightedness, purchase a pair that has non-prescription lenses in them.Cat-eye glasses also work well for this look as they create a vintage, old-fashioned feel.
If you don’t need to wear the glasses at all times, consider getting a chain that attaches to the ends of the handles so you can dangle the glasses around your neck.
 For this look, less is more. Choose a single strand of pearls to wear around your neck, or wear a few simple bangle bracelets. Add simple studs or pearl earrings.


Avoid flashy or trendy jewelry and jewelry with large charms.
 Librarians carry lots of books, so choose a large bag to accessorize your outfit. Something tasteful and classic, like a brown or black leather shoulder bag, would be perfect.
 Librarians are constantly surrounded by books, so it makes sense to carry one with you. Put a few in your bag or carry one in your hand. Choose your favorite novel or pick a classic, like A Tale of Two Cities, Anna Karenina, or Crime and Punishment.

