 If you're finally 21, a house party can be a great way to ring in the year. Head to the liquor store and stock up on a variety of booze, invite enough friends to tear the place down, and get a DJ. Party time.


You only get so many opportunities in life to throw a kegger. Your 21st is the most obvious. Invite lots of people, make sure they're all over 21, and drink a giant keg of beer together.
Clear everything out of the living room to make a party space, hiding anything breakable, or anything your roommates don't want stolen.
If you're going to throw a loud party with music, warn your neighbors and get on their good side to avoid an uncomfortable house call from the police late at night. try to be considerate of your neighbors, and let them know what you're planning, and try to cut it off at an appropriate hour.
try to resist the urge to supply your underage friends will alcohol. If you're the first of your crew to turn 21, maybe having a house party isn't the best idea.
 If you decide to throw yourself a 21st bash at home, you can afford to get a whole lot weirder than if you go out. That means costumes, games, maybe even feats of strength. Who knows. You only turn 21 once. Some great time-tested theme parties include:


Dork Party. Tell everyone to dress up as their favorite video game character, super-hero, or other nerd-related theme. Wait for hilarity to ensue.
Throwback Party. Make like it's 1984 and make everyone wear washed-out jeans, ugly sweaters, and big perm-style hair. Listen to Flock of Seagulls and discuss Reaganomics over wine coolers. Good times.
Toga Party. A time-tested classic, probably just as popular when your parents turned 21. At a toga party, everyone wraps themselves in a sheet as if they were at the Roman coliseum. Drink ambrosia (coconut rum, orange juice, pineapple juice) and carry on regally.
Heaven and Hell Party. This only works if you've got three floors. Put champagne and wine on the top floor, beer on the ground level, and liquor in the basement. If it's your party, you play god, and send people to respective places.
Box Party. Separate everyone into different groups, preferably into small groups with strangers they won't know. Everyone has to go into a different room. In that room is a box. In that box is a kind of alcohol. The group cannot leave the room until the alcohol is gone. The alcohol, it should be noted, should be something gross, like Smirnoff Ice or blue raspberry jello shots.
 While you're partying on your 21st, take a picture of yourself every hour on the hour with a disposable camera. When you get the pictures developed later, it'll be a hilarious documentary of the night, and may even jog loose some almost-forgotten memories. Who's that wearing a hockey mask and wiping bean dip all over their face? Oh…it's you.
 A great way to liven up a 21st house party is to play a drinking game. You can make one up as you go along, or you can play a classic. If you're just recently turned 21, you should never play a drinking game with hard alcohol. Stick to beer and take a tiny sip when a drink gets doled out, otherwise drinking games can quickly overwhelm your tolerance, making them dangerous. Played safely, drinking games can be a lot of fun, though. Some of the time-tested and party-approved include:



King's Cup. In this game, you'll need a deck of cards and a big communal mug. Each card represents a different action, and the players go around the circle drawing cards. Sometimes you'll have to drink, sometimes you'll have to pour some of whatever you're drinking into the mug, and sometimes you'll have to freestyle rap. Whoever draws the last King from the deck chucks the mug. You can also make up rules as you go along. Good times.

Play Quarters. This simple game involves trying to land quarters into drinks and doling out drinks to the other participants accordingly. It's like an adult version of tiddlywinks.
Play a movie-themed drinking game. Watch Star Wars and take a sip every time Luke complains about something, or watch an episode of Seinfeld and take a drink every time Kramer says something that doesn't make sense. Watch the local news and take a drink every time someone says the name of your town.
Use Edward 40-Hands with caution. In this game, two 40 oz. bottles of malt liquor are taped into the players' hands, and the bottles cannot be removed until both are gone. It can be a hilarious house-party game, and it can also end with someone smashing a bottle on the bathroom floor and crying. Probably not best for a 21st.
 A house party is a great opportunity to make booze art. Before everyone gets there, spend some time with your roommates building an elaborate robot out of the beer cans that everyone will drink, or make a "birthday cake" that is made of beers. Instead of cutting the cake, everyone should have a beer.


As you start to accumulate empties, use them to make wizard staffs, taping the cans together. Make the two people with the longest staffs fight each other in a wizard's duel, or use all the empties to make a big tower of cans and act out scenes from Lord of the Rings. Have fun with garbage!

, You don't have to have a fancy charcuterie plate ready to hand out to guests, but a couple of bags of Doritos might come in hand when the drinking munchies come on in a few hours. You don't want people to be coming and going from the party looking for snacks, so it's important to stock up for when the time is right.
 If you've got some stragglers, don't be afraid to ask everyone to leave. It's your party. Especially if the noise level is getting too high and you're getting worried about the party getting cracked up, call a cab and kick them out when it arrives.


Don't make a big deal of it, just say, "Cool, this has been fun, but the party's over. I called y'all a cab. I'm going to sleep. See you guys later."
As the host, you need to take some responsibility for the sobriety of your guests. Make all the keys go into a jar when everyone gets to the party, and let a sober person control the jar. Don't let anyone leave with keys who has been drinking. If you're concerned about the drunkenness of anyone leaving the party, have a guest room prepared so they can sleep it off safely.

