 With a spoon, knife, or with your fingers, scrape or pick out as much of the dried nail polish as you can. Scraping off the excess will make the remaining polish faster and easier to clean.









You can also try trimming out the surface layer of nail polish with scissors, as long as you don’t trim too much. Trimming too wide or too deeply will leave a noticeable mark in the carpet.
 Suck up all the remaining flecks of nail polish that are stuck in the fibers of the carpet after scraping. This will give you a cleaner surface to work with, and make it easier to dissolve the nail polish that’s stained into the carpet.


Vacuuming is particularly important if you used scissors to trim out the nail polish, because bits of carpet and nail polish will be stuck in the fibers.
 Acetone-free nail polish remover will be your best bet for removing the nail polish, because it was designed to dissolve nail polish. Dip a cotton swab into the remover and apply it to a small and inconspicuous area of carpet. Leave it for a minute or two, and then check for damage or discoloration.









There are other cleaners you can try as well, including rubbing alcohol, hair spray, window cleaner, carpet stain remover, and hydrogen peroxide.Do not use hydrogen peroxide on dark carpets, as it can bleach the dyes.
Don’t use acetone nail polish remover or bleach, as these can stain and discolor carpets.
 Dampen a clean cloth or rag with nail polish remover or some other cleaner. Gently press the cloth into the nail polish, and dab the area to loosen and remove the nail polish. Move to a fresh section of cloth to prevent spreading the stain. Add more nail polish remover as necessary to keep the area damp. Keep blotting until the stain is gone.








Don’t pour the cleaner directly on the carpet, as this can damage the backing.
Avoid rubbing or scrubbing too hard, as this can push the stain deeper into the fibers.
You can also use a small brush, such as a toothbrush, to work the nail polish remover into the stain. Don’t scrub too hard or too wide, or the stain could spread.