 If your team doesn't see the value or believe that working together cooperatively is a wise choice then the team will fail. Whenever you are assembling a team each member must fully believe in and be committed to working together to achieve the aim of that group.Any member or members who aren't convinced that teamwork is a good idea will hurt the entire team effort.
Make sure each member is ready to fully work together towards the team's goals.
 Chances are a team member will already know their own role and skills that they bring to the team. However it is just as important that each team member be aware of the strengths and skills of the other team members. This allows for each team member to help others or fulfill other roles more effectively.During any bonding or socializing events make sure to include a portion where everyone has an opportunity to present their skills or strengths.
When each team member knows what the others are capable of team efficiency will benefit.
 A benefit of working together is the introduction of multiple ideas and view points, allowing the team to find solutions that an individual might have missed. Unfortunately, team work can also cause conflict to arise when ideas or discussions clash. Have your team work through conflict, using it to their benefit.Conflict can cause team effectiveness to fail.
Try to resolve conflict before it grows into a more serious issues.
 Part of being a human is having and feeling emotions. While many emotions can lead to a positive and healthy team there are some that can pose a threat to the cohesion of the group. By training your team in matters of emotional intelligence you can help avoid any emotional difficulties or outbursts that could injure the team effort.The first step in emotional awareness is being aware and managing ones own emotions.
Self motivation to work as a team is critical to the overall effort.
Being aware of others emotional states is important when working with others constructively.

