 Clove hitch knots are fairly simple knots that can be useful for securing ropes to trees, posts, or other things that stand upright or horizontal.








Wrap the running end of the rope (end A) halfway around the pole or object that you are tying the rope to. The running end of the rope is the end that will be loose after you tie the knot.
Wrap end A over the part of the rope resting against the pole. This should form an X. Wrap end A back over the pole.
Lift the X that has been formed up off of the pole. Slide end A under the X and pull on end A firmly to secure the knot.
 Trucker’s hitches are used for lifting heavy loads and tensioning lines. On a boat, it can be used to lash things to the deck or secure them down below. Use it in combination with a bowline and half hitch for a very secure knot.









Wrap the end of a rope (end A) around the object you want lifted. If you want to place a tensioned line between two objects, wrap the end around one of them (object A).
Create a bowline knot (or some other fixed knot) high up against object A with end A. Take the other end (end B) and wrap it around an anchor, such as a heavy rock, tree or pole, and then loop it up through the bowline (or other fixed knot.) If you are working with two objects, loop it around the other object (object B.)
Pull on end B to lift the object or add tension. You should be able to lift with two times the power you would normally have.
 Anchor bends are used to tie rope to a ring or other similar object. It is used particularly when securing a boat to a ring or other form of anchor.








Loop the end of the rope through the ring twice. This will give you an end rope and the standing line (the part of the rope that is fastened to your boat.
Wrap the end around the standing line and pull it under the first loop around the ring. Pull it so that there is no sagging part of the rope.
Wrap the end around the standing line again and then tuck the end under itself (this is called a half hitch.)

