 Public pools must go through a public inspection to ensure its cleanliness and to ensure that there are no rampant health hazards. When you are choosing a public pool, look for the results posted around the pool. If they are not listed, ask the people that work at the pool when the last pool inspection was and where the information is posted.The Centers for Disease Control have a database of state regulations in regards to public pools if you want more information about your local pool inspection specifications.;
, Before you swim or allow your family to swim in a public pool, you need to look at the clarity of the water. The water should be clear and blue. Look for any cloudiness in the water. Make sure you can see all the way to the bottom of the pool, even the deep end.


If the water is tinted green or it is cloudy, it may be contaminated with algae.
Also check the drains to ensure that there is no debris around the drain and that the cover is securely fastened and not cracked.Glance around the pool. Make sure that there are no chemicals left by the poolside or out in the open where children can reach them.
 When you go to a public pool, you can test the chemical levels to make sure they are within the recommended range. You can buy pool test strips in general stores, but you can also get free test strips from the Water Quality and Health Council's website.When you check the pool levels, you need to make sure that:


Chlorine is at least 1 ppm
Bromine is at least 3 ppm
The pH levels are between 7.2 and 7.8, If you notice a strong smell of chlorine or other chemicals, the pool may not be as clean as you think it is. The smell often comes from something called chloramines, which develop from a mixture of chlorine, sweat, dead skin cells, and other waste. This water might cause irritation to your eyes and skin., When you are looking for a safe pool, check to see if a lifeguard is on duty. Having a lifeguard will make sure that you and your family is safe. If there isn't a lifeguard on duty, make sure there is a posted sign that says "No Lifeguard on Duty."


You can also look for rescue equipment, such as a pole or ring, readily available for use in case someone is drowning or hurt in the pool.
Also watch the behavior of the lifeguard. Make sure he or she is watching the swimmers and is not distracted by his or her friends, phone, or anything else., Most public pools should have showers. In order to make sure people are clean before they go in, see if there are rules posted that require a short shower before entering the pool. This will help wash off any germs that may be on someone's body.


There should also be rules that forbid people to get in the pool when they are sick or have an open wound.
Also look for rules that prohibit peeing in a pool, about letting a child wear diapers in a pool, and about changing children far away from the pool to avoid contamination.