 When taking care of your skin, it is important to consider what kind of skin type you have so that you can do everything you can to take care of it properly. Different types of skin include: normal, dry, oily, and sensitive. Keep in mind that you can have certain spots of skin that are oilier than others, and that your skin type can change. To figure out what kind of skin you have, consider the main characteristics of each type of skin:


People with normal skin have small pores, few imperfections (like pimples or blotchiness), relatively insensitive skin, and a shining complexion.
People with dry skin have tiny pores that are very hard to see, red patches or blotches on different parts of their skin, a rough complexion, and lines that are more easy to see than on people with other skin types. People with dry skin often deal with flaky or irritated skin.
People with oily skin have very large pores, a shiny complexion, and generally have a few imperfections (like pimples) on the oiliest parts of their skin.
Sensitive skin means that your skin is often irritated, itchy, red, or dry and cracked.;
, Taking care of your skin is a large part of looking great without makeup. Wash your face with a facial wash that is suited for your skin type. In general, try to wash your face once in the morning, and once at night. You should also try to wash your face after you have sweated a lot, such as when you exercise.


Keep in mind that over-washing your face can make your skin dry and irritated.
If you are having trouble finding a face wash that works well for you, set up an appointment with a dermatologist to discuss your skin type and facial washes that will nourish your skin.
 Once you have washed your face, look at your skin for a moment. If parts of your face are looking puffy from sleep, or red, consider rubbing an ice cube on the area. The coldness of the ice cube can help to constrict the blood vessels, making your face less red and puffy.
 Every time you wash your face, follow it up with an application of facial moisturizer. Pick a quality daily moisturizer (preferably one with SPF in it) and apply it every day after washing. Opt for a slightly richer moisturizer to wear at night.


Again, remember to choose a moisturizer that's suited to your skin type. If you have sensitive skin, go for something gentle and unscented. If you are prone to pimples, try something light that specifically says it is not oily.
Drier skin types should go for heavier moisturizers with soothing, nourishing ingredients like shea butter or aloe vera. You can also try using honey as a moisturizer.
 Exfoliating your skin involves scrubbing away dead skin cells so that your face looks fresh and radiant. This is particularly helpful if you are going makeup free, as exfoliating your skin can help to give it a glow that you would otherwise create with bronzer and foundation. Look for facial washes that have exfoliating particles in them.


Alternatively, you can exfoliate your skin using a clean washcloth soaked in warm water. Rub your face gently with the washcloth, in slow circular motions. This option is good for people with sensitive skin.
Never scrub your face too hard with the exfoliator or use it too often. Doing this may dry out your skin and leave it feeling irritated.
 Toner is a skin care product that has often been overlooked, but can do wonders when it comes to improving the appearance of your skin. Toner restores your skin's natural pH balance, which in turn can make your skin look even and radiant. Look for toners that are alcohol-free—these will generally dry your skin out less and can help to even out your skin tone.


Toners that are designed for oily or acne-prone skin can help to remove excess oil and tighten pores, while toners for dry skin can help to soothe irritation and lock in extra moisture.
Most toners can be used everyday, after cleansing and before moisturizing.
 If you would rather not purchase chemical-based facial wash products, you can try natural products that may help to give you face a fresh look. Try using aloe vera soap or neem soap to clean your face naturally.


You can also create a natural face mask by combining turmeric, two teaspoons of lemon juice, honey, milk, tomato puree, and half a cup of besan flour (which is also known as chic pea flour). Apply the mask to your skin, let it sit for a few minutes, and then wash it off.
 Even though this article is a guide on how to look good without make up, chances are you will still want to get dolled up and wear makeup from time to time. This is absolutely fine, but just make sure that when you do wear makeup, you remember to take it off completely before bed. Make-up that is left on overnight can clog the pores and lead to pimples.


Use a specific makeup removing product, like a foaming cleanser or cream to remove the make-up, rather than your regular face wash. Use a special eye makeup remover to clean off mascara, eyeshadow and eyeliner.
 The thought of going barefaced while also having pimples can be a scary one. Because of this, getting rid of the pimples can help to give you the confidence to give up your makeup. The previous steps will all help to clear up pimples and other blemishes you may have. Try to use washes and moisturizers that are targeted at oily or acne-prone skin, and look for other products, like sunblocks, that will not block up your pores (this is referred to as being non comedogenic).


Look for over-the-counter spot creams and gels which contain ingredients such as benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acid, both of which are extremely effective when it comes to getting rid of acne.
If you are having troubles clearing up your skin, seek the help of a dermatologist. Your dermatologist may be able to recommend medical creams and cleansers, or antibiotics that may help to remove any remaining blemishes.
 You should try to wear sunscreen every day, even if it's cold, cloudy or snowy, as the UVA/UVB rays can still damage your skin. Sun damage may cause your skin to age prematurely, and in extreme cases can lead to skin cancer and other skin conditions.


Try to use SPF 30 or higher and, if possible, find a sunscreen which doubles up as a moisturizer. This will make sunscreen application easy to remember as it can become a part of your morning regimen.
 This is a habit many people are guilty of, which can seriously affect the quality of the skin. Picking at spots, rubbing your forehead, or simply resting your chin on your hand are all things that can add oil and bacteria to your skin, causing it to break out and look greasy.


Also keep in mind that rubbing at your face can loosen the skin, causing premature wrinkles.

