 Pick the schools that you might be interested in and write down their information, such as location and tuition. If you think one of the reasons your parents don't want to send you to private school is because it's too expensive, place those lower on the list.


Try making a presentation on power point or on paper so that your parents can see you’re serious about this.;
, Taking on the financial responsibility can help remove some of the doubts your parents might have. Private school is expensive, and your parents may not be willing to pay money for school that isn’t college.


Look into financial aid when browsing schools. Many private schools offer aid for those who qualify for financial need.Get a part time job. Start putting money away early to make sure you can help pay when the time comes.
Let your parents know that aside from tuition, private school is cheap in some ways. For example, many require uniforms, meaning you only need only purchase one wardrobe.
 Share the list with your parents. When it comes to the negatives, have the issues already addressed to set their mind at ease. You want to have done your homework thoroughly to make your case as strong as possible.

Ask your parents for a list of their concerns prior to presenting your case. You can perform the research ahead of time in a way that is tailored to their specific concerns.
 You want to build a foundation of trust for such a big decision. There is nothing worse than your parents going to the school and finding out all of the good things you said about it are a lie.


Send your parents a directory with several of the private schools on your list. They can use the directory to look at the school website and double check the information you presented to them., Talk maturely like an adult and don't lose your cool. Whining will do little to make your case. You need to demonstrate that you are mature enough to handle the responsibility of private school.


If your parents are getting emotional over the discussion, try to change the tone, or leave the discussion for the time being. You want cool heads from both parties., Suggest a deal that is beneficial for everyone involved. For example, if you can prove you have what it takes to get the most out of private school by getting straight A's the rest of the year, then next year you can enroll into a private school of your choice, as long as your parents are okay with the school.


Lay out a plan and timeline for your private school graduation and beyond. This shows a level of maturity that can help sway your parents.
 Graduating from private school requires a greater effort on the part of the student, meaning you will be more likely to give it your all, and benefit from the experience. Private schools often hold their students to a higher standard than public schools.


Private schools also place a greater focus on the relationship between teacher and student by keeping the overall class sizes much smaller than public schools., Featuring your private school on your resume after college can also help establish a line of hard work and education that can entice potential employers. Private school is not the direct gateway into high ranking colleges it once was, but it still offers a good look for your transcript. , Tell your parents that many private schools are also known as “prep” schools, which focus on preparing you for a successful transition into college. Public schools are supposed to prepare you in theory, but often lack specific classes dedicated to making that transition.


Point out to your parents that getting a college degree lets individuals make nearly twice as much as those who just earned a high school diploma, on average., Compare the experience you are currently having at school with the possibilities available at private school. This is particularly effective if you are homeschooled – the differences between the two schooling styles are quite large.


For example, highlight the lack of extracurricular activities available at home, such as sports.
Making new friends is also very difficult when you are homeschooled.
Explain that private schools have much more in the way of resources available to them, meaning you can learn with some of the newest technology and equipment available., Budget cuts are forcing many public schools to cut art education from their curriculums. Some of the classes cut from public schools include those dedicated to drama or theatre, dance, and even music and visual arts.Not only do private schools not have this budgeting issue, and thus feature robust art classes, but many offer majors in art programs., Nearly all private school students get an opportunity to participate in sports. Though public schools offer athletics programs, the large number of students at public schools means that many students will not get an opportunity to play on a team.


Many private schools also make athletics mandatory, in order to help create well rounded students., The close proximity in which students live means they will have plenty of time to get to know one another. The small class sizes associated with private school also allow students to easily network with a number of their classmates and teachers.


Small class sizes also result in an overall greater student engagement, as well as teacher retention.