 Cardio interval exercises are an important part of any fat reduction plan.Even though these exercises will not target your back fat, adding these exercises may help you to feel better about yourself and the way you look.


By definition, cardiovascular interval exercise raises your heart rate, keeping it pumping fast during and after your cardio intervals.
Squeeze two-minute intervals of intense cardio in between sets of strength moves to help you burn calories fast. Try running, jumping jacks, elliptical work, biking around the block, and jump roping.
Try to do at least 30 minutes of cardio most days of the week.
 This exercise works the muscles in your upper back.To do this exercise:


Bend your knees slightly and lower torso until it's parallel to the floor. Engage your core and glutes to help stabilize your position.
Hold a set of light dumbbells in each hand. Bring the weights together down towards the floor with your palms facing each other.
Keeping your arms straight, slowly lift the weights up to shoulder height (parallel to the floor) then lower them back down slowly.
Do two or three sets of 15 repetitions.
 This exercise will also help you to tone the muscles in your upper back.To do this exercise:


Hold a set of dumbbells in each hand. Choose a pair of dumbbells heavy enough to make this challenging for you, but not so heavy that you can't lift them more than a few times. Keep feet hip-width apart with your knees slightly bent. Lower your upper body down at the hips until you're just about parallel to the floor.
Bend forward at the waist and extend your arms towards the floor.
Then, lift your elbows up and back, squeezing your shoulder blades slightly together.
Do two or three sets of 10 repetitions on each side. Gradually work up to three to five sets of 12 reps to really see change.
 Doing pull-ups or assisted pull-ups are another great way to help tone your upper back (and your arms).To do this exercise:


Place both hands on a stable wall bar with palms facing you.
Grip the bar tightly as you slowly lift your body until your chin is up and over the bar. Keep knees slightly bent. Lower back down slowly.
If you cannot do a regular pull-up, try using the assisted pull-up machine at your gym. You'll rest your knees on the bench and slowly pull yourself up.
Pull-ups are difficult, so try to do 10 repetitions, or just as many as you can. Do two or three sets if you can.
 This exercise is great for your entire back and core. The lateral arm raise also works muscles in the upper back area.To do this exercise:


Get into a straight-arm plank. Your hands should be below your shoulders and in straight line. Keep your feet about hip width apart.
Keep your hips and core as still as possible, lift one arm out to the side until it is in line with your shoulder.
Slowly lower your arm back down to your side and repeat with your other arm. You can use very light hand weights to increase the difficulty of this exercise.
Do two to three sets of 10 repetitions on each side.

