 While you may be able to bleach or dye your hair yourself, it can help to have a professional do at least the bleaching part of the process. A professional knows how to bleach your hair with as little damage to it as possible., Bleaching can be hard on hair, so try using a deep conditioner in the two weeks leading up to when you bleach your hair. A nourishing mask can also help. The conditioner will help prevent your hair from looking as damaged once you bleach it., This advice may seem counter-intuitive, but it's a good idea to start with slightly dirty hair when you're bleaching it. The oils actually help protect your hair and scalp a bit, leading to less damage, particularly for your scalp.Try bleaching your hair when it hasn't been washed in two to three days. Also, skip the deep conditioner on your last wash.
 You can find bleach and developer at your local hair supply store or big box store. One recommended brand is L'Oreal Quick Blue. For the developer, if your skin or hair is sensitive, go for something under 30-volume. Otherwise, use 30-volume or 40-volume developer, depending on how dark your hair is (40-volume is for darker hair).You can also buy kits that include both the bleach and the developer.
 The developer essentially activates the bleach for use on your hair, so you'll add it to the bleach. You should use a separate bowl to add the developer in (not the container the bleach came in), unless you have a kit with a bowl. When you mix the developer with the bleach, it should be about pudding consistency.It's best to wear gloves when mixing and applying bleach.
 Use a dye brush to paint the mixture into your hair. Be sure to divide it into sections as you go, so you're getting as close to your scalp as possible all the way through your hair. Check your hair after half an hour to see if it is lighter. Don't leave it on for longer than 45 minutes.Keep in mind that you only want to bleach the parts of your hair you want to dye. If you just want a streak, that's all you need to dye. Make sure to protect the rest of your hair from the bleach with something, such as a towel, foil, or plastic.
Wash out the bleach when you're done. Use both shampoo and conditioner.
 Sometimes, you may need to repeat the bleaching process if the first or second time didn't get your hair light enough. You should wait a week before trying again because the process can be damaging. Your hair needs to be very light to dye it neon.