 Here, starting off with a jump rope will elevate your heart rate, allowing more oxygen to reach your muscles. Rest for 30 seconds after.Feel free to mix and match exercises from different routines on different days. Just make sure you exercise each muscle group three times a week.
Because jumping rope exercises so many muscle groups, you can also choose to do 10 minutes of this exercise all by itself certain days. Just make sure you push yourself to the limit, going as fast and jumping as high as you can., Keep your left leg bent at the knee with your left foot lifted off the ground. Bend your right leg at the knee and carefully squat down. While squatting, hinge your upper body forward at the hips. To complete one repetition, extend your right leg and return to your starting position. Repeat this movement for one minute. Next, switch to stand on your left leg and repeat for another minute. Rest for 30 seconds after you finish exercising your left leg.


This exercise works out your abdominal and leg muscles.
If you find it difficult to keep your leg out of the way, try balancing your foot behind you on a bench or your shin on an exercise ball.To add intensity to this workout, hold a weight in each hand. Keep your arms extended and the weights pointed towards the ground. As you build strength, you can increase the size of your hand weights., For this exercise, you will need a hand weight that is at lead five pounds. Your starting position is a lunge with your right leg bent back and your left leg bent forward. Your left foot should be flat on the ground and your left shin should be parallel with your body. Hold the weight in your right hand. From this position, slowly stand while keep your feet in place. As you stand, bend your right elbow to bring the weight up to your shoulders. Extend your arm and lunge back down to complete one repetition. Do a total of 15 repetitions before switching sides for another 15. Rest for 30 seconds after you're finished.If you have difficulty doing this exercise, try using a lighter weight or just do the lunge portion of this exercise at first. As you build up your strength, you can add the bicep curl back in and increase the weight.
As you find yourself doing this move faster, try to fit more repetitions into the same amount of time.
 For this exercise, you will need two hand weights that are at least five pounds. Begin at a standing starting position with your feet shoulder-width apart. You should also have your arms bent at the elbows, holding the weights in front of you shoulders. Extend your right arm, pointing your hand towards the ground, and gently bring your extended arm backwards. Simultaneously to this motion, bend your left knee and raise your left leg forward until your thigh is parallel to the ground. Return to your starting position. Repeat these moves with your sides reversed to complete one repetition. Do a total of 25 repetitions before resting for 30 seconds.If you have trouble doing the triceps extension and knee raise at the same time, start out by doing one and then the other. You can also practice the combination move without weights to get used to doing these motions together.
If you're struggling with the five pound weights, try a set of smaller ones. Likewise, as you build up arm strength, experiment with larger ones.
As your fitness improves, you will be able to do these moves faster and faster. Try fitting in more repetitions into the same amount of time to make sure your workout grows with you.

