 Often, with the glow-in-the-dark trend, people use a variety of neon colors on their hand for an variegated effect. However, you can just stick to one color. Keep in mind that colors like neon yellow and bright neon pink will likely show up better in a black light.Try using colors that will flow well into each other. For instance, yellow and purple dye next to each other could mix and make an awful color combination. However, yellow and orange or yellow and pink will mix to make better combinations. You can also use shades of the same color, such as light yellow and neon yellow.You can try Kenra Neon Yellow, for instance, or Manic Panic's neon colors.
 It's easy to get hair dye all along your hairline when dyeing. That extra dye on your skin isn't the best look. To avoid it, apply a clear lip balm along the line, making sure you get a solid layer. The lip balm will help protect your skin against the dye., That is, the dye will get everywhere. You should wear gloves. It's best to put on an old robe so you don't have to lift a shirt over your head.Also, lay a towel or even trash bags over areas you want to protect from the color, such as the floor and your sink., Following the directions on the box, apply the dye to your hair. Generally, though, you start with completely dry hair.Apply the dye to your hair with a dye brush in sections, to ensure you are coating your hair evenly.


You can also squirt the dye on from the bottle.
If you want to use more than one color, try starting at the top with one color and fading it into the other color at the tips. If you're using complimentary shades, you can even just splash on colors in places at will, as long as you make sure to cover your hair completely.
Start with the roots. Roots take more time to dye, so if you start there, you're less likely to end up with different shades from taking too long to apply the dye across your head., If you want to create some highlights in your neon hair, pick a shade that's lighter than your main color. Use a toothbrush to (lightly) add the color in strategic places, such as along your part. Don't get too heavy-handed., Like the bleach, you need to let the dye sit so it can soak into your hair. You can generally let it sit for about an hour, though always check the directions on the box. The longer you let the dye sit, the more saturated the color will be.You can put a shower cap on for this part.
 Once time is up, wash out the hair dye. You can just use your normal shampoo to rinse it out. Rinse it until the water runs clear. Once it does, use a bit of vinegar to help set the dye. Simply pour some white vinegar in your hand, and rub it into your hair. Once it's been in there for a couple of minutes, rinse it out., Once you've colored your hair, it's time to test it out. You can either buy a black light bulb to check out your hair at home or take yourself to a club that uses black lights. Get someone to take a picture of your glowing locks!

