 What are the public transportation options you have in your area? Some public transport options include:


Taxi services. Contact local taxi services to inquire about their rates and where the taxi covers.
Bus services. Contact local bus services to inquire about their rates, departure times, and locations.
Discounts may be offered for Visually Impaired people.;
, Depending on where you are located, it would be a good idea to research options that your local transportation offers. If they offer special options for people who are blind or visually impaired, then it would be a good idea to apply for those options.
 Contact an Orientation Mobility instructor to help you learn how to use a cane, and help you get used to walking some of your most taken routes alone. Some places may take some practice getting used to, but you'll get there in the end when you start getting used to the location. If you don't have an Orientation Mobility instructor, you can also visit your local school for the blind and ask if they can provide you with the right one.
 If you're willing to take on the responsibility, invest in a guide dog. They can help you out and can also be a source of company if you are walking somewhere alone. This will require you to train with the dog, understanding the do's and don'ts of guide dogs, and how to look after them.
 Depending on how much sight you have, you may you may need someone supervising you while you cook. If you visit your local school for the blind, they can also train you and help you learn how to cook. They can also tell you about some accessible kitchen technology that will be a big help for you when you are cooking at home.
 If you are learning a new meal, get someone to help you the first time you do it, and then supervise you other times you cook this meal.
, Work your way through the room, back and forth, until the area is clean.


You can go through the area again if you want to be extra sure it's clean. It never hurts to double check so you can make sure you didn't miss anything.
You may have a daily living skills trainer at your local institute who may offer you help with cleaning. If your local school for the blind offers you some daily living skills classes or independent living classes, it would be a great opportunity to learn new skills or to improve.
 There are talking watches and clocks that have features such as alarm clocks, date/time, and timers. You can also use your phone to keep track of time depending on the location you are in. If the place you're at allows you to, you can have your voiceover or Google Talkback let you know what time it is or when your alarm is going off. You can also find talking calculators that offer you the same features.
 See if they provide equipment, and see what they have to offer.
 If you are a frequent radio listener, the hosts are very up to date on giving you the time, date and also useful facts such as weather and events in your area.
 Listen for services which give everyday information, such as "Tell me".
 If you have limited sight, telephone banking may work best. With these services, you may be able to find out recent transactions, or transfer money to another account.
 Be sure you organize it in a way that you feel you will be able to find things easily. One way you can organize your wallet is to fold your dollar bills based on the amount. If you do that, be sure to fold them differently so that you know how much it is.


Try organizing cards in order from most to least important, and put coins and notes in separate compartments.
Put receipts in a separate location if possible. Folding bills can help, especially if you develop your own system. Not only you'll have a structured way to review money, but this also helps sometimes against lies.
 From there, you can ask for assistance or a guide.
 For example, the product, brand and type.
 Ask your guide for prices and critical details about items that have been given to you.

