 Soak a clean cotton towel in hot water. Wring it out to remove the water and wipe the moistened towel over your skin. Then, splash your face with lukewarm water to help rinse off any dirt.The heat from the towel can help loosen any dirt that's in your pores, making it easier to rinse out.;
, While your skin is still wet, rub a dime-sized amount of cleanser into your skin. Gently massage the cleanser into your skin until it foams up. This helps to immediately remove the dirt and oil from your skin.








Choose a cleanser that's specifically formulated for oily skin types.
 Take a fresh cotton towel and wipe off the cleanser. This quickly removes the foam. You should then rinse your skin off using lukewarm water. Make sure to completely remove all of the cleanser along with the dirt and oil from your skin. Gently pat your skin dry once your skin is clean.








Be gentle when using the towel to remove the cleanser. Pulling or rubbing on your skin can actually cause inflammation and damage., Squeeze a pea-sized amount of face polish onto your fingers and rub them together. Place your fingers on your skin and gently rub the polish into your skin using a circular motion. If you're exfoliating your face, the process should take a minute or two. Use another clean hot towel to carefully wipe away the face polish.








Exfoliating can help to remove the oil that's deep in your pores.
Take care not to exfoliate your skin too often or it can become red and tender. You should probably exfoliate about once or twice a week., Take a small spray bottle (around 4 to 6 ounces) and fill it with filtered water. Add four drops of tea tree essential oil and screw on the spray nozzle. Shake the bottle till the oil is mixed in. Spray the diluted essential oil all over your skin. Tea tree can make your skin appear less shiny or oily.








Let your skin air dry or gently pat the diluted oil spray into your skin.
 Squeeze a small amount of moisturizer onto your fingertips. Dab the moisturizer all over your skin and then rub it in using your fingertips. Avoid pulling down on your skin when you spread the moisturizer. Instead, use your fingertips to swipe up.








Many dermatologists recommend choosing a water-based moisturizer if you have oily skin. You should also find one that's non-comedogenic so it won't clog your skin's pores.