 Recruiting is a process that takes years and college coaches will often take a look at even freshman athletes. During your first year of high school, talk with your guidance counselor about taking courses that will satisfy the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) core course requirements. Begin to watch your GPA. And, play the best that you can every game while bonding with your coach., To gain NCAA eligibility, you’ll need to complete a set of core courses. For Division I athletes this includes four years of English, three years of Mathematics, two years of Natural Sciences, and other classes as well. Check the NCAA website for your specific requirements and discuss these with your high school guidance counselor.The NCAA website also contains a handy pdf worksheet that allows you to track your academic progress on your own. You can also find out more information about how transfer credits figure in to eligibility.
 Colleges are looking for athletes, but also students who can succeed academically and graduate. The GPA requirements for NCAA eligibility are mapped alongside your test scores. So, for example, if your GPA isn’t as good you will need strong ACT or SAT test scores. In contrast, a high GPA can balance out a low test score.As an example, a high school athlete looking to land a Division I football scholarship will need a minimum 2.3 GPA to meet minimum eligibility requirements.
Keeping a strong GPA can also help you to land a combined athletic/academic scholarship package. A little known truth is that many athletes, especially at smaller schools, survive off of mixed scholarships., As mentioned before, your test scores will be placed on a sliding scale alongside your GPA. Try to study for these tests before you take them. You can also take them as many times as you wish in order to get a higher score. But, be aware that you will pay a fee to test each time and to transfer your scores to the NCAA.For example, a football player with a 3.55 GPA, who is looking to land at a Division I school, will need a minimum 400 SAT or 37 ACT score for eligibility ., At some point in your sophomore year, go to the online NCAA Eligibility Center (located on the main NCAA website) and complete your college eligibility application. Gather all of your information beforehand as you will need to provide extensive data regarding your personal life, educational life, and sport participation history. You will also need to pay an application fee.After you’ve completed your application you can check your status online. Over 90 percent of applicants are determined to be eligible, so your odds are generally good if you’ve followed the basic NCAA rules.
Some of the choices that can render an athlete ineligible are the following: playing football in a professional league; accepting prize money; getting agent representation; signing a professional contact., Be aware that the NCAA can also suspend an eligible athlete with due cause. Consult the NCAA’s Guide for the College-Bound Student-Athlete, available in both printed and online versions, for information on recruiting restrictions. You’ll also want to watch out for ‘moral violations,’ such as drug or alcohol-related arrests.Even your campus visits will be subject to NCAA regulation. You must be certified as eligible prior to visiting and the college can only pay for a handful of your expenses, such as transportation.For example, you could be considered guilty of a moral violation if you are caught and found guilty of drinking underage. The same goes with any drug-related offenses.
 Once you’ve gotten that golden ticket, your job is not done. You’ll need to work hard in college in order to keep the funds coming in. Some football programs will offer one-year scholarships while others will grant a few multi-year ones as well. Ask lots of questions before signing and closely adhere to the scholarship’s rules while enrolled.Ask college officials about how you can use your scholarship monies. Are you able to buy books with these funds? Can it go toward the cost of renting an apartment or just a dorm? Also, find out what happens if you are injured or choose to transfer schools. Does the money disappear or will it continue?