 Also called flushing, this method remains one of the easiest, cheapest, and most successful ways to get a false negative on a pee test. Pee tests do not measure the amount of drugs in urine; they measure the amount of metabolites in the urine. Drugs are ingested and then come out of the system as metabolites.Drinking more water will help your body produce metabolites that aren't tainted by drugs.


Urinalysis checks for 31 different metabolites caused by marijuana, 4 caused by cocaine, 3 caused by opiates, 1 caused by Phencyclidine, and 5 caused by amphetamines.
Be careful not to over-hydrate. Although rare, it is possible to drink too much water and damage your internal organs, enough so to become fatal.This is called water intoxication.;
, These can also be found in B-Complex multivitamins, and turn the color of your urine yellow. Take about 50 to 100 milligrams.
 It may sound weird to have Midol if you're a dude, but don't worry, you'll thank Midol after your drug test comes back negative.
 How you pee into the urinalysis cup matters. Try peeing a little bit into the toilet, and then direct your stream into the cup when you're nearing the end of your stream. Pee near the end of the stream is supposed to contain fewer metabolites than pee at the beginning.


Try also to pee several times in the morning before taking the drug test. Your pee will contain more metabolites if you haven't already gone to the bathroom before you take the test. Be smart and chug some water first thing when you wake up the day of the test.
 One study suggested that taking 4 aspirin 4 to 6 hours before the screening can mess with the test, EMIT.Don't worry, 4 aspirin in a single serving will leave you fine, albeit a little light-headed.
 There's no evidence that these products work. On top of this, they're expensive, and many of the ingredients are simple diuretics, which you can purchase or make for far less cash. It's pretty safe also to assume that drug testing companies are trying just as fast to come up with ways to detect these substances as manufacturers are coming up with ways to invent them. If you can, stay away.

