 A strong and sultry one that shouldn't be messed with? A sweet one? This will help you decide what make-up and clothing you would like to wear.;
, Are you in shape? If not, you may want to consider going to the gym since vampires are idealistic creatures as far as appearance goes. They are seen as an object of attraction to all people, and the vast majority of the population likes toned, healthy bodies. It's also very beneficial for your health and will make you look better and more eye-catching in clothes.
 You don't have to be pale to look like a vampire, but you do need to have nice skin. Put on some sunscreen before you go out, it'll also help prevent skin cancer (even dark skinned people are at risk). To remain blemish free, you may want to invest in a face mask, cleanser, and blemish stick. All three may seem frivolous, but your skin will thank you and it will feel fantastic. Try for Tea Tree Oil at The Body Shop. They don't test on animals, and their products work wonders. Wash your face once in the morning, once at night.
 People believe that hair is your crowning glory. What does your hair say about you? Take time, and assess this in the mirror. Blondes should soak their hair in lemon juice 2-4 times every month. If you are not blonde, you should try mixing an egg with some mayonnaise and using it as a shampoo once every week or once every other week to make it shiny and healthy. If you are going to dye your hair, get it done by a professional. They will not let your hair get unhealthy like some box dyes do. To look like a vampire, you do not need jet black hair.
 Super straight hair or romantic waves are very vampiric. So, straighten your hair, use a curling iron, use curlers, or braid your hair when it's wet. Ponytails make you seem lazy; wear your hair up fancily, or let it spill over your shoulders. Garnier's Surf hair texturizing spray is a good alternative to hairspray. It smells allot better, doesn't harm the environment, and holds your hair in place without it feeling plastered. There is no stereotypical vampire haircut. Long, short, or medium hair can all work with these styles. Just make sure your hairstyle matches your face and personality.
 Keep up with eyebrow and hair maintenance. Shave regularly, and get your hair cut or trimmed as soon as it becomes too long or get split ends.
 You do not need extremely dark clothing. A cute leather jacket in a deep brown or black is always classy looking and very attractive. It's also common vampire wear. Nothing too short, most vampires are not from this era of micro minis .



Figure fitting clothes. This means the following: If you have good toes, wear peep toe shoes and polish your nails.
 You do not need to wear a lot of crosses or layer on chains. If that's how people are used to seeing you, then go for it. If you like that look, then transform yourself a little at a time. Remember that vampires are classy, so buy tasteful pieces. Reds, blacks, and silver are very nice. Gold can work, but not as well as those other colors. Do not layer on accessories.
 A light blush on the cheeks is great for a "just fed" look. It also brings some color to your face. Go for more natural colors. Violet looks good on some people, so try that. Mascara really can bring your eyes out. Try putting it just on the top lashes. Red lipstick is a must. Buy a red that suits you. Not all reds are created equal, so beware. Lip gloss is recommended for people with dry lips.
 If you are naturally a bubbly, happy, hyper person, then that's fine and you shouldn't change your personality. By wearing a mysterious, sexy look on your face, you will look much more like a vampire.

