 Recall past interviews and questions you were asked during them. Expect similar if not the same exact questions to be put to you now. Consider the exact position you’re applying for now and how that may effect the line of questioning. Prepare answers and talking points to address the following topics:How your previous experience (whether it be other jobs, education, or volunteer programs) may have prepared you for this specific job.
What skills you have in general, but more specifically those that are strongest and those that are most relevant to the job at hand.
Instances where you’ve solved problems in the past that demonstrate your ability to succeed under stress.;
, Rehearse your talking points. Ask friend or family to role-play with you. Record yourself and play it back to identify any points that aren’t communicated clearly. If you find yourself forgetting key points, write a cheat sheet to study right up to the point you’re called in for your interview., Once the interview begins, frame an introduction that instantly communicates exactly what you want your future employers to know about you right from the get-go. Set yourself apart from other candidates by painting a distinct picture of yourself in just a few words. When asked to “tell us about yourself,” reply with a brief description loaded with relevant, impressive facts. For example:“I graduated fourth in my class, with honors, from Such-and-Such University.”
“I was a manager at Such-and-Such Company for x-number of years, where I was responsible for a staff of x-amount of people.”
“I’m a self-motivated freelance writer with credits in these publications . . .”
“I’m the president of my student body, for which I’ve organized these events and fundraisers . . .”

, If possible, use examples of work-related feats you’ve pulled off that speak directly to the position you’re applying for. Otherwise, talk about achievements that you’re genuinely proud of from other areas of your life. Share the skills that you excel at, as well as the pride you take in your performance.For instance:“I’m quick to identify areas that need improvement. At my former job, I implemented a new system for work-flow that increased our output despite a shrinking workforce and increasing workloads.”
“I’m a great multi-tasker. I went back to school and graduated at the top of my class while working full-time and raising a child as a single parent at the same time.”
“I take leadership roles very seriously. I’ve been the captain of my sports team for the last two years as well as the president of these school clubs.”

, Consider the specific position you’re applying for. Tell the interviewer exactly what experience you hope to get out of it beyond a simple paycheck. If you’re truly passionate about the work you’ll be doing, share that passion. Even if you’re not passionate about it, tell them what you aim to achieve for your own personal satisfaction. Let them know why this job is so important to you, like:“I care very deeply about the environment. Being able to participate in this outreach program and educate as many other people as possible about the dangers we face is extremely important to me.”
“I’m a voracious reader. I’m really excited about working in a bookstore, sharing recommendations with customers and colleagues, and expanding my own horizons.”
“I believe very strongly in giving back to the community, and although I wouldn’t be saving lives like a doctor or nurse, being able to help this hospital run as efficiently as possible in the kitchen would still be very fulfilling to me.”

