 Ask them if you should be concerned about food that is even prepared in a facility that also produces wheat (even if the food has no gluten ingredients). Some people are not this sensitive, while others with celiac should stay away from products that could be even slightly contaminated.
 You might be surprised how much gluten free food you already have! Donate unopened glutenous items to local shelters.
 There is very little chance of finding any gluten in this section! Load up on veggies for salads and stir fries that you can be sure are GF.
 Some gluten indicators are obvious, like "Wheat" or "Barley", but ingredients like "Malt" (derived from barley), "Stabilizers", and "Natural Flavors" are questionable and should be avoided. Maltodextrin is usually gluten free in products made in the US.
 Malt vinegar contains gluten and is a common flavoring. Learn to prepare your own sauces and dressings from scratch (using oils and non malted vinegars).
 You may determine that the "pepper" flavor of a cracker is safe for you, but the BBQ flavor from the same manufacturer is not.
 Bob's Red Mill has a whole line dedicated to GF grains and flours that you will find in most natural food stores.
 Oats themselves are a gluten-free grain, but they are often grown near to wheat and may be processed on the same machines as wheat, so it's wise to avoid products with oats in them. You can find gluten free oats at natural grocers, but they are much more expensive.


After researching other gluten free grains and products, explore international grocery stores for more variety in produce as well as starches like rice and rice noodles.
 Soy sauce actually contains wheat, but Tamari is pure soy sauce and has no wheat. You can also find this at international supermarkets.
 There are several very good brands of gluten free pasta, namely, Tinkyada which has good texture and is only made from brown rice. This product is now in many mainstream grocery stores.
 "Gluten Free" is becoming a more common advertising element on food products, which is great! These products are often pricey, but can be nice treat.
 Some grocery stores are now grouping gluten free items in one section. Ask a grocery staff person if they have set up a gluten free area.

