 This is a great idea to do, because you will be tired at night and get to sleep easier. Remember to wear comfy Pajamas.;
, You should pick something that you don't usually have every day.
 Make sure you brush your teeth well and don't wear uncomfortable clothing. It will take the fun out of the day.
, You can print off a few colouring sheets from the internet, make paper chains (in Christmas colours of course) and maybe make an ornament to hang on your Christmas tree.
 Usually people bake sweets on Christmas eve, and they would probably love to have someone to help them bake. It is always busy around Christmas and baking is actually fun.
 You can read them to younger siblings, cousins, or just to yourself. One great Christmas book is "Chicken Soup For The Soul Christmas Treasury" It has a lot of great stories in it to help you get into the Christmas spirit.
 Going to church will help you remember the real reason for Christmas and you will get to spend more time with your family. If you don't go, stay home and read more books about Christmas or get in a hot bath. It will help you relax in the middle of all the excitement.
 This will be a good time to just sit and think about memories from all of your other Christmases!

, Make sure it is one that everyone in the family wants to watch. If it's not, they won't enjoy it.
 Make sure you are wearing Santa hats (or elf hats) and look festive and happy. You can also take a picture of you and your pet(s) if you have one and dress them up in Santa suits (Mrs. Clause suit for girl pets) or just a dress that looks like a Christmas dress! You can only do this for animals like dogs and cats. Also, take some selfies!

, Set out a lunch for Santa (even if you don't believe in him) and sprinkle reindeer dust out on your lawn! If you have younger siblings, you can help them do it.
 So just go to your room and hop into bed and try to get a good nights sleep. It will be harder than you think because you will be excited for tomorrow but you should try as hard as you can to fall asleep just in case someone is going to video tape you or take pictures of you tomorrow. You don't want to have big black circles under your eyes!

