 Being reliable will help build trust and show that you are serious about your job. This begins the day you step foot in your office. Your boss will notice that you are consistent and will respect your work ethic. As a reliable worker you should:Be early for work and meetings
Complete your projects and assignments early if possible.
Never turn anything in late
Never show up late for anything
Be careful what you promise and always deliver on what you promise.
 Your actions will impress your boss more than anything you will ever say. If you see something that needs to be done, go ahead and do it. This will show your boss that you are a self-starter.Be willing to do tasks that your coworkers may have overlooked or are unwilling to do. For example, organizing electronic or paper files is not exciting work, but it is valuable and helpful to your workplace.
Listen to your boss and coworkers for hints about things that need to be done. You may overhear conversations about projects that need extra support.
 If you make a mistake, take responsibility for your part. Apologize for what happened and take steps to make sure you do not make the same mistake. Your willingness to apologize and take action will be appreciated.If someone else was involved in the incident, do not blame them or mention their name.
Accept any consequences for your mistake with a good attitude.
Sit and think about what you could have done differently and exactly where you went wrong. It may help to write down your thoughts and a plan of action.
 Even if you feel nervous or intimidated, it is important that you come across as confident and capable. If you doubt yourself, your boss will doubt you as well. Make eye contact, stand up straight, and smile when you are talking to others.Avoid gestures that make you appear nervous such as bouncing your leg up and down, twiddling your thumbs, or playing with your hair or accessories.Do not cross your arms or hide them behind your back either. This makes you appear closed off.

