 If you are cooking any parts of a chicken from frozen, there is an increased risk for foodborne illness. To kill any pathogens in the chicken, be sure to cook the meat to an internal temperature of at least 165°F (74°C). Always prepare from frozen chicken in the oven or on the stovetop and, as a rule of thumb, cook it about 50 percent longer than you would thawed meat.For example, it would take about two hours to roast a thawed 5-pound (2.25 kg) roasting hen at 350°F (177°C). If frozen, a similarly sized chicken would take about three hours to cook thoroughly at the same temperature.
Check the internal temperature of the meat by inserting a meat thermometer into thickest part of the breast and the innermost part of the thigh and wing. If the thermometer does not ready 165°F (74°C), continue cooking the bird.
Do not try to cook the frozen chicken in a slow cooker. The appliance will not get hot enough to kill the pathogens in the meat. It also leaves the meat sitting for too long at unsafe temperatures.;
, Turn on your oven and heat it to 350ºF (177ºC). While your oven warms up, put the frozen chicken breast-side-up in a large roasting pan. This will ensure that the densest meat of the bird gets thoroughly cooked.Depending on the size of the chicken, you may also be able to use a Dutch oven instead of a roasting pan.
 If the bird is not frozen closed, try to remove the giblets from inside of the chicken. Once you remove the giblets, stuff the bird with your favorite ingredients, such as lemon, onion, rosemary, and thyme. Then rub the exterior of the chicken with olive oil and sprinkle it with salt and pepper.If you cannot access the inside of the bird, wait until it has cooked for about 45 minutes to remove the giblets. Use tongs and an oven mitt to remove the giblets and insert any stuffings that you want.
 Place the seasoned chicken in the oven uncovered and roast for about 90 minutes. Then increase the temperature of the oven to 450ºF (232ºC) and cook the chicken for another 15 to 30 minutes. This will help brown the skin. Remove the pan from the oven and serve once a meat thermometer placed into various parts of the chicken reads 165°F (74°C). These cooking times are based on a 4-pound (1.8 kg) chicken. Be sure to adjust the roasting time based on the weight of your chicken.
Let the chicken rest for 10 to 15 minutes to cool before carving.
If there is any pink or red meat, place the whole bird or uncooked pieces back in the oven until they turn white and there is no red in the juices.

