 One of the most basic things you can do when you're with a person is to be there with them. It sounds easy, but when's the last time you were with someone and you felt like they were 100% with you? Not on their phone, not their eyes darting around people watching, not flipping through the channels; just there with you. If you can be that person, not only will they appreciate you more, but you'll feel more connected to them, too.


Whether it's been arranged for you, it's just something that you want to work out, or you're trying to turn over a new I-can-do-healthy-relationships leaf, sometimes love needs a large amount of work, and even from the get-go. While you can't really force love, you can stoke its fire and help it grow, if the attraction and the willingness is there. Being present with the person is the first step to doing just that.
 We all know those people that keep to themselves and never open up. Why do they do that? Well, sometimes it's to avoid attachment. The more you let someone in, the harder it is to get them out, you know? If you want your love to grow, you have to be willing to make yourself vulnerable. Share about yourself and you may find that you feel an intrinsic connection to them.You can start out small, by simply sharing stories of your past. Then you can start onto things you like and dislike, and how people and things make you feel. Don't delve into your deepest, darkest fears just yet; you can do that when you're ready.
 The more you open yourself up to this person, the more they'll likely open up to you in turn. You'll start to see them for the unique human they are, and that can be a fascinating, eye-opening experience. They'll become multi-dimensional, quirky, and interesting. Quite a few emotions can ride on the tails of dynamism and time.


Take a moment to think about how they exist outside of your own imagination. How cool is it that they can see you? That they can surprise you? That they are thinking thoughts right this very moment that you'll never be privy to? If you can see them as a remarkable human being, love could be the next logical step.
 Sometimes the way we feel has very little to do with the other person. We take circumstances and events and interpret them how we see them and we can't seem to help but close our mind to other possibilities. So the next time you're thinking about this person, could you be holding yourself back?


Take this for example: let's say your husband comes home after work and immediately turns on the television. You're upset because you feel unwanted and ignored. While you definitely have the right to your feelings, could you also give a little, admitting that this is his "me-time" and that he doesn't mean it personally? Opening your mind to the other side of the story will make it easier for the love to flow.
 Sometimes it has nothing to do with circumstance either and all to do with what's in our heads. Is it possible you're not ready for a relationship? That you haven't mastered self-love yet, much less the ability to love someone else? Take a look into yourself and search for any negative emotions that could be holding you back. Grab hold of these and your love life could be a different story.It's easy to walk into a relationship full of fear and defensiveness and have it go nowhere. We're afraid to open ourselves up and allow ourselves to be loved for fear that it may not happen just when we need it most. In order for love to bloom, these fears have to be abandoned. It's not easy, but it is possible with self-awareness and the desire to improve.

