 Forget about pants, go with a skirt. If your school has a uniform skirt: use that, but if not, use a high wasted skirt preferably pleated or gathered in navy or black. Plaid skirts can also work to.;
, A plain white long sleeved shirt will always work, but you can also try ruffle fronted blouses or shirts with a lacy collar. Have your top tucked into your skirt for that pristine refined look.
 Stockings suit the look the best but they can be quite uncomfortable in the warmer months. In warmer months instead of tights or stockings wear short socks with heels or none at all with flats. In the colder months, wear colourful stockings especially if the rest of your outfit is all in navy and black. Popular colours of stockings in gossip girl are blue, red, white, navy and black. Thigh-high socks are also essential especially if you want more of a 'Serena' look. Also try out knee high argyle socks.
 If your uniform requires black lace up shoes, so be it. But if they require just black go for more impractical school shoes like ballet flats, kitten heels or ankle boots. If your school has no requirement for shoes at all, suitable shoes would be ballet flats in black, grey, navy or red and peep toe heels in bright pops of colour or a plain navy or black. Boots in the winter also work.
 This could be a classic style sweater over your shirt or a piped blazer with a crest. If you have a uniform usually you would be wearing your school blazer so stick with that. For a more casual or 'Serena' look wear a vest jacket. Vest jackets look good in a simple cloth, knit or even a fur trim. Be careful with the fur trim as you don't want to look tacky but some of the girls seem to pull it off.
 A belt in red, bright blue, glossy black or even green and yellow around the top of your skirt makes the outfit look great. The thicker the belt the better. Look out for belts with little bows on them or a distinct buckle.
 All the girls in gossip girl have some form of a necktie. Wear this in a coordinating colour to your skirt.
 Wear multiple necklaces. For example one or two simple silver chains with a pendant and a long strand of pearls or maybe a pearl choker with a long gold chain with a flower on the end. Stick to either a silver or gold scheme because mixing both can be risky. Wear pearl bracelets and whatever signature pieces you want to add. Have a regular ring you wear everyday. Plain diamond-style studs or pearl drop earrings are the way to go.
 A headband is a must. Coordinate it with your outfit if possible. White, Red, Navy, Yellow, Pink, Green, Purple and more all look good. For a distinct 'Blair' look wear a headband with a bow on it and try different styles etc pearls, buckles, plaid.
 A nice top handled bag that you can carry on your arm completes the look. The bigger the better. Navy, Black, Grey, Red, Beige and bolder colours like purple, yellow and green are all suitable.
 Waistcoats, peacoats, trench coats you see it all. Opt for nice coats preferably which have a pleated back and that are belted in classic colours but also bright colours such as purple and blue.

