


Figure out what size iPad you want. The earlier versions of the iPad are thicker and heavier than the new iPad, so, if you’re looking for something lighter, the iPad Air might be a better fit for you. If you need a powerful iPad for professional stuff, the iPad pro 12.9" or 9.7" is the perfect one for you. If you don’t need a large screen and you need an iPad for daily usage, you might opt for the iPad Mini, which is thinner and smaller than a full-sized iPad. Think about how much storage you need. If you have a lot of music, photos and video, you’ll want more storage. Earlier models of the iPad that were released in 2010 only offer up to 64GB of storage, whereas the newer iPad Air models offer up to 128GB and the new iPad pro offer up to 256GB. (“GB” means gigabytes.)Decide whether or not you need an iPad that offers mobile capabilities. All iPads come with Wifi, but if you’d like to use the iPad as a phone or even use a hotspot, getting a 3G or 4G iPad would be wise.
Figure out if you need an iPad with retina display. If you really like to play games on your iPad or watch a lot of movies, then getting an iPad with retina display will improve your viewing experience. The older versions of the iPad may not offer retina display, so remember that when selecting a model.
Keep in mind that older iPads don't always work with every network. Technically, all iPads should be able to connect to the network of your choosing, but many people have complained that the older versions don't always work like they’re supposed to. So remember that when deciding if you want to get one of the older models or generations.;
, The generation and model of iPad you choose will determine what colors are offered to you. Earlier iPads come in black and white, while newer versions come in silver, space gray, black and gold.


Also consider whether or not you’d like to have the iPad engraved. When you purchase a new iPad from Apple, you can get words engraved into the back of the device for free.
Since you’ll be purchasing the iPad used, a free engraving probably won’t be offered with your purchase. However, you can contact the seller and ask if they would do an engraving for a low cost.
 New items from Apple are usually on the pricey side — with new iPads usually starting at around $499. Price alone could be a motivator to go used and get an iPad for a half or quarter of the price. Granted, most used Apple items don’t come with the accessories that new iPads do (i.e. lighting power cords for charging), so keep in mind that you may be purchasing accessories elsewhere.
 The main difference between a refurbished iPad and a used iPad is that a refurbished one receives new glass, a brand new battery and a new outer shell. A used iPad is exactly as it was when it was purchased, and usually does not have a warranty. If you buy the refurbished iPad from Apple (as opposed to another seller) you can also get a one-year warranty and choose to purchase Applecare, just like you would for a brand new iPad.
If you buy an iPad that’s been refurbished by another seller or company, be wary of whether or not it was refurbished properly. Apple is known for taking good care of their products, but other sellers who tamper with the iPad may not deliver the same results.
 Sites like Amazon, Cell Phone City and Gazelle usually offer pretty good deals on used or refurbished iPads. There isn't a chance to haggle, but there may be no need if the price is right.


Fixed price websites often offer accessories with the iPad to sweeten the deal, when auction sites may not. So you may be getting more bang for your buck if you opt for a site like Amazon.
 The Apple Store offers refurbished and used iPads for customers on their website, . Apple has rave reviews about how well their refurbished and used iPads work, but they can be a little more expensive than if you bought from another seller.


If you buy through Apple and end up spending a little more money than you would have if you bought from another seller, you'll still be paying less than you would for a brand new iPad — and you'll be paying for quality.
 Since bidders are the ones who set the price for the iPad, this could give you the opportunity to purchase it for a great deal. The fewer people who bid on the iPad, the more likely you are to buy the iPad for less money. If you're really strapped for cash, this could be the best option.
 Whether you’re picking up a used iPad from someone on Craig's List or if you’re getting one at Best Buy, in-person purchases allow you to make sure the iPad is in good condition. Sometimes, you may even be able to haggle down the price if the seller is right in front of you and knows you're looking to buy.
 This may be difficult to do if you’re buying online; if the seller says that it’s scratch free or has hardly been used, you basically have to take their word for it. It’s good to make sure the seller has a refund policy, so that when the iPad comes in the mail and it’s not what you expected, you can send it back. But if you’re buying the iPad in a store, this is the perfect time to test out its functions and examine its body to make sure it’s worth your money.


When checking the body of the iPad, examine the screen for dead pixels, cracks, water damage, dents, scratches or any other signs of wear and tear.



Check to make sure that the iPad turns on and off by pressing and holding down the Sleep/Wake button on the top or side of the iPad. The screen should go dark and a button should pop up and say "Slide to Power Off." Slide it to the right to do so. To turn it back on, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button again.Check to make sure the iPad connects to Wifi. Go into the Settings application, select Wifi and then turn Wifi on. If the iPad connects to the closest available network, then the Wifi capabilities work.
 Be wary of sellers who may be trying to scam you into purchasing a stolen iPad. To figure out whether or not the iPad was stolen, check out the the serial number of the device in the Apple support website at https://checkcoverage.apple.com, and check to make sure the Find My iPhone Activation Lock is turned off and the device is ready for you to use.


You can check the Activation Lock status on Apple's website here.
After going to the website, enter your device's IMEI identification number or its hardware serial number, and the page will say whether the device is locked or not. This will show that the iPad you’re buying has been cleared of all the previous users’ past data and that it truly belongs to you.
 Charger cords can be damaged or not work properly, so plug the iPad into its charger to make sure that it works.


The older versions of the iPad have a 30 pin connector, while the new iPads have a lightning cord. Do some research online for your specific iPad to make sure you're getting the right charger accessories with your purchase. If a case was offered with the iPad, check it for cracks.

