 The first thing you’re going to need is an idea, but don’t panic! Experts have narrowed down the success of a text post into three genres: Comedy, Debatable issues and Anecdotes. These all have one thing in common, something that is a must for success: they all get a reaction from their audience. Whether the post is funny, serious, or just relatable, good text posts make the audience feel something. Posts frequently include both funny and relatable concepts in the same text, often playing with stereotypes.


Though Tumblr challenge stereotypes, the users seem to pigeonhole themselves as lazy, unemployed students, which is often untrue. It’s less of an insult and more of an inside joke as most users are generally procrastinators. This means that jokes about school, college, or homework/coursework almost always go down well.
Studies have shown that the majority of Tumblr users are 16-24 year old women, so if you’re planning anything sexist you better rethink that quickly. Not only will you get hundreds of feminists putting you down, as well as more hate mail than you can shake a tail at, but you’ll lose all the followers that you've worked so hard for. It’s not just women who get annoyed at these sexists slurs, but men too. A lot of people on Tumblr are accepting and understanding, but unfortunately a few ‘haters’ bring the reputation of the site down.;
, When it comes to expletives and taboo language, or swear words for all of us non-linguists, it really depends on the context. If you’re directing your ‘hate’ at someone specific that you don’t like, then people may become uncomfortable, unless, of course, it’s something or someone the site collectively hates, like Mitt Romney or the Westboro Baptist church- in which case, swear away!


In some contexts expletives can be seen as humorous, but since it’s so touch and go with understanding when it’s appropriate, it’s best to leave it out for now. Once you’ve been on Tumblr for a while, you may start to notice and pick up your own understanding of appropriate usage and will be able to use this to your advantage. Exceptions to the swearing rule are attractive people and really good food, or other satisfying products.
 For those who don’t study English Language, this is the concept of the audience understanding what you’re alluding to based on past experience and knowledge. In layman’s terms, it's getting an inside joke. For example, if you were to talk to a friend about someone you both disliked, you could say, “Oh, it’s her again, the annoying one,” and you’d both understand who you were referring to.
Another example can be seen in most films, where someone alludes to “That thing we have to do. You know, the thing,” followed by copious amounts of winking. As the audience, you are aware that there isn’t something pressing to do, but that the people involved are attempting to escape the situation.
Once you understand the term, you can use Shared Pragmatic Knowledge in your Tumblr Text Post to appeal to a specific audience, say, fans of a certain film or television show.
 Tumblr is different to other social media, so don’t expect to get notes on a few sentences updating the world that you just had a great mocha in Starbucks. Yes, Tumblr is about blogging. No; blogging isn’t a Facebook status. If you want to tell the world about your life, you have to have relatable issues or a really interesting life.


So if you’ve discovered that you’re Bigender, then making a blog about it and subsequent ventures into the other side of your life is perfect. When it comes to the simpler things, say, your friend started talking about you behind your back, then that’s ‘bloggable’ too. People find these things relatable, though you’ll probably have an audience of 12-15 year olds.
If you want your audience to be more mature, you should blog about things relatable to the age of your target audience. If you really want to tell people about little things, like your great mocha or the boy with the great butt in your class, then you should turn it into a somewhat detailed anecdote. Bloggers enjoy detail, so be detailed. Write your experiences as if you were John Green; Tumblr loves John Green.
 You don’t have to be a Grammar Nazi or a qualified linguist to blog. One thing that’s very prevalent about Tumblr is that not everyone cares about presentation. You’ll find that in a lot of text posts, Tumblr users leave out capital letters and punctuation. Good grammar isn’t a bad thing, but it flows an awful lot better when your brain doesn’t have to process the small stuff. The only thing you’ll have to be a linguist for, or at least have a good grasp of the English language for, are the debates.
 Studies show that posts are less successful when users add comments like ‘You can’t not reblog’ or ‘love this!!1! xD’. If you're planning to comment on a post, you should be aware of two guaranteed observations: Tumblr loves jokes, so adding a funny line is almost always a great way to earn notes and subsequently earn followers. The other thing you need to successfully add a comment to a post is an opinion. It sounds pretty simple, but too often you see users typing unneeded things that, to be honest, put people off reblogging. So, whether you’re adding a comment about society being ruled by cissexual white males or against reverse racism, make sure you know what you’re talking about. If you haven’t done your research, then you’ll probably be argued against to the point where you question everything that you’ve ever said.
 A.K.A, type ‘You’. When you type in the second person, it’s like you’re talking directly to whoever is reading what you’ve typed. Which is exactly what’s happening now; You’re reading this as if I’m speaking to you. It makes you feel included, doesn’t it? Inclusion and relation is the point I’m getting at. The audience will be more likely to give you notes if the feel like they’re being included, or if they feel that they can relate to your story. Tumblr users are quite introverted, so a text post that uses the second person is like having a friend tell you an anecdote about the weekend, however briefly. This is a good feeling, aim towards it.
 After you’ve posted your final piece, favourite it and check back every once in a while to see how it’s doing. If it’s got you over a hundred notes, then congratulations – You’ve been successful! If not, don’t panic. It might be that you’re followers live in a different part of the world and just didn’t see it when you posted it, so here’s a tip: Reblog it! There’s nothing wrong with reblogging your own post to capture your audience. However, if the only reason you’re getting notes is because you’ve reblogged it fifty-odd times, then perhaps you need to try a different angle. So, if you haven’t reached your goal, go through the steps again and make sure you haven’t missed anything out!

