 Start by mixing together the ingredients for the breading. In a medium-sized container, combine the flour, bread or cracker crumbs, salt, pepper and other spices. Stir the dry mixture until the bread or cracker crumbs and spices are distributed evenly throughout.Add your own special touch to the breading seasoning by incorporating other spices like paprika, onion powder, garlic or cayenne pepper.
For extra crispy breading, use Japanese Panko-style bread crumbs.;
, Crack two large eggs into a mixing bowl. Add 1/8 cup of milk and beat in the egg. Together, the two will create a thick liquid known as a "wash" used to prepare the pork chops to be breaded.Use 2% milk fat or higher so that the egg wash is thick enough to cling to the chops.
 If time allows, leave the chops to sit in the liquid for several minutes on each side to ensure that they are thoroughly covered. The thickness and moisture of the wash will allow the breading to stick to the pork chops better.The egg will also enhance the texture of the pork chops and help cook the outside.
 Once the chops have been soaked in the egg wash, place them in the container with the breading mixture. Use both hands to press the breading into the chops to make sure they get completely coated, and remember to do both sides. The pork chops are now breaded and ready to be cooked.As an alternative, soak the chops in the egg wash and then place them in a gallon Ziploc bag containing the breading mixture. Shake the bag to get a nice, mess-free coating on the chops., Pour about 1/4 cup of canola oil into a large skillet and turn the cook top on to a medium heat. If you’re serving company, the skillet should ideally be large enough to cook 3-4 chops at a time. Let the skillet and oil heat up before adding the pork chops.For added flavor and crispier breading, melt about a tablespoon of butter into the oil., Carefully place the pork chops onto the heated skillet using tongs. Separate the chops in the skillet to prevent them from sticking to one another. At a medium heat, they should take 3-4 minutes to cook through on the first side.Thicker chops may need to fry for longer than 3-4 minutes, while thin chops may get done before then. Use your best judgment.
The hot oil will splatter as the pork chops cook. Keep a safe distance away from the skillet, or make sure to minimize the amount of exposed skin on the arms.
 Use the tongs or meat fork to check the underside of the chops to make sure they’re cooking evenly. Once the first side of the chops begin to take on a light golden-brown color, turn them over. Let them cook for 2-3 more minutes on the opposite side until done.Eating undercooked pork can be a health hazard. A little pink is okay, but use a meat thermometer to make sure the internal temperature is at least 145 degrees., Remove the pork chops from the skillet and place them on a separate plate lined with paper towels. The paper towels will absorb excess oil so that the chops will a nice, crispy finish instead of being overly greasy. After frying, the outside of the chops will be extremely hot, so allow them to sit for about 5 minutes before you dig in.


Remove the paper towels and transfer the pork chops to a separate serving dish before serving.
 Set the oven to bake and preheat it to 425 degrees. If you’ve chosen baking as your preferred cooking method, you can begin preheating the oven while you bread the pork chops.If you’re worried about burning the breading on the chops before they are completely cooked, set the oven to a lower temperature around 350 degrees and cook for an extra 20-30 minutes., Select a baking sheet large enough to accommodate the pork chops you’ve breaded. Spray it down with a light coating of cooking oil. Starches have a tendency to stick to metal surfaces when they get hot, so spraying your baking sheet first will spare you a mess later on.Use aerosolized canola oil or another similar cooking spray.
 Arrange the pork chops around the baking sheet so that they’re not touching. The chops will cook more evenly if they are well spaced-out. If you want, you can spray the tops of the pork chops with another light layer of oil to make sure that they get nice and crispy on both sides.Place particularly thick chops near the center of the baking sheet to expose them to more constant heat while cooking.
 Set a timer for 20 minutes and put the pork chops in the oven. Keep an eye on them as they cook. Take the chops out at the 10 minute mark and turn them over to ensure that they get done throughout. When 20 minutes is up, remove the pork chops and let them cool for a few minutes before serving. Enjoy!Turning the pork chops is optional, but can provide a more consistent finish to the breading.
Use a meat thermometer to take a reading of the internal temperature of the pork chops before eating. They should be around 145-160 degrees once they’re done.