 Stack all of the cipollini onions in a large, heat-resistant mixing bowl. Make sure that there is enough empty space at the top of the bowl for 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so of water.


Make sure that the bowl you use can withstand extremely hot temperatures. Most glass, metal, and thick plastic bowls are safe, but some thin plastic bowl can start to weaken or melt when exposed to high heat. Styrofoam should not be used. Also note that metal and glass bowls will become very hot during this process, so if you use a metal or glass mixing bowl, you may need to handle it with oven mitts.
 Place it on the stove over high heat, keeping it there until the water reaches a rolling boil.



Boiling the water in a microwave is not recommended since the water can super-heat, causing its container to burst apart. If you do boil the water in your microwave, though, keep it in a microwave-safe dish and place a non-metal chopstick or spoon in the dish to break the surface tension. Heat the water in brief intervals of 30 seconds or less until it reaches 212 degrees Fahrenheit (100 degrees Celsius).
 Allow the onions to sit in the hot water for two to three minutes.


Make sure that all of the onions are completely submerged.
The hot water should help loosen the skin, making it easier to remove from the onion. The fact that the water is no longer actively boiling reduces the risk of accidentally cooking the onions, however, which is why many prefer this method over the blanching method.
 Pour the contents of the bowl through a colander to drain the water. Return the onions to the bowl.


Use clean, dry paper towels to dry both the onions and bowl after you drain the water.
Alternatively, you could scoop the onions out of the water with a slotted spoon. Place them on a clean cutting board when done.
 Use a sharp knife to cut a thin slice from both the stem and root end of each onion.


As you cut off either end, you will likely notice some of the skin peeling away with the slice of onion you're removing. Use your fingers to peel off as much of this attached skin as possible since it will still be the easiest to remove.
 At this point, the remaining skin should be loose enough to grab and peel away with your fingers. Continue doing so until all of the skin has been removed from all of the onions.


If you need a little extra help, you can lift the top of the skin off using the tip of your knife. After loosening the edge of one section of skin, grab this edge with your fingers and peel it off.
The process will be complete at the completion of this step.

