 This method works best for those plastic traveling mugs that you use for coffee, but it might work on glass or ceramic tumblers too. Keep in mind that decoupage glue does not stick very well to glass or ceramic, so your design may not last as long.
 You can wrap the tape as high or as low as you'd like. The area below the tape will get the glitter, while the area above the tape will be left blank.


Cut slits into the top edge of the tape before pressing it down. This will allow it to conform to the tumbler better., Don't worry so much about the top edge of the tape. Make sure that the bottom edge is as smooth as possible, however, or your design won't end up crisp and neat.


If there are any gaps caused by the slits you made, fill them in with more painter's tape.
 Soak a paper towel or cotton ball with rubbing alcohol, then wipe down the tumbler.If your tumbler is very smooth, consider buffing it with fine-grit sandpaper first. This will give the decoupage glue something to stick to.
 Using a paintbrush, apply a generous amount of decoupage glue (ie: Mod Podge) to the tumbler below the tape. It's okay if you got some decoupage onto the tape. When you pull the tape away at the very end, you will pull away the excess decoupage and reveal a nice, crisp line., Start by brushing downward across the decoupage, from the painter's tape down to the edge of the tumbler. Wipe the brush off on the rim of the decoupage bottle, then move onto the next section. Keep doing this until an even layer of glue remains and you can't see any streaks., Hold your tumbler over a paper plate or a sheet of paper. Choose some fine, scrapbooking glitter in a color that you like. Shake the glitter over the tumbler, rotating the tumbler while doing so.Don't worry if the glitter doesn't come out even. You'll be adding a second coat shortly.
 Carefully set the tumbler upside down on a sheet of paper, with the glittered portion facing up. Wait 1 to 2 hours for it to dry. In the meantime, you can use your paper plate to transfer the glitter back into its container., Once again, brush on a thick coat of decoupage. This time, be sure to extend it just past the glitter and onto the bottom edge of the tumbler. Wipe the excess decoupage off, just like before, and shake some more glitter onto it., Allow the glitter to dry first, about 1 to 2 hours. Next, apply a thick coat of decoupage, wipe away any excess, and let it dry for 1 to 2 hours. Apply a second and final coat of decoupage, wipe off any excess, and let it dry.When applying these last two coats of decoupage, be sure to extend it just past the glitter and onto the bottom edge of the tumbler. This helps to seal the glitter in.
 Lift the tape straight up rather than downwards so that you don't accidentally peel off the glitter. Discard the tape when you are done.
 Using small, downward strokes, apply some decoupage to the top edge of the glitter part of your tumbler. When you are done, there should be a thin line of decoupage between the glittered and plain parts of the tumbler. This helps to seal in the glitter further.At this point, your tumbler is done. You can make it fancier by adding vinyl letters or designs, or sketching on patterns using a permanent marker.
 Each brand of decoupage glue will be a little different, so be sure to refer to the packaging. Once the glue is dry, your tumbler is ready to use. You should only wash the inside and upper rim. If the glittered part gets dirty, wipe it down with a damp cloth, then dry it immediately. Do not let the tumbler sit in water or wash it in the dishwasher, or the glitter will peel away.

