 Before exercising outside, even if you're just going for a brisk walk, you need to know what to expect. To avoid flare-ups, you'll want to move your exercise indoors on the hottest days.If you're exercising outside on a sunny day, make sure you always wear sunscreen, even if it's overcast. Getting a sunburn will aggravate your rosacea, so always keep your skin protected.
On warmer days, it's generally best to do any exercising outdoors either at dawn or at dusk, when the sun is lower on the horizon and not as hot.
 Air flow can help prevent rosacea flare-ups while you're exercising. If you're exercising indoors, choose open environments, or work out in front of a fan or an open window.You also want to make sure the room in which you are exercising is relatively cool. Turn the air conditioner down a few degrees to make the room cooler before you start exercising, or use a stationary fan.
 Keeping your skin cool can help prevent flare-ups even as your heart rate increases and your core temperature rises during exercise of moderate intensity. One way to do this is to make sure you're not exercising in direct sunlight.Draping a cool, damp towel around the back of your neck can help, as can keeping ice water in a spray bottle to spritz your face.
Munching on ice chips can help cool you down as well, but don't chew on ice while you're moving and be careful not to choke.
Keep an ice-cold water bottle with you at all times so you can sip on water as you exercise both to cool yourself off and to keep you hydrated.
 If there's a fitness club near you that has a pool, you might consider signing up for a water aerobics class. These low-impact classes will give you a good workout without getting you too overheated. You’ll be able to get your exercise while staying cool and comfortable.The resistance of the workout gives you a better workout than if you were doing the same movements on land, but at the same time the water also has a cooling effect on your skin.
The pH balance of the water in the pool also may have a positive impact on your skin.
Stay out of saunas or hot tubs as these will cause a flare-up of your condition.

