 Part of the fasting test requires you to avoid alcohol for at least 24 hours before the test. Everything you put into your body can affect your LDL cholesterol levels, and a spike caused by recent alcohol consumption could skew your overall LDL test results.Do not drink any alcohol for at least 24 hours before the test.
Stick to water and avoid any juice, soda, milk, coffee/tea, and other beverages (besides water) for at least 12 hours before the test.;
, Your LDL cholesterol levels can be affected by anything you've recently consumed. If your doctor recommends a fasting test, you'll be required to avoid eating or drinking anything but water prior to the test.Fasting will help your doctor more accurately measure the lipid levels in your body.
It's important to follow your doctor's recommendations very carefully, or your doctor may have you come back to perform the test at a later date after a proper fast.
 As you fast, it's important to remain adequately hydrated. Water is the only thing you will be able to ingest beginning 12 hours before the test, and if fasting is stressful to your body it may be best to compensate with more water than you'd normally drink.The average man needs to drink approximately 3 liters (13 cups) of water each day. The average woman needs 2.2 liters, or approximately 9 cups of water each day.
You may need more water, depending on the climate you live in, your level of physical exertion, and the prescription medications you take on a day-to-day basis.
The best way to gauge your level of hydration is by checking your urine. You should be urinating every two to four hours with a light-colored to clear stream of urine if you're well-hydrated.
If your urine is dark yellow or infrequent, you may need to drink more water.
 Your cholesterol is measured by drawing a sample of your blood. It's a quick and relatively painless procedure, and you shouldn't need to do anything to prepare for it other than fasting.The procedure will likely be done by a specially trained medical personnel called a phlebotomist.


The test will most likely be administered in the morning so that you do not have to fast far into the day.
The phlebotomist will stick you with a hypodermic needle in your upper arm and collect a small sample of blood into a vial or syringe.
The procedure will only take a few minutes at most. After that you will be able to resume eating as normal.
 Your results will most likely be processed within 24 hours from the time your samples arrive in the lab.This may take slightly longer if the lab is backed up. Once your doctor receives the results and examines your LDL cholesterol levels, they should call you or have someone from her office contact you about your results.The test does not directly measure your LDL cholesterol levels. Instead, your doctor will arrive at an approximate LDL calculation using the Friedewald equation.
The Friedewald equation derives your LDL cholesterol levels by dividing your triglyceride levels by five and subtracting it from your from your total cholesterol and HDL (high-density lipoprotein) levels.
Your triglyceride levels should ideally be below 150. Anything above 200 is considered high, with levels at 500 or higher considered very high.
Your LDL cholesterol levels should be under 100 if you want to keep it optimal.
LDL levels between 100 and 129 are considered near optimal to above optimal.
LDL levels are considered high if they are between 160 and 189, though anything between 130 and 159 is considered borderline high.
If your LDL levels are above 190, your levels are very high. Your doctor may recommend medication and immediate lifestyle changes., The direct LDL cholesterol test is significantly more expensive than the fasting test. Though it's more convenient for you as the patient, it may not be as efficient as some doctors would like.Direct LDL tests are considered far more accurate and have a lower chance of inaccuracy (3% to 4%) compared to the fasting test (11% to 26%).Because of their precision and the corresponding lab work involved, direct LDL tests can cost hundreds of dollars.
While direct LDL tests are more precise, they also provide doctors with additional information that isn't usually useful or relevant to your cholesterol levels. For this reason, some insurance policies do not cover direct LDL costs.
Check with your insurance company to see if direct LDL tests are covered by your policy.
 The test is quick and relatively painless, just like the fasting test. The phlebotomist will stick you with a needle to extract some blood, and your samples will be sent to the lab for processing.The direct LDL test will be performed just like the fasting test, but there is no fasting required beforehand.
You will simply eat/drink as you normally would and show up at your scheduled time for the appointment.
A phlebotomist will draw a small amount of blood from your arm.
The test will determine your body's levels of LDL cholesterol, without having to derive that number from any other figures.The test should take a few minutes or less, and then you'll be free to go home.
 Your test results should be received within approximately 24 hours after the samples arrive at the lab. This may take slightly longer, depending on how backed up the lab is and when your samples are delivered. If you have not heard anything from your doctor and are concerned about your test results, contact your primary care physician's office to find out about your blood samples.Just like the fasting test, your direct LDL test levels should ideally be below 100., Changing your diet is one of the best ways to lower your cholesterol. What you eat and drink has a direct impact on your levels of LDL cholesterol, as well as your levels of HDL cholesterol (the "good" cholesterol).Choose healthy fats by consuming lean meat, low-fat dairy products, and monounsaturated fats (found in olive oil and canola oil).
Reduce or eliminate your consumption of red meat.
Cut trans fats out of your diet.
Opt for foods that are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, as these fats help increase your HDL cholesterol without adding to your LDL cholesterol. You can get omega-3 fatty acids from salmon, mackerel, herring, walnuts, almonds, and flaxseeds.
Eat more soluble fiber like oats/oat bran, fruits, vegetables, lentils, and beans. Soluble fiber found in these foods can actually lower the LDL cholesterol levels in your body.
Increasing your daily fiber consumption by just an additional 5 to 10 grams has been shown to help drop your LDL levels.
 Exercise can help you lose weight, which in turn can help lower your LDL cholesterol levels. Start slow if you're new to exercising, and remember to stay hydrated any time you work out.Aim to get in at least several 10 minute sessions of physical activity throughout each day. If you can get more exercise, you'll be even better off.
Ride your bike or walk instead of driving. You can do this for running errands or even for commuting to/from work.
Spend part of your lunch break everyday going for a brisk walk outside.
Try swimming laps. Swimming is an excellent form of exercise that works all your muscle groups and does not cause stress on your knees like running can.
 Losing weight is one of the best things you can do to lower your LDL cholesterol levels. Dropping a few pounds can also help you become more physically active and feel healthier.Losing just 5 to 10 percent of your body's fat can help significantly reduce your LDL cholesterol levels.
Count calories. You can do this using a notebook or with an app on your smartphone.
Go for a walk to alleviate boredom instead of snacking when you're at home.
Aim to lose one to two pounds a week. Losing more weight quicker than that can be unsafe and may increase the risk that you'll "rebound" back to that weight in the future.
 Smoking can have a huge affect on your cholesterol levels. If you're currently smoking, find a program to help you quit, or talk to your doctor about how you can kick the habit today.Smoking raises your LDL cholesterol levels and lowers your HDL levels. It can also narrow your arteries, increasing the effects of cholesterol accumulation.Stay away from secondhand smoke. Even if you're not actually smoking, breathing in others' smoke can have the same negative effects on your LDL cholesterol.
 Stress can cause your cholesterol levels to spike when you're under a lot of pressure. Over time, living a very stressful lifestyle can take a toll on your physical health, and it can also have serious consequences on your mental health.Try reading a book you enjoy, spending time with friends, or engaging in yoga or meditation.
Exercise can help reduce stress and lower your cholesterol.
Listening to music can be very relaxing. Choose music that helps you unwind and de-stress.
 Try making lifestyle changes and, after six months, see if there is any improvement. If not, medication may be necessary. Some people are at risk for high cholesterol based on familial tendencies no matter what they do. These medications can help reduce your LDL levels while elevating your HDL ("good" cholesterol) levels.Common classes of cholesterol medication include:



Statins — this class of medication lowers your LDL cholesterol and triglycerides while also increasing your HDL levels. Common statins include Altoprev (lovastatin), Crestor (rosuvastatin), Lescol (fluvastatin), and Lipitor (atorvastatin).

Bile acid binding resins — this class of medicine lowers your LDL levels. Common bile acid binding resins include Colestid (colestipol), Prevalite (cholestyramine), and Welchol (colesevelam).

Cholesterol absorption inhibitors — these medications lower your LDL levels, slightly decrease your triglycerides, and slightly increases your HDL levels. The most common cholesterol absorption inhibitor is Zetia (ezetimibe).

Combination cholesterol absorption inhibitor and statin — these medications lower your LDL and triglycerides while increasing your HDL levels. Vytorin (ezetimibe-simvastatin) is the most common form of this medication.

Fibrates — this medication lowers both LDL and triglyceride levels while increasing your HDL levels. Common fibrates include Antara, Tricor (fenofibrate), and Lopid (gemfibrozil).

Niacins — the most common niacins include Niaspan and Niacor.

Combination statin and niacin — the most common form of these combo medications is Advicor (niacin-lovastatin).

