 Notice every little detail. This will help you to absorb his character and understand the way he thinks.;
, Learn to walk the odd way he does and make a habit of licking your lips and contorting your mouth like he does.
 The Joker's voice in the Dark Knight is quite hard to copy at first, but you can soon get the hang of it. At times it is quite husky, and other times his voice drops to only a whisper. Learn when to talk loudly and when to talk quietly. When learning how to copy the way he talks and the types of words he uses, keep everything you say brief and to the point. Never drone on about anything, and make sure everyone you talk to is always listening.
 The Joker is known for being crazy and what do crazy people do most often? Laugh. Learn when to laugh, and when not to laugh. The Joker's laugh is a sort of husky cackle that is hard to imitate, but just like his voice you can soon get the hang of it if you practice. When you laugh, exhale first instead of inhaling like most people. This is how you achieve the Joker's cackle.
 The Joker does things just for the sake of doing them. He has no plan or motive, and he doesn't care about the consequences. He just thinks of something and does it without giving it much thought. However, don't do anything dangerous like walking into oncoming traffic or jumping off buildings.
 Never let people know what you are up to, and always hide your intentions.
 This may seem a bit "Batman-like" but it's also essential if you want to become the Joker. The Joker is not afraid of being locked up. He's not afraid of Batman. He's not afraid of the police. He's not afraid to die. When Batman beat him up while interrogating him, all the Joker did was just laugh.
 Always see the light-hearted and funny side of everything. The Joker makes loads of funny jokes and comments but keep in mind that he doesn't overdo it. Make sure you have the right timing for your jokes and only say them in the right situations; otherwise people will think you are just trying desperately to be funny.
 Even if you are already smart, become smarter. The Joker is extremely intelligent and cunning no matter how crazy he seems. He always has backup plans and people doing his dirty work.
 The Joker is an evil, murdering sociopath, yet whenever he's on the screen one can't look away. The Joker has an air of confidence and is very interesting from his mannerisms to the things he says. Try to emulate this.
 He is known for being mischievous and cunning, and always has a thing or two up his sleeve. Make sure you carry some prank items with you at all times, and keep them in weird places, like in your shoes or in your sleeves as the metaphor says.
 You don't have to go and buy a Joker costume, but just dress formally. Make sure the clothes you wear look classy but a little shabby at the same time. They don't have be purple and green like the Joker's suit, but make sure they are unique and original.
 However, this step is not recommended and only do it if you are really desperate to be the Joker. You will probably be ridiculed, but then again you are now the Joker; why would you care? The Joker has medium long wavy green hair, wears loads of white makeup, has dark eyeliner around his eyes, and of course his signature red grin. Make sure you apply the dye and/or make up messily, the Joker is not neat and tidy. Don't completely dye your hair; have parts of it not dyed to look more shabby. When applying the make up, make a lot of smudges around the red grin and black eyeshadow.
 This is an interpretation of how to act like the Joker. There's not a whole lot to cite except for the movie, but then again, it's pointless to cite that. Why so serious?

