,, This number will be your denominator.
, To do this, multiply each percentage (still in decimal form) by 360.









The logic behind this is that there are 360 degrees in a circle. If you know that 14,400 is 30 percent of the whole (or 0.30), then you're calculating 30% of 360 which is 108.
Check your work. Add up the number of degrees you calculated for each data point. They should total 360. If not, you've missed something and should double-check your work.
 To draw a pie chart accurately, you need to start with a perfect circle. This can be done using a compass (and a protractor to measure the angles). If you don't have a compass, try tracing around a circle template, using something round such as a lid or a CD.
 Start in the exact center of the circle and draw a straight line to the outside of the circle. (Hint: make a dot with the compass to find the center.)









The straight line can be vertical (12 or 6 o'clock on the clock face) or horizontal (9 or 3 o'clock on the clock face). The segments you create then follow either a clockwise or counter-clockwise sequence.
 Position it on the circle so that the 90 degrees crosshair is situated directly above the center of the circle. The zero point should be vertically aligned along the vertical plot line.
 Draw the sections by marking the first division against the edge of the protractor at the correct angle, using the angle formulations you got in the earlier step. Each time you add a section, the radius changes to the line you just drew; rotate your protractor accordingly.









When marking the angle lines, make sure they are sharp and fine, to keep them clear and easy to see.
 You can use color, patterns or just words, depending on what meets your purpose best. Add the name of each section and the percent it represents in the chart.









Color each section of the pie chart a different color/pattern to easily visualize the results.
If you drew everything in pencil first, always ink in the circle before coloring in any of the segments. This is because the circle is the trickiest part to draw accurately.
Labels or words added to each segment should be written horizontally and centered (the same visual distance from the edge for each segment). This makes them easier to read.

