 If you need assistance finding the correct filter, an auto parts store or its website can help you identify the correct filter that fits your vehicle's airbox. Try to get the stock filter that comes with your vehicle to get the most engine life and fuel efficiency out of your vehicle.;
, Park the car on level ground and apply the parking brake. Shift into first gear (manual transmission) or Park (automatic transmission), and turn off the ignition.
 Release the bonnet with the lever inside the car. Move the exterior bonnet catch for final release. Lift the bonnet and secure it with the prop rod (if necessary).
 The air box housing is usually situated near the engine along a duct that travels from the front of the car.


On older cars with carburetors the filter is usually under a bulky, round cover made of plastic or metal.
Newer, fuel-injected cars tend to have a square or rectangular air filter housing can be found slightly off centre between the front grill and the engine.
 Loosen the hose clamp that seals the air conduct. Undo all the screws holding the air filter cover. Some models have wing nuts; other air filters are just clamped on with a quick release system. Keep screws and other parts together and in a safe location so you can find them later. Pull the cover out of the air conduit and lift it up so it comes off the lower part of the housing. Consult a mechanic if you don't know how to lift the cover.
 Now you can see a round or rectangular filter made of cotton, paper or gauze. Filters have a rubber rim that seals off the unit's interior. Simply lift the filter out of the housing.



Seal the air conduit with removable adhesive tape. It only takes a minute and that way you won't get any dirt into the engine whilst cleaning.
 Replace the old filter with a new one. Simply insert it into the housing with the rubber rim facing up. Make sure the edges are sealed by the rubber rim.
 Carefully insert the cover back into the air conduit and then press the entire piece down onto the lower half of the air filter unit.


Make sure it's on straight and securely; otherwise you could alter engine performance. Tighten all the screws or clamps and recheck that you have put everything firmly back together by rocking the unit gently with both hands. Shut the bonnet securely.
, If you drive in a dusty area, it will need replacement more often. Your owner's manual or periodic maintenance guide should have recommendations for your car.

