 Are you writing to introduce yourself to a particular audience, or is your bio to provide a general introduction to whomever? A bio written for your Facebook page will be very different than a bio written for a website.
 Some social media sites, such as Twitter, restrict your bio to a certain number of words or characters. Make sure you use that space to make the biggest impact possible.
 This information will vary depending on who you're targeting as your audience. For a strictly personal bio, you can include details such as hobbies, personal beliefs, and mottos. For a bio that falls somewhere between "professional" and "completely personal," consider sharing details that give a sense of who you are but are not likely to alienate others.
 Like a professional bio, your personal bio should give your reader a clear idea of who you are, what you do, and how well you do it. However, you can be more informal in your tone than you would in a professional bio.


Joann Smith is a passionate knitter who also happens to own and run her own paper supply company. She has been in business for over 25 years and has won multiple awards for business innovation (although never any for knitting). In her copious free time, she enjoys wine tastings, whiskey tastings, beer tastings, and wine tastings.
 These words are so overused that they have ceased to mean anything to most people, and they're too general to convey real meaning: "innovative," "expert," "creative," etc. Show through concrete examples, don't just tell.
 A personal bio is a great place to connect with your audience through the use of humor. This can help break the ice between you and your reader, and convey a sense of who you are in a few short words.


Hillary Clinton's Twitter bio is an excellent example of a very short bio that conveys a lot of information in a humorous tone: "Wife, mom, lawyer, women & kids advocate, FLOAR, FLOTUS, US Senator, SecState, author, dog owner, hair icon, pantsuit aficionado, glass ceiling cracker, TBD..."