 CNN will probably not consider your tip or idea unless it is something newsworthy and that they have not yet reported on. Make sure they haven’t covered the idea already in a news report and also consider whether or not it has news value.


Journalists generally consider news value to be topics that have at least some of the following: Conflict, unusualness, prominence, humor, impact (significance), proximity, human interest, and timeliness.Conflict can be clashes of ideologies and ideas, not just physical altercations. Human interest means the story provokes an emotional response in the viewer. Impact means the story has a direct effect on a large portion of the viewing audience (think a snow storm closing down large swaths of the east coast.)
Prominence means the story relates to a person or thing that most people know. Unusualness is a deviation from the norm. Proximity means there is a local tie in. Proximity is less important to CNN than most news stations because CNN covers the entire world (however a U.S. bureau may favor U.S. news, and so forth). Timeliness means the idea involves something ongoing or recent or at least that we didn’t know before. Humor is something that viewers will find funny or unusual. News isn’t always serious.
 CNN accepts news tips and story ideas from the general public as well. CNN is interested in images or information relating to breaking news. If you know about something you think CNN will want to cover, then give a call and leave a message about your tip or idea.


Call 404-827-1500 and select option 1 to leave a news tip or story idea by phone. Keep in mind that you can only leave a recording. You will not be able to speak with an actual person.After you select option one, you will have the opportunity to leave a recorded message with your news tip. Make sure that you include your name, your news tip or idea, and a phone number where someone can reach you if they would like more information. Speak clearly and keep your message short and to the point.
For example, you might try saying something like, “Hello. My name is Sally Jones and I have an idea for a story. I think you should do a report about the environmental impact of the new factory in my hometown of Smithshire, NY. It is having a negative effect on the water quality, but people are not yet aware of this. Please call me back at 555-555-5555. My name is Sally Jones and my number again is 555-555-5555.”

, You can also tweet your news tip or idea to CNN if you prefer. Tweet the idea to @TeamCNN along with any relevant pictures or links that might provide information and/or generate interest.For example, you might twee something like, “@TeamCNN Please report on the water pollution problem in Smithshire, NY! People are getting sick and someone needs to stand up for them!”

, If you want to send a news tip to CNN via text message, simply text the word CNN, put a space, and then include your news tip. Text it to 55333.


If you want CNN to call you back, include your cell phone number in the message. Message and data rates may apply.To submit a news tip to CNN Headline News, text CNN space and your tip to 772937.
Try sending a text that says something like, “CNN Smithshire, NY has a serious water pollution problem. Please cover this problem in a report. Call back Sally Jones at 555-555-5555 for more information.”

, Maybe your idea is broader than a single story and you have an idea for CNN to make an entire new program. How do you tell the channel this?


You can email the idea to: Public.Information@turner.com.In the email, make sure that you include a brief summary of the idea, your name, and your preferred contact information, such as a phone number if you want to be contacted by phone.
To send an idea to CNN, you can also use this detailed form: http://cnnspeakers.turner.com/cnnidea.aspx.
To send an idea to Headline news, use this form: http://cnnspeakers.turner.com/hlnidea.aspx


