 If you’d like to try to control your DHEA levels using diet and exercise, then make an appointment to talk over your ideas with your primary care physician. They may be able to give you some extra tips or advice as to what works and what doesn’t. They can also start to track your DHEA levels right away, so you’ll know how to modify your lifestyle changes.
 Just to be clear, foods do not contain DHEA directly. But, eating particular foods can encourage your body to produce more or less DHEA and other hormones. If you are trying to lower your levels, avoid foods that will elevate your DHEA, such as wild yams, sugars, wheat, and dairy products. Instead, follow a diet that emphasizes foods with anti-inflammatory properties, like tomatoes, olive oil, and salmon., Going to work out at least three times a week is a great way to keep your DHEA levels under control. Switch out both cardio and weight sessions to see the most benefits. Working out will help you to build muscle and shed fat., Look at the Body Mass Index (BMI) for a general guide as to where your weight should be as related to your height and age. When your body carries extra weight the fat cells produce excess estrogen, DHEA, and other hormones., To better control your hormones, aim to get eight hours of sleep per night. Come up with a sleep schedule that works for you and stick with it. In fact, some studies argue that even getting a little bit less sleep is better if you are trying to lower DHEA., Your body is very sensitive to stress and may respond by producing excess hormones, such as DHEA. To keep your DHEA under control, find some ways to unwind in your daily life. Take up yoga, which you can do both at work and at home. Practice deep breathing techniques. Eat at least one meal outside each day to enjoy the fresh air. Go see a movie or a take a painting class with friends.You can also ask your doctor to monitor your blood pressure levels alongside your DHEA results. If you engage in stress-relieving activities, you might see improvements across the board.

