 Try 3 different types of pushups to firm different areas of your chest and back. Do pushups in a knee plank, if you can’t do a full plank position.


Do regular push-ups. Get on all fours, and then unbend your knees and support your body with your feet and arms. Place your arms directly below your shoulders with the fingers pointing straight up. Do 5 very slow push-ups as low as you can go. Then, do 10 faster pushups.
Try military style pushups. Move your arms slightly wider than shoulder width. Then, turn your arms so the fingers are pointing inward at a 45-degree angle. Do 5 slow push-ups and 10 fast push-ups.
Follow up with tricep push-ups. Move your arms to shoulder width apart. As you lower yourself into the pushup, make sure your elbows go directly down, brushing against your rib cage. Do 5 slow and 10 fast pushups.
 Lay on the floor. Take a hand weight between 3 and 7 lbs. (1.4 to 3.2 kg) in each hand.


Bend your elbows slightly. Raise your arms until the weights meet each other just above your chest.
Slowly lower them until your upper arms are perpendicular to your trunk. Your lower arms should be slightly above the floor. Repeat with 2 to 3 sets of 10 repetitions.
If the exercise is too easy, get a slightly heavier set of weights.
 Instead of lowering your arms to the sides, lower them to the ground above your head. The weights should stay a few inches apart as you lower and raise them to ensure you aren’t creating a muscle imbalance.


Don’t allow your rib cage to lift as you bring them over your head. Use your upper ab muscles to keep your back and rib cage engaged.Do 3 sets of 10.
 Instead of using free weights for tricep and bicep curls, use suspension bands at your local gym. Walk your legs forward and lean back in an inclined position.Keep your upper arms close to your chest to do bicep curls.
Open and lift your arms to the sides for chest fly and presses.
Lean forward on the bands with your arms to close to your chest to perform tricep curls. Start with your wrists near your armpits and push down until your arms are straight.
Hand down with your legs in front of you in a pike position to ready yourself for shoulder presses. Lift your body up till your arms are in a 90-degree angle, then lower yourself down.
Repeat in 2 to 3 sets of 10 for all exercises.
 These exercises will tone the pecs and arms. As your pectoral muscles lift, your boobs will look firmer and perkier.

