 You'll need to wake up about 1 1/2 hours before you have to leave depending on how fast you are, and whether you decide to shower in the morning. But you'll probably need at least this much time because you'll also have to eat breakfast.
 If you choose to shower at night, you should still follow these same steps, just at night.


Shampoo your hair (you probably won't do this every day.)
Rinse with cold water.
Apply conditioner to your ends. Only condition if you shampooed. (If you have greasy hair, remember to do this before shampooing.)
Wash your body.
Shave your underarms, legs, and if it's summer your bikini line.
Comb through your hair-starting at the ends and working your way up.
Rinse out your conditioner with cold water.


If you condition, and then shampoo, you should shampoo now.


Towel off.
Use lotion on your legs, elbows, underarms, and hands.
Pumice your feet quickly and then apply lotion.
,, Now when you're done, come brush your teeth with whitening toothpaste, floss, and use mouthwash.
 When washing your face, wash your hands with hot water for twenty seconds, splash hot water on your face, and wash your face with your hands, your cleanser, and some salt or sugar if you want. Next rinse with hot water, then splash with cold. After that, use lotion; at night use a deeper lotion.
 Make sure never to go black-crazy, or cake on the foundation and blush, or embolden both your lips and your eyes.


Apply light foundation if needed.
Choose either lips or eyes to play up. As an alternative, you could choose the natural look.


If you choose eyes:

Curl your lashes.
Use mascara. Use black or, if you have lighter eyelashes, a dark brown.
Apply eye liner. You can do the bottom ring of the eye if you like, but if you're going for a more natural look go a very light brown.
Do something bigger like maybe a smokey eye.
Apply just lip gloss for your lips.
Apply light blush.


If you do lips:

Use lipstick and lip gloss.
Apply lip liner.
Curl your eyelashes.
Apply mascara.
Apply light blush.


If you want the natural look:

Curl your lashes.
Apply mascara
Use light blush.
Apply light lip gloss.
Use soft eyeshadow.
 If the paint is chipped, fix that real quick. This step shouldn't take long. Do the same with your toenails.
 If you took a shower, your hair should still be damp. If you didn't, use a mister to dampen it.


Apply some sort of heat-protection to it (such as Argon Oil.)It's essential to put on the heat-protection as blow dryers, curling irons, and flat irons are damaging to our hair.
Blow dry. Try to do a different style every day. If you want you can make a calender that has what hairstyle you'll wear that day so you won't be doing the same hairstyle twice or something.
 Be careful not to put on too much. One spritz is enough.


If your deodorant smells, you may want to skip this step.

