 However, most would agree that it is typically guitar-based music with a driving beat and a lot of energy. The definition of rock has changed a great deal over the years. Simply put, the more rock you hear, the better you'll be able to define it for yourself.


What counts as rock and what doesn't can come into question. For instance, the Beatles are generally regarded as the world's most famous rock band, but they're more often referred to as a pop group.;
, To start, it is important to grasp just how vast rock is before listening into it. While rock n' roll originally referred to a wave of American artists who injected a new energy into rhythm and blues music, the term could be used now to refer to the majority of guitar-based music to some extent.Because of how diverse it is, there is a style out there for everyone. Although it's generally recommended to start with the most well-known artists at first, the diversity means you'll find more specific artists for your tastes before long. Here are several of rock's best-known genres:


Pop rock uses rock instrumentation (like guitars) with pop songwriting. Bands include The Beatles and Coldplay. Listen to this if you want something light and catchy.
Progressive rock fuses rock instrumentation with ambitious classical songwriting and experimental song structures. Bands include Van der Graaf Generator, Yes and King Crimson. Listen to this if you want something intellectual.
Hard rock is an edgier, more distorted version of rock. Bands include Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath. Listen to this if you want something that's heavy, but still perfectly accessible.
Psychedelic rock makes use of lots of guitar effects to mimic the use of hallucinogenic drugs. Bands include Ozric Tentacles and Pink Floyd. Listen to this if you want something weird and atmospheric.
Heavy metal pushes the heaviness of rock to the point where it counts as another genre. Metal has its own diverse range of sub-genres, including black metal, power metal and doom metal. Bands from the original period of heavy metal include Judas Priest and Black Sabbath. Listen to this if you want something angry and theatrical.
 In an age of MP3 players and streaming audio, there have never been so many different ways you can listen to music. While a CD player may be the standard choice for some in this regard, a computer with working speakers and an internet connection is all you need to hear as much new music as you want. Other popular mediums include vinyl and cassette. Each of these mediums provides its own unique experience of the music. You should try a few of these mediums and compare the difference in the way the music sounds.


If you're going to use a computer primarily for your music, you'll need a working media player installed in order to play music. Windows Media Player and iTunes are the most popular.However, it's recommended you use WinAmp if you're looking for a digital media player.It is more customizable than the typical players, and takes up less memory than iTunes.
 Rock music has a lot of classic albums that are considered "essential" listening by fans of the genre. If you're looking for some of the most essential rock albums to listen to, you should read up on some best-of lists. Magazines like Rolling Stone have definitive lists that should get you started.Other user-based websites like RateYourMusic feature extensive lists by passionate music aficionados as well, if you're looking for something off the beaten path.Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd, The Beatles, Queen and Yes are all some of the most important groups you should start with. Their music is widespread and is likely familiar to you already if you listen to the radio.
Led Zeppelin's "Stairway to Heaven" is commonly referred to as the greatest rock song of all time.This has ironically caused backlash of people who are sick from the song's overplay. If you haven't heard the song before however, it's a perfect way to get into the genre.
 Most cities have at least one radio station dedicated specifically to rock music.Rock stations can usually be divided into classic rock radio (hits from the 1960s-80s) and modern rock (playing contemporary hits). For many people, the radio is their first exposure to rock music. Tune into the radio and listen in. Most of the time, the DJ hosting the show will announce the artist and song title. This is a fast way to gain knowledge if you don't know much about the genre.


Satellite and digital radio stations are also available, and can offer a much more specialized (and ad-free) alternative to standard FM.
 Websites like Spotify and YouTube are an amazing resource if you want to listen to a lot of a certain genre.Provided you have a stable web connection, you can search up virtually any song you want, or play a pre-made playlist for new recommendations. YouTube is arguably the best way to hear a lot of new artists quickly, as it offers a list of recommendations as soon as any song finishes playing. The band and song name are also clearly visible, making it easy to mark something down if a certain tune really strikes you.


After listening to a few songs, you should start to get an idea of the kind of rock that will most appeal to you.
If you're trying to cover a lot of ground quickly, it's recommended you hear songs from different subgenres. Hard rock, pop rock, prog, punk and black metal all fit under the rock umbrella and have very different sounds to them.
 Unlike pop music, rock is best listened to in a full album form. An album can give a much more vivid impression on a listener than a single song. Once you've heard a few songs you like, you might want to check out those albums in full and see what you think. Buy the CD of the album from a music store, or get the album on the computer through streaming or download. Find a quiet time and listen to the album from start to finish. If you're looking for a place to start, here are some essential classics you should check out first:


The Beatles' Sgt. Peppers' Lonely Hearts Club Band

Pink Floyd's Dark Side of the Moon

Led Zeppelin's IV

Yes' Close to the Edge

David Bowie's Hunky Dory


, Rock music is still alive and well today. There are lots of bands from all over the map who are making new music. If you're still getting the hang of rock music. You should check up on the latest Billboard posting to see what's currently topping the charts.Listen to a few of the songs and decide for yourself. Compared to the classics, the definition of rock as "chart-topping" music may be blurrier.


Some of rock's best-ever artists have emerged from the modern era. Radiohead, Porcupine Tree and the Mars Volta are a few of the most inventive groups to have come out of the last 25 years.
 While traditional rock music's apex was during the 1960s and 70s, there are subsets of rock that have swelled into complete categories of their own. Punk and metal have two of the most passionate fanbases of any music genre. Bands in these categories rebelled against rock when it got too comfortable, taking it to new heights. Rock has also been combined with every genre possible, including jazz (jazz fusion) and hip-hop (rap rock).


If you like other genres of music already, you should look for bands that combine it with rock. Some artists might make a gimmick of it, while others will break brave new territory in doing so.
Although rock is arguably less popular in pop culture than it used to, the culture for metal fandom is extremely vivid., There are some great life stories behind the making of the music. Once you've done some research and listened to the bands themselves, it can be enjoyable to look at the biography of an artist you're into and see what their story was. There are lots of documentaries based around rock culture that may be of interest to you.In the majority of cases however, it's easiest to type the band's name into Google and look at whatever links that appear interesting to you.


Knowing a bit about the artists behind music can help improve your appreciation of their music, especially if their lyrics are inspired by their life experiences.
 Some music fans would say the only way to truly appreciate rock music is to see it performed live and onstage. Bands frequently go touring, and play concerts at scheduled venues from city to city. If there's a band you really appreciate, it can be exhilarating to witness the band do their thing in front of you. There's a more immediate energy in live performances compared to the recorded version. In addition, you can meet the musicians in person and buy merchandise at the venue.


Hearing loss is a potential risk at concerts. If you go to enough shows, this hearing loss can add up and become significant. It's recommended you take some precautions at live shows to avoid this. Bring a set of earplugs with you, and make a point of staying at least 10 feet (3 m) away from loudspeakers., Music and fashion are closely linked, especially in rock subgenres.Many fans of this music will show their love for a band by wearing band shirts. If you really care about a band, you can advertise your passion by buying a shirt. A lot of fashion trends have been inspired and mirrored by rock musicians.


Wearing band merch can be the starting point for a friendship with a stranger who may approach you based on their mutual love for the band.
Don't wear merch for bands you don't like. This is not looked well upon in the subculture.
 From the very start, rock music has been about rebelling against the establishment. Although rock music has become institutionalized in the Western world, there are still more recent artists (like Graveland or Nine Inch Nails) that cause controversy for their beliefs, behaviour or lyrical content. Religiously conservative cultures may take offence to any kind of rock music.Being a fan of this music means you may be criticized by people around you.
 There will never be enough time to hear all of the music that's worth hearing. This is a good and bad thing. While on the one hand you'll never be able to experience it all, you'll also never run out of chances to be amazed by something new. The best thing you can do is to keep a healthy thirst for new music. Listen to the latest albums coming out. Look back on a classic record you haven't heard before. Dig deep into the underground and dish out something obscure. The possibilities are endless. A love of new music shouldn't be limited to one's youth. An appreciation of rock will last the rest of your life once it catches on.


Websites like RateYourMusic are a perfect way to stay up to date on the best (and worst) of new music.