 To access telepsychiatry as a patient, you should speak to your primary care doctor and get a referral. You can also get a referral for a telepsychiatrist from a mental health clinic in your area.You may provide several reasons why telepsychiatry will benefit you, such as your remote location, your mobility, or your desire for a psychiatrist with flexible hours. Your doctor should be able to help you find a telepsychiatrist that will meet your needs.;
, Before you use telepsychiatry, you should make sure this service is covered by your state’s medical insurance. Many states do not reimburse patients for telepsychiatry, through this is changing and will likely shift in the future. Call your medical insurance provider to check that you can get your telepsychiatry appointments covered.If telepsychiatry services are not covered by your healthcare provider, you should speak to your doctor or to a representative at the mental health clinic to ensure you know the cost of the services before you access them.
 When you use telepsychiatry, you have the option of having sessions from the comfort of your home computer or at another location, such as your doctor's office or at a mental health clinic. You should consider which option is most convenient for your schedule. Due to immobility or your remote location, sessions from your home may be easier to arrange than sessions at another space.


You may start by going to sessions at a clinic or your doctor's office so you can get used to telepsychiatry in a monitored space. You may then switch to doing sessions at home once you are comfortable with using telepsychiatry.
 Once you have a referral for a telepsychiatrist, you may have the one-on-one video conference with the specialist in a clinic or your doctor’s office. You may be set up in a room in a mental health clinic or in a private area at your doctor’s office that is set up for the session.Many telepsychiatry appointments can be set up through a clinic or your doctor within an hour of requesting one. This helps to cut down on the average wait time in a clinic and makes it easier for you to get the help you need as soon as possible., Another option is to access the telepsychiatrist from the comfort of your home. The telepsychiatrist may be able to set up a video chat with you through your computer at home. Make sure your computer has a working microphone and a webcam so you can chat comfortably with the telepsychiatrist.You can also opt for a voice only chat if you do not want to have to address the telepsychiatrist via video. This option is ideal if you are experiencing paranoia, anxiety, agitation, or have a cognitive disability and do not want to use video.
 The telepsychiatry session will run the same way as an in person session. You can discuss your mental health issue in detail with your telepsychiatrist and create a treatment plan with them. Doing this over a video or voice chat can make it easier for you to get the treatment you need fast.For example, you may tell the telepsychiatrist, "I am struggling with depression" or "My mental health issues have not been improving on my current treatment plan."
You can also be prescribed medication during the telepsychiatry session. The psychiatrist may recommend medication as part of your treatment plan, in addition to lifestyle changes., You can book follow up appointments or check ins with the telepsychiatrist, if necessary, during the session. You may decide to schedule a follow up appointment the following week or once every two weeks.


The telepsychiatrist should be able to advise you on how often you should be scheduling sessions with them. You may ask them, "How often should I be seeing you?" or "When should I schedule our next appointment?"

