 An H. pylori infection has symptoms similar to an ulcer. Most people who have H. pylori will never experience symptoms.If you do experience ulcer-like symptoms, there's a good chance H. pylori is the problem. Here are the symptoms to look for:Pain in the abdomen with a burning, acidic quality
Indigestion or "gnawing pain" in the stomach
Acid reflux
Nausea
Bloody or black and tarry stools
Blood in Vomit
Sudden unconsciousness
Rigidity of the stomach (peritonitis), in severe cases;
, Prolonged abdominal pain requires treatment, regardless of the cause. The infection won't go away on its own, so it's important to visit your doctor to find out whether H. pylori is the problem. This way, you can begin treatment right away to heal your stomach.


Rarely, an H. pylori infection can lead to stomach cancer. That's why it's essential never to ignore abdominal pain, bloody stools, and other signs that you might have H. pylori.
 Speak with your doctor about your concerns that the problem might be H. pylori. Doctors test for H. pylori in a variety of different ways. The doctor will choose the testing method that best suits your symptoms and condition. The following tests are most common:A urea breath test. The bacteria produces a urea compound. A urea breath test is the gold standard of diagnostic methods. It is the most accurate test for H. pylori.
A stool test antigen, in which a sample is examined in a laboratory for signs of H. pylori. This is considered the second most effective.
A blood test. This test reveals the presence of antibodies that fight H. pylori. It is 65 to 95% effective, making it the least reliable test.
A biopsy. A tissue sample is removed from your stomach using a procedure called an endoscopy. A biopsy is usually only performed if an endoscopy is needed for other reasons such as treating an ulcer, bleeding, or making sure there is no cancer.Most doctors will order one of these tests if your symptoms match those of an H. pylori infection.
 H pylori is often spread through poor sanitation and hygiene practices. If you believe you have the bacteria, you should get other people who live in the same environment as you tested also.This is important not only for the health of other household members, but also to prevent reinfection.
This is especially important for spouses or other romantic partners. The bacteria may be transmitted through kissing with saliva.
 Since H. pylori is a bacteria, it can be successfully treated with a short course of antibiotics.In most cases, you'll taken two different antibiotics at the same time. Your doctor will likely prescribe one of these:


Amoxicillin, 2 grams 4 times per day, for one day, and Flagyl, 500 mg orally 4 times per day, for one day. This regimen is 90 percent effective.
Biaxin, 500 mg orally twice daily for 7 days and Amoxicillin, 1 gram orally twice daily for 7 days. This regimen is 80 percent effective.
Children will often taken Amoxicillin, 50 mg/kg in divided doses, twice daily (up to a max of 1 gram twice daily ) for 14 days. Along with this they will often be prescribed Biaxin:, 15 mg/kg in divided doses twice daily (up to a max of 500 mg twice daily) for 14 days.
It's important to take the full course of antibiotics, even after your symptoms have subsided. Your doctor will prescribe the amount necessary to kill the bacteria. Even if your symptoms die down, you may still have H. pylori in your system.
 While you're taking antibiotics, your doctor will also recommend that you take acid-protectors. They keep your ulcer from getting worse. They will also give your stomach lining time to heal.


Your stomach naturally produces acid to aid in digestion, but when you have an ulcer the acid can cause further damage.
Most often, doctors will prescribe Bismuth subsalicylate, or Pepto Bismol. It coats the stomach to protect it from acid. It also helps kill the bacteria. The amount and frequency will vary based on which antibiotics you are taking.
 Your doctor will also prescribe a PPI. These medications prevent acid production by inhibiting the "pumps" in stomach cells that activate gastric acid secretion.


In most cases, you'll receive a prescription for Lansoprazole. The amount and frequency of doses will depend on which antibiotics you are taking.
Children may prescribed Omeprazole, 1 mg/kg divided twice daily (to a max of 20 mg twice daily) for 14 days.
 Your doctor should perform a second round of tests after four weeks to make sure that the H. pylori infection is gone. Be sure to follow your doctor's orders during your treatment and before your second testing session.


Reinfection can occur and start the cycle over again if the entire household is not cured. This must be confirmed after four weeks of treatment.If you have severe symptoms during treatment, make an appointment with your doctor right away. Antibiotics do not always work, and your doctor may prescribe different treatment.
 Studies suggest that eating broccoli helps to reduce H. pylori. Consuming broccoli regularly doesn't entirely kill off the H. pylori. But, it can reduce the population.Eating a serving of broccoli several times per week may be beneficial.
 Studies have shown that green tea brings about a significant reduction in the H. pylori for people who drink it every day. It contains high levels of polyphenols, which inhibit H. pylori production. If you don't like the taste of green tea, green tea extract has the same beneficial effects.
Red wine, which also has high levels of polyphenols, has similar benefits to green tea.
 Probiotics are beneficial bacteria that keep harmful bacteria populations from getting out of control. Studies show that regularly ingesting probiotics may be a good natural way to keep H. pylori at bay.Yogurt, kimchi, kombucha and other fermented products contain probiotics.
 The primary factor in avoiding H. pylori infection is to practice proper hygiene and good hand washing. You should wash your hands, especially after using the restroom, or before handling food. Wash your hands in the following manner:Use warm water ( 120 degrees) and 3-5 cc (roughly a teaspoon) of liquid soap. The soap does not have to be antibacterial. Wash for a total of 15-30 seconds.
 Eat a diet containing adequate proportions of carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, minerals and water. This will help you maintain good health. Having a strong immune system can reduce the risk of infection with many bacteria.


Exact proportions vary based on weight,gender activity level, etc. But, caloric intake should be approximately 2000 calories per day, as a broad approximation. Get the majority of calories from fresh fruit and vegetables, legumes and grains, and low fat proteins.
Even with a balanced diet, 67% of dieticians recommend dietary supplements. These supplements fill nutritional gaps that are not satisfied by food alone., Many physicians recommend about 500 mg per day.Be aware that vitamin C is acidic and can irritate the stomach. It's a good idea to take a buffered form of the vitamin or try to get it through foods.Good choices include cantaloupe, cabbage, citrus fruits, and red pepper.Because of its acidity, its a good idea to talk to your doctor about Vitamin C supplements you take if you are receiving treatment for H. pylori.
 Studies suggest H. pylori may be transmitted via saliva.If you know someone who has H. pylori, avoid saliva contact with them until it is confirmed that their treatment was successful.


For example, if your spouse has H. pylori, avoid kissing him or her, and do not share a toothbrush.
 Especially when traveling to countries with poor sanitation, be careful about what you eat or drink.Consider drinking bottled water when visiting countries with poor water sanitation.
Refrain from eating at any questionable or roadside food trucks, etc. Eat only in restaurants with sanitation standards similar to an American standard of sanitation. Kitchen utensils should be washed in hot water (as warm as you can safely tolerate) with antibacterial soap.
Using hand sanitizer can also be helpful in these types of situations. Washing your hands with unclean water can do more harm than good.

