 Double-click the icon of your preferred Internet browser on your desktop.;
, Once the browser is open, type in google.com/shopping/express on the address bar at the top of the screen and hit Enter. You’ll be taken to the website’s home page.
 Click the “Sign In” button on the upper-right corner of the page and enter your account details on the text fields provided.


If you don’t have a Google/Gmail account yet, you may get one for free here: https://accounts.google.com/.
 If this will be the first time you’re going to use Google Shopping Express, you’ll be prompted to enter the ZIP code of your area.


Currently, Google Shopping Express is only available on certain states like California. Entering your zip code helps determine whether you can use the service or not.
 Right after entering your zip code, you’ll be asked to enter a delivery address. Type in the address where you like the items you purchased to be delivered to on the text field provided.
 If your location and delivery address is within Google Shopping Express’ area of coverage, you can begin shopping by tapping the “Shop Now” button.
 You can select from Groceries, Health & Beauty, Home, Baby, Toys, and Apparel. Just click one and you’ll be taken to the product list of that item class.
 This will display all the items listed under that specific category.
 If you want to shop by store, click the “Store” button on the upper-left corner of the page and select from the list of participating stores in the drop-down list where you want to shop. This will show you all the items you can buy from the specific merchant/store you chose.
 Once you’ve found the things you want to buy, select the item, and click on the “Add to cart” button.
 Once you’re done with your shopping, it’s time to pay for the items. Click the cart icon on the top-right corner of the page to open your account’s shopping cart.
 The shopping cart will show you the details of the items you’ve purchased including the name, merchant where you bought it from, price, quantity, and total price.


Make sure that all the details are correct because once you’ve made your payment, you can no longer cancel the order.
 This will allow you to continue to the payment section.
 Do this from the “Pay with” option; you can also add any special delivery instructions you like to include on the “Instructions” field (e.g., “Ring the gate doorbell first.”).


The payment method will be based on your Google Wallet account. If you haven’t set any payment channel in Google Wallet, just click the “New Card” button and enter your credit or debit card details.
 Now, all you need to do is wait for the items to be delivered.


The merchandise you bought should be delivered to the address you specified in your account on the same day.

