 Having an empathetic, listening ear can make all the difference in helping your relieve tension from caring for a couple of rowdy kids. Just giving a friend a call for a quick chat and hearing a friendly voice may help cheer you up.


If you can’t make a phone call, try texting. A simple “I’m feeling overwhelmed” conveys your message and may open you up to receiving encouragement or helpful advice from your pal., If the kids are stressing you out, simply ask for 5 minutes of alone time to regroup. If they are older kids, this might include going outside or for a walk around the neighborhood to collect yourself. For younger kids, you might involve them in an activity and then take 5 to practice deep breathing or listen to some uplifting songs on your phone.


Don’t be afraid to say you need space to retreat. Taking a few intentional breaks while caring for kids can prevent you exploding later., As the saying goes, “Laughter is the best medicine.” Take off your “serious” costume for a moment to release tension. Considering that you’re watching kids, finding humor shouldn’t be too hard. Kids are constantly doing and saying things that can make an adult crack a smile.


If the kids don’t provide any opportunity for laughter, search for funny memes on your phone or watch a silly YouTube video. Doing so will help you ease stress, reduce anger, and relax your whole body., If a third round of pillow fighting or Dungeons & Dragons just might make you scream, find a less noisy task for your charges. Take a break from the boisterous activities in favor of more quiet undertakings like drawing, coloring, playing with Play-Doh . Just a few moments of relative peace can be just what you need to kick stress to the curb.
 If you are being saddled with the kids too often, ask for a break. Whether you’re a paid sitter or a grandparent who’s always on babysitting speed-dial, be willing to speak up when you’re being overworked or taken for granted.You might say, “I enjoy watching the kids, but I could use a weekend off. Do you think that can be arranged?” Or, you can suggest alternating sitters for parents who require lots of help. That way, no one person gets too stressed out from the job.

