 While the police academy will teach you the basic foundations of being a law enforcement officer, it's not enough to teach you the skills you'll need on the job day-to-day. Field training is a crucial part of becoming a police officer and detective.In field training you'll usually shadow a police officer and act as their apprentice.
Field training typically lasts about eight weeks., Most precincts get their homicide detectives by promoting within, so getting experience as a uniformed officer is a must in most circumstances.Also, the experience that you're able to get on the street will help with your communication and intuition.
 Since homicide is such a heinous crime, usually the best detectives fill the position. You'll have a much better chance of getting a promotion to homicide detective if you've worked in a related investigative field such as auto theft, robbery, and larceny.Before applying to the homicide unit, consider becoming an investigator in one of these units.
 To achieve the promotion to detective or investigator, it's required that you're professional, smart, and have a proven track record.While some officers thrive in public settings, others seem to be more inclined to investigative work. Always take opportunities to investigate and solve crimes in your precinct.


Promotion to detective will also require references from your superiors, so make sure that you show your enthusiasm and willingness to be a homicide detective.
 If you've passed the detective test and meet the physical and mental requirements to become a detective, you can apply for a promotion to investigator or detective. Many precincts will require that you have a couple of years of experience before applying to the position. Go to your commanding officer and talk to them about officially applying for a promotion. They can provide you with the paperwork and have a conversation about the likelihood of you getting the job.


The Sacramento, California Police Department requires an 18-month probation period, followed by at least two years of service before you can apply for a promotion to detective.
In Washington D.C. officers need at least two years of service and must undergo specialized training.