 Some colors are innately difficult for everyone to read, while some people have difficulty distinguishing certain colors.


Light shades of blue are hard to see because the human retina lacks sufficient blue cones in the center of the fovea, the part that provides maximum visual acuity, to detect blue. Also, lighter shades of blue are not picked up by photocopiers ("non-repro blue") when copying in color.
About 10 percent of men suffer some form of color-blindness, either an ability to tell red from green or an inability to tell yellow from blue. If your target audience is largely male, don't use red and green together or yellow and blue together.
 Technical writing, like other forms of writing and commerce, is increasingly being targeted to an international audience. Because of this, it is important to be aware of some of the cultural connotations of certain colors.


Red, in Western culture, often signifies anger, danger, or warning (as used in Stop and Yield signs). In China, red symbolizes prosperity, while in Korea, red is used when recording the names of the dead.
Black is the color associated with death in the West, while white symbolizes cleanliness and purity. Asian cultures, however, use white to symbolize death and mourning.
 As noted above, technical writing for the Web is more likely to incorporate colors than technical writing that will be printed. (The most likely forms of technical writing to be printed are reports that incorporate charts and graphs.) If the document is going to be printed in black and white, there is little point in using color in writing it, as certain colors mute to indistinct shades of gray. If the document will be printed in color, make a test print of the intended color scheme, so you can see how the colors look in print as opposed to on the screen and make any necessary adjustments before committing to a set of colors.


If a piece of technical writing is to be used both for the Web and printed in hard copy, it is helpful to make a separate version for each medium, using conditional topics or conditional text or formatting, according to the capabilities of the software used to create it.

