 There is a lot of debate in the fitness world over which variation is a better whole-body workout: the Hindu pushup or the dive bomber pushup. However, both are challenging variations and you can switch between the two to decide which one you like better.Unlike the dive bomber pushup, when you press back up to starting position with the Hindu pushup, you do not bend your arms outward. Rather, you keep your arms straight and lift your hips, pushing your torso backward.
With a Hindu pushup, you also want to keep your elbows to your side when you lower your body. You won't flay your elbows out to your side as you do with a dive bomber pushup.
 Pike pushups are a challenging workout for your shoulders. You also can use this exercise to help you transition if you gradually want to get into handstand pushups.Stand in a position similar to your starting position for the dive bomber push up, with your hips lifted toward the sky. However, your arms should be perpendicular to the floor, so your hands will be a little closer to your feet than they are when you're doing dive bomber pushups.
From this position, simply lower your head all the way to the floor, bending your elbows, then straighten your arms to raise back up to the starting position. You can do this exercise in sets of 10-20 repetitions, or you can do an interval of 30 seconds or a minute with continual movement.
 The Spiderman pushup works your obliques. This pushup is done from your standard pushup position on your toes and hands, with your wrists directly below your shoulders.As you lower, bend one leg at the knee and bring it up to your side, so that your knee is near your elbow.
From here, you can keep your knee out and do several pushups, then bring it back to start and do the other side. You also can bring it back to start immediately and switch legs with every repetition.
 This twisting variation on the standard pushup gives your obliques a good workout and helps with your balance, as well as getting your lower body into the action.Get in standard pushup position to start this exercise, with your feet together. When your arms are fully extended, your body should be parallel to the floor.
As you bend your arms to lower yourself towards the ground, bend your knees and twist your legs and lower body sideways, like you're a cork being twisted by a giant corkscrew. Come back to top center, then twist down on the other side.
You can do this exercise in sets of 10 to 20 repetitions (remember to keep both sides even), or you can do as many as you can with good form in an interval of 30 seconds or a minute.
 If you want to improve your speed and explosive power, explosive pushups can help build and strengthen the muscles that make that possible. Typically an explosive pushup is one combined with another movement, such as a clap or a jump.For example, to do an explosive pushup with a clap you simply push off with your hands so hard that your body is lifted off the ground. Clap and return your hands to the floor. Once you get more explosive power, you can work up to double claps or even triple claps.
Explosive pushups typically are better done in intervals because they are very intense and can fatigue your muscles quickly.

