 An important key to gaining popularity is to remain friendly and optimistic, as it can cause you to appear confident and draw people towards you. Make positive comments about others and be willing to help your classmates, but remember to take care of yourself as well. Additionally, when necessary, express your true feelings and thoughts in an appropriate manner. Although being amicable can be a vital element to building a strong reputation, you should be cautious about reining in too many emotions for the sake of maintaining an optimistic appearance. Otherwise, you may eventually appear fake to others or pile unnecessary stress and pressure upon yourself.;
, Even if you may feel insecure, appearing self-assured of yourself increases the chances of gaining attention, approval, and perhaps admiration. Small changes, such as straightening your posture and walking with long, quick strides, can transform your appearance and cause you to appear confident. When speaking to others, you can maintain eye contact and speak in a slightly firm voice. If others attempt to bully or demean you, give them an assertive, polite response. For instance, if a classmate calls you ugly, you can tell them something along the lines of, "Thanks for sharing your opinion!" or "You can think whatever you want about me."

, A good way to gain attention is to become friendly with your classmates, as well as people outside of your class. Although it may not be possible to become close friends with everyone, you can try to at least be on amicable terms with the majority of your class so that they think of you in a positive manner. Even if you dislike someone, remain polite and neutral so that they cannot accuse you of being negative. When maintaining friendships, remember to be realistic and avoid overwhelming yourself with too many meetings and events. Depending on how many friends you have, you may not be able to see them every day, so do your best to spread your time among them. If you cannot spend a lot of time with certain friends, be sure to at least stop and ask how they are doing so that they do not feel abandoned or left out.
 You can try being open and friendly towards others, as long as you are comfortable. Furthermore, while you should not erase your personality for the sake of popularity, assess yourself and decide if there are any highly negative habits that may upset your reputation. For instance, if you have a tendency to be overly loud around others or spread rumors, you can do your best to stop doing that.
 Although you should not partake in spreading rumors or become heavily involved in others' personal lives, you can keep an ear out for gossip so that you know about current events in your school. However, avoid blackmailing your classmates, tearing down their character, or fishing too frequently for gossip; otherwise, your reputation may be tarnished, and others might view you in a negative light.
 Although it can be easy to ignore your studies in favor of fun, you should remember your priorities. You are in school to gain an education so that you are well-prepared and equipped for a future career which can lead towards success. Your current surroundings and social circles will not last forever, so it is important to prepare for the future. Furthermore, having good grades will boost your reputation, cause you to appear intelligent, and perhaps prompt people to seek your assistance.
 Presenting a positive image of yourself online can help you gain people's approval and give them a better idea of your personal identity. Follow your classmates and friends so that they may follow you in return. Post appropriate images that reflect your personality and interests, and be sure to include various pictures so that they are new and unique. For instance, instead of solely posting selfies, try to take pictures of different subjects, such as your pets, delicious meals, friends, and gatherings or outings with your classmates and friends. If you are not comfortable with sharing images of your face, do not feel ashamed, and remember that your comfort is important.


Look at other popular girls' accounts for inspiration. Based on the style of their pictures, what are your first impressions of the person? If you are pleased with their style, think of a way that you can imitate it while remaining as original as possible. Avoid completely copying someone; otherwise, people may label you as a copycat.
If you want to, edit your pictures. However, experience and hours of editing are not necessary, especially since you can simply find a nice filter to enhance your images. Be sure that you keep your editing as light as possible so that your natural beauty shines through, allowing others to see you as you truly are.
Try not to become absorbed by social media or allow your life to revolve around it. Allow yourself to take a break from it, and avoid spending too much time with the camera.
Be careful about who you share your pictures with, as well as what you post. For instance, avoid posting your location or landmarks that will allow people to determine your whereabouts. Furthermore, remember that your pictures represent your personality, affect your reputation, and can be spread by others. Do not allow unknown people to follow you, especially if they do not attend your school.
 A well-balanced, organic diet can help boost your health while leaving space for some treats, such as candy and chips. Protein and calcium are important. Although you should eat what you like, remember to maintain control over your eating habits and avoid frequently consuming high-fat, unhealthy foods. To get a better idea of how you eat, you can start a food diary to mark down your food while planning future meals. If you want, you can also look up healthy recipes to try. To remain fit, be sure to exercise for at least thirty minutes a day. If you have a tight schedule, you can split the time up into three ten-minute sessions. Running, yoga, sports, walking your dog, or dancing are all good ways to remain active.
 Maintain basic habits, such as daily showers, brushing and flossing your teeth, and keeping your face clean with cleanser, toner, and moisturizer.
 Your wardrobe should consist mainly of tank tops, cardigans, jeans, oversized sweaters, leggings, shorts, skirts, and dresses. Make sure you have a good amount of t-shirts too. They don't have to make you look like a model, but they have to make you look good.But make sure its like sexy or hot.
 Wash your face every day with a face wash if necessary. Put a moisturizing face cream on every time you wash your skin. Do not put Vaseline or sticky body cream on your face.
 Popular girls care about their appearance, so to make your fashion or outfit even more cute wear some accessories. Don't be afraid to go for a nice long necklace or maybe even five skinny brackets. Even check in magazines to check the popular trends.
 Cutting it short is cute, or if you want long hair, you can do more things with it. It depends on whether you want it short or long. If you want, get some highlights or colored streaks. Make sure they look good on you. Side bangs and layers are good too. Style your hair in ponytails, updos, braids, and curls. You could also just add a nice headband or clip. Make sure you treat your hair nicely. Shampoo and condition weekly depending on your hair type. Only condition your ends because conditioner can make your roots greasy.{a{fact}}


Hair is a massive part of your look. If your hair is naturally straight, straighten it further so that it is perfectly straight and then see the look of shock on other people's faces when you inform them it's naturally that style! If your hair is naturally curly or wavy, you can enhance that too or straighten it if that is what you want, not changing who you are. At school, carry around with you or have in your locker a giant hairbrush so that you can brush your hair with a minimum amount of strokes at a time, creating the illusion that your hair is always perfect.

