 Make sure to check age limitations. Most clubs are 21+ in some states due to liquor license requirements, but there are many 18+.;
, Once you've found a club, it's important to bring cash with you. Bring a decent amount $40-80 to cover for cover charges, dances, and drinks. Most clubs require a drink purchase every 30-60 mins. While most strip clubs have ATM's, the fee is very high, so bring enough cash with you.
 These women are often very attractive, they know their way around a wallet and will try to convince you that you're the greatest thing since sliced bread. Remember that they are there to work and make as much money as possible, don't take anything personal, the good and the bad.
 It's important to make sure you throw down $1-5 while a girl is on stage. You don't have to do it for every girl, but if you just sit around you will be hounded to buy drinks/food or even asked to leave. So actively participate but within your budget.


Despite what you may have heard, most strippers are not there to have sex with you or date you. It's important that you understand that this is just how they earn money and they don't want to go home with you.
 A lap dance is just a private dance that takes place in a separate room. Most dances cost about $20 plus a $3-5 "DJ" fee. They usually last one song and no you will not get anything extra. It's a dance.
 If you make eye contact with a dancer, they might take that as sign that you are interested, so don't be surprised when they come sit down by you and want to talk. But remember: they're trying to earn money, so if you don't plan on buying a dance let them know so you don't waste each others time.


If you plan on buying a dance from a girl you like, make sure to wait until you're about to leave. If you only buy one and refuse a second (yes, you have to pay again) they will disappear and move on to the next guy.
 Strip clubs are an awesome way to relieve stress or go hangout with friends. Just make sure not to blow your paycheck!

