 Craft stores sell glycerin, which is a soap base, in solid, meltable blocks. If you're feeling ambitious, you can make your own glycerin, but it's easier to buy blocks of clear glycerin, white glycerin, or a different color. Clear glycerin soap always looks a little transparent, no matter what color you choose. In addition to glycerin, you'll need the following supplies:


Essential oils. Craft stores sell essential oils meant for use in glycerin soap. You'll only need a few drops to scent an entire batch of soap, so you can buy a small bottle. Choose lemon verbena oil, rose oil, lavender oil, peppermint oil, or another oil you'd like to use to scent your soap.
Soap molds. Craft stores sell many different types of molds, ranging from very small to very large in size. Be sure to get a type of mold that is usable for glycerin soap, which will pop right out of the mold as soon as it has set.
Rubbing alcohol. If you don't already have some in your medicine cabinet, pick up a bottle at the drugstore. Pour some into a clean spray bottle; you'll need it to remove bubbles from the glycerin before it sets.;
, Place the glycerin pieces in a double boiler, fill the boiler with water, and place it over medium heat. Continue heating the glycerin until it is completely melted.









If you don't have a double boiler, you can make one. Find two pots, a large one and a smaller one that fits inside. Fill the larger pot with a few inches of water. Set the smaller pot inside the larger pot so that it floats on the water. Place the pots on a burner over medium heat. Put the glycerin chunks into the dry, smaller pot and allow them to melt.
You can also melt the glycerin in the microwave. Place the chunks in a microwave safe bowl and heat them in 30 second increments until they are entirely melted.
You can melt the entire block of glycerin or just cut off a little at a time until you've melted an amount that seems suitable for your soap-making project.The finished soaps will have the same mass and volume as the glycerin chunks, they'll just be reformed into pretty shapes.
 Add just a few drops of the oil; since it's so concentrated, a little goes a long way. Use a wooden spoon to stir the drops in until they are thoroughly combined with the glycerin, then remove it from heat.
 Set the molds on a flat surface lined with paper towels. Use the spray bottle full of rubbing alcohol to lightly mist the insides of the soap molds, coating the area where the glycerin will go. The alcohol prevents bubbles from forming in the soap as it cools and dries. If you don't use alcohol, your finished soap may have a layer of bubbles.
 Lift the top of the double boiler and carefully pour the soap into the molds. Fill each mold to its rim. Be careful not to let it overflow, or the soap will come out misshapen.









If the soap is tricky to pour using your double boiler, use a funnel to pour it into a bottle or pitcher with a spout, then transfer the liquid to the soap molds. You'll have to do this quickly, though, so the soap doesn't get too cool before it makes it to the molds.
If necessary, reheat the soap before you pour it. Heat it back up in the double boiler or place it in the microwave for a few more short bursts of heat to make it easier to pour.
 Use the spray bottle to mist the soap after it has been poured into the molds and while it's still in its liquid stage. This way you'll prevent the formation of bubbles on the flat side of the soap, too.
 Let the soaps cool in their molds for an hour or two, until they're completely hard. Invert the soap molds to pop out your brand new glycerin soaps.









Tap the back of the mold gently if the soap does not come out right away.
Store the soaps in an air-tight container until you are ready to use them.

