 Use brown and orange bricks to make the sand. Use homemade or store-bought LEGO palm trees as scenery. Add a few animals and the skeletons of past explorers. Then grab some pirate ships, a merchant vessel, and an old raft (if you don't have any pre-made, just build your own). Use mini-figures as pirates, royalty and rich families, peasants, and stowaways. Add them to the appropriate boats. Pick a destination for each ship, and name the important characters (or just go ahead and name everyone). Decide which way the wind is blowing, head everyone in a certain direction, and begin.


What happens next? When ships spot each other, do they make friends or raid their neighbors boats? Does anyone have cannons to fire? Who is taken hostage? Is anyone shipwrecked? Do the island animals join the fray? How do personalities collide? What about the thunder god who turns the tides of the sea? It's all yours.;
, Build a castle- you can use regular bricks or arches, doors, and special windows. Don't forget secret passages, a moat and drawbridge, the tallest tower, and the dungeons! Stick a few crocodiles in the moat (you can buy them or make them yourself) and grab your mini-figures. Who is going to rule? An emperor? A king? A queen, prince, princess, duke, duchess, or fairy? Or all of the above? Make a royal family. Then grab castle guards and servants.


Something missing? The opposing team, of course! Get horses, chariots, catapults, and everything else you can think of. Then begin. How does the battle play out? Does a wizard arrive and turn everything purple? Is the frog actually the lost prince in disguise? Do mercenaries appear and backstab their friends? Who organizes the jail breaks? Does anyone turn traitor? The stage is yours.
You can also make a medieval village with huts and poor people. Get a duke to bully everyone around and grab some forest animals. Do the people start a revolution? Is the serving maid really a princess? Are the huts actually alive and with chicken legs that carry them all over town?

, The people wake up in a land full of... nothing. No invisible walls, secret passages, or even rocks to stumble on. There isn't even any mist. What do they do? When machines, buildings, and weapons aren't available (with no way to even make them), people become the only source of leverage. Do people pick teams? It's hard to use the landscape to your advantage as there isn't a landscape. But there's more. Is there weather? What happens if someone removes their shoes? Do they disappear, or become the only projectiles?


You can also create a secret overlord. They can be the god of the underworld, a dragon, or just a really, really smart nerd. The overlord can create walls and scenery, mess with the weather, or just plain abduct people and watch panic ensue. Do the people know about the overlord, or is the whole thing just a mystery? And what happens when the overlord swaps people's heads?

, Make the fort of your dreams! Secret passages, look-out towers, and buckets of slime to pour on enemy heads are calling your name. Is your fort a tree house? On the tallest mountain ever? Or floating in the Atlantic ocean?


Try re-creating something that's already been invented. For example, Elsa from Disney's "Frozen" has a pretty neat ice castle you can make using blue and white LEGO bricks. Add arches and staircases. Don't forget the chandelier! You may want to watch some parts of the movie over again to get everything in the right place.
 If you can't afford to buy a set of the Hobbit LEGOs, you can just make them on your own. Study pictures of super stars and play around with legs, torsos, heads, and facial hair (as well as accessories) to make models.


Try to make a LEGO mini-figure that looks like you! You can even dress like your LEGO mini-figure and carry it around in your pocket.
 What happens to them? Do they start wars with each other, or stick together in fear of the unknown? What does the landscape look like? Mountains? Rivers? Valleys? Is it made completely of metal? Is there any gravity? What are the animals like? Do they bite? Speak? Are they part human? Is the ground itself alive, sucking up people one by one? Is there any way to get back to Earth, or is everyone stuck forever? What happened to make this happen? Was it the world itself, or did someone in the group turn traitor and suck everyone here for their own nefarious purposes? You decide.


Or, make it the other way around. People from planet Kslybnnszzcce get sucked here when their wizard makes a mistake. How do they adapt? Do they take over our planet? Are we ever able to send them back where they came from?

, Think of a storyline (it should be brief, like 3 minutes or less) and create your characters. Then use stop-action to move everyone around. Add funny voices and sound effects. Post your video on YouTube, or just keep it as a home movie.


You can also create LEGO scenes by positioning your mini-figures in funny positions. Then snap a picture and add hilarious captions. You can post these photos online or use them as your screensaver.
 They've been sent by someone on Earth trying to take over the world- they'll stop at nothing. The remaining people alive must pool their resources and fight them using... empty toilet paper rolls. Use classic story ideas, but give them an interesting twist to make them even better. Maybe the robots shoot lipstick from their palms, meaning that only teenage girls can survive their blows. It's up to you.
 Using LEGOs. Try playing Monopoly or Clue but with mini-figures of your own invention. You could also make a board game entirely from scratch. The board is made of LEGO bricks, the cards are LEGO platforms drawn on with Sharpie, the dice are made of LEGO's... you get the idea.
 Have everyone pick a team of LEGO people and grab a giant pile of bricks. Let the wars begin! Construct buildings to boost your defense. Scavenge for weapons and tools. Attack people. Use potions to turn invisible. Dress up like a serving girl and sneak into the dungeons to free your friends. Recruit ancient dragons to help you. Anything is possible.


Don't be selfish about hoarding your LEGO's. There are possibilities you've never thought of, things you've never imagined. Your friends and family can give you awesome ideas. Plus, it's lonely playing by yourself.
 LEGOs aren't homework. They're a bridge to another world, a world where you are once again a kid. Forget everything. Don't worry about being "mature" or "sensible". LEGOs are pretty weird and unrealistic anyway. Let your imagination run wild.


One of your LEGO mini-figures has a superpower. They can make sticky notes appear anywhere! Pick something completely random. It doesn't have to make sense.
Having trouble creating villains? They don't have to be human. Try a very angry cat as your villain. Or, you can have a cooking pot be conspiring with a table and a chair- they want to destroy the world!
Try to make everything a joke. Have things be ridiculous. Laugh out loud! Have odd comments or ideas and make everything something to smile about.

