 It might be a little disappointing for your friends who are all going, but if you seriously detest the idea, just ask if you can take it back!


If you cannot take it back, just pretend you're sick on the day of the trip. Say all the hype made you unwell and you can't attend. Just make sure you weren't acting moody when you found out what the trip was really for, or you parents will catch on quickly and send you on the trip.
Be very tenacious if you're not allowed to cut the trip. Go there day after day and spend ages begging firmly to get your name scratched off the list. Make gentle threats and look angry. Don't give up if it doesn't work out after 2 days.
If all else fails, look on to step 2.;
, If it's not the worst thing you've ever seen or it is absolutely impossible to avoid going on the trip, just go on the trip. It will be over before you know it, and at least you'll learn not to sign up for random things in the future!


Don't think about it too much. Chances are, you're not going to die if you go on a trip to a history museum if you dislike history. You shouldn't let this trip occupy your whole sanity even when it's over.
If it's making you angry, look at how to calm down when angry for details. Don't forget, it's completely normal to be angry in a scenario such as this, but don't let it get you down too long.
Distract yourself, if you can't stop yourself from thinking about it. Go window shopping, or watch some of your all-time favourite YouTube videos again and again. You will know if it's working or not because there should be a smile on your face and you should not be thinking of the trip at all.
Just accept the fact that you have to go, and there's no escape. Don't plot anything stupid in your head or you may end up re-enacting it in real life.
 Whether it's an overnight trip or a day trip, you have to pack or risk the morning rush when the last thing you need is to be searching for your packed lunch.


It's better if you pack in advance, whether it's a week before or a day before. By doing it in advance, you'll be able to replicate the smooth actions of people in adverts - all you have to do is pick up your bags and leave to your pick-up point.
Make sure you check what you should bring and what you shouldn't bring. If you were given a letter explaining a brief list of things you should bring, follow that. If not, just think of where you are going and what the weather is like. Don't forget to pack clothing that is appropriate for all weather in case you get caught wearing a sunhat in the rain.
Have a good attitude. Sure, you feel absolutely mortified that you have to go to the most boring place on Earth, but it's not going to ruin your life. Don't think that, if you put on a moody attitude, everyone will take you somewhere exciting just for you. If you have to go, you'll have to lose the attitude.
 Since it will probably take a while, especially if you are going by coach, it's better if you buddy up with someone that won't be shooting you dark looks every five seconds.


If you've already been put in a pair by the teacher, and you're with someone you don't necessarily like, be polite to them at first. When they start annoying you, to the point where they are unbearably annoying, just ask the teacher, "Could I move, please?" The teacher will have to let you move then.
Don't get disappointed straight away if you can't be with your friends. At least once in your lifetime you will be separated from them temporarily. Once again, you won't die if you don't sit with your friends.
Be sensible if you are seated with friends. Don't start going crazy, spread gossip loudly or just act like the coach belongs to you. Not only will you get a lot of remarks, you'll probably be split from your friends and sent to sit somewhere else. Now is not the time to go crazy.
 If you're allowed to go off on your own (with an adult) then listen to them too. Don't be that one kid in class that's always screwing everything up.


Do not complain! Everybody hates people who complain about everything. If you must, write your feelings down in a totally private journal or keep them stored in your head, but whatever you do, don't go round badmouthing the place you're at!
Always follow your group. However fascinating one thing is, you must stick with your group at all times. If you're by yourself, make sure you know exactly where you're going and where you must return. You'll get to see everything eventually, and if at the end of the trip you still haven't, then is the time to speak up.
Take notes of what you should and shouldn't do, if you are very forgetful. It will save you from big trouble.
 Don't go round begging for money from other people, and don't ever, ever steal. By doing this, you will ensure that your experience in the gift shop is as perfect as everyone else's.


As stated above, don't rely on other people to pay for your items. Unless you're absolutely sure you can pay them back, don't say, "I'll pay you back!" If you promise someone that you will pay them back and never return the money you took, people will think you are not trustworthy.
Keep a calculator with you if you're not very good at maths so you can quickly work out the total of things and how much money you'll have left.
Don't test items before you've bought them, unless it states that you have a permission to do so, especially not things like food and jewellery. There's a very decent amount of germs on your body, so don't open packets, or put on lipgloss. There will usually be a tester for you to try out.
