 Locate the TouchDown app icon on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the icon of an envelop with blue and red arrows. Tap to launch the app.


If you don’t have TouchDown yet, you can download it for free from Google Play.;
, A “License Agreement” will pop up the first time the app is launched. Tap “Accept” and on the next pop up, tap “I accept” again.
 Tap “Configure your account” on the screen to begin signing up for TouchDown. Enter your business email in the “Email Address” field, and Exchange password in the “Password” field. Tap “Automatic” at the bottom for TouchDown to automatically search and connect with your Exchange account.


Tap “Manual” to manually set connection details. If you tap this, you will need to provide your Exchange login ID, Domain (if required by your company), email address, password, and company server. Tap “Next” to continue.
Contact the system administrator of your company for permission to access company information; you can also ask them for the company server and domain.
 Ensure that the “Use Secure connections (SSL)” is checked in the Security Settings dialog box that appears. Tap the “Next” button in the bottom right corner of the dialog box to proceed.
 Tap “ActiveSync” in the “Protocols to check for” dialog box that appears. (If you are not sure, then you can check all the checkboxes.) ActiveSync is a data synchronization feature of TouchDown that maintains consistency of applications supported by the app. Tap “Next” at the bottom to proceed.
 Tap “Next” in the “Start Configuration” dialog box that appears after enabling synchronization. Wait for it to finish. Once successful, you’ll receive a “Configuration is successful” message.


Contact your company’s System Administrator if the configuration was unsuccessful.
 Tap the “Next” button in the dialog box to configure the Options for TouchDown. On the next screen, tap the various items you want to configure: Email download size, Email to synchronize, and Calendar Sync Range-Past. A drop-down menu will appear where you can configure the option you selected.


The first option sets the limit for email download size. The latter two options involve setting the period limit for the past emails and calendar data, respectively. The emails and calendar data within this period alone will be available in the mobile app.
Setting a longer period of past data availability under the options “Email to synchronize” and “Calendar Sync Range-Past” may reduce the performance of the app.
 On the app dashboard (main screen), tap the email (envelope) icon at the top left corner. Your email list will appear. Tap on any email to read its contents.
 If the email has attachments, tap the attachments (paper clip) icon at the top right corner to view them. The attachments of that email can be downloaded by tapping on them.
 Tap the funnel icon second from right at the top right corner of the screen. The emails can be filtered based on various categories, such as “All,” “Unread,” “Flagged,” and many more, by selecting the corresponding options.
 Tap “Folder” at the header to see the folders in the mailbox. The folders include Inbox and other custom-made folders.
 Tap and hold a particular email you want to mark or delete. “Mark read,” “Mark unread,” and “Delete” will appear. Select your option to perform them. Individual emails can be tagged accordingly.


Emails marked as unread will appear bold again, while those marked read will be in normal text. Deleted mail will be transferred to the Trash folder.
 Tap the compose icon at the top to start a new email. In the next screen, you can attach a file by tapping on the “Attach file” option down the page. Browse through the phone for the files you want to attach and tap it to upload it to your email.


Enter the recipient in the To field, add a subject in the Subject line, and create your message. Once you’re done, tap “Send.”

, Tap the contacts (smileys) icon at the top of the app main screen. Your account contacts will appear.
 If you’re looking for a particular contact, you can search for it using the search function. Tap the three-line icon at the top left corner to open the app menu, and select “Search.” Enter the keywords and tap the magnifying glass icon to begin the search. The app will return results matching your query; tap the one you’re looking for to access his/her contact details.
 If you want to save an Exchange account contact to your device, open the menu and select “Copy to Phone.” Your list of contacts will appear. Scroll through and tap the contact you want to copy to your phone.
 Open the menu, and select “New.” Provide the information for the contact in the fields provided (i.e., contact name, address, email address, etc.). Tap “Done” to save the new contact and exit the window.
 Tap the calendar icon on the main screen of the app. A list of your scheduled events will appear.
 Tap on any event to read its details.
 Tap the “+” icon on the left top of the Calendar page to create a new event. Enter the event details (name, date, and time) and location in the fields provided. To save the event, tap “Done.”

, TouchDown offers 3 different calendar views that you can change through the menu (three-line icon at the top): Day, Week, and Month. Tap on the view you want to change it.
 Tap the tasks icon next to the contacts icon on the main screen of the app. A list of your tasks will appear. Tap on a task to view its details.
 To help you locate a specific task, you can filter it. Tap the three-line icon at the top of the page, and select “Filter.” The Filter options will appear: “Pending,” “Overdue,” and “Today.” Tap on the filter you want to use, and then tap “Apply” at the bottom.
 Open the menu and select “New.” Enter the name of the task in the “Subject” field. If the task must be completed within a certain date, tap “Bounded,” set the dates in the pop-up, and tap “Set.”


Similarly reminders about the task can also be set by tapping the “Reminder” button below “Bounded.” Enter the reminder description, and when the task information is complete, tap the “Create” button at the top.
 Tap the notes (sheets) icon on the main screen of the app. A list of your existing notes will appear.
 You can scroll through the notes list or use the search function. To use the search function, open the menu (three-line icon) and select “Search.” Enter your keyword and the results will display notes matching your query. Select the correct note and tap it to view its details.
 Tap the “+” symbol on the Notes page to create a new note. Enter your note information into the blank area just as you would on the regular Notes app. When you’re done, just tap the Back key. This will automatically save your note and exit the screen.

