 Using moisturizer can help hydrate your skin and reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, including those around your mouth. For the best results, use skin moisturizer that contains collagen, which can help plump up and repair your skin., Drinking water is one of the most ideal ways to naturally hydrate your skin and reduce fine lines and wrinkles. Increase your daily intake of water, and swap out sodas, coffee, and sugary drinks for water. Coffee and sugary drinks can actually dehydrate your skin further and worsen the appearance of laugh lines.
 Exfoliating can help remove dead skin cells to reveal the healthier, younger skin cells that lie beneath. Exfoliating is also highly effective at reducing fine lines caused by laughing and smiling. Purchase a skin exfoliant for your skin care type, or make your own exfoliant at home using one part coconut oil and one part brown sugar., Primer can help fill in laugh lines and smooth the skin around your mouth and lips prior to putting on foundation or powder. Place a bit of primer on your finger, and use your finger to gently fill in laugh lines prior to applying the rest of your makeup., Sun damage can cause and worsen existing laugh lines. Apply sunscreen or sunblock to your face on a daily basis, spend more time in the shade, and wear a hat to protect your skin and reduce laugh lines.
 Exercise can help reduce and eliminate laugh lines by promoting blood flow to your skin, which in turn, helps produce natural oils and moisture and increases the rate of new cell growth. Engage in aerobic, cardio exercise several times per week in the form of running, hiking, dancing, or swimming., Antioxidants are naturally occurring substances packed with vitamins that can help boost collagen and elastin production in your skin and eliminate fine lines and wrinkles. Examples of foods rich in antioxidants are fruits, vegetables, and green tea.
 Omega-3 fatty acids help eliminate laugh lines by reducing inflammation and naturally boosting the health of your skin. Examples of foods high in omega-3 fatty acids are tuna, salmon, walnuts, and peanut butter., The chemicals present in most brands of tobacco and cigarettes can destroy the collagen and elastin in your skin, and worsen existing laugh lines. Stop smoking as soon as possible to help reduce and eliminate laugh lines and wrinkles., Facial yoga can naturally help your face appear younger by firming up your facial muscles and reducing wrinkles. Stick your tongue out as far as it will go for 60 seconds, then fold your lips into your mouth and smile about 10 times. These facial exercises can help eliminate laugh lines.
 Cosmetic treatments such as dermal fillers, retinol products, laser treatment, and formulas made with botulinum toxin can help reduce and eliminate laugh lines and wrinkles. Consult with your healthcare provider about undergoing one or more of these treatments to get rid of laugh lines for an extended period of time.