 Most retail stores and restaurants have an age requirement, but if you are old enough, getting a part-time or summer job is a great way to easily earn some money, and start to build your resume.


More and more teens are finding part-time work through bussing tables, or working at hotels. These aren’t the most glamorous jobs, but you may have an easier time getting hired.Other retail stores, like teen clothing stores, or places like Best Buy, or Macy’s may also be a good place to look for a job. Go onto the company’s website and look for open positions.
When applying for a job, and especially when interviewing. You want to dress nicely and respectfully, unless you are requested to wear something specific to the interview. If you don’t have a resume, be able to speak about past accomplishments. It’s also always a great idea to have references.
 Another easy way to make money, and sometimes get a nice summer tan, is to be a lifeguard or park manager. Go to your local pool or park and ask if there are any positions available and what you need to do to get hired.


Lifeguards have to have special training and be certified, so if you’re serious about becoming a lifeguard, it’s good to get the right training.
Once you become certified, you may not be guaranteed a job, however. It’s good to find out if your local pool or beach is hiring, or ask your trainer for tips on landing a job.You can also contact your local park district to see if there are any summer park jobs that you can work. Sometimes these consist of overseeing weekly events for kids, or managing sporting events.
 If your parents own a business, you can see if your parents will let you work part-time. This is a good alternative to an allowance and may be easier than finding another job if you have less experience, or are still too young.


Ask if you can help keep the shop clean for an hourly rate.
There might be busy work that needs to get done as well, like filing papers, stuffing envelopes, or even going around town passing out flyers or coupons.
This is also a great opportunity to start building your resume which will help you when it’s time to go out and find other work.

