 If you are experiencing any abdominal pain, unexplained weight loss, or abnormal stools, you should make an appointment to see your doctor. Getting treatment before the condition worsens may help the condition from progressing and can help you sustain a healthier quality of life. If the pain has gone away, you should still go to the doctor, because it is common for pain to come and go with chronic pancreatitis. The absence of pain does not mean that your condition is cured or even better.
If you have extreme pain that makes it difficult to move or that you can’t handle, call emergency services or seek immediate medical attention.
 There are multiple types of imaging tests that your doctor may do to get a picture of your pancreas. These test are mostly noninvasive and don’t require the doctor to make any incisions. These tests may require you to fast or not ingest certain things before they are done, so make sure to ask your doctor what you should do to prepare for these tests.

During a transabdominal ultrasound, a handheld device is moved over your abdomen. It releases sound waves that help create an image of the pancreas and related organs.
When you have an endoscopic ultrasound, the doctor places a thin tube with a light on the end down your throat after numbing it. The tube releases sound waves that create a picture of the pancreas.
During magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), you are injected with dye and then given an MRI, which creates images of the organs in the body.
A computerized tomography (CT) scan is a 3D x-ray of the organs.
 Some doctors may start testing you for pancreas problems by ordering a blood test. In a blood test, your doctor will use a needle syringe to draw blood. The lab will test the blood to check how the kidney and liver are functioning, and look at levels of pancreatic enzymes. Blood tests are not common for diagnosing pancreatitis.The blood test will also check for diabetes. Diabetes often occurs due to chronic pancreatitis.
Blood tests may also check for autoimmune problems that lead to pancreatitis.
 Your doctor may require you to give a stool sample, especially if one of your symptoms is abnormal feces. Using a stool sample, the doctor will test the levels of fat in the feces. High levels of fat may indicate that your body isn’t absorbing the way it should.