 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C). Spray two 9-inch cake pans with baking spray. If you'd like more layers, you can also bake the cake in three 8-inch cake pans. Set the pans aside while you mix the cake batter.If you want to make cupcakes, you can prepare a muffin tin. This recipe will also make 24 chocolate cupcakes made with coconut oil.
 Place 3 cups (375 g) of flour, 2 cups of (450 g) of sugar, 6 tablespoons of cocoa, 2 teaspoons of baking soda, and ½ teaspoon of salt into a large mixing bowl. Whisk the dry ingredients until the mixture is combined.You shouldn't see any pockets of flour or cocoa. Continue whisking until the dry ingredients are a uniform tan color.
 Pour in 2 cups (470 ml) of cold water into the dry ingredients and turn your mixer on low. While the mixer runs, add ¾ cup (155 g) of coconut oil, 2 tablespoons of white vinegar, and 1 tablespoon of vanilla extract. Keep mixing the ingredients until the batter is smooth.Since this recipe doesn't rely on butter or eggs for volume, you don't need to worry about over beating the cake batter.
 Divide the batter among your prepared cake pans. Smooth the tops with an offset spatula and place the cake pans in the preheated oven. If you're using the 9-inch cake pans, bake the cakes for about 30 minutes. If you're using the 8-inch cake pans, bake them for about 25 minutes. Check to see if they're done before removing them from the oven.You can carefully touch the tops of the cakes. They should feel firm and spring back. If your finger leaves an indentation, the cakes need to bake longer. You can also insert a cake tester which should come out clean.
 Remove the baked cakes from the oven and place them on a cooling rack for 15 to 20 minutes. You can then flip them out of the pans and onto the cooling rack to finish cooling completely.Frost the cakes with any kind of frosting or glaze. Just ensure that the cake is completely cool before you frost it or the frosting will slide off or soak into the cake.
