 A soft, lightweight yarn is best for baby booties, such as a #1 super fine or #2 fine yarn.You can find these yarn ratings on the yarn wrapper.


Most craft stores carry special types of yarn for knitting baby projects such as blankets and booties.
Select the yarn type and color that will fit your vision for the booties and that will make the booties feel nice and soft as well.;
, You will need a size G-6 (4 mm) hook to make these booties.The hook size is usually on the hook handle, but you can also get a hook sizer to check your hook size if you are unsure.
 Gauge refers to the number of stitches that is required to make a certain type of yarn reach a specific measurement. The gauge also relies on the needle size. Gauge is important to make sure that the garment you create will be the right size.








The combination of yarn and hook should yield a half double chain of 15 stitches that is about four inches (10 centimeters) long. If your gauge is off, adjust as needed with a lighter or heavier yarn or by changing the size of your hook.
 This chain will be the base of your first bootie. After you have your chain, you can turn back and begin single crochet stitch on the chain. Continue to crochet around the bootie foundation in single crochet stitch for one round.You should have 24 stitches when you finish the first round.
 Then, crochet eight half double stitches followed by five stitches with two half double stitches each. Then return to single half double stitches for the next eight stitches and then do another five stitches with two half double stitches in each one. Join this round with a slip stitch in the top of the beginning round.








You should have 32 stitches at the end of this round.
 Next, crochet 12 half double stitches followed by two stitches with two half double stitches each. Then, crochet single half double stitches for the next 12 stitches and follow these with another two stitches with two half double stitches in each one. Join this round with a slip stitch in the top of the beginning round.








You should have 36 stitches at the end of this round.
 Use half double stitch to crochet around until the end. Only work the back loops for the round. Join the round with a slip stitch.








You should have 36 stitches at the end of this round.
 Use half double stitch to crochet around until the end. Work the stitches through both loops for this round. Join the round with a slip stitch.








You should have 36 stitches at the end of this round.
 Then, half double stitch two together six times and then half double stitch to the end of the round. Join the end with a slip stitch.








You should have 30 stitches at the end of this round.
 Then, half double stitch two stitches together four times. Follow these four stitches with half double stitch to the end of the round. Join the end with a slip stitch.








You should have 26 stitches at the end of this round.
 Follow this by half double stitching two stitches together twice. Then, single crochet until the end of the round and join with a slip stitch.








You should have 24 stitches at the end of this round.
 Follow this with four chain stitches, then skip the next eight stitches. Next, single crochet to the end of the round and join with a slip stitch. Weave in the ends to finish the bootie. You may need to use a yarn needle to do this.








Repeat these steps to create the second bootie.

