 Punk music is a great outlet for frustrations you incur while in your teenage years. The beauty of punk music is that you don’t have to be good at playing music. The classic approach to playing punk is picking out three chords and playing them very fast.


Try picking up the guitar, drums, or bass. Convince your friends to play with you.
Listen to punk music for inspiration like: The Ramones, Sex Pistols, New York Dolls, Minority Threat, The Misfits, and The Fall to name a few.
 Skateboarding culture is very similar to punk rock music and rebellion in general. You skate wherever you want despite what authorities say. Skateboarding is also a good physical release of energy.You’ll get hurt in the process, but that is what skateboarding and rebelling is all about.


You can alternatively pick up a pair of inline skates or even a bmx bike for a similar effect.
 While many might not think of reading as being rebellious, it is. Stimulate your mind and educate yourself by reading thought provoking literature. Learning is power, and you shouldn't rely on the classroom to teach you everything.One of the most classic characters to enact teenage rebellion and angst is Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye by Salinger. Here are some other thought provoking books you should read:


1984 by George Orwell
The Stranger by Albert Camus
Das Kapital by Karl Marx
Candide by Voltaire

, Release your creative side by engaging in an artistic process. Pick up a notepad, pen, and try to create something. If you have trouble drawing something in your head, look at pictures online or from magazines. Once you develop a style you like, try creating stickers with that drawing.


You can pick up a hand full of stickers from the post office and draw your design with a marker. Go around town and stick your work up in public. Don’t get caught by the law!

, While it is not rebellious to get into a relationship, sometimes this type of attention can help your frustrations. Relationships are good outlets for you to share your feelings with. If you are attracted to someone you know, ask them out for a cup of coffee. Even a small coffee date can get a lot off your chest.


Having sexual relationships as a teenager can be considered rebellious. If you do choose to engage in this type of activity, be safe while doing so by wearing protection.