 Get started right out of the gate. Writing isn't a horse race -- you can't really come up from behind. Get right into the action. Especially at the beginning, avoid long and lengthy descriptions.Your reader needs to be pulled into what's going on -- they won't be appeased by your vocabulary or verbosity.


One technique you may want to consider is introducing the experience at the very beginning but holding out on explaining the significance until the end. Your reader's will hopefully be hanging on your every word, waiting for resolution., It's easy in a narrative to get wrapped up in your thoughts and flashback to related circumstances or jump to the end and leave questions unanswered -- after all, you were there; it's hard to know what you know that others don't. Your outline will help you do this.


You are the master of your own narrative, therefore you have all the control and can guide it where you desire. Make sure you're conscious of the fact that you have your entire audience following you, though; don't lead them astray. Have a clear introduction and conclusion.
 All of them. This is where detail gets vivid and good. If you're having trouble describing a person, turn of events, or object, think of your five senses. What do you recall that struck you?


You may want to start a chart on a piece of scratch paper to get your mind rolling. Have a column each for smells, sounds, sights, tastes, and touch. And just because it's something that's normally attributed to one sense (or two), doesn't mean you can't expand. For example, you can see and hear and feel rain, but the sentence "Virginia rain smells different from a California drizzle."is even more evocative. How would sunscreen taste? How do you see your morning cup of coffee? What did the weather that day feel like?

, Much like the descriptive essay, narrative essays are effective when the language is carefully, particularly, and artfully chosen. Use specific language to evoke specific emotions and senses in the reader. Also, keep your audience in mind. A group of sixth graders will appreciate and perceive different things than a group of business professionals.


If your narrator isn't you, be especially careful not to slip into your mannerisms. You may not even know what they are! If you are using a third person that has a definite personality or point of view, make a list of their attributes and how they would "talk." Are they biting? Informal? Crude? Pedantic? Once you know these characteristics, you can monitor your writing for them.

