 Usually, cleaning is a simple matter of removing the filter, spraying it down with a hose, and replacing it.However, you should always follow manufacturer instructions when deciding how and how often to clean your filter.


If you notice your pump leaking or struggling noisily, you probably need to clean it.If your filter has a gauge on it, clean it when the back-pressure reaches four to five pounds.
Failure to clean your filter regularly will result in it working less efficiently, and leave your pond dirty.;
, If you see any, use a rake or a long stick to remove it directly from the water. If you choose to employ this method, you must be vigilant and check the pond on a regular basis.


Remove leaves and debris floating on the water. Most leaves, twigs, seeds, and loose grasses can be removed with a pond skimmer, a kind of long-handled net specifically designed to keep ponds and pools clean. These are readily available at most home care stores.
Clean the bottom of the pond.You can use a pond vacuum or a wet vacuum to clean the bottom. A pond vacuum is a device that allows you to suck up leaves, algae, sludge, and other debris that you don’t want in the bottom of your pond. They are readily available at most home improvement stores.
 If you have fish in your pond, selecting a high-quality fish feed will prevent the growth of algae, as the food will be more fully digested, and your fish will produce less waste. In order to ensure your fish eat all the food they’re given, check for food floating on the surface about twenty minutes after you’re done feeding them.


If you see food bits still floating in the water, you’ll know that you’re overfeeding and should gradually reduce the amount of feed you’re providing to a level where you do not see feed floating on the surface after feeding is complete. Excess food will rot and give algae nutrients it can use to grow.
The type of feed you choose to give your fish depends on the species, though most commercially available feeds are appropriate for multiple species. Talk to the proprietor of your local pet store or your vet if you have questions about what type of feed is best for your fish.
Reduce the amount of feed you give your fish in autumn and winter. During these seasons, their metabolism slows and they’ll require less food.