 This will get rid of any ice crystals and other buildup it acquired while it was frozen. Give it a good rinse under cool running water. Dry it off with a paper towel before proceeding.
 If you don't have the time or inclination to defrost a piece of fish, you can skip the hassle and cook it frozen.Certain cooking methods allow you to turn a piece of frozen fish into a delicious dinner with no intermediary thawing step. Try these methods:



Steaming. Place the fish in an inch or two of broth and slowly steam it. It's healthy, delicious cooking method that results in silky fish, whether you start with fresh or raw fish.

Baking. Brush the fish with olive oil and place it in a roasting pan. Bake the fish until it's no longer opaque and easily flakes apart.
Use a foil packet on the grill. If you really want to grill the fish, brush it with oil and sprinkle it with seasonings, then wrap it up in a foil packet and crimp the edges. Place it on a hot grill. The fish will steam in the packet and taste delicious when it's finished.
Add it to soup or stew. If you have shrimp, mussels or clams that are frozen, you can simply add them to stew or soup that's simmering hot. The seafood will start cooking in the seasoned liquid and be ready to eat within a few minutes.
 Some recipes require that fish be thawed in order to achieve the right texture and cook evenly. For example, grilling frozen fish might cause you to end up with a piece of fish that's overcooked on the outside and cold on the inside. Frying frozen fish might also result in undercooked pieces. Check the recipe you're using and see if it specifies that you must use thawed fish for best results.If you're not sure whether you can cook the fish while it's frozen, it's probably better to defrost it first, just in case.
However, if a recipe specifies that the fish should be thawed, you can still take a risk and cook it frozen. Just add a few minutes to the specified cooking time, and make sure the fish is cooked through before you serve it.

