 Not all donations have to happen after brain-death. In some cases, a living donor can assist a patient with a living donation. Living donors can donate a kidney, portions of a lung, portions of a liver, and portions of an intestine to a transplant patient.
 Organ donations after brain-death can take place when a donor is any age and in any state of health before death. However, living donors often have to be in very good health in order to qualify for the procedure. Living donors also have to be older than 18.Medical conditions that can prevent you from becoming a living donor include:


High blood pressure
Diabetes
Cancer
HIV/AIDS
Infection
Psychiatric or mental conditions
Substance abuse problems

, Donate Life California provides resources for living donors as well as persons on the organ registry. One of these resources is the Living Donation Self-Assessment which can help you determine whether you are healthy and prepared enough to pursue living donation.Visit the following website to begin to determine your eligibility: http://livingdonationcalifornia.org/make-an-informed-decision/assess-your-eligibility/.
 If you have passed initial eligibility checks, a local transplant center will likely get in touch with you about next steps.They will likely ask you a number of questions about your mental health, your reasons for donating, your understanding of the risks involved, your finances, your home situation, and your medical history. They might also provide you with a number of medical tests, such as blood tests, tissue tests, urine tests, psychological screenings, and cancer screenings., Living donation can be expensive, time-consuming, and physically risky. Before committing to living donation, you will have to consider the financial, physical, and psychological impact it might have on you and your family. You also want to be sure that you are donating out of your own free will: not because of outside pressure., Living donation often requires being under anesthesia, which brings a number of serious risks with it such as allergic reaction, infection, or death. Other risks might include blood clots, scarring, injury to surrounding organs, infection, and depression. While these risks are low, they are serious if they occur and can have lifelong effects., Choosing to become a living donor can be expensive. You might have lasting physical symptoms or psychological symptoms that require treatment, and you might have to take a lot of time off of work.Donation might also cause your insurance premiums to increase.Be sure your pocketbook is prepared for donation and that you have a plan in place to fund your care and recovery.


While the costs of the transplant itself will usually be covered by the recipient's health insurance, your aftercare, lodging, meals, and additional therapy might not be covered.Talk to the National Living Donation Assistance group to see if you might qualify for financial assistance to become a living donor.Most donors have to take about 6 weeks off of work in order to recover fully., No matter which transplant center you use, you should be assigned an Independent Donor Advocate (or IDA), who is not associated with the transplant team. Their only job is to advocate for your needs and interests and to answer your questions.Talk to your IDA about any concerns or questions you have. You should be allowed to delay the procedure at any point, and your IDA can help you if you decide to delay or stop the donation process., There are several different kinds of organ donation depending on who the recipient might be. Most living donations occur because of a close personal relationship with the recipient, though some donors choose to help strangers as well.


Directed donation. In a directed donation, a donor names a specific organ recipient. Usually this is a family member or friend.Directed donations among biologically related persons can help the organ recipient have a more successful outcome and reduces the risk of organ rejection.The recipient's transplant center will help determine whether a directed donation is medically possible from a particular donor.

Non-directed donation. In a non-directed donation, a donor decides to donate an organ altruistically, to a total stranger. The donor and recipient might never even meet. In this case, a transplant center will determine who will receive the organ based on medical and tissue compatibility.Paired donation. A paired donation can take place when multiple living donors wish to help their respective family members or friends but cannot due to incompatible blood types. In this case, a transplant center might facilitate a paired donation, in which the transplant recipients "trade" their donors. For example, Living Donor A and Recipient A do not share the same blood type. Living Donor B and Recipient B also do not have the same blood type. However, Living Donor A shares Recipient B's blood type, and Living Donor B shares Recipient A's blood type. In this case, a paired donation will allow each living donor to help a loved one by donating to a stranger who happens to share their blood type.