 On your Windows 10 computer, click Start >> Settings. This will open a new modern settings app with a list of about 9 different settings categories. This simple set of settings is meant to replace the use of the more complicated Control Panel.;
, It should say “Your account, sync settings, work, other users” in a lighter gray underneath it. These are just a preview of some of the options available inside.


On the left-hand side of the window, you should see a series of five different options, but only four options if you are a on a limited user account. The second one down is the one you are going to be looking for. It should say “Sign-in options.” Click this to continue.
 Inside the Settings window, you should now see three different security options on the right-hand side. The second one down should say “PIN.” Click the gray “Add” button to open the PIN Creation window. A new window should appear. Here, you should see two different boxes. The top box is going to be a drop-down list with different email addresses in it.
 Then in the box below, type the full email address you chose above. Click the blue “Next” button to continue.


If you do not see your email address listed, do not select any option, but wait to continue until you speak to the owner or administrator.
 You should now receive an email containing a seven-digit code. Check your email to retrieve the code and enter it in the given field inside the window. When you are done, click the blue “Next” button. If you entered the correct information, you should be able to move to the next step.


If anything should happen, like you close the window after this point, simply go back to the settings sign-in options, and click the gray “Add” button to move on to the next step.
 A blue window should open with two different input fields on it. Enter a 4-digit PIN in the top one, then confirm in the bottom one. After you are done, click the “OK” button to continue. Make sure that you choose a PIN that you are going to remember. This PIN can be used to make signing into different Microsoft services, and changing it later, after you have forgotten it, can make things a little more difficult. Write it down on a Sticky Note and stick it to the bottom of your keyboard, or put it in your phone so that you remember it.


There is a little checkbox inside this window in the bottom left corner that says “Use a 4-digit PIN” to the right of it. If you uncheck this box, you can enter a PIN that is longer than 4-digits. However, remember that this option is supposed to make signing in a little easier, so make sure it isn’t too long.
If at any point you change your mind and would like to change your PIN, you should be able to head back to the Account settings. The “Add” button should now be a “Change” button. Click this and a new window will open. Enter your current PIN in the top input field and your new PIN in the one under it. Confirm your new PIN by entering it one more time in the final box. Click the black “OK” button in the lower right-hand corner, and there you go.
 If you do wind up forgetting the PIN you set up, return to the Accounts Settings menu. There should be an option to the right of the “Change” button that says “I forgot my PIN.” Click this to begin the process of recovering the PIN and or changing it.
 A new little window should pop up asking if you really forgot it. It says this because if you have signed into other social networking sites or financial institutions, you are now going to have to start all over. Click the blue “Continue” button to move on.
 You will now be asked to enter the full password for your Microsoft email address before continuing on. Enter your password and click the blue “Sign in” button to continue.
 A new page should open asking you to enter a new PIN. If you choose to do so, please remember to write it down so that you don’t forget it later.


If you don't want to have a PIN, and would like to simply log in with your regular password, simply hit the gray “Cancel” button.

