 You should know what your parents usually say yes or no to. Compare your request to things your parents have gotten you in the past. Does your current request seem larger than what you usually ask for? Take a look at your financial means and decide how long it would take you to pay for it yourself. Also consider if your request is something you want or something you really need.


Decide if what you want is worth fighting for. A lot of material belongings in childhood and teenage years are passing trends.
Do you want what you want to be able to show it off to other people at school? Do you want this because you think it will be fun and help you personally and mentally?
Answering these questions can help you while you talk to your parents.;
, Pick a time when you know your parents are in a good mood, such as a pay-day or when they feel proud of something they've done. If you choose a bad time, you may frustrate them even more and it will be less likely to get what you want. You could also consider talking to one parent over the other. It helps to have small talks everyday with your parents to keep conversation open.
 Start with a little small talk about how they are doing. Try to bring up the item in an organic manner. For example: if you are trying to get a new dress, begin talking about how old all of your current dresses are. Then you could transition into talking about getting a new dress that fits you better.


If you want something like a videogame, you could start by explaining the game’s premise and how exciting it is.If applicable, explain to your parents how getting the item will benefit them as well as it benefits you.
 Always show your parents that you're a mature kid with good behavior. Don't yell, demand, or argue with them if they seem doubtful at first. Explain calmly what you want and the steps you're willing to take to earn it.The more polite and reasonable you are, the more likely your parents will listen to you.


One way to ensure that you stay well mannered is by taking deep breaths before discussing the matter.
You should also try to go into the discussion knowing that your parents will probably say “no.” This way you won’t lose your cool if they say “no.”

, Don't fold your arms, or slouch. Stand up straight or sit up straight in a chair, and try to smile when appropriate. Even if your parents only pick it up subconsciously, this stance is reassuring and improves your chances of persuading your parents.
 Explain how this is something that may have a positive side or may even help you learn more. Don’t lie to your parents and say that the new Call of Duty contains history lessons.


If you’re asking for the an iPhone, explain how you can facetime with your parents or download educational apps. Explain how your parents will be able to reach you easier., Be firm in a positive way but don't overdo it by being obnoxious. Don't yell, cry, slam doors, sulk, stomp, or complain about their decision.Negotiation will always get you farther than a nasty rebuttal. Tell them you are willing to work for it, and make sure you are sincere. Parents can usually tell when you don't plan to work, so if you aren't prepared to do your part, don't make any promises.


Keep a cheerful demeanor when you're talking to them. You shouldn’t act as though your desire is imperative to your health. You parents aren’t stupid and deserve some respect. Show them a lighthearted attitude.

