 If you're auditioning for a highly technical dance company, the goal of your dance solo may be to present your advanced technical ability. On the other hand, a dance solo for a community event may be geared towards entertaining others.;
, When auditioning for a traditional ballet company, select classical music or a piece that you would commonly dance to in your ballet classes. If you will perform the dance solo at a social or community event, choose music that will appeal to audience members. Some contemporary dances are performed to recitation of words or in the case of a step dance, you would create your own music through clapping and stomping.
 Not all dance pieces must have a theme. Some choreographic pieces are intended to dazzle through high-energy movements or move others through awe-inspiring gracefulness. However, if you are planning to tell a story through movement or convey a concept, define it at the outset.
 Depending on the theme of your dance piece, it may be more powerful to burst onto the stage after the lights are up and the music has started. Alternatively, you might stand on center stage and begin to dance as the lights come up and the music starts.



Tell a story through dance movement. Your story may be about having lost something and the joy of finally finding it. Your movements may mirror specific words in the music lyrics. You might make use of props to tell your story.
Highlight your technical abilities. Each dancer has specific strengths. Some are highly flexible. Others are extremely strong. Some dancers have a combination of these qualities and more. Use the middle section of your dance solo to highlight your technical strengths, without taking away from the main theme of your dance piece.
Use the dance space effectively. Perform your most impressive movements in center stage so they can easily be seen. Avoid performing movements that cannot be seen, such as lying down on a stage that is not elevated. If you are performing on a large stage, use as much of the space as possible.
Consider the dynamics of your dance solo. Take advantage of dramatic changes in the music. Incorporate movements that take you off of the ground in leaps, take you to the floor and back to center stage. To keep the audience's attention, avoid excessive stillness and stagnation in a solo, unless it is done deliberately to convey a story or concept.
 You might end in a dynamic pose on the last beat of the music. The music may end as your graceful movements gradually stop. Or you might dance off the stage as the music fades.
 In a group dance, if you forget the movements, you can follow others. In a dance solo, you don't have this luxury. Repeated rehearsal will help you memorize the dance solo and increase the fluidity and expressiveness of your movements.
 If your dance is to much/little for the occasion, you'll want to know. Make sure you have at least two people to preview your dance, just so you won't embarrass yourself.