 Cut the soap base into ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeter) pieces. This will help the soap melt faster and more evenly.Some types of melt-and-pour soap bases have cutting guidelines, which you can use. Make sure that you are using the melt-and-pour type of soap base, as regular bars of soap from the store won't melt. You can find melt-and-pour soap bases in the craft store and online.


You can also use 12 ounces (340.2 grams) of white glycerin melt-and-pour soap base instead.Melt-and-pour soap is a great way to get started in soap making because you won't be working with lye, which can be dangerous.;
, There are two ways you can do this: in a double-boiler on the stove or in a glass container the microwave. Choose the method that works the best for you, then remove the soap from heat. Keep it in the container you melted it in.


Stove: Assemble a double-boiler. turn the heat on to low. Add the soap to the top bowl. Allow the soap to melt most of the way, stirring occasionally. Take the pot off the stove, then let the soap finish melting.Microwave: heat the soap for 30 seconds. Give it a stir, then heat it for 10 seconds. Stir it once more, then continue heating and stirring at 5 second intervals until the soap has melted., Be sure to scrape the bottom of the pot while you stir. This will help keep things from settling on the bottom., This is not absolutely necessary, but it will help make the soap more nourishing., Stir them in with a spoon until the color of the soap is consistent and no streaks remain. You don't have to add the dye in, but it will help make your soap more pink and reminiscent of calamine lotion.You can also leave out the dye if you prefer.


Make sure that you are using soap making dye. Candle dye and fabric dye are not skin safe, and food coloring can stain.
 Once again, you don't have to do this, but it can make the soap smell nicer. Use a calming fragrance, such as rose or lavender. If this is for a kid, try something associated with the color pink, such as bubblegum or cotton candy.Make sure that fragrance oils meant for soap making. The kind used for making candles are not considered to be skin-safe.You can try using essential oil instead of fragrance oil. Make sure that it is skin-safe as not all essential oils are.
 You can use a round or square PVC mold. You can also use individual soap molds as well. If you use a round or square mold, you will need to slice the soap into smaller bars after it dries.For a more unique mold, cut off the bottom 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) of six water bottles, and use that instead.If the mixture forms bubbles, spray the surface with rubbing alcohol. This will make the bubbles disappear., This will take 30 minutes if you are using several small molds. It may take up to several hours if you are using one big mold., Simply turn the mold over, and pop the soap out. You may have to wiggle the sides to loosen the soap. If you used a large mold, such as a round or square PVC mold, you will need to slice the soap into smaller bars. You should be able to make 3 to 4 bars.Once you pop the soap out of the molds, it is ready to use!


If you used plastic water bottles as molds, you'll need to cut the bottles apart with a craft blade, then slide the soap out.