 If you suspect you have a stress fracture, you will want to visit with your doctor. Your doctor will be able to confirm the fracture, where it is, and how best to treat it. Before you go to your appointment, take note of the following:Any pain in an area that increases with activity.
Where the pain is located.
How intense the pain is.
If rest makes the pain in that area subside.;
, Your doctor will have some questions to ask you in order to learn more about your possible fracture. Knowing what to expect can help you answer as clearly as you can, which will allow your doctor to best treat your fracture.You should know when you first noticed symptoms.
You may be asked about any activities or sports that you play or are involved in. Let your doctor know about any increase in these activities.
Your doctor may ask you about any previous broken bones or injuries to that area.
Prepare a list of any medications you are currently taking.
Be ready to inform your doctor of any other health issues or conditions you have.
 Since stress fractures are smaller than acute fractures, your doctor will need to perform specialized tests to detect the stress fracture. Beyond the general physical examination, your doctor may want to perform the following examination techniques:X-rays may be ordered if your doctor feels that it may reveal the stress fracture. However, since stress fractures are often small, they may not show up in an X-ray until weeks after the injury.
Bone scans may be used to locate the area of the injury. These scans use radioactive material which is introduced to the body via an intravenous injection. The radioactive material is highly visible during the scan, and shows which part of the bone is injured.
MRI makes use of magnetic fields and radio waves to get a clear image of both bones and soft tissue. This method is also able to detect the injury much sooner than the others, usually within the first week.
 There are a few steps you can take at home to help your stress fracture heal more quickly. This should be used in conjunction with whatever instructions your doctor may have provided.Try to keep the affected area elevated. This will help reduce any swelling, inflammation, and pain.
If swelling is persistent, you can also try applying ice to the area.
Try not to make use of the area with the fracture. If your fracture is in a body part that you often use, such as a foot or hand, try to avoid using it more than necessary.
If your fracture is located in a foot or leg bone, your doctor may prescribe crutches.
 There are many different types of pain reducing medications available. However, they vary in strength and side effects, so you will need to find one that works best for your level of pain. Ask your doctor to help you make the best choice.Over-the-counter pain medications can help with a wide range of pain types. These include acetaminophen, NSAIDs, aspirin, naproxen, and ibuprofen.
There is some controversy regarding the use of NSAIDs. While they can reduce pain, they may also slow healing.If your pain is not manageable with "over the counter" medications, ask your doctor for a stronger prescription.
 R.I.C.E. stands for rest, ice, compression, and elevation. Using each step in the R.I.C.E. method can help reduce pain and swelling to area affected by the stress fracture. R.I.C.E. is used during the first two days of sustaining the injury.


Rest the wounded area as much as you can. Keep weight off the injury to prevent further damage or a slower healing rate. If the injury is serious enough you may need crutches or a cast.
Apply ice to the injured area. Never apply ice directly to the skin, always wrap it in cloth. Apply the ice for up to twenty minutes and then remove. Applying ice for too long can cause frostbite or injury.
Compression will help prevent swelling in the injured area. There are some bandages and special tapes that can be used for compression. However, do not apply these too tightly, as it will cause circulation to be cut off.
Elevation is the final method to help reduce swelling in the injured area. If you can, elevate the affected area above the heart. This allows blood to return to the heart more easily and keeps blood circulating.
 After your initial visit, you will have to return to your doctor for a check-up to determine how well your fracture is healing. Even if it begins to feel better, you should still visit to help ensure that everything healed correctly.Talk with your doctor about how your fracture is healing.
Ask your doctor when you can stop using anything they may have prescribed, such as crutches or medications.
Your doctor should be able to tell you when you can resume normal activities.
Call your doctor sooner if you notice any increase in pain.

