 Use an electric hand mixer or stand mixer to beat the cream cheese, using medium speed, until it reaches a light, fluffy consistency.;
, Add these three ingredients to the bowl. Stir the ingredients into the cream cheese using a spoon, only mixing them well enough to evenly spread each one throughout the cream cheese.
 To make things easier, you should only work with a few wontons at a time, but you should continue filling the wrappers until all of the filling is gone.
 In order for the wrapper to stick together, they need to be slightly moist. Do not soak the entire wrapper, though. Instead, just wet the tip of your finger with a little water and gently rub your wet finger along the edges of the wrapper.
 Put anywhere from 1 tsp to 1 Tbsp (5 to 15 ml) of filling onto each wrapper, depending on how large the wonton wrappers are. The wrappers should be well filled, but you should also have enough empty wrapper to fold and seal it up.
 Fold one corner over the middle of the wrapper until it meets the corner diagonally opposite from it. Press the corners together.
 There should be two open edges of the wrapper. Gently press along these edges with your finger to seal them.
 Bring one corner over to the corner diagonally opposite from it. Press the corners together to seal, and press the sides together to seal, as well.
 Fold the two corners at the base of the triangle together, over the filling, and seal them together. You may need to wet the corners again to accomplish this. The end result should be what appears to be a little pocket or "boat" of filling.
 Fold two corners that are next to each other up so that they meet in the center of the wrapper, which should also be the center of the filling blob. Press the corners to seal together, and press along the edges that have met together.
 Press the corner into the other two joined corners and press the side of the wrapper together where the edge of the new fold meets the edge of the previous fold.
 Press and seal the corner into the other corners before pressing and sealing together the remaining open sides. You should be left with a completely sealed pouch.
 Working from the middle of each side rather than the corner, bring two sides that are next to each other up and over the center of the wrapper and the center of the filling. Press the middle of both sides together.
 Again working from the middle of each edge, bring the sides up and over the filling to the center point of the wrapper, where the other two sides have already been sealed. Press the center of each edge into this point, sealing all four sides together. You should be left with a shape that looks like an "X" with slightly open corners.
 You should fill the pot with at least 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of oil. Heat the oil over medium to medium-high heat until it reaches a temperature between 350 and 375 degrees Fahrenheit (177 and 191 degrees Celsius).


You can check the temperature of the oil by using a candy thermometer. If you use a thermometer that can be attached to the side of the pot, you can monitor the temperature of the oil throughout the entire cooking process.
 Only add about six to seven rangoon to the oil at once. If you are not used to deep frying foods, you may even want to start out with three or four at once. You need to make sure that you leave plenty of room to prevent the rangoon from sticking together or frying incompletely. You also need plenty of room to be able to fish them out of the oil.
 The crab rangoon should turn golden brown and should be floating at the surface. Use a deep fryer scoop or ladle with draining holes to fish each rangoon out. In the absence of this tool, use metal tongs.
 Placing them on paper towels will drain off excess oil.
 Wait a few minutes after pulling the rangoon out of the oil to prevent them from being scalding hot, but serve them shortly thereafter.

