 Walk your horse out to a level area for mounting. Make sure they aren’t cramped, as horses can get claustrophobic easily, making mounting more difficult. Traditionally, mounting occurs on the left side of a horse, but a well trained horse and balanced rider will be able to mount from either side.


It is important to be able to mount from both the right and the left, should you be in a dangerous situation (such as on a trail ride along a cliff edge) which requires you to quickly mount from a side you’re not necessarily used to.;
, The girth should be tight, but you should be able to fit two fingers between the girth and the horse's side. Riding with a loose or tight girth is dangerous for you and your horse, and trying to mount a horse with a loose girth can land you and the saddle on the ground. It's very important to check your horse's girth before mounting.
 Although you can adjust the length of your stirrups from the horse’s back, it’s much easier to do so before mounting. To get a relatively accurate gauge of your stirrup length, pull out the leathers/stirrup towards your torso. Place your hand on the saddle, so your arm is perpendicular to your torso. Adjust the stirrups so that they reach they length of your arm, extending till just about your armpit.


This method gives you a good foundation length, which can then be adjusted by a friend or yourself when in the saddle.
 Make sure the horse is paying attention to you, and isn’t trying to walk off. Put the reins over his head so they'll be in the correct position when you mount, and hold on to them to keep him still while you mount. If you're a beginner, ask a friend to hold your horse for you while you mount.
 Although it is not required, a mounting block can make reaching the stirrups a bit easier. Repeatedly mounting without a block puts a lot of strain on one side of your horse's back, so using a mounting block can help reduce that strain and protect their back. If you have a mounting block, move it so that it is just under the stirrup you will use to mount up with.