 Since Hepatitis C is a disease of the liver, some of its earliest and most prominent signs indicate a lack of liver function. Urine that is especially dark in color may indicate your liver is not filtering out bilirubin properly.Dark urine means colors that range from orange, amber, brown, or even cola-colored urine.
There are other things that can cause discoloration in urine such as certain vitamins in large amounts, medications, a kidney infection or even dehydration. If you notice a consistent change over the course of many days in your urine color and your medication or vitamin intake hasn't changed, make sure to get checked out by a doctor to understand the cause.;
, Jaundice is a yellowing of the skin. It is most commonly seen in parts of the body like face, fingers, and a yellowing of the whites of eyes. Much like darkly colored urine, jaundice is caused by a concentration of bilirubin, indicating that the body is not properly filtering. Since Hepatitis C is a liver disease, it can directly affect the liver's normal function of filtering bilirubin. If you notice your skin yellowing, you should quickly have your blood checked to make sure you do not have too much bilirubin in your body.Just like dark-colored urine, there are more benign explanations, such as Gilbert's Disease, an inherited condition with no associated complications.
 Clay-colored stool can indicate there is a biliary system issue, the liver being a major culprit. The liver typically releases bile salts into your stool, giving it the normal brownish color. When stool does not turn brownish and remains pale, this indicates a problem that may be affecting the release of bile.


This is particularly important if you notice this in conjunction with other symptoms, such as jaundice and/or dark colored urine.
 Although this can many times just be the flu or a common sickness, it can also be an indication that your body is in the early stages of fighting off Hepatitis C. If you notice symptoms such as mild fever, fatigue, vomiting and a loss of appetite accompanied with any indication of liver malfunction, this can be an early sign of the disease. Even if it is just an ordinary sickness, a doctor will be able to run simple tests to narrow down what's making you feel ill.


Other common symptoms include fatigue (the most common complaint), nausea, loss of appetite, muscle pain, weakness and weight loss.
Several non-liver related conditions are associated with chronic hepatitis C infection, including diabetes mellitus, autoimmune disorders and kidney disease.
 As many as 70 – 80% of those who contract the disease may be asymptomatic. This early phase, known as the acute phase of Hepatitis C, is often mild and can go unnoticed. It may just seem like a common ailment, with nothing too serious developing., Over time symptoms of Hepatitis C can become severe. The development of cirrhosis is a common progression of Hepatitis C. This is when the liver becomes so scarred and hardened by the disease it is no longer able to heal itself. The most common symptoms of cirrhosis is fluid retention in the abdominal area, jaundice, and even abnormal bleeding, particularly in the stomach or esophagus. By the time these symptoms take hold, urgent medical care is needed.Between five and 30% of patients with chronic hepatitis C go on to develop cirrhosis over a 20 – 30 year time span.
In the later stages of Hepatitis C, full on liver failure may take hold. This may also bring on mental symptoms like confusion. Sometimes a liver transplant may be needed but recurrence of the disease is common., You will want to make an appointment with a primary healthcare provider who can move forward with testing, whether you're in the early or latter stages of the disease. They may refer you to a specialist in liver disease, infectious diseases, or a specialist in stomach and intestinal problems.