 Likewise, if you see tiny crab limbs scattered about a crab’s tank, do not purchase it. This is a sign that the crab is stressed and vulnerable to other illnesses.


Do not obtain crabs that have a musty smell. This indicates they are overheating.Crabs that are active and moving about, and do not exhibit any of the above negative qualities, are probably in good health.;
, Crabs should be housed in an environment where they can dig in the sand, move around, and hide. Do not buy crabs that are crammed in tiny individual cages where they cannot move.Ask what kind of water the crabs have access to. Crabs need both fresh water and salt water, and should have one bowl with each. Crabs that are in tanks with tap water, however, will be slowly poisoned over time.
Do not obtain crabs that are housed in tanks with flies and other bugs buzzing about.
 Buying a hermit crab only fuels the cruel hermit crab trade that profits from their capture and sale. Instead of buying a hermie, try adoption. The Hermit Crab Association (HCA) connects sanctuaries and crab rescue agencies with people who want to care for a hermit crab.You need not be an HCA member to adopt a crab, but you may need to pay a small fee for the adoption service.


Send an email to adoptions@hermitcrabassociation.com expressing your interest in adopting a hermit crab for more information.
In your email, include your location and how far you would be willing to travel to obtain your crab.
 They are living creatures with particular preferences and needs. Over the long term, they can also be expensive. You’ll need $300-$500 in setup costs alone, including a tank filter, companion crabs, and so on.


Hermies can live up to 40 years. Ask yourself if you’re willing to care for your crab that long.
Think carefully before purchasing a hermie for a child. Children tend to lose interest quickly in hermit crabs since they have a tendency to hide under their tank’s substrate for weeks at a time.
 Pet shops care only about getting the crabs to the store, no matter what condition they are in, since consumers are often not equipped to evaluate the health of a crab based on how it looks.
 This can cause the crab tremendous stress. Crabs in painted shells are also at risk for being poisoned if they eat paint chips from their painted shells. If the paint inside the shell didn’t dry properly before the crab was jammed into it, the crab might be trapped when the paint dries against it.

