 For each serving of tea you plan on making, pick 7-10 peppermint leaves from the stem of the plant. Try to pick leaves that are green and unblemished. If you bought a bunch of pre-cut peppermint stems, choose the healthiest looking leaves to pick off., Give the peppermint leaves a good rinse under the faucet. Even if you picked the peppermint from your own garden, you still want to make sure to wash off any dirt or impurities from the leaves., Use your hands to crush the peppermint by rubbing the leaves in between your fingers. Crushing the peppermint helps to release the flavor and aroma of the herb.You can also use the back of a spoon to lightly press and rub the leaves.
If you have a mortar and pestle, use the pestle to very lightly crush the leaves.
Makes sure not to overdo it when you crush the leaves. The leaves should look crumpled and slightly greener, not mashed to bits.
 Put the freshly crushed peppermint leaves into a mug. For every serving of tea, place 7-10 leaves in the mug, depending on how strong you like the tea., Boil water in an electric kettle, a stove top kettle, or a pot on the stove. Wait for the water to boil, then turn off the heat and take the kettle or pot off the heat source.
 Instead of pouring the boiling water into your mug, wait a couple minutes for the water to cool slightly. Like other herbal teas, peppermint tea is better when brewed in hot, but not boiling, water., After you have let the water cool for a few minutes, carefully pour the water over the peppermint leaves. Make sure that all the leaves are submerged in the water, then cover the mug., If you prefer mild tea, steep for 7 minutes. If you prefer strong tea with a robust peppermint flavor, leave the peppermint in for the full 12 minutes.
 After the tea has finished steeping, remove the leaves. You can take them out either by fishing them out with a spoon, or by straining the tea into another mug so that all the leaves get caught in the strainer.
 Your tea is now ready! If you like putting extras in your tea like honey, milk or lemon, add them right after straining. Otherwise, enjoy your fresh cup of peppermint tea!

