 If nothing else works, you may consider limiting or ending your friendship. Letting go of a friendship is a serious decision. Think carefully about your friendship and whether it is worth holding onto, or if you need time away from them.You and your friend might just be going through a rough patch. Has your friend always been the one-upping type? If not, they might be struggling in their personal life. Postpone ending the friendship until you know what's going on.
Face the tough questions. How do you feel when you're around them? Does this person bring out your best, or your worst? Do you care about them, and do they care about you?

, If you don't want to be friends anymore, temporarily separate yourself from them.Think about how you feel. Do you feel better or worse? Do you miss them? How do you want to proceed?


Let your friend know. Tell them the purpose and duration of your break, and answer any questions they have. If you ignore them for seemingly no reason, they may feel confused.Wording this conversation can be hard. Say something like, "Kelsie, I appreciate our friendship but think we might need some space. I need time to cool down and think about our friendship. Could we take a break from each other for a few days? If you have questions, I'd be happy to answer them."



, After your break, return to the decision with a clear head. If you felt happier during your separation, ending the friendship might be best.


Don't ignore the person. You don't have to engage with them, but they still deserve basic respect.Tell them your decision. If you avoid them with seemingly no reason, they may feel hurt. Keep their feelings in mind, and avoid insulting them.

You might say, for example, "Robin, I've appreciated your friendship but think it might be best if we spend less time together. When you brag, I feel like you don't care about me. I know we talked about this in the past, but I don't think either of us changed after we talked. You are a great person, but I think we might not work well together. I think it would be a good idea if we spend less time around each other. Is that alright?"



, When you've been hurt by a friend, painful feelings might linger. You may feel anger, grief, or a deep sense of loss. In the case of painful relationships, distance is the best medicine. Do whatever you must to move on.Block their number and avoid spending time around them.


If your old friend persistently contacts you, do not respond more than necessary. Be polite, but avoid falling into old habits.
Do not react if they insult you in-person or through social media. Instead, let a close friend know, and tell a trusted adult if you are underage. They can help you deal with the situation.
Your friend might realize how their behavior affects others and apologize later. It's up to you whether you want to rekindle the relationship: don't let them pressure you into it if you're not ready.

