 It is easy for autistic people to become stressed or overwhelmed, so creating quiet places can help them stay calm.


When they are looking for a place to sit, suggest one with minimal distractions (e.g. facing away from a noisy kitchen)
Move conversations to quiet places

Designate an area where the autistic person can retreat during stress, and fill it with calming things;
, Autistic people may have a hard time with unexpected changes in day-to-day life. Routines can support their sense of stability. When changes are made to those routines, the whole day can be completely thrown off, leading to confusion, fear, anger, or a meltdown. Here are some tips to keep things stable:Help them create a schedule. Time slots can be used to designate what activities will happen during each part of the day.
Maintain a visual calendar. Place it in a prominent and accessible location, such as a wall in the family room.
Illustrations (clip art or drawings) can make the calendar look more friendly and appealing

, To prepare your loved one for this change, you should try to plan the event with them so they know it is comingFor example, a dentist's appointment may change your loved one's schedule. Put this event on your loved one’s calendar and discuss it with them ahead of time. While they might not be happy about her schedule being changed, they will at least be prepared.
Try to place activities at specific time slots. For example, if they have math meets on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 3:00, plan something else at 3:00 (e.g. a family hike) so that they will always have some sort of activity at the time.
 After a busy day at school, a social event, an appointment, or an outing, an autistic person is likely to feel tired. Time spent doing quiet activities (reading, playing, special interests) will help them recharge and stay balanced.


Remember that your idea of relaxation may not match their idea of relaxation.
During a schedule change, try to schedule something positive after the stressful change. For example, after a doctor appointment, let your son have free time until supper.
 Autistic people often struggle with Sensory Processing Disorder, a neurological disorder in which sensory input that feels normal to other people may feel distracting, intensely uncomfortable, or even painful to the individual. Understand that these sensitivities cannot be ignored or willed away, and cause real distress.


Communicate with your loved one about the stimuli. Notice what causes discomfort, or ask. They may potentially be able to express discomfort, or give you clues. Pinpoint what the issues are, and try to find ways around them.
For example, if your teenage sister cannot handle the sharp taste of toothpaste, try helping her pick out a milder flavor (e.g. children's bubble gum) toothpaste at the store.
 Some autism therapies, particularly behavior modification like ABA, can lead to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder if they are done wrong.Some therapies are designed to break the patient's will, or force them to act "normal."This can be very emotionally damaging.


Avoid experimental or compliance-based therapy.
The autistic person should be able to say "no" and take breaks.
Therapy should not involve crying, screaming, violence, or pleading for help.
If you suspect that a therapy is overwhelming, frightening, or painful, stop it.If you are not an adult, tell an adult, or report it to the authorities.
 Exercise can provide an outlet for excess energy (if they constantly need to stim), can introduce them to sensory stimuli in a safe and controllable way, and can improve their mood and sense of security. Find an activity they like, and stick with it.


Autistic people may do better in individual sports, or in non-competitive environments. Even taking regular walks can be good for your loved one.
 Special interests can offer a refuge to autistic people, develop important skills (for example, a young writer will learn to take critique), and possibly lead to a satisfying hobby or career. It also encourages the autistic person to be themselves.



Choose toys related to the interest
Discuss their interest for a comfortable time period, e.g. during a car ride (You can also model reciprocal conversation by asking questions)
Help them learn more via library books
Suggest that they join clubs and activities related to the interest, since socializing may be less threatening if they like the conversation topic

, Knowing your loved one's triggers can help you identify a potentially overwhelming situation, and defuse it before stress reaches the boiling point. Consider keeping a record of meltdown triggers to help future prevention.


For example, going to a restaurant can be very chaotic for a child. Sometimes removing her from the environment for a few minutes is enough to help them stay relaxed.
 Meltdowns are the result of stress buildup in autistic people, and the best treatment is prevention. Here are ways to notice when a meltdown may be coming:Frustration
Having too many verbal instructions given to them at one time.
Witnessing injustice
Painful/overwhelming stimuli
Changes in routine
Not being able to understand or communicate effectively

, Your loved one may not realize how badly stress is building up, or may be unable to communicate it. Remove any stressors, and ask what is bothering them.


Take them outside for a break.
Get them away from crowds or other stressors.
Avoid placing demands on them. If other people are doing so, ask them to give the autistic person a break.
 Autistic people are used to being told that their needs are over-the-top or burdensome, so if they ask for something to change, it's probably causing them real pain or distress.


Don't hold their needs hostage. Even if they don't use their words or say please properly, assume that it is urgent. You can coach them on proper delivery when they aren't on the verge of tears.
 Try bringing them outdoors, or leading them to their calming down corner. This will give them a chance to relax where they aren't surrounded by people and stimuli.
 Never shout at or blame them for a meltdown. They often feel deeply ashamed and embarrassed about losing control, and making them feel worse will only make it more difficult to calm down.Avoid crowds or staring people. Ask them to stop it, or get the autistic person somewhere less public.
 Stimming (aka self-stimulatory behavior) is a way to stimulate the senses, and it can be extremely calming for autistic people. Examples include rocking, hand flapping, jumping, and fidgeting. Here are some ways to encourage the autistic person to stim:


Offer a rocking chair (if available)
Bring their favorite stim toys and/or a weighted blanket.
Ask about a stim that they like to use for self-calming (e.g. "Do you want to flap your arms?")
Offer a bear hug
Do not judge them for looking unusual, and if anyone else objects to the autistic person's self-calming efforts, use your words or a sharp stare to let them know that this is unacceptable

, Encourage an honest, constructive conversation. Focus on the triggers, and what they (and you!) could do to avoid similar situations in the future.


If a crowded store sends your daughter into tears, try planning the trip when the store will be less crowded, bringing earplugs and stim toys, or letting her stay at home.
If news of a violent attack triggered a meltdown in your brother, suggest to your parents that they not leave the news on at night, and help him with relaxation exercises.
 Autistic body language can be different from non-autistic body language, and autistic people may not always realize what an expression or gesture means.Don't expect eye contact. Autistic people often pay attention better when they don't have to look at people's eyes.
Expect fidgeting and unusual movements.
Learn your loved one's baseline, and what their unique body language means.
 Due to this confusion about body language, an autistic person will more than likely not produce body language that matches the way she is feeling. This is also the case with tone. Because of this, it is important to remind yourself not to read into or be offended by any rude tone or body language that is directed at you.For example, your loved one’s tone may seem short and rude, yet they may be in a fantastic mood.

Watching their stims may offer cues. For example, if a boy only flaps his hands when he is happy, then this is probably a reliable sign that nothing is actually wrong.
Even if they are upset, it may not be your fault. For example, a barking dog may have been putting them on edge all day.
 This means that while the autistic person is fully capable of understanding language, it may be hard for their brain to translate spoken words to their meanings as quickly as you can. Gauge their reaction to verbal instructions or long lists.They may need written instructions, or she may just require more processing time before responding.


They may be unable to remember spoken lists, and need written and/or illustrated lists as well.
Give them time to think and process. They may be slower to respond.
They may be better at reading and writing than at handling spoken conversation.
 Your loved one may have a hard time communicating in busy places where there is a lot of noise. In places where multiple people are talking, your loved one may become stressed and overwhelmed. Instead, communicate with them in calm environments where little is going on.


If a room is crowded, move elsewhere.
Try using AAC if you cannot move (e.g. sign language, picture charts, or typing).
 Focus training is a training course the can help your loved one to develop strategies for interactions with other people. This type of training teaches individuals how to understand thoughts and feelings. Focus training is generally done in a group setting, though it can also be done in an individual session. During the therapy, your loved one will hopefully develop strategies for emotional regulation, conversational skills, problem solving, and friendship skills.Relationship Development Intervention (RDI) is a popular form.
Not all social skills groups teach useful skills. For example, if your gay teen's social skills group focuses on heteronormativity, this is not helpful.
 According to the "Intense World" theory of autism, the world can quickly become frightening or overwhelming to autistic people, and they may need extra support in learning to handle it.These exercises may include:


Practicing deep breathing
Counting to feel calm
Holding a favorite toy or item until she feels better
Certain stims
Yoga, meditation, or stretching
Taking a break with music or singing

, Phrases such as "I need a break, please" or "May I go to my corner?" can be particularly useful. Avoiding meltdowns becomes easier once your loved one can identify their own triggers and ask for help in taking action.


Reinforce this behavior by immediately honoring the request.
If they are just learning how to do this, thank them for speaking up. "Thank you for letting me know that the loud noise hurt your ears! Now I can help you find earplugs, and you can wait outside with your brother while I check out."

, Fictional examples can help autistic people understand how others feel, and why they feel that way. It allows autistic people to analyze emotion from a safer distance.


If the child does not understand basic expressions, try teaching them with flash cards.Ask "How do you think this character is feeling right now?" during books or movies. Offer suggestions if the person isn't sure.
Also try social skills: "Do you think it was a good idea for her to do that? No? What would be a good idea?"
Look for shows that are a mix of fun and education, such as My Little Pony.
 Recognize that your loved one is never going to be the life of the party, and that is all right. Focus on what they want to do: perhaps they want to make two close friends, or have someone to play with at recess. Tailor social skills to their desires, not just your own.
 Autistic children may be incredibly passionate about their interests, and thus may not always notice when they are monopolizing the conversation, or realize that their partner wants to change the subject. Teach your child how to:


Ask questions to engage others ("How was work today, Mommy?")
Tell whether someone is busy
Gauge whether someone is interested
Let the conversation shift organically
Listen
Know when monologuing is a good idea (e.g. when someone wants to learn about their subject of interest)

, Remember, the autistic person is constantly learning and growing, and you are one of their role models. Behave in the way that you want them to behave, and they will take after you.



Genuinely listen to the autistic person, and ask questions.
When frustrated or exhausted, act the way you would like the autistic person to act. Take a break if need be. (It's okay!)

Demonstrate compassion. Never do something to an autistic person that you wouldn't do to a non-autistic person.
Treat their feelings as meaningful and valid.
 Autistic people are at higher risk for anxiety and depression, which may mean lower self-esteem. Bolster their self-esteem by recognizing their good qualities, and praising their efforts to grow. Make it clear that you are proud of them.


Praise can come in the form of kind words, hugs, time spent together, or extra free time.
While praise is good, do not treat praise as an ultimate goal. If a person becomes dependent on praise, they may become a people-pleaser, and be unable to set boundaries.
 Autistic people need to learn how to stand up for themselves, assert their needs, and say "no" when they don't want something. This is especially important, since they are at a higher risk for being abused.Allow them to refuse things. ("I don't want that sweater. It hurts!")
Praise them for expressing their needs. ("Thank you for letting me know the music is too loud. I'll turn it down right away.")
Give them choices and encourage thinking.
Avoid compliance therapies, which can hinder their ability to say no.
When your loved one says "no," listen. What's wrong? If something is unavoidable, can you remove the part that makes it distasteful, or strike a bargain that they are happy with? Only ignore a "no" in important cases of health or safety.
Teens and adults may gain skills through self-advocacy groups such as ASAN or the Autism Women's Network. (However, be careful about introducing them to such groups if they are sensitive, since the issues of hatred,abusive therapy,and torturemay disrupt their sleep.)

, Autism has a wide range of aspects that vary from person to person. Since autism is a developmental disability, communication and social skills tend to be a challenge. Specific symptoms vary.Autism is not a linear spectrum from "mild" to "severe." It impacts many different areas in different ways. For example, maybe your friend is funny and great at cheering people up, and has serious difficulty with self-care and sensory processing. An autistic person can be strong in one area and weak in another.
 It is important to understand your loved one's symptoms. Once you understand where the challenges lie, you can target those areas. Find out what strengths your loved one has, and what challenges they face. All of these components are important when choosing treatment options and coping mechanisms.
 It is good to know the general signs, and what autistic people think about autism. (Autistic-run organizations and blogs are usually good sources.) Here are a few signs of autism:Motor skills may be delayed
Difficulty understanding and interacting with others
Difficulty grasping abstract uses of language (e.g. sarcasm, metaphors)
Special interests that are unusual in terms of focus and passion
Over- or under-sensitivity to various stimuli (sounds, sights, smells, etc.)
Difficulty with self care
Repetitive behavior, notably stimming


, One autistic person might want to focus on developing the self-care skills to live on her own, while another might want to make friends. Others might be perfectly fine with living in assisted living, or not making more friends. Recognize that your idea of the ideal lifestyle might differ from their idea, and it's most important that they are able to be happy.
 Autistic people are not embarrassing, broken, or deficient—simply different. Instead of saying "I'll finally be happy when my loved one _____," practice being happy now, and embarking on your journey together. Demonstrate unconditional love, so they can love themselves.

