 Dinner is the largest meal in New Zealand, and family and friends will come together to enjoy the meal you’ve prepared. Try a curry, a stir fry, or a classic New Zealand barbecue.Spend all day preparing a big meal, and invite lots of people to come together and eat. Try your hand at whitebait fritters, pavlova or make fruit salad featuring kiwi fruit and feijoa.
 If it’s raining outside, you might not have the option to go to one of New Zealand’s beautiful natural places. Many TV shows on New Zealand TV might be imported from other countries, but you can also find programming from native New Zealanders. Some favorites are “Shortland Street” and “Home and Away.”Look for local comedy. Kiwi comedy is second to none, in the opinion of some, and cultivating your own sense of self-deprecating humor can come in handy for the rest of your life.
Look for local current affairs programs. Keep up-to-date with what's happening in your neck of the woods and hopefully worldwide too.
Watch Maori TV. If you don't already speak Te Reo, learn some by watching good Maori TV shows. The Maori channel also shows some good English language films that.
 Play games, such as board games or video games. Ask your friends for suggestions, or go to online gaming forums and check out what other people are suggesting. You can play games on your cell phone, too.


In the New Zealand iTunes, there will be a list of the top free and paid apps. This will give you a good idea of what's popular right now and some of those apps are made by Kiwis!

, There are plenty of cool things you might like to try, even if you don't have the skills yet. Here are just a few ideas to get you started:


Draw or paint. There are lots of different ways to learn to draw or paint. From Bob Ross videos on YouTube to books on drawing from you local library, artwork is a great way to be creative and develop your skills. Go to a nearby art store and buy supplies, and then find something you want to depict.

Make jewellery: This can be a fun way to learn a new skill and make plenty of gifts for your whanau (family). You could also try to sew clothes: Make a whole new wardrobe by learning to sew and then tinkering around with the sewing machine and your favorite fabrics, try denim, wool mix fabrics, cotton, whatever you like.
Weave flax. You can make all sorts of amazing things from flax, from baskets and clothes to toys and jewellery. Make sure you only pick flax that's not tapu. Flax weaving is a tradition that is special to New Zealand’s history and culture., There are many to choose from and lots of online language resources (and the library). If you haven’t tried learning Maori, give it a shot either with traditional language learning methods or by asking someone you know to teach you a few words. If you have a specific place you want to travel, start learning that language.
 New Zealand's climate lends itself to all-year growing in most zones (except where it snows for part of winter). By growing your own food, you'll save money, learn a lot about delicious vegetables, fruits and edible flowers and you'll please your mum and dad no end. Ask your friends or neighbors to join in and help. If you don't have space for a garden, get involved in a community garden.


Make your own compost and mulch.
Consider adding a few chickens to the backyard. Check with the council that it's okay to do this though and don't get a rooster in the city!

, If you feel like you want to leave New Zealand for a little while, start budgeting for a trip abroad. Make goals for places you want to go, how much money you would need to get there, and how you are going to acquire that money. You might want to travel somewhere close, like Fiji or Australia, or perhaps you have always wanted to go to Europe.


In New Zealand, entrepreneurial thinking is king, so being budget-wise is a good skill to learn early on.
If you want to do the famous Kiwi OE, “overseas experience,” you'll need good budgeting skills to achieve this successfully.

