 Medical assistance regulations are complex, and change frequently. Before attempting to convert assets, speak with an attorney who has experience in elder law and estate planning.Look for an attorney who specializes in elder law and has significant experience with Medicaid planning.
The law in this area changes rapidly, but an experienced attorney will be up-to-date on the most recent changes and how they affect planning strategies.
Provide the attorney with detailed information about the income and assets of the person on medical assistance whose estate assets you would like to protect.
Try to talk to more than one attorney so you can potentially explore a variety of different strategies to find the one that best meets your goals.
 State laws on qualifying for medical assistance exempt life insurance policies below a specific amount. Burial plans also may be exempted, provided the maximum benefit is less than $10,000.When evaluating a life insurance policy, it's generally better to get your advice from an attorney than from an insurance agent.
Keep in mind that any insurance agent with whom you speak about life insurance is trying to sell you a policy. While they may tell you the truth, they also may skew the truth to favor their policy.
They also may not be as up to date on changes in Medicaid law, or the application of the law in your particular state. Something that was true last year, or in another state, may not be true for you.
 An annuity is a contractual agreement. The person on medical assistance makes a large, lump-sum payment to a financial institution in exchange for a promise to make a series of monthly payments later on.An experienced elder law attorney can help you choose an annuity that meets the specific requirements of medical assistance regulations.
If the purpose of the annuity is to benefit the spouse of the person on medical assistance, the structured payments all must be made within the spouse's lifetime for the plan to qualify.
Purchasing an annuity may result in a significant drop in immediately available savings. However, particularly if the person is expected to return home and resume caring for themselves after several months, it can help that person retain those assets and provide more security for the future.

