 Constantly scan the road ahead for parked cars and police cruisers on the road. You can’t just look for the classic police car, though; departments everywhere are mixing up their fleets, so that SUV or sports car up ahead may be trouble. A few tips to spot these cars:


Look for roof lighting. Your brain should pop up a red flag anytime it sees any sort of junk on top of a car.
Look for a spotlight on the drivers side of the vehicle. Only police package vehicles have this option.
By law, officers are not allowed to endorse any ideology or group on their cars. The cars are owned by the city, so you'll be hard pressed to find a police car with a "Total Princess" sticker on the bumper.
Police license plates are made differently than regular plates. In some cases, they'll actually say EXEMPT. Find out what their license plates actually look like in your state.
Pay close attention to the brake light that most cars have at the top center of the rear window. Cops' center lights are larger because they function as blue and white lights as well. An easy giveaway is if that center brake light is visible but does not light up red when braking.
Cruisers often have multiple antennas on them.
 If you’re intent on being a speed demon, a combination laser/radar detector can help you hit the brakes in time. Be careful, though: detectors are illegal to have in your vehicle in Virginia, Washington, D.C., US Military bases and in many countries. They’re far from 100% effective, and if you do get pulled over, you won’t earn any brownie points when the officer sees the detector.
 It’s prudent to slow down a bit before potential hiding spots such as exit ramps, blind curves, or stands of trees, and be especially wary around potential speed traps, such as stretches of road undergoing work or places where the posted speed limit decreases. When you see a reduction in the speed limit, make sure to slow to the new limit before you reach the sign: police know this is one of the best place to find speeders.
 More localities are adopting photo radar, a system which automatically photographs the license plate and driver’s face of a vehicle which the radar determines is speeding. These systems are sometimes mounted inside a van which will be parked alongside the road, or they are often mounted permanently at trouble spots, such as intersections that have a lot of accidents.


Cameras are also used to photograph vehicles that run red lights or travel in the carpool lane without passengers. You can usually see these cameras if you look hard enough, especially if you travel the same route frequently.
You may be able to find the location of permanent cameras in your area via local government websites or internet search.
 The worst thing to do after narrowly avoiding the cop with a laser gun is to fly past the next cop driving on the same road as you. Be aware of every car in your vicinity.
 You might see a cage separating the front and back seats. Or you might see the officer's uniform.
 Police frequently choose the same hiding places over and over again, so make a mental note when you see a cruiser parked along the road and make sure you’re following the speed limit next time you come to that point.
 If you see another motorist stopped by a police cruiser, don’t assume the coast is clear. Slow down to the speed limit, and stay that way for another mile or two. It’s increasingly common for police to set up speed traps with several officers clustered in a short span of road.
 This will minimize the chance that a patrol car will sneak up on you. Also, if an officer pulls up behind you at night with his or her headlights off chances are that he/she is about to pull you over, so be prepared to stop.

