 If you don't cook much, you'll need to find some simple recipes you can use to make your meals if you want to cut calories and eat more healthy foods. You can buy a basic cookbook, or just search for recipes online.You probably want recipes that are relatively simple and don't require a lot of prep time. Look for recipes that have ingredients that are familiar to you, and are foods you already know you like.
The benefit of simple, one-plate meals such as casseroles or soups is that you can augment them to add variety so you don't feel like you're eating the same thing all the time.
If you have friends who enjoy cooking, ask them for suggestions. Once you get more comfortable cooking, you may decide you want to experiment more.
A free resource provided by USDA with healthful recipes can be found at: http://whatscooking.fns.usda.gov/
;
, Try to include fruits and vegetables, low-fat dairy, grains, and meat or another protein source with every meal you plan. Your menu doesn't have to be fancy — a turkey sandwich on whole grain bread, yogurt, and a banana is a simple and well-rounded lunch.Unless you're a vegetarian, you typically will get most of your protein from meat. Lean meats such as chicken, turkey, or fish are generally better than beef if you're trying to cut calories.
Since meats can be expensive, plan on getting your protein from other sources such as canned fish, eggs, and beans.
Ensure plenty of variety in your meals so you don't get bored. Boredom can be a strong motivation to abandon your plan and just head out to a restaurant to eat, which can kill both your diet and your budget.
 Once you've chosen your meals for a week or so, you can shop for the appropriate foods and cook your meals in advance to save yourself time during the work week.If you have a handful of recipes for meals to eat throughout the week, it shouldn't take you more than two or three hours to prepare these meals in advance.
Once you've cooked your meals, all you have to do is freeze them. When it's time to eat, all you have to do is warm them up before enjoying a healthy meal.
You may want to invest in some plastic containers so you can divide meals you've cooked into portions and freeze them.
 Shopping sales and using coupons can be an effective way to save money on grocery items that you were planning on buying anyway; however, avoid buying items just because they're on sale if you can't fit them into your meal plan.The good thing about choosing simple recipes is that you may have some room to substitute ingredients such as vegetables if you see something you like that's on sale.
Be sure to check quantity requirements for some sales. You may have to buy more of something than you need to realize any significant savings.
 When you go to the grocery store, come armed with a list you've made based on the foods you need for the meals in your meal plan. Once you're at the grocery store, avoid any impulse buys or items that aren't on your list.When you get to the store, start at the outside (or perimeter) and work your way in, rather than going up and down the aisles from one end to the other. Grocery stores put their fresh, whole foods — which should be the bulk of your list — on the outside. More processed food and junk food can be found in the center aisles, which you should avoid.
Try to steer clear of end-caps and displays of items on sale. It may look like a great deal, but if it's not on your list, don't buy it.
Focus on whole foods that haven't been precooked or prepared. For example, a can of soup may seem relatively inexpensive, but may contain significant additives that you don't need and that won't help you lose weight. You can make your own soup with vegetables, meats, and complex carbohydrates.
 When buying meat, avoid the prime cuts which will be more expensive. Choice cuts are still quality meat at a price that can be significantly lower. Keep in mind you can do additional prep work on your meat at home.Avoid meat that's already sliced, such as prepackaged deli and sandwich meats. They'll be more expensive. You can buy meat and slice it yourself. One benefit of this is that you can slice it how you want and trim much of the fat.
You also can replace meat with other protein sources, such as beans, legumes, or eggs. These foods are less expensive than meat, and will ensure that you still get the protein you need for a healthy diet.
 Generally, the more packaging involved, the more expensive the food is going to be. Many things are packaged in individual servings for convenience, but it really won't take you too much time and effort to do the same thing yourself.Using plastic bags or small plastic containers, you can portion out larger quantities into individual servings yourself. Although you'll have to invest in the containers initially, you'll save significantly over time by buying the larger containers and splitting them up at home.
For example, you can buy a large container of plain yogurt for significantly less money than the smaller yogurt cups that contain only one serving. Split up your yogurt into individual servings at home, adding fruit if you don't like plain yogurt and want a little more flavor.
 In most grocery stores, you can find store brands for food that is just as good as the brand-name products — sometimes it even comes from the same place. Store brands are cheaper because there are no costs for advertising or branding involved.Many people believe that generic food is inferior to that produced by brands, but typically the same quality controls are in place.
While you may notice a difference with generic snack foods and other processed items, whole foods are usually exactly the same.
 You often can save money on your fruits and vegetables if you buy food that was grown locally when it's in season. If there's a farmer's market near you, this may be the best place for you to stock up on fresh fruits and vegetables.Keep in mind that you may have to adjust your recipes to make use of the particular types of food that are in season at various times of the year.
If you really want to get creative as well as save a lot of money, you can learn some simple freezing and canning techniques to preserve your fresh fruits and vegetables for longer. This way you can buy larger quantities and not have to worry about them spoiling.
 Keep your eye on sales, and when one of your favorite foods is available at a discount, buy larger quantities and freeze it so you'll have plenty to last you for a longer period of time.Don't do this with things that you only eat rarely, or you won't really be saving any money. But if it's one of your favorite foods that you eat at least once or twice every week, this is a good option.
 Whole grains have an extremely long shelf life, so you can save a significant amount of money if you buy large bags rather than just buying small quantities to eat at a particular meal.When you take care of your grains, you don't have to worry about them on a weekly basis when you make your regular grocery store trips.
Whole grains have lower fat and calories than white bread, rice, and pasta. You also can use them as a base for many different types of food.
Keep in mind that you also can buy whole wheat bread in bulk when it's on sale and freeze it to eat later.
 When you're buying in bulk, if you can't freeze or keep the food you buy, you'll end up having to throw a lot of it away. This can eliminate any savings you might have made from buying in bulk.Check the shelf life of foods you buy in large quantities. You might want to post the dates somewhere prominently so you don't inadvertently eat something that's gone bad.
Buying in bulk with the intention of freezing the food isn't an option if you have limited freezer space. Keep in mind that you'll be freezing the weekly meals you prepare in advance as well.
 Most cities have a discount or warehouse club nearby where you buy a membership and get massive quantities of food at a significantly lower price per ounce than you would pay in the grocery store.Before you make the decision to join the club, make sure your potential savings will be more than the cost of a membership. You may want to go as a guest of someone who is already a member so you can check out what the club offers.
If you don't see a lot of foods that you eat on a regular basis, buying a membership isn't actually going to save you any money.
Download a smartphone app for your local store if they offer one and add coupons digitally.

