 Fleshing the hide is the process of scraping off the flesh and fat, which prevents the hide from rotting. Place the hide on a fleshing beam (a beam designed to hold the hide in place as you work) or on a tarp on the ground. Use a fleshing blade to scrape off all visible traces of flesh and fat using quick, strong strokes.


Flesh the hide immediately after cutting the hide from the animal's body. If you wait more than a few hours, the hide will begin to decompose, and it will fall apart during the tanning process.
Be careful not to damage the hide as you scrape. Don't use a knife not intended to be used for fleshing, since it might puncture or scratch the hide.;
, Use clean water and soap made from natural substances to wash away dirt, blood, and other impurities before you begin softening the skin.
 Let it dry out for a few days to prepare it for the tanning process. Bore holes along the edge of the hide and use twine to attach it to a drying rack. These wooden racks, which can be purchased at game shops, hold the hide in place as it thoroughly dries.


Make sure that the hide is actually stretched, not just hung, on the drying rack. The more the hide is stretched, the larger it will be once the tanning process is complete.
If you stretch your hide over a wall or barn, make sure there's ample space for air to circulate between the hide and the wall, or it won't dry properly.
The drying process can take up to a week, depending on your climate.
 Take the hide off of the dryer and use a rounded steel blade with a handle or an elk antler hide scraper to remove the hair from the hide. This ensures that the tanning solution can thoroughly soak the skin. Carefully scrape the hair and the epidermis from the hide.


If the hair is long, cut it first. Scrape against the grain of the hair, and scrape away from yourself.
Be careful near the belly area, since the skin there is thinner than the skin on the rest of the hide.
 The oils in an animal's brain provide a natural tanning method, and each animal has a brain just big enough to tan its entire hide. Cook the animal's brain and a cup of water until the brain breaks down and the mixture resembles soup. Place it in a blender so it is completely smooth. Take the following steps to apply the brain to the hide:


Wash the hide with water. This removes any remaining grease and debris and makes the hide more malleable, so it will be better able to absorb brain oils.
Wring the hide out, so it will be able to take in the oils. Squeeze out the excess water by placing the hide between two towels and squeezing, then repeating the process with two dry towels.
Rub the brain mixture into the hide. Make sure you cover every inch of the hide.
Roll up the hide and store it in a large plastic freezer bag or food storage bag. Put it in the refrigerator to let the brains soak in for at least 24 hours.
 Now that the oils have soaked into the hide, it's ready for softening. Take the hide out of the refrigerator and place it back on the drying rack. Wipe off as much of the brain mixture as possible. Use a heavy stick or a hide breaker to soften the hide by running the tool back and forth across it.


You can also have a partner help you stretch and soften it by taking it off the drying rack and pulling on the edges from either side. Continue doing so until you are both tired, then place it back on the rack and use the hide breaker to keep working the hide.
A heavy rope can also be used to soften the hide. Have a partner hold one side of the rope and work together to rub it back and forth against the hide.
 When the skin is soft, pliable, and dry it is ready to be smoked. Stitch up any holes in the hide, then sew it up the sides of the hide to make a bag. Close one end so it is tight enough to hold the smoke. Invert the skin bag over a hole about a foot across and half that deep. Use sticks to make a rough frame to hold the skin bag open, and tie the closed end to a tree or use another long stick to keep it held up. Build a small, smoky fire inside the bag to smoke the skin.


Once the little fire has a coal bed built up, start adding smoke chips to it and peg the skin around the hole. A little channel tunneled out to one side will allow you to keep the fire supplied.
After smoking the first side for half an hour, turn the bag inside out and smoke the other side.

