 Primer can help smooth out the skin for applying other make up. It also helps makeup to last longer. Using a primer that treats acne also helps the acne while giving your face a smoother look.Apply a small amount evenly across your face. Using too much can make your foundation appear uneven, which is the opposite effect of what you want when you're trying to cover a blackhead.Make sure that you wait a minute to let the primer dry before applying any other makeup.You can use a tinted primer to improve your facial color.;
, It is important to apply treatment concealers before foundation so that your skin can receive the treatment within the concealer.To apply, dab the concealer on top of the blemish. Pat, don’t rub, to remove excess concealer.Ideally, you'll need a concealer that is similar to your skin color.Depending on your skin tone and the color of the spot (if it is dark or inflamed and red), you can use a color-correcting concealer. For instance, red helps to hide redness on your face, while pink to orangish-pink concealer can help conceal dark spots and marks on your face (pink for lighter skin tones and orangish-pink for darker skin tones).Treatment concealers often come in color correcting shades., After applying concealer, set it with translucent powder. This will help to keep the spot matte. It will also help to reduce the visibility of any blackhead or other acne., Doing so can irritate your skin. You don't want to irritate an already irritated blackhead. If you want to get the best results, you may want to choose one option that has acne treating qualities, such as your concealer, foundation, or primer. , Many want to go for a radiant look. However, the foundations that do that will highlight rather than obscure the blackhead and other blemishes. A matte finish foundation will work well with the matte setting powder, and make your skin look smoother., You need a foundation that matches your skin tone, and that doesn't clog your pores.When applying makeup over a blemish, it is often a worry that you will make the blackhead worse or cause even more acne. With a non-clogging foundation (non-comedogenic will usually appear on the label) you will be able to cover the blemish without making things worse.If you're having trouble finding the right shade, you may want to go to the makeup store for professional help. A makeup consultant can help you find the shade and type that works for your skin., Once you’ve picked a good non-comedogenic matte foundation, you need to apply it to cover up the blackhead.At first, apply as light a layer of foundation as you can. Start with the uneven portions of skin and work out from there. Keep applying with light layers until you smooth out your skin. You can use a foundation brush or a stippling brush to help if you feel that your fingers aren’t working well on your skin.Typically, foundation is applied all over the face and blended with the neck.Don't apply too much. This will make the makeup look cakey., After your done with your foundation, use your translucent matte powder to set the foundation. This will help reduce any shine, and smooth out the overall look. Don't use much. A light dusting should do.You can choose to dust powder only on the oilier parts of your skin, including the blemish.Make sure you've blended your foundation before you add the setting powder. However, the foundation should not be dry before you apply the powder., This will help reduce the excess oil without adding undue irritation and redness to your skin. It will also help clear the skin so that your makeup will go on smoother. A gentle cleanser will usually have anti-irritant ingredients.It's often best to choose an alcohol-free cleanser.Cleansers with emollients such as lanolin or ceramides will help keep your skin moisturized.Avoid any harsh cleansers or astringent products before applying makeup. These dry out your skin, and will cause the skin to produce more oil. They can also make irritate the blackhead itself, making it harder to cover up., This can irritate your skin, causing it to produce more oil. You should only wash your face twice a day, and for about two minutes each time. Washing too many times and for too long will only make the blackhead worse., Scrubbing your face can irritate the skin and actually make acne worse. Instead use your fingers or a soft cloth to wash your face. You won’t want a washcloth that is too rough, as it will irritate your skin. If you use a washcloth, make sure you don’t wash for as long as you would with your fingers, as even the softest cloths are likely to be rougher than your hands., While this certainly goes for the cleanser you choose, it also applies to any facial products you use. The worst common ingredients for your skin (and especially blackheads) are isopropyl isostearate, isopropyl myristate, myristyl myristate, laureth-4 and oleth-3. While these are the worst, there are also many other ingredients to look out for including coconut butter, cocoa butter, and soybean oil., Many people think that with acne-prone or oily skin you don't need to moisturize, but often you still need moisturizer. Using an oil-free moisturizer can help keep your skin healthy without adding unnecessary oils to an already oily complexion.Make sure you apply your moisturizer evenly across the skin., This will reduce inflammation before applying makeup. Apply for one minute only. Then wait five minutes. If it is still really inflamed you can apply for one more minute.