 Collect a decent number of logs, 20 - 30 is a good number. Convert some of the logs to wooden planks. Planks are used for many different crafting recipes and are one of the most basic items in the game. 16 logs makes one stack of planks;
, You are only able to craft so much in the 2x2 crafting grid in your inventory. You will soon need an upgrade to make other tools and items. Crafting tables are a necessity.
 You will need it to mine stone (which becomes cobblestone when mined without silk touch), to turn into a furnace. You also would want to get a decent amount of coal too. Coal is a basic fuel in the game and is abundant while mining. You can use coal to burn the logs you collected to make charcoal which is a similar item to coal (both smelt 8 items each).
 The more the better. You will most likely build your first house out of cobblestone or some wood and mostly cobblestone. It is an abundant material. The majority of Minecraft is made of it.
 You will most likely find some coal if you do. Make your way up to or into it, and mine any ores you can find. Note that certain picks will mine certain ores. A wooden pick will only mine stone and coal while a stone pick can mine iron too. If you try and mine iron with a wooden pick it will disappear.
 Light up the inside with torches. Otherwise mobs will spawn inside your house. You don't have to have a door as zombies can knock them down, simply cover with dirt or wood. You can have an iron door with two buttons or a lever which stops zombies from breaking the door.
 Many monsters spawn at night. On your first night, this can often be overwhelming as you may only have stone tools. If you are going out to fight mobs though, make sure you have got the tools you need. Leather armor for example will reduce damage taken by mobs.
 Creepers are an annoying mob that won't burn in the sunlight, like zombies and skeletons. They can survive for quite a while come daytime. They are green in color and can be hard to spot in grassy areas and don't make any sounds while walking or idling, so they can easily catch you by surprise. If one manages to get close to you, it will explode, harming or killing you and destroying nearby blocks.
 This is generally how you progress in minecraft after basic survival. Of course you can attempt to face bosses too.
 If you are not constantly getting better armor and tools, you will never be able to progress in the game properly. Make sure you are getting better and better tools constantly.

