 If your pet has long or thick fur, check daily for any debris stuck in the coat, tangles, or mats and remove these carefully. If your pet has shorter hair, you’re likely to see these items and be able to easily pluck them from the coat. Take a few minutes to run your hands through your dog's coat from head to tail. You're looking for burs, matted hair, sticks or debris, bugs and ticks, or any other foreign item your dog's coat has acquired.
 You should do this for dogs of any coat length at least once each week. While this may not seem like a significant way to improve your dog’s health and longevity, foreign debris caught in the fur can lead to a number of health concerns. For instance, an irritating substance in the fur like a bur can rub against the skin, causing rashes or sores that may lead to more serious issues, infections, or skin conditions.


Use a slicker brush that has numerous, close together bristles to detangle long dog hair. These bristles are able to slip between hairs, detangling without pulling.
Use detangling solution or mineral oil to soften stubborn tangles., Cleaning dogs about once a month or every other month will help you keep their fur and skin clean and free of irritants. Dogs are susceptible to illness that can occur due to the presence of bugs, mites, ticks, and other irritants that access your pup through their skin. Bathing helps to prevent these issues, and gives you the opportunity to check your pup’s fur and skin for potential issues., When they’re too long, nails may get stuck, chip, or break. This can be extremely painful for your pup. There’s also a large vein in pet nails called the quick, and when this vein is accessed, the result could be heavy bleeding, which can be very dangerous for your dog.


To trim the nails, use baby nail clippers or clippers that are made for animals. If your pup has white nails, you’ll be able to see the quick. It is the dark pink part of the nail. If your dog has darker nails, you will need to remove a small sliver of nail at a time.
After each snip, look at the newly revealed part of the nail checking for a gray-colored area. This is the quick. Stop clipping when you can see the quick.Apply styptic powder to stop the bleeding if you nick the quick.
 Brushing your dog's teeth is very important. Many dog breeds suffer from oral health issues just like humans. Taking a few minutes a day or at least once a week to remove plaque is an important way to avoid these health risks. Simply apply pet toothpaste to a dog toothbrush. Then, lift your dog's lip to reveal the teeth. Carefully brush the outside and inside of each tooth.


Purchase toothpaste that is made for pets. Rather than mint, these pastes are typically flavored like foods your pet enjoys. Do not use human toothpaste, as it may be harmful to your dog.
Allow your pet to get used to the toothbrush and toothpaste. Let them smell or taste the paste. Start by simply brushing one or two teeth, and seeing how your pup reacts.
Start brushing when your dog is young, so they're used to the activity when they reach adult maturity.