 The teacher's desk should be placed in such a way that the view of all access points (doors) are clearly visible to him or her while at seated or standing behind the desk.


To avoid any confusion while selecting this ideal location, position the teacher's chair in the necessary position, facing the doorways, then place the desk in front of the chair. The teacher at his or her desk should be the one who is most likely to notice a person entering, exiting, or peering into a classroom.
This also makes it easier for administrative and security staff to communicate with a teacher, quickly and efficiently, without entering a classroom and interrupting or alarming students.;
, Student desks and/or tables should be placed as far away from the doors as possible. When positioning student desks, place the greatest emphasis on creating an open and unobstructed area between the desks and the doorway.


Leave adequate space between desks for the students to stand between desks, all the way around.
Rows of desks, spaced in this manner, will create clear and unobstructed pathways leading to access points, should they be forced to evacuate.
It is not necessary for student desks to face the teacher's desk; most in-class instruction is not conducted while the teacher is seated there.
 Window blinds have no place in a classroom. Windows and window sills should be free of obstructions at all times. Ensure that they are free of decorations and artwork, and kept windows clean. Blinds, if present, should be removed.


In cases of emergency, clear visibility into a classroom from the outside will be necessary.
 Chalkboards should be affixed to the wall(s) that allow the best view (from the teacher's visual perspective) of the access points to the room.


If a chalkboard is not in an ideal location, and cannot be relocated, the teacher must decide whether to alter their use of the board (write class notes on it prior to the beginning of class), train themselves to stand and use the board in a manner which allows them to keep an eye on the door, or not use the board at all.
Some alternatives to using the chalk board include a portable dry erase board or, large blank-sheet tablets on a portable stand.
 Portable room dividers should be folded and stored flat, well away from classroom access points, or placed in a storage closet, when not in use. Fixed room dividers should be sturdy, in usable condition, and left ajar at all times to ensure the safety of the room occupants.


A door kept shut is an escape exit blocked, should smoke or fumes fill one side of the room.
 Store excess classroom supplies in a locker or in storage bins. Creating a space for proper storage will negate the potential for unintended obstructions to walk space between desks during class times.
 Even if the school has an exit procedure, examine the room after laying it out and determine two viable evacuation strategies.


Relocate any item or group of items that obstruct the quickest route to the access points in the room.
If the new exit strategy differs from the policy, address concerns with the school administration and request advice or changes to the current policy.
 Based on the approved evacuation route, determine the best way to mark the route to prevent confusion in an emergency.


Use reflective tape on the floor for students to follow by sight, or touch, should a smoke-filled room obstruct their view of the exit route.
 In writing, designate a location in the classroom where the teacher will instruct the students to hide, should a menacing intruder be spotted in the room or hallway. Mark this spot so others will readily identify it as a hiding spot.


Ensure that the path to the hiding spot, from the student desks, is clear of obstructions to facilitate ease of access. A hiding spot can be a closet, or an open area behind the student desks that provides some protection from an intruder. The closer the hiding spot is to the windows, the better, but if there are no windows, the ideal location is near an access door.

