 Head to a fabric store and pickup several items to help you transform an old top into a new crop top. Here are some basic things you will need:Fabric scissors
Chalk
Sewing pins
Sewing machine
Flexible measuring tape
Elastic fabric band (optional);
, Just about any top can be successfully transformed into a crop top.T-shirts work the best for loose crop tops.
Summer tanks work well for fitted tops.
 Put on the top you will be using. Fold the shirt up and play around with different lengths until you find one you like. Then, add about one inch of extra length to compensate for the hem, and pin it in place., Lay the shirt down on a flat surface. Be sure that the shirt seam lines are even and there are no wrinkles in the fabric. Next, cut the shirt in a straight line or curve the hem. The style of cut is up to you.


You can also cut two longer triangle pieces at the front of the shirt that you can later use to tie together into a knot for a tighter fitting look.
 If you want to change the neckline or sleeves, trace out your cut lines with chalk. First, flip the top inside out, and make chalk lines along the area you want to cut.Be sure to leave an additional inch of length if you choose to hem your cuts.
 Use a sewing machine and hem your top by folding under the bottom about one inch. Be sure to fold the top inward to hide the hem. Do the same for the collar and sleeves.


If you want to leave the shirt without a sewed hem, that is up to you. Just beware, if you decide not to hem the top it could fray over time or after being washed.
If your shirt is made from a stretchy material, make sure to hem using a zig-zag stitch so your shirt will still be able to stretch.
 If you want the top to have a tighter fit around your waist, add elastic to the bottom before you hem the top.Purchase an elastic band from a fabric store that is about 1/2 inch wide.
Sew it along the bottom of your top by laying it flat on the inside of the material towards the bottom. Leave about 3/4 an inch at the bottom that you will fold over the elastic and sew closed.
 After you hem the bottom, your top is finished.


Add rhinestones or other embellishments to make your top even more unique.
If you want to make the top shorter, you can take out the hem with a stitch cutter and do it over.

