 Each state has different requirements in order to qualify for a liquor license or permit. You should check to see that you meet those requirements before beginning the application process.


In some counties, you must have been a resident of the county for a certain amount of time in order to get a license. The resident must also be an active participant in the business.There may also be age requirements. In Kentucky, for example, you must be at least 21 years old.;
, In many areas, there are several different kinds of licenses you could get. Here is a partial list of alcohol licenses available in Alabama:Restaurant Retail Liquor
Club Liquor—Classes I and II
Retail Beer (on or off premises)
Liquor Wholesale
Wholesale Beer Only
Warehouse License
Special Retail License—30 Days or Less
Manufacturer
Importer

, In some cities, such as Chicago, you can meet with a representative of your local board who will help you identify the license you want and will walk you through the process.The representative can also help you identify where to open your establishment. Some cities, like Chicago, have “dry precincts” where no establishment can serve liquor. Your local representative will help you identify whether or not you can get a license.
 In the United States, the licensing of alcohol permits often involves both local approval and state-level approval. In many states, you need local approval before you can apply for your state license. You can find your local board in the following ways:


Stop into your town manager’s office. They should have information about who to contact.
Look at your state’s Alcohol Beverage Control website. There are often links on the state website to local beverage control boards.Some counties or cities might not have a local board. In this situation, you will apply for the permit directly through your state agency.
 In some states, such as Kentucky, you need to advertise your intent to apply for a liquor license. The advertisement only has to run once, but it must appear in a newspaper of general circulation in the same area as the premises to be licensed.You may also need someone at the newspaper complete an affidavit of publication. This will serve as proof that the advertisement ran.
You should also cut out the newspaper clipping.
 Depending on where you live, you might have to stop in and pick up an application. In other areas, you can download an application packet from the Internet.Search online for “your state” or “your county” and “liquor license” to find out who to contact.


Be sure to get all other required forms, such as affidavits or background check forms.
 Each state’s application will be different. However, you will generally be required to provide basic information about your business and the people running the business. If you have questions, be sure to call the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. The number should be listed on the application.Once you complete the application, you should make a copy for your records.
 Each licensing board will require copies of certain supporting documents before it will process your application. Check to see if the board publishes a “checklist” of documents. Go through and gather everything. Depending on your Beverage Control Board, you may need copies of the following:Corporation or LLC paperwork
Valid driver’s license
Birth certificate
Lease or deed
Sales tax license
Federal tax ID
Approval of your local governing authority
Liquor Liability Insurance Certificate
Menu (if you are a restaurant)
Other requirements, such as a health permit

, Most states will require that background checks be done on every person who is an owner or primary officer of the establishment seeking the liquor permit. If you run a limited liability company (LLC), then probably every shareholder will have to get a background check.Your application instructions should provide you with an address to contact. Typically, you will contact your county sheriff or court clerk’s office to request a background check. You may also have to contact a state agency, such as the State Police Department or State Bureau of Investigation.
 In some places, such as North Carolina, you must have fingerprints taken if you are applying for certain permits. You should contact your local law enforcement agency to get your fingerprint card., You should submit your fee along with your application. Most agencies don’t accept cash, so you will probably have to submit a check. The fee amount will depend on the type of license you are seeking., In some areas, you may have to send the application to your local Beverage Control Board for approval. Only after getting local approval will your application be forwarded on to the state agency.


In other states, you might simply send it on to your state Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
Read your application instructions to see where you should send it.
 In Alabama, for example, you will schedule an appointment to meet with the Board to enter your information into the system. Meetings are by appointment only. Be sure to arrive on time, and bring a copy of your application and supporting documents with you., Processing times will vary. In Harford County, Maryland, an application takes five to seven weeks to be processed.In Kentucky, it takes at least 60 days for the state to process an application. If you need local approval, then the total approval time will be longer.Remember that you can’t begin selling liquor until you get your license. You can be fined if you don’t wait.
 If you produce, distribute, or supply alcoholic beverages, then you typically have to register your brands with the state if you distribute to the state. Even if you produce alcoholic beverages out of state, you often have to register with any state where you will distribute alcoholic beverages.You can get the required form from the state’s ABC office.

