 Apply pressure to one nostril. Blow gently through the other into a facial tissue. Repeat the process for the other nostril. Be sure to blow gently. Blowing too hard can cause further damage to the inside of your nasal passage, which will extend the time it takes to heal. Do not blow through both nostrils at the same time. It won’t be effective. Wash your hands after blowing your nose.Avoid sniffling as much as possible. All you are doing is sucking the mucus back up in your body. If your nose is running, blow it.
Frequent blowing can irritate your skin. Use soft tissues with lotion to alleviate dryness.;
, Steam inhalation helps with nasal decongestion. It loosens mucus, which can easily be blown away afterwards. Boil some water. Pour it into a bowl. Place that bowl on a table and then sit with your head over the bowl. Place a towel over your head. Close your eyes and breathe deeply. Do so for around 60 seconds at a time and make sure that your face is not too close to the surface of the water. You should be comfortable the entire time.


Add a drop of menthol, eucalyptus, camphor, thymol, or pine oil to the water for a pleasant and effective addition. These natural ingredients help loosen mucus up further.Do not allow children to do this by themselves. Hot water scalds and a child probably won’t be able to handle the boiling water well enough to avoid injury.
Run a hot shower. Steamy showers act in a similar way and can be a great alternative for children to use. The child doesn't need to get under the hot water — they only need to be in the bathroom with the door closed to benefit from the steam.
 Saline is just a natural mixture of salt and water. You can purchase pre-made saline nasal drops over-the-counter at any pharmacy. They can be used on children.They should be used once a day for maximum effectiveness.To use nasal drops or perform a nasal wash, stand over a sink with your head bent downward. Place the tip of the bottle in one of your nostrils and spray. You should be squeezing approximately 4 ounces of the solution into your nasal passage. Rotate your head back and forth and let it drip back out of your nose naturally. Then repeat this process in your other nostril. Do not swallow the saline solution. If you feel it entering your throat, lower your head more over the sink. When you’re done, blow your nose gently to remove any leftover saline solution.If you are using a Neti pot, fill it with your saline solution. Stand by a sink. Tilt your head sideways and place the spout of the Neti pot in the upper nostril. Breathe through your mouth and pour the saline solution into your nostril slowly (again, around 4 ounces is best). The liquid should drain through your nasal system and come out of your lower nostril after around three or four seconds. Then repeat through your other nostril. Be sure to blow your nose after using your Neti pot.Saline drops can be used in infants too. Add two to three drops into each nostril of your baby. Then take a bulb syringe. Place the tip in each nostril and suck out the saline solution gently. Do not add solution to both nostrils at the same time. It could further impair your baby’s ability to breathe.