 There is a list below, explaining your clothing:


If you are a magic guardian, try to wear a white jacket as a cloak. Take the two strings in the front. (Get a jacket like that). Tie them around your neck. Put the hood on your head if desired or if you're allowed. Let the back of the jacket settle on your back. Leave the zipper unzipped.
If you are a rebel guardian, wear lots of black and white. Like a yin and yang. Try wearing black pants and a blank white shirt. Wear black boots and let your hair down.
If you are a dream guardian, your main style is the night. Wear black and dark purple. Try having a moon or star on your tee shirt.
If you are a life guardian, wear earthy colors. A suggested style is a green and blue tie dye shirt, blue jeans, and green tennis shoes.
If you are an animal guardian, wear the same as a life guardian.
If you are a plant guardian, wear a green tee shirt, blue jeans, and any kind of tennis shoes.
If you are a season guardian, dress according to the season. In summer, wear a yellow tank top with a sun on it, blue shorts, and pink flip flops. In fall, wear a short sleeve orange tee shirt, an orange jacket as a cloak (how-to in magic guardian section), blue jeans, and tennis shoes. In winter, wear a white coat with fur on the hood, a blue long sleeve shirt with a snowflake, blue jeans, and snow boots. In spring, wear a pink short sleeve shirt with a flower, blue capris, and tennis shoes.
If you are a space guardian, wear a black dress as a girl and a black tee shirt as a boy.
If you are an ocean guardian, wear a blue dress as a girl and a blue tee shirt as a boy.
 Boys should skip this step.


Magic guardians wear a necklace with a wizard hat.
Rebel guardians wear a yin yang necklace.
Dream guardians wear a star necklace.
Life guardians wear an earth necklace.
Animal guardians wear an animal necklace.
Plant guardians wear a flower necklace.
Season guardians wear a sun necklace in summer, a leaf necklace in fall, a snowflake necklace in winter, and a flower necklace in spring.
Space guardians wear a sun necklace or a star necklace.
Ocean guardians wear a starfish necklace.

