 Although many sports lawyers also are registered as agents, the two may perform different functions, since a sports agent primarily is concerned with maximizing a player's brand and monetary gain.In many states, agents are largely unregulated – even if they are required to register as an agent. This lack of regulation could increase the chance that the agent takes advantage of you.
In contrast, attorneys are bound by the state bar's code of ethics and stringent professional responsibility rules.
If you hire an attorney, you may benefit from attorney-client confidentiality, a legally recognized relationship that does not exist between you and an agent.
Ultimately, an agent may take a smaller percentage of any contracts you enter than a sports lawyer acting as your agent would. However, keep in mind that attorneys typically are limited by state law to a maximum percentage, whereas agents often are not.
However, keep in mind that an attorney likely will not be involved in marketing or promotion efforts, while that is a large part of an agent's job.
If you're looking for substantial endorsements and advertising contracts, you should look for an agent – or an attorney who also is a registered agent and will fulfill both roles.;
, People you know and trust may have some of the best recommendations for an attorney who will meet your needs. Ask people in the sports industry in particular, such as coaches you know.If you're an up-and-coming player, ask another player you admire who his or her attorney is. Particularly if you're a college player, you might be able to reach out to professionals who played for your school.
If you've used an attorney for something else, he or she can be a good source for recommendations. Attorneys went to law school with people who became attorneys in many different fields, and they may be able to provide you with a professional recommendation.
 There are several websites, including the website of the American Bar Association (ABA), where you can search for attorneys who practice sports law. Online directories also have profiles and other information about the practice areas of attorneys and firms.You can access the ABA's lawyer referral directory at http://apps.americanbar.org/legalservices/lris/directory/. Simply click on your state to access resources including the ABA's attorney directory.
While most directories allow you to search by practice area, "sports law" may not be specifically available. Try searching for labor law or contracts attorneys, and then review each attorney's practice areas to see if he or she is involved in sports law.
Some bar associations have sports law committees. However, attorneys often don't have to practice sports law to be members of these committees. If you find an attorney who is a member of the sports law committee, you still need to evaluate his or her practice areas.
Keep in mind that if you live in a relatively small town or rural area, you may need to search in larger cities in your state, or nearby metropolitan areas in another state, to find experienced sports law attorneys.
For example, if you live in Shade-land, Indiana, you may want to search in Lafayette, but you'll probably get more results for sports law attorneys if you broaden your search to Indianapolis and Chicago.
 When you have the names of attorneys in whom you're interested, check out their website to learn more about each attorney's background and practice.Keep in mind that sports law isn't necessarily a discrete area of law. Rather, sports law attorneys practice law in a number of different areas that concern athletes and the sports industry – particularly labor, contracts, intellectual property, and medical malpractice.
This means you have to do additional research beyond simply looking for an attorney who claims he or she specializes in sports law. You must dig deeper to find the actual areas of law in which that attorney has experience.
Some attorneys have lists on their websites of representative clients. This list can help you narrow down the specific fields in which the attorney practices.
If you're a college athlete looking for representation, you may be best served by a firm with sports law attorneys who specialize in multiple areas. At this point, you don't know exactly where your career is going to take you, so a larger firm capable of handling whatever might come your way may be your best bet.
Pay attention to the sports the attorney focuses on. Negotiations, contracts, and collective bargaining agreements are significantly different among professional sports. If you're a promising college football player, you need an attorney who has experience negotiating with the NFL, not one whose major clients are NHL players.
 Before you make a final decision on which attorneys to interview, look all of them up in the state bar directory. Make sure their licenses are current and they haven't had any significant complaints or disciplinary action against them.You can find your state's bar licensing agency at http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx. Some states have independent bar associations, and others regulate attorneys directly through their state courts.
You also may want to do a little additional digging online to find out more about the attorney's reputation. A lot of people who aren't inclined to file a formal complaint with the state bar may express their opinion online.
Search the attorney's name to find reviews. Adding words such as "terrible" or "incompetent" to your search can help you locate bad reviews quickly.
 Based on your initial research, you should be able to narrow your prospects down to a few attorneys you have serious interest about and want to meet in person.Make sure the attorneys or firms you've chosen have clean records and expertise in the specific legal field where you need assistance. Focus on those who you think would most benefit you and fulfill your legal needs as a client.
Many experienced sports law attorneys will have star-studded client rosters or impressive deals under their belt, but be careful not to place too much value on this. Keep in mind that the more high-profile clients an attorney has, the less attention he or she has to devote to your case – unless of course you are a star yourself.
Ask yourself whether it's more important for you to have an attorney who will work for you, or an attorney who works or has worked for famous professional athletes. While you may want to interview at least one high-profile attorney, make sure you also interview several mid-range workaday attorneys.
 Be prepared to spend some time and potentially pay initial consultation fees to meet with several attorneys. You want to have options rather than simply hiring an attorney without meeting him or her first.Some attorneys may offer a free initial consultation, while others may charge a small flat fee for your first appointment. While your budget may determine how significant this is, you shouldn't necessarily fault attorneys simply because they charge for the first consultation.
Keep in mind that attorneys have a lot of work to do. Paying an attorney for his or her time can help ensure that you get the attorney's full attention over the course of the interview.
Be cognizant of your own scheduling issues, particularly if you're scheduling an initial consultation with an attorney whose office is a significant distance away from you. Allocate at least an hour for the interview itself, and make sure you're allowing enough time to get to the appointment on time, and to get back home in time to meet any other obligations.
 Depending on your particular needs, you should provide each attorney sufficient information for him or her to be able to effectively evaluate your situation and determine what he or she can do for you.If the attorney requests you to bring any documents in particular, make sure you have those ready and organized for the attorney's review. If you have enough time to do so, you may want to consider sending them ahead of the appointment so the attorney has time to prepare.
If you're a high-profile college athlete anticipating a move to the professional leagues, you may want to bring your highlight reel or other similar material for the attorney to review.
Especially if you're looking for someone to negotiate contracts on your behalf, it's important that he or she has a good picture of what you could bring to a team.
 You can count on an attorney to tell you what he or she wants you to know, and to highlight information that will make you want to hire him or her. But you need to ask the questions that are important to you and your evaluation of the attorney.For example, if you want an attorney to negotiate contracts for you, you must find someone who is licensed and registered in your state as a sports agents. Sports agents don't have to be attorneys, but many are.
Find out how much of the work on your case the attorney will do on his or her own, and how much will be delegated to less-experienced associates.
Ask the attorney how many cases he or she has handled that were similar to yours, or how many clients have similar issues.
Find out what percentage of the attorney's caseload is devoted to similar issues or similar clients. Ideally, you want an attorney who spends most of his or her time working with clients like you. This ensures that attorney has a lot of experience with issues you are likely to encounter.
 Interviewing an attorney is not the time to shy away from the question of money. Especially if an attorney will be charging by the hour, you should come away from the initial consultation with a good idea of how much that attorney will charge.If you're hiring an attorney to negotiate a contract for you, the attorney's fees typically will be a percentage of the amount you'll be paid under the contract. This is good for you if you don't have a lot of cash to pay an attorney out of pocket, but keep the percentage in mind.
Be up front with each attorney about your finances and your ability to pay legal fees. Especially if you're a promising college athlete, you should keep in mind that attorneys who regularly take on clients similar to you are well aware of your financial limitations.
If you're starting a non-profit athletic organization, an attorney may be open to doing at least some of the work for you for free – known as "pro bono" in the legal sector.
If you have pro bono opportunities available, let the attorney know during the initial consultation. Even if she can't take on that work right now, she might know another sports law attorney who could.
 How each attorney treats you, as well as the other people in his or her office, during your initial consultation gives you a decent understanding of what it would be like to work with that attorney.Evaluate whether you are a priority. If the attorney frequently interrupts the interview to take phone calls or work on other cases, he or she may not give your case the attention it deserves.
Interruptions are especially likely if the attorney you're interviewing has high-profile clients. However, if there's a situation that may require the attorney's immediate attention, he or she should warn you about this before the interview begins and give you the opportunity to reschedule if you aren't comfortable with interruptions.
If you have the opportunity to observe the attorney's interactions with other employees in the firm, pay attention to how he or she treats them – particularly paralegals and assistants.
Attorneys can be demanding bosses, but should treat their employees with respect. You may not want to hire an attorney who you observe insulting or demeaning his or her employees.
 Make a list of factors that are important to you in an attorney and in the representation, then assess each attorney you interviewed on the basis of those factors.You can evaluate each factor simply as a plus or a minus for each attorney you interviewed. Add up the plusses and minuses to get a raw "score" for each attorney, and the attorney with the highest score is the best suited for you.
However, keep in mind that the attorney who "wins" your comparison may not necessarily be the attorney you hire. Just because that attorney is the best for you on paper doesn't mean he or she is the attorney you're most comfortable working with. Personality can be just as important as any of the other factors on your list.
 Although fees shouldn't be the ultimate deciding factor in which attorney you hire, compare how much you can expect to pay in fees to the amount of work and quality of representation that attorney will provide.


When evaluating cost, you also should keep in mind how much work the attorney you're hiring will delegate to other associates in the firm. While having work delegated to a less-experienced attorney may save you some money, it also opens the door to mistakes.
If you value an attorney who has a personal connection to your case, you may prefer to pay a little more for an attorney in a smaller firm who does much of the work personally.
Another issue involved in relative cost is how far away the attorney's office is from where you live – or from your school, if you're a college athlete. It will cost time and money to meet with an attorney located farther way, and this should factor into your cost equation.
 As soon as possible after you've made your decision, call all the attorneys you interviewed and let them know. Even if you've decided not to retain a particular attorney, you don't want to leave him or her hanging.


When you speak with the attorney you've decided to hire, make an appointment to discuss the final details of the representation and what the first steps will be on your case.
 Meet with your chosen attorney as soon as possible after you make your decision, and get a full breakdown of fees and the work the attorney will do for you. Typically you will sign a retainer agreement that provides details of the attorney-client relationship.Read over the retainer or representation agreement with the attorney before you sign it or write a check. Make sure you understand everything, and ask questions if there's something that doesn't make sense to you.

