 Many college applications have an essay question. The essay will respond to your choice of prompts provided by the application. Make sure you read and follow the prompts carefully to make sure you're addressing everything.


College essay prompts are usually designed to help you showcase your value as potential scholar. Prompts often ask you to talk about a difficult experience you've overcome or comment on something to do with current events or history.
Make sure you read the prompt carefully. You want to make sure you're writing to the prompt. A prompt might ask you to, say, compare and contrast your world outlook now as opposed to when you were in kindergarten. You might write a wonderful, insightful essay describing your current world outlook, but if you neglect to compare your current self to your former self you're not addressing the prompt. College applications boards will notice if you fail to follow directions.You should also follow the most basic directions when answering essay questions. For example, don't write a 1,000 word essay if the prompt asks for a 1,000 character essay., College admissions boards see thousands of essay each year. If you want your essay to stand out, you'll need to focus on highlighting your best self. Spend some time working on your essay. Take it as an opportunity to showcase the best version of yourself.


Before you start writing, consider what you want an admissions board to know about you. What do you consider your best qualities? What unique talents and perspectives would you bring to this college or university? How can you fit these attributes into the essay prompt provided?If you're struggling to start, ask your friends and family members to make a list of your most noticeable qualities. This can help you get a sense of what you should brag about in the application essay.Try to use your own voice in a slightly elevated style. You should strive to write high quality prose in a college application essay, but you do not need to write an academic paper. Try to keep your own voice, sense of humor, and sense of self preserved in your writing. Include references to things your'e interested in, for example, and speak in terms you understand., Consider your audience while you're writing the essay. If you ever feel lost during the process, pause and consider the college admission board. They are looking for students who will contribute to the academic community. However, they also read many, many application essays each year in which students may often say the same things. Therefore, strive to talk yourself up but also be a little bit different from the bunch. If you've had a unique experience, talk about it. If you have a heavy amount of knowledge of art, history, or literature, throw in some impressive allusions or references. Anything you can do to set yourself apart is good when it comes to the application essay., When you finish your application essay, revise it. You should never turn in the first draft of such an important aspect of your application. Comb through the essay once more, looking for where you can improve.


Add illustrative details when possible. It's always better to go deeper and look for concrete examples that exemplify your personality and talents. If, in your first draft, you mention that you've always had a curious mind, try to elaborate on this in your second draft. Is there an anecdote you could share? Maybe when you were 6 years-old, your parents found you trying to read the dictionary cover to cover and you explained you wanted to learn every word in the English language.Watch your writing style as well. While you want to convey your voice, slang and teen speak should be avoided in an application essay. You want to write in a style that conveys a certain sophistication and scholarly achievement.Make sure all your ideas flow together smoothly. If you move to a new idea, make sure you add some kind of transition. A small sentence or thought should lead your reader between one idea and the next.
Don't be afraid to set the essay aside for a few days. Sometimes, a little brain space from a piece of writing gives you the necessary opportunity to reflect.
 You should always proofread your application essay several times. Your essay should be completely free of spelling and grammatical errors when you send it out. Do not rely solely on spellcheck software. Print your essay out and reread it. You should also ask a few friends and family members to read over the essay for you. A second pair of eyes can help you catch common mistakes like typos and missing words.

