 Plan to take a test that is not less than three to four weeks away. This should provide enough time to prepare for the exam. Make note of whether or not the scheduled exam allows walk-ins or if preregistration is required. Regardless of which type exam it is, if you have a disability, be sure to inform the contact person so that s/he may make arrangements to accommodate you for this test. Furthermore, realize that the exam is not given by the FCC or its agents, but rather it administered by VE's or "Volunteer Examiners". The VE's are hams that hold licenses that are at least one grade (up to Extra Class) higher than the test they are administering. VE's are not compensated for their time and do this work for the benefit of the community and hobby. A small fee (determined by the FCC) is collected by the VE to cover the costs of the testing materials, rental of testing space, etc. Ask for a list of items that will be expected of you to furnish on the exam date (suitable forms of ID, etc.;
, Some clubs offer one and two day licensing. The quick licensing method consists of one or two weekends, spent in class followed immediately by an exam. If this method appeals to you, use the link in the last step (above "Tips") to contact a club near you to see if it offers ham licensing classes.
 Download from http://ncvec.org/downloads/2014-2018%20Tech%20Pool.txt for free or purchase a softcover copy from your local Radio Shack or bookstore. Make sure the book contains the current "Technician Question Pool" (the current pool as of this writing for Technician exams should be identified for use during the period between July 1, 2014 and June 31, 2018. The question pool has recently been updated.). Print out the pool questions if there isn't always a computer available for use when you have the opportunity to study. If the test date chosen falls after the current test question pool expires, ask which pool the test will be based upon.
 The test itself is highly structured. It consists of 35 questions and is a multiple choice format. The questions come from the pool of 426 questions described above. Each question has four possible answers. Only one answer however, is correct. A passing score requires that 26 of the 35 questions be answered correctly. The question pool (downloaded or purchased in book form) lists each of the 426 questions and all four possible answers for each question, word for word. The 'only' difference between the pool questions and an exam's questions are the order of which the answers are presented.


Study the question pool to prepare for the test. Pool questions described above present the correct answer letter in a "key" at the top of the question. Read the question. Review the answers and select the answer that you feel is correct. Check your selection against the answer provided in the key. Highlight the correct answer (or strike through each of the three incorrect answers). As mentioned above, the actual exam poses the questions and answers "word for word" as the pool questions. The only difference is the order of the answer choices. Do NOT try to learn by associating a question number to an answer letter: "question 46 is answer b, question 211 is answer d" and so on. After highlighting the correct answers, during subsequent reviews, read the question and only the highlighted answer. Do not read the incorrect answers. This will assist associating the correct answer with each question.
Dedicate time each day reading the questions and only the correct answers. Studying twenty to 30 minutes once or twice a day should be sufficient preparation an exam that is 3 or 4 weeks away.
Take a practice examinations online. It's free and an excellent method to determine if you're ready for the test. Some exam sites to check out: http://www.aa9pw.com/radio/ (look for the technician Exam link on the left side), http://www.radioexam.org (tests you section by section), http://www.eham.net/exams/ and http://www.qrz.com/testing.html. The QRZ site exam gives INSTANT feedback as you answer each question. Try them all and use those you like best. When able to score 80% or better CONSISTENTLY, you are ready. If you can't score 80% or better, either wait until you can, or take the exam as practice anyway. This will let you know what it is like when you are ready. Who knows, you might just pass!

, Use this opportunity to verify location, time, etc. of the exam. Make sure the VE's have been able to accommodate any disabilities you informed them of in the first contact with them weeks ago.
 Bring the required documents (identification and any certificates if upgrading) and exam fee to the session. As of this writing (2017), the exam fee is $15 (fee may vary from VEC so its also best to ask the VE what the fee is to confirm a exact amount). If you fail, you can take the test again right away - no need to wait for the next exam session. A second testing fee will be required, however. If you miss it by more than a couple questions - it might be best to study a bit more before retesting.

