 Before amending your petition, you should identify all mistakes so that you can fix them all at once. Go through your petition and identify the errors you made. Common mistakes people make when filling out petitions include:you forgot to list a creditor
you left off property that you own
you listed the wrong value of an item
you didn’t report all of your income
you have experienced a change in circumstances, such as getting laid off;
, You will use the same forms that you used when completing your original petition. However, you should write “Amended” on the forms.Generally, you do not need to redo the entire petition, only the part that had the error. However, other courts might require that you fill in all other information.You can get the forms from the court clerk.Some bankruptcy courts have additional forms you need to fill out, such as a cover sheet. Make sure that you pick up everything that you need from the clerk.
You will also have to fill out a new declaration. In the declaration, you state under penalty of perjury that your information is accurate., Fill out the forms neatly. When you have finished, make a copy for your records and additional copies to send to the trustee and to creditors. Take your completed forms to the court clerk and ask to file.There should be no charge to amend the petition unless you are adding new creditors.
 You should tell the trustee as soon as possible about the change in the petition. Ideally, you should mail them a copy of the amendment so that they will know about the change before the 341 Meeting of Creditors.At the 341 Meeting, you should also ask the trustee if they received your amendment. They might not have had a chance to look at it.
 You need to notify creditors of the change as well. You can do this by sending them a copy of your amended petition.Use the same method of service that you used to serve the trustee.
 When you send papers to either the trustee or to creditors, you need to certify that you actually sent them. This means completing a certificate of service (also called proof of service) and filing it with the court. A certificate of service should contain the following information:your name and case number
the date you sent the documents
the names and addresses of those you served with documents
the date of service
the method you used, such as first class mail, facsimile, or hand delivery

, If you made an amendment within 14 days of your 341 Meeting of Creditors, the deadline to object to exemptions might be extended for the new creditors.The court gives new creditors the same amount of time to review your paperwork as the creditors you initially listed. You should check with the trustee to see if this means your 341 Meeting will need to be rescheduled.
 You have an obligation to update your bankruptcy petition until you are discharged from bankruptcy. Accordingly, you still have to update even if you have had your 341 Meeting of Creditors., Remember that you signed and filed your original bankruptcy petition under penalty of perjury. This means that you did not knowingly omit information. If you did, then you could be prosecuted. The court could also cancel the discharge of all of your other debts.You are not in trouble if you innocently forgot to list a creditor or a small asset. However, if you left off a large asset (like a house) or failed to report significant income, then you should meet with an attorney just to check that you are okay.
You can get a referral to a bankruptcy attorney by contacting your local or state bar association.Call up the attorney and schedule a consultation. Be sure to ask how much the consultation will cost.

