 Do some research before going with a dentist to fill your cavity, especially if you or your child don’t already see one regularly. Look for reviews online and call offices to shop around for a dentist who’s not only highly skilled, but deeply sensitive and empathetic.Find a dentist by asking friends or family for referrals, looking online, or calling your insurance provider for a nearby dentist within your network.
Verify their qualifications by calling the office and asking about their degrees and licensing.
Some dentists hang televisions or posters from ceilings, play music, or use other means to distract patients during procedures.If the TV is 3D capable, then you can wear 3D glasses during the procedure.
If you or your child experiences significant fear of the dentist, consider calling offices and asking what distraction methods they use.
 Typically, an oral gel is first administered to the surrounding gum tissue. After a minute or so, a needle injects Novocain to numb the area completely. A sensitive dentist will time these steps so that you won’t feel anything. However, since some people don’t respond to Novocain or Mepivacaine or are severely afraid of needles, you should discuss the sedative process, cost range and coverage, and available options.General anesthetic is rarely used for fillings, but is sometimes administered in cases of severe fear or anxious of dental procedures.
You’re not able to drive after general anesthesia, so make sure to set up a ride if necessary. Also, take into account the side effects, which usually include dizziness.
Nitrous oxide, or laughing gas, is a common dental sedative. Unlike general anesthesia, you’re allowed to eat prior to being administered nitrous oxide
Oral sedatives, or sleeping pills like Halcion and Valium, are becoming more commonly administered in dental-phobic patients. If your dentist is trained to offer these medications, make sure you understand when and how much to take, and set up rides to and from the appointment., Understanding why ignoring a cavity can makes things much worse can help you relax during a filling. Fillings are important because they get rid of decay and act like a normal tooth, allowing you to continue to chew and talk. They also protect the pulp against external factors, so having it done as fast as possible can save you from expensive root canal treatments. Ignoring a cavity and not getting a tooth filled can lead to much more significant dental work, like crowns, root canals, or tooth extractions.Knowing that a filling isn’t the most intense dental procedure to fix cavities can help you face your fear and relax.
Even if a cavity does require a crown or root canal, these are tried and true procedures that will help you feel better in the long run.
Know that lots of people are afraid of the dentist, but it’s important to get your teeth taken care of in order to maintain your overall health. Ignoring a cavity can lead to infections that can make you very sick, representing a threatening danger for your overall health.
 Fillings are either composite, which are made of plastic and glass, or amalgam, which is made of silver and other metals. Amalgam fillings have been used for almost two hundred years, and while composite ones are newer, they’re becoming more and more advanced as time goes on.


Amalgam fillings are stronger, and usually the best option for kids.
Composite fillings are usually more expensive and don’t last as long, but are the same color as natural teeth.You will need to get these checked annually to ensure that the margins are intact and there is nothing getting into the area beneath them.
You might read about how amalgam fillings contain a small amount of mercury, but you shouldn’t be worried. When it’s combined with other metals, mercury isn’t harmful unless you have an allergy.
Amalgam fillings have also been around a long time, so there’s plenty of evidence to show that there are no long-term harmful effects., While some people express fear of seeing and hearing dental tools, others are more concerned about what they don’t know or see firsthand. If you typically experience a fear of the unknown or fear of not having control, consider asking your dentist to explain the procedure in detail and tell you about how each dental tool works.Do your best to know what you’re afraid of and why. Know yourself and if you’re generally more or less comfortable when you know all the details about something scary.

