 Give a detailed answer when your new friend asks you a question. If you are unsure of how to respond to something, ask for clarity – especially if they had asked a question. The most important thing is to respond genuinely, as this will convey that you value the conversation, as well as the other person’s attention.Elaborate on your responses to questions. When someone asks what your favorite part of a movie was, instead of just answering, "Definitely the ending!," answer with something like, "The ending sequence, when the minions were caught and mostly destroyed, but one survived in the pile of its fallen brethren. I like to think it still roams the Earth today."
Say what you actually think, not what you think they want to hear. You shouldn’t assume you know what other people admire or expect. More importantly, people admire individuality, especially if you can spin some quirky positivity into your statements.
 One of the most important steps in being both a good conversationalist and a good friend: Be a good listener. At it’s most simply, active listening is simply paying attention to what the other person is saying. But to truly actively listen is to give them the time and space to speak openly, to actively learn about another person, and to give yourself the opportunity to fully consider what they have to say.Be sure to look your friend in the eye throughout the conversation. Don’t literally stare into the other person’s eyes, but maintain eye contact most of the time, especially when one of you are saying something particularly meaningful or interesting.
Recognize that many people simply wait for their turn to speak in conversation, and don’t actively listen to what their conversational partner is saying.
Push your own thoughts out of way while the other person is speaking. Focus on their points, and allow a few moments of silence when they finish speaking, both to make sure they are done speaking, and to allow yourself to consider a thoughtful response.
 These include "um," "like," and "you know".While these words are entirely appropriate to use occasionally, if you say them too often, it will seem as though you are distracted or uninterested in explaining yourself clearly.
 Even people you expect to get along with or immediately admire may have significantly different points of view. Differences of opinion can actually enrich a friendship, and can help both of your individual minds to grow.Whenever you do not agree with your friend's opinion, and want to share this disagreement, be sure you have a reason. If you choose to do so, share your disagreement politely.
If you don't agree about a minor thing, consider the universal truth that you could always simply let it be.
 A friendly, positive conclusion to a conversation will leave you both feeling glad to have met one another, and hoping to meet again. A great way to conclude is recall a point in the conversation you just had that you both resonated with. There are lots of options; the key is positivity.Say something clever or insightful you had thought of and wanted to say earlier, but had forgotten.
Inquire about your friend’s plans for the rest of the day and wish them well on the endeavor. For instance, say something along the lines of, “Well, I’m off to ______ in a minute here. What’s the rest of your day look like?”
Default to humor. If all else fails, tease yourself for not wanting to leave the conversation, while explaining you hope to meet again. Try, “Hey, it’s been great speaking with you and I wish we I could chat with you all day – but I have to run.”
Use a friendly parting gesture as an opportunity to offer an open-ended invitation to spend further time together by saying something like, “When might I see you again?”

