 Pimps can dress extravagantly for two reasons: They're advertising their services without doing so explicitly, and they're showing off their prestige and/or wealth. Being extravagant as a pimp means a couple things:


Have nice, or nice-looking, things. Pimps like really nice things. That means, if they can afford it, they get it. If they can't afford that Hermès watch or that Louis Vuitton belt, they make sure that whatever they have looks quality or expensive.
Prefer exotic, lush fabrics. Pimps are in the business of providing people with creature comforts, however indirectly. Whenever possible, go for really soft fabrics like cashmere, silk, sateen, fur, rayon, etc.
Opt for lively colors whenever possible, but remember to be color-coordinated. Contrasting with a lot of different colors isn't really what a pimp does. A pimp has no hesitations about dressing in Mardi Gras green, just as long as most of his wardrobe is also in Mardi Gras green. Take note.
When in doubt, be flashy. Be the man that turns peoples' heads when you walk down the street, someone who commands attention and authority just by what you wear. If that means wearing a purple scarf, then you won't shy away from the challenge.;
, Nice suits can cost upwards of a grand, so find a suit that is distinctive and distinguished. A nice suit — or several nice suits — are the cornerstones of a pimp's repertoire. Pimps always always wear coat jackets, even in hot weather or inside, because it completes the look and makes them more recognizable.


Remember to choose a suit has the right material and color. A grey wool suit is perfectly nice, but it's not very pimp. A purple and white double-breasted, made of silk, is more like it.
Animal print might suit you very well. Tiger or leopard print is a reminder to anyone who might have forgotten that you take each opportunity to dress stylishly.
 A matching or contrasting vest is almost always a must. A vest will distinguish you from a regular businessman and give you another opportunity to show off. Try matching vests, or white or black vests to add a little contrast to your suit.
 A huge fur overcoat might blend nicely with your suit on a cold day, just as a shimmering silk cape might on a warm day. Whether it's practical or not is beside the question. Whether it makes you look authoritative and distinctive is the question.
 Shoes are your opportunity to accessorize. Your shoes will be clean, color-coordinated, and appropriate for the occasion. A pimp cares about his appearance way too much to pay no attention to his shoes. Shine and polish your shoes regularly so that they look immaculate at worst and unused at best.


Alligator leather is a popular choice for formal shoes. Alligator leather is expensive, unusual, and symbolic of power.
More formal shoes, such as loafers or oxfords, are a good choice, especially if they're embroidered or personalized in some way. If you can personalize a pair of $300 shoes, you've made them beyond comparison.
Less formal shoes are acceptable, but make sure you coordinate with the rest of your wardrobe. You don't want to be wearing a pair of Jordans with a linen Armani suit or you'll spoil the look.
 A pimp has numerous accessories on his person, both for personal style and practicality. Get the following things to round out your pimp wardrobe:



Shades. Sunglasses are almost essential. Like your shoes, they're always looking good and usually of the highest quality. You wear sunglasses because it makes you feel invincible.

A cane. A cane, or a "pimp cane," is another manifestation of your wealth and power. You may not need it to correct a limp, but you want it to convey your style.
 A pimp without jewelry more than likely isn't making the right impression. Jewelry is your way of communicating to the world that you made it. Essential jewelry includes:


A watch. Your watch is loud and encrusted with precious stones. Sure, it tells the time; but more than that, it tells other people who you are.
A necklace, or two, or three. Gold or silver chains draped around your neck.
A ring. Your ring, probably worn on your little finger, may or may not "say" anything about you. Most likely, it's big, it sparkles, and it has to do with money.
 Pimps are not unaccustomed to manicures and pedicures, to massages and hot baths, to haircuts and fittings. That's because pimps place value on their appearance and reputation, and they know what business they're in.


Many pimps prefer to sport some form of facial hair. Goatees and mustaches are especially popular, but not necessary. Any facial hair that is well-groomed and immaculate will make an impression.
 You don't have to wear a suit every day to look like a pimp. In fact, many pimps like to dress down on Fridays. If you're in the mood for some designer jeans, a button down, and a Kangol hat, you have the license to dress down on Fridays. Just remember that "casual" is not an excuse to dress sloppy. Dressing like a pimp is all about appearances.
 Every pimp has a different style. Many pimps along the way have redefined the game, forcing other pimps to re-imagine what they can and cannot do. Don't be afraid to be bold and wear something that makes you entirely distinguished from the all the other pimps out there.

