 Once you’ve arrived at your camp site, figuring out where to set up is your first challenge. Choose a generally flat area with good drainage. This will enable you to easily set up your tent and will help you sleep better knowing your tent won’t be flooded in the middle of the night.If you are backcountry camping, rangers can offer useful advice on good areas to consider for setting up camp.Look out for insect nests and slanted ground when setting up your tent. You will want to avoid both.
Avoid setting up below or near a dead or dying tree, since limbs can break off during heavy winds.Think about whether you want to be near restroom and shower facilities, for convenience, or away from them for privacy.
 If you are among people you enjoy spending time with, you will increase the odds of having a great time on your camping trip.


You may want to just bring a few friends to your first camping trip, since it will be easier to plan for a smaller number.
Another benefit of bringing friends along is that you can split up the gear and food that you’re bringing, so you each have to pack less. Just knowing that you have some help in the planning and preparation may help you have a better time while on your campout.
 Camping involves more than just sleeping in a tent. If you can think of ways to do things you enjoy on your campout, you will maximize your enjoyment.


If you are a foodie and love to cook, think of all of the ways you can bring that enthusiasm to cooking over an open fire. The Internet is full of gourmet campfire recipes you can use to impress your friends. For example, you could make grilled chicken or a fire-roasted vegetable salad.If you are a physical activity enthusiast, you have many options to increase your camping enjoyment. Hiking, biking, swimming, and boating are just a few of the activities you can partake in while on your camping trip.
Nature lovers can have a great time while camping by incorporating bird watching or stargazing into their trip.
If you need a break from the great outdoors, choose a campsite close to local attractions like historical sites or museums. That way, you get to do something you enjoy, while your camping partner gets to have fun too.
 At its core, camping is about the simple pleasure of slowing down and enjoying nature. You may be surprised how much fun you can have just relaxing and interacting with others.


Tell ghost stories around the campfire while eating s’mores.
Bring a guitar or other portable instrument and have a sing-along.
Play hide-and-seek in the dark.
Play card games.
Catch fireflies.

