 When you bought your corset, it may have come laced up for you. If this is the case, don’t worry about lacing the corset unless the corset is laced incorrectly. It should look similar to how a shoe is laced (with X’s), but with the strings meeting in the center of the back instead of at either end.








If your corset came pre-laced, make sure the laces meet in the middle. The two laces should form an “X” with the center of the ex meeting on your spine.;
, If you have an even number of grommets (the hole where the lacing goes in), start by pulled the lacing up through the bottom of the top grommets. If you have an odd number of grommets, you lace from the bottom to the top








Lacing should be provided when you buy your corset. If it is not, avoid ribbon if you are planning on having your corset laced firmly. Lace should be used.
 Take the right string and pull it to the left side. If the first grommet has laces coming out through the top of the hole, then pull it down through the top of the hole on the other side. If the first grommet has the laces going down into the hole, then pull the laces up through the bottom of the hole on the other side. Repeat on the left side after the ride side is done.








Keep your laces even. Make sure you keep the ends of the laces even with each other as you pull the laces through the grommets.
 With the X complete, keep going down the line until you reach the center. You should end up with X's alternating between being "on top" of the corset and "below" the corset.
 With the top section done, repeat the same process with the second string but start in the middle. Continue until you reach the bottom of the corset.
 It’s great and definitely makes things easier if you have someone to help you put the corset on. However, it’s possible to put on a corset by yourself. Use a mirror if you’re putting on the corset alone.








It’s preferable to have a few mirrors around so you can see exactly what you’re doing.
 Everyday wear requires something underneath the corset itself. This is to absorb moisture and dirt from your skin, protecting your corset. If you do use a corset liner, get one made of cotton or other breathable material. Anything made of Lycra or spandex will just make you sweat more.








Most places that sell corsets will also sell liners. You can also make your own if you have basic sewing skills, since it’s just a tube.
It’s not necessary to wear an underlayer if you’re wearing a corset as lingerie.
 The side with the laces is the back. The side with the holes and knobs is the front of the corset. When you're getting ready to put it on, the busk (front) of the corset should be open, and the laces at the back should be closed.








If you have an underbust corset, telling which side is the top from bottom can be tricky. Usually the top of the back will be more straight across than bottom, but not always.
 Start by closing the front. You might need to make some adjustments. You should be able to close the busk in the front fairly easily, though some resistance is good. You should not need to seriously inhale in order to get it to close.








Some people like to have to pull harder in order to get the front closed. Others believe having the back more loose makes it easier to close the front. Experiment to find what works for you.
 The modesty panel is a rectangle of fabric which will most likely be attached on the left side of your corset in the back. When you put the corset on, make sure that the modesty panel is flat across your back and pointed towards the other side of the corset.








Slide the corset into place by starting with the corset skewed to the side opposite from the modesty panel and twisting the corset towards the modesty panel side.
As you tighten the laces, you’ll probably need to pull the modesty panel back into place a few times.
 The busk consists of the metal pieces on the front of the corset with the knobs and holes. You're now ready to fasten the busk by putting the knobs into the holes. This is trickier than it sounds. Here's how you do it:








Fasten either the second from the top or the middle clasp first. Simply put the knob through the hole.
Pinch the knob side of the busk. Now, with your thumb and pointer finger, pinch the hard part of the knob side of the busk.
Fasten the rest of the clasps.
Refasten any that come undone.
 Get the laces just tight enough that the corset will stay on without needing to be held up. You should only need to pull the sides together and give a gentle tug on the long ends of the lacing.
 Now that you've done most of the lacing, take another pass to get all the lacing as tight as you can. As you tighten, adjust the tightness of each X so that it keeps the two sides straight and parallel. With the X's tightened, make a final strong pull using all four strings at the center. This will draw in the waist.








Pinch the center of the X's and pull them away from your back, starting at the ends and moving toward the center. This is the easiest way to tighten the corset so that it fits to your body.
How tight you can make the corset will have to do with the quality and fit of your corset.
 Now that the corset is nice and tight, tie all four laces together into a bow or knot. They may be somewhat loose but that's okay. Just make sure to double knot it and you should be fine.








If you have a lot of extra lacing at the ends, you can get a smoother look by looping the laces around your stomach and then making a smaller bow or knot at the back.
 Now that you're laced in, take a look at yourself in the mirror. First of all, make sure that it’s somewhat comfortable. A corset should not bite into your sides, pinch you, or be anything other than noticeably firm. You need to be able to breathe. You'll also want to look at the back lacing and take notice of the shape of the gap.








A well-fit corset should have a gap at the back with sides that are perfectly parallel.
If the gap is wider at the bottom or top, you may need a custom fit corset. If there's any bowing in the middle you probably need a larger size corset.

