 Long periods of long-trot, lope, hill work and backing are essential for a well-muscled horse. Start small, especially with a young horse, and work every day, at least 60 days before the show.;
, Work with your farrier to keep your horse’s hooves beautiful, strong and straight. A twice-weekly application of hoof conditioner will keep them from getting brittle, and aid in growth and appearance.
 Use neck sweats and sweating lotions to keep your horse’s crest at bay.
 Only add the highest quality supplements. There are many cheap products that only waste your money and time.
 Train your horse to stop, walk, trot & set up on command, with minimal pressure on the lead. Make sure all your horse’s feet are square, and that he is not stretched or cramped.
 For example, spray your glove with perfume, and gently wave it by your horse’s nostrils to wake him up. You can also snap, wriggle your fingers, or click, but do not distract the judge or the other horses. Do not over-practice at home, or your horse will learn to ignore it.
 This allows time for the hair to grow back to a more natural looking state.
, Horses enjoy it more, too.
 Lift all the scruff and dirt out, and rinse well.
, Comb out the tail with your fingers first, to get out all the snarls and knots. Use a color-intensifying shampoo if you desire.
 Otherwise, it will be too slick to band. Leave in for a moment.
 Then apply a leave-in, long term shining agent.
 Apply a leave-in detangler.
 Place him in a very clean stall or pasture, and cover him with a sheet, tail wrap, neck sheet and soft leg wraps to protect your work.
 Use thin rubber bands the color of your horse’s mane.
 Make sure you closely clip your horse’s muzzle, eye area, ears and bridle path.
, This could be chalk, baby powder, or new whitening creams.
 Brush his tail and extension well.
 Use black for black or blue hooves, and clear for any other color. If in doubt, use clear.
, Make sure all silver is shining, and that it does not sit too low on his face. It should sit one thumb width below his cheek bone.
 Apply a hoof polish enhancer and touch up your highlighting job.

