 There should be two to six people who stick by your side. Your group should consist of trustworthy, close friends who love you for who you are. Be sure that they are loyal, smart, and well-dressed, as well as good role models for the rest of your classmates to follow. In order to convince them to remain your friends, allow them to have some of the spotlight as well. Give them equal attention and love, as well as small gifts to show your appreciation for them. Individual clique members vary, but refer to the list below in order to have an idea of an official clique:



The Alpha. She is the leader of the group.

The Beta. She is your best friend who loves but doesn't idolize you. You should be able to trust her with your secrets and reveal some of your imperfections.

The Sweetheart. She can act as a buffer during fights, as well as emotional support for those who are feeling down. Also, she is excellent at conversing with adults. Additionally, she should have similar qualities to the rest of your clique, but she will be softer and sweeter.

The Pro. She will have one or more major talents, such as being an actress or an athlete.

The Party Animal. She will be the life of the party: but with class.

The Middle Ground. She is the standard popular girl. Although the rest of your clique may be talented and outgoing, she will be average and tone down the rest of the group. Despite the fact that she will appear to be a regular teenager, she will perform a teenager's tasks better than anyone else can.;
, Being proud of who you are is essential in popularity. Insecure people are often searching for a good role model to follow, and you must fill the position in order to become popular. Use the tips below to boost your confidence:



Be happy with your appearance. While many people may wish they could change their looks, use a different mindset from them. Realize that you are uniquely beautiful, despite what society says.

If you are unhappy with your appearance, use this method to boost your confidence: put on excess makeup until you appear sickening. Wear it for an hour and constantly look in mirrors. Later, wash it off and look in a mirror again. See how cute and naturally beautiful you appear? That's how the world sees you.



Take care of your personal hygiene. By keeping your body clean, you'll feel more confident. Take daily showers, and wash your face with natural products to prevent pimples. Wear deodorant or perfume, and keep your nails and hair trimmed to an appropriate length. Also, if you are old enough, and if your parents give you permission, shave your legs to prevent them from being too hairy. Take care of your body, and you will be rewarded for your efforts.

Wear makeup. To enhance your beauty, apply basic makeup to your face. Keep it as natural as possible in order to avoid appearing fake.

Participate in different hobbies or activities. By allowing yourself to have adventures in the world, you'll be able to discover more about yourself during your times of relaxation. Find a new hobby or an activity for some spice in your life.

Spend quality time with your family or close friends. Get to know your loved ones. Go out on a special event or vacation with them. By spending time with the people who love you, you'll feel happy with yourself.

Tackle a big project. While your goal doesn't have to be huge, completing an objective can boost your confidence. It'll give you a sense of accomplishment, and you'll feel prepared to take on life's larger tasks.

Go shopping. Browse your favorite stores for sales or discounts. Buy yourself a cute outfit that complements your body type and skin tone. If it helps, have a family member or a friend accompany you to give you advice.
 In order to become a role model for your classmates, you'll need to have a lovely appearance. By taking care of your body, you'll reap the benefits and brighten your beauty.


Hair is often considered the defining feature of your body. Take good care of your locks by purchasing shampoo and conditioner of excellent quality. Additionally, get a haircut that flatters your face shape. Every four to eight weeks, you should receive a trim in order to encourage hair growth and remove split ends. Also, when styling your hair, choose popular, attractive hairstyles that complement your face type. Examples are messy buns, half ponytails, ponytails, and braids. Add cute accessories to your hair for a unique look.
Keep your face clean and clear. By using cleanser, toner, and moisturizer on a daily basis, you'll ward off unwelcome pimples and oily skin. Also, apply light, natural makeup to enhance your beauty and cover up flaws.
Maintain your personal hygiene. Take good care of your teeth by brushing them at least twice a day and flossing them at least once a day. For good breath, use mouthwash. Additionally, take daily showers using good soap and an exfoliating glove for smooth, soft skin. Shave or wax any hair that needs removing. Also, clean your nails and receive manicures or pedicures if you wish.
Stay in shape. By completing thirty minutes of exercise per day, you'll maintain your weight and gain a fit body. Also, eat healthy, organic foods.
 Treat everyone you meet with a neutral but friendly air in order to leave a good impression. Being polite to them will give them no reason to become your enemy or accuse you of acting mean. However, while you should be kind and sweet to your classmates, avoid being a goody-two-shoes. Don't be afraid to scratch back if someone makes a jab at you, but refrain from becoming a bully. The queen never openly attacks people.


Have circles of friends and acquaintances. Although you should mainly stick with your clique, it doesn't hurt to have other connections. While you don't necessarily have to speak with every one of your casual friends on a daily basis, keep in touch with them.
If a person in your circle puts you down, demote her a little and coax a secret out of her. This is more effective and less cruel.
 Purchase clothing from popular brands, and occasionally splurge on expensive outfits. Choose unique outfits that other people won't have, but refrain from dressing in a strange, unattractive fashion. Your clothing choices should be appropriate for events you wish to attend (ex: wear a prom dress to prom, not a tennis dress). Additionally, choose colors and flattering cuts that complement your body and skin tone. Be sure you pair your outfits with cute shoes and complementing accessories, including a cute handbag. It is recommended that you have at least one or two designer items. These may consist of a purse, a pair of shoes (preferably heels or flats), or a piece of jewelry.


Popular brands are Abercrombie, American Eagle, Topshop, Hollister, Forever 21, Old Navy, Aeropostale, GUESS?, and Tommy Hilfiger. If you want to go the extra mile, stores such as Juicy Couture, Marc Jacobs, Urban Outfitters, and American Apparel are excellent choices.
Stay updated with fashion magazines in order to know what's hot and what's not. Although you can allow your style to be inspired by different outfits, do not entirely copy the models' appearances. Instead, steal a little of their style and add it to yours for a unique blend. Excellent magazines include Teen Vogue, Seventeen, and Elle.

Jeans should be a great fit without causing your hips to overlap the edges (which results in an unattractive muffin top).
While you might be tempted to sneer at other people's outfit choices, treat them with respect. Realize that they have their own style, despite how you believe they should dress.
 Everywhere you go, gossip will follow. Although you might try to please everyone, not all people will refrain from gossiping about you, no matter how good you may appear. Avoid gossiping about your close friends. Only spread information about a person behind their back if you believe they deserve it. However, if you choose to spread rumors, do it subtly in order to avoid tarnishing your reputation..

