 You can use a butter knife if you have one. If you don't, use a regular knife.;
,


You can either use a toaster or an oven for this step. If you are using an oven, set the broiler to low. Place the croissant halves in an oven proof tray, Toast for 2 minutes or until the color changes.
 You should crack it into a small microwavable bowl since you will be microwaving the egg. You can also crack it into a different bowl then transfer it into a microwave safe bowl.
 There is no measurement of how much salt and pepper you should use - simply add however much you wish. If you would like to add other seasonings, you can add those in this step.
 This step is completely optional but it does give the dish more flavor.
 Keep mixing until you cannot see the egg white anymore. You should mix at least for one full minute.
 This step is very important. If you do not cover the bowl while microwaving, your egg might not be thoroughly cooked.


If you do not have a lid for your bowl, use a microwave safe plate to cover it.
 Not all microwaves work the same way. If the egg is not cooked within 40 seconds, add 10 more seconds.
 Make sure the egg stays intact. The egg should look like a patty.


To easily remove the patty, you can flip the bowl and gently tap on the bottom until the egg falls out.
If you break the shape, scramble the egg and follow the remaining steps.
 Use a knife to do this. Make sure you take precautions as the egg might be hot. You can also wait for the egg to cool down to do this step.
 You can choose any type of cheese or more then one slice of cheese.
 You can choose which one you want to place at the bottom. Most people usually prefer cheese at the bottom and egg on top of the cheese. You can customize it however you want.
 This step is important because it allows the cheese to melt. However, if your egg patty is hot, the cheese will melt on its own and you can skip this step.
 Lightly put pressure on top of the croissant like you would with a regular sandwich. Serve it while it is still warm.,