 If your renovation does not require the reconfiguring of any walls, you may be better off simply hiring a contractor. Contractors will be able to handle most home updates by themselves. Replacing fixtures and finishes like cabinetry, flooring, paint and lighting is a contractor's bread and butter. However, if the floor plan of your home will change, you should hire an architect.;
, The AIA site has a great "Find an Architect" feature that will let you search for architecture firms by location. Check out the websites of some nearby firms. Look specifically at their past projects, and compare the scope of those projects to yours.
 Don't just randomly pick an architect and move forward; interview several candidates before making your choice. Tell them about your design plans, get a feel for how they work, and most importantly, be sure you'll be able to work smoothly with the firm or the individual you hire. You will be working closely with them, so it is important to have a good relationship.


If you already have a trusted contractor in mind, ask him to recommend an architect. Contractors work with architects all the time and will be familiar with the ones practicing locally. Don't overlook the importance of your contractor's opinion; the relationship between the architect and the contractor can make or break a project.
 Design-build firms are companies who keep both designers and contractors on staff, thus streamlining the design/construction process and improving communication. If you don't already have a contractor in mind, this is a good option. Design-build is a rising trend. There are now many design-build firms that specialize in small projects like home renovations.
 Once you have decided on an architect but before you sign a contract, ask how fees are configured. The firm may want to negotiate a fixed sum, or they may charge a percentage above the cost of time and materials. In the latter case, make sure to get a guaranteed maximum price written into the contract. This specifies the most you will pay the architect, which ensures that he/she won't run way over-budget by taking too long or selecting overly-expensive materials.
 Once the contract is drawn up, make sure you understand and agree to all its provisions before signing. Consider having a lawyer look over the contract with you.

