, Each brand of cake mix will be a little different, so the exact amounts will vary. You will be using the same measurements that your cake mix calls for, but you will be using different ingredients. This will make your cake taste more homemade., Read how much oil your cake mix needs—it is typically around ½ cup (115 grams)—then use that amount in butter instead. Cut the butter into cubes, then melt it in the microwave or in a saucepan over the stove. The butter will make your cake rich and flavorful.Vegan or want the cake to be fat-free? Try applesauce instead! You do not need to heat the applesauce., Most cake mixes call for about 2 or 3 eggs. This means that you should be using 3 or 4 eggs instead. Add the eggs in one at a time into the mixing bowl, beating with a whisk after each addition. Keep beating until the eggs and butter are well combined.
 Read how much water the box calls for, measure out some milk instead, then slowly pour it into your mixing bowl while stirring. The amounts may vary from brand to brand, but it is typically around 1⅓ cups (320 milliliters). The milk will add extra richness and flavor to your cake.You can also use hot water in place of cold/room temperature water if you are making a chocolate cake. This will bring out the chocolate flavor.For an even richer cake, use buttermilk instead.Vegan or can't have dairy? Try full-fat coconut milk instead., You may want to sift the cake mix first to break up any lumps or clumps. Keep whisking the batter until everything is well-combined; be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often.
 These extras are not necessary, but they can take your cake to the next level and make it taste as though it was made from scratch! Here are some ideas to get you started:

If you are making a white cake, add ½ teaspoon of vanilla extract.If you are making a chocolate cake, add in a handful of chocolate chips or chocolate shavings.If you are making carrot cake, add in some grated carrot for a hint of freshness.If you know that the cake is going to be very sweet, add ¼ teaspoon of salt and 1 to 2 teaspoons of fresh lemon juice. This only works for white or yellow cake mixes., Depending on the cake mix you bought, and the type of pan you are using, you will have enough to fill one or two pans. Every cake mix will be different, but here are some general guidelines:


With one box of cake mix, you can typically fill two 8 or 9-inch (20.32 or 22.86 centimeters) round cake pans.
With one box of cake mix, you can fill one 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02 centimeters) baking pan.
 Again, every type of cake mix will have slightly different baking times. The size of your pan will also make a difference. In general, however:


An 8-inch (20.32 centimeters) round cake will bake in 26 to 31 minutes.
A 9-inch (22.86 centimeters) round cake will bake in 24 to 29 minutes.
A 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02 centimeters) sheet cake will bake 26 to 31 minutes.
 Let the cake cool in the pan for 10 to 15 minutes first, then invert it onto a plate, and let it finish cooling. The cake must be completely cool before you add frosting onto it.
 Cut the cake in half using a piece of thread or a bread knife, then spread some frosting or jam on the inside. Put the cake back together, then use a butter knife or off-set cake decorating spatula to spread more frosting on the top and sides of the cake.