 Leg lifts from the lower side plank position help strengthen your core as well as your hips, and also will increase the mobility in your hips and relieve tightness.Get into lower side plank position, resting on your elbow and forearm with your legs extended, ankles stacked. Make sure your elbow is directly under your shoulder.
Lift the top leg, being careful to keep your body in a straight line and not roll your hips forward or back with the movement. Hold this position for between ten and thirty seconds.
Once you've mastered leg lifts from the elbow side plank position, you can progress to leg lifts from raised side plank. This is a challenging exercise that also improves your balance and overall core stability.
 Clams will strengthen your hips, glutes, and thighs. This exercise is done lying on your side with your knees bent so that your ankles are aligned with your glutes.Lie on your side, bending your bottom arm at the elbow so you can rest your head in your palm. Bend the knee of your top leg 90 degrees, flexing your foot. Your bottom leg should be extended out, also with your foot flexed.
Raise your top leg up until you feel the muscles in your hips and thighs contracting. Hold for ten seconds, maintaining the 90-degree bend in your knee. Then lower until your leg is parallel to the floor. Make sure you aren't rolling your torso or hips back when you move your leg.
 Bridges themselves are static exercises that will greatly assist in stabilizing your pelvis. You also can do double-leg bridges or single-leg bridges in a dynamic series as a strength-building exercise.To do a double-leg bridge, lie on the floor on your back with your knees bent so that the soles of your feet are resting on the floor. Your arms should be by your sides, palms flat on the floor. On an exhale, engage your abs and lift your hips to create a bridge. Hold for a few breaths and then release.
A single-leg bridge uses the same movement as a double-leg bridge, except that you lift one leg straight towards the ceiling while the other remains flat on the floor. Make sure you do both sides.
Hold each bridge exercise for between ten and thirty seconds. Make sure to do it on each leg for single-leg exercises.
 The plank is a standard exercise for building core strength. If you combine leg lifts with planks, it will make the plank itself more challenging, but it also will help build strength in your hips and stabilize your pelvis.When lifting your legs while doing planks, make sure that your hips are not turning with the movement and that your body weight isn't shifting.

