 To do the tabletop pose, you'll need a yoga mat or something to cushion your joints. Because you'll be on your hands and knees, you may want a rolled towel or blanket to put behind your knees for support.Get into position with your wrists directly below your shoulders and your knees directly below your hips. Your knees should be about hip-width apart, maybe a little closer.
Look directly in front of you, rolling your shoulders back away from your ears rather than crunching them forward.;
, The positioning of your body in tabletop must be correct if you want to avoid discomfort or pain when you later add the spinal twist to do the tabletop twist pose. Pay attention to the alignment of your hips and shoulders.In tabletop position, your back is flat and neutral – like the top of a table. Your hips should be square, facing parallel to the floor, and your shoulder blades should be tucked down your back alongside your spine.
If you're accustomed to a deep arch in your lower back, it may feel as though you're arching outward, despite the fact that your back actually is flat.
Practice with a partner or in front of a mirror at first so you can make sure everything is in alignment. Then get used to how that feels so you won't need a visual check to correct your posture.
 The balancing tabletop pose will challenge your back and core strength while preparing you for the tabletop twist. You can use a folded blanket under your knees if you need to reduce pressure on the joints.From tabletop, lift your right leg up on an inhale so that it is extended behind you, toes pointed behind you. Exhale and maintain your bodyweight evenly on both hips.
On your next inhale, raise your left arm so it is parallel to the floor in front of you, fingers reaching forward. Use your core to help stabilize your weight so that you are not wobbling or leaning to either side.
Hold the pose for three to five breaths, then release on an exhale and repeat on the other side.
 Reverse tabletop pose is an intense chest opener that may require a little practice for you to be able to do. Go slow and avoid making any movements that cause pain or discomfort.Relax first and open your chest by lifting and rolling your shoulders while leaning back from a cross-legged position with your palms on the floor. Your fingers should be facing your body.
Place your feet flat on the floor in front of you about hip-width apart, knees bent. Place your hands behind your body, fingers facing toward you. As you inhale, press your shoulder blades together to open your chest.
As you exhale, lift your pelvis toward the floor so that your torso and the tops of your thighs form a flat, tabletop-like surface in the air. Your knees should be at right angles so that your thighs and torso are roughly parallel with the floor.
You can hold the pose for several breaths, or lower your pelvis on the next inhale and then repeat. #*If you find reverse tabletop difficult, try starting with the low lunge and high lunge poses to help prepare your muscles for reverse tabletop.