 If possible, you could grow certain food items on your own. If you have the time and resources to grow food, this could save some money on the cost of produce.


Even if you do not have a backyard, certain fruit, vegetables, and legume plants can grow healthily out of pots. Beans, corn, carrots, radishes, spinach, and others can be grown from a pot. Make sure the soil is watered regularly. Water it once a day or whenever it feels damp.You will need to provide your plants light, however. If you do not have access to a lot of natural light via windows or a balcony, many greenhouses and hardware stores sell grow lights that simulate the effect of natural sunlight.If growing your own food is not possible, look into community garden projects in your city. If you get involved, you might be eligible to receive free items from each harvest. Community gardens also might allow you a specific plot where you can grow and tend to your own fruits and vegetables.
 Oftentimes, certain spots in a city or town contain fruit trees or edible plants. If the area is a community space, it is legal for you to pick the fruit and greens for your own consumption.


If you're not sure where to get started, the website Falling Fruit provides an interactive map of a variety of cities. Falling Fruit locates areas where food grows and is legal to forage. Using Falling Fruit, you could potentially find free, fresh produce.Scope your community when you go out and be on the lookout for apple trees, peach trees, and other edible plants. Ask around if you discover, say, an apple tree to make sure it falls on community rather than private property. If you pick apples from a tree found on someone's personal residence, you could potentially get in legal trouble.
Buy a foraging handbook. These are guides that will help you differentiate between plant types to know what's safe to eat. It will also teaching you how to properly clean and store foraged food.
Dumpster diving is a type of foraging where people go to the dumpsters of groceries stores and restaurants to search for recently expired food that's been thrown out. Careful though. Dumpster diving is not always legal and if there are posted signs prohibiting trespassing it's best to go elsewhere. Some areas have outright banned dumpster diving, so check the regulations in your area. Also, only take food from dumpsters if it's in a safe plastic wrapping that is unbroken or otherwise damaged.
 PareUp is an application that allows groceries stores to sell surplus food at a discount price rather than throwing it out.


You can download PareUp using your smart phone. Groceries stores enter their excess food into PareUp's inventory, alongside its time of availability and price.If you see a food item you'd be interested in purchasing, you can claim it using PareUp and then go pick it up at your convenience.