 If you know the words you’re going to be tested on, that’s great, and you can easily make the list. If you’re studying for the ACT, SAT, or GRE, that makes it a little more complicated. However, there are many lists of words commonly used on these exams, so with a little online research, you can easily find a good number of words to start working on., Think about synonyms that you already know for the new words. As you write down the definition, focus strongly on that word. If you can, don’t write down all the definitions at one time – it’s too much and the words can all run together. Do a few definitions at a time as you let the words sink in.
 That way you can easily discard the ones you learn and focus on the more difficult ones. The act of making flash cards can also be useful in and of itself – you have to write the words and their definitions down. It’s also very helpful for mixing up the order and getting someone else to quiz you., Group the words in groups of 5. You could group them alphabetically, by type (noun, verb, adjective, etc.), kind (legal word, ancient/old word, foreign word), or with other words that have similar meaning. With them broken down, it becomes easier to study them, and feels less overwhelming.
 Make images of the words you’re trying to remember. Try drawing the words incorporated into a larger drawing that defines the word. Or, doodle with the letters in the word to come up with a way to help you remember the definition. Some examples would be:


Draw someone throwing up the word “regurgitate”
Draw the word “defenestration” being thrown out a window.
 Mnemonics are memory devices that help you remember something. That's it. They're usually formed by association.For example, if you wanted to learn the word "gregarious" (which means outgoing, vivacious, sociable), you might imagine a giraffe wearing a party hat. The giraffe's name is Greg Arious. Congratulations: now you have a mnemonic!
Another example might be the word "melange" (which means a mixture). Imagine putting together a melon and an orange - voila! You have a mixed-up mnemonic.
 For any of the major tests – ACT, SAT, GRE – there are practice tests for the vocabulary section. Take advantage of this, and test yourself. If you don’t own a test prep workbook that includes practice tests, check one out from the library. Most public libraries have many test preparation books, and it won’t matter if it’s for the most recent test – vocabulary words don’t change much!