 The holidays are full of extra errands, volunteer duties, and chores. Your best intentions could still leave you and your spouse left with mostly "Hi's" and "Bye's" over the holiday season. Don't let busy work or family schedules stop you from getting some alone time. You can actually take advantage of the busyness to plan mutual activities.


For instance you and your spouse can volunteer at a soup kitchen during the holiday. Or, you can ask the in-laws to babysit while you go out together and shop for the kids and other family members. Even if the only alone time you can find includes running errands or wrapping presents, find time to do something with just the two of you.;
, It’s easy to overbook yourself during the holidays with parties, shopping, and spending time with your loved ones. One of the most important things you can do to stay close with your spouse, however, is to make time for yourselves. Taking a break from the hustle and bustle is not only good for your stress level, but it can allow you and your spouse to reconnect. Sneak away for a date night or two, or spend a quiet but special evening in.If you have kids, hire a babysitter. Many people need extra cash during the holidays, so you can help a friend or neighbor at the same time you help yourself.
 Going to what seems like a never-ending array of parties can take a toll on your relationship, as you may not feel like you have any down-time, which can affect your mindset and stress level. Kindly pass on some invites and your marriage will likely thank you. Many couple take turns with different families or friend groups, alternating each year.


You may feel bad or fearful about saying no to your friends and family, but if they truly love you, they will understand. Simply say, “Thank you so much for inviting us to your party, but we sadly will not be able to make it.”
Write sincere thank you notes to anyone whose events you cannot attend. If you are questioned further, graciously tell the person that your schedule is jam-packed full of holiday plans, and you just don’t think you’ll have the time to swing by. It’s the truth, and someone who is truly your friend shouldn’t make you feel bad about it. , It’s easy to get so caught up in the holiday spirit that you forget to ask your spouse how they’re doing. This quick and effortless gesture can really mean a lot to a partner who is overwhelmed, feeling run down, or isn’t feeling like themselves during the holidays. Touching base can also keep you in tune with your spouse, which can help you stay close.


If you're doing holiday shopping with friends or family, take a few minutes to call your spouse just to say "Hi." Send them a photo of anything funny you see, or make a note to tell them about it later.
Remember to talk about things other than holiday responsibilities. Connect over shared passions, and stay up to date on each other's lives.
 Video conference with your spouse if they are deployed or otherwise unable to be with you. Chances are, you’re both feeling very alone, and if you can’t be together in the physical sense, staying in contact through technology is the next best thing.


Do this as often as possible and you’ll increase your chances of being connected during the holidays. This is especially helpful if you have children. Encourage your spouse to read a holiday story or poem, or have the call going while they open presents.