 Applying 2-3 drops of peppermint oil on specific sections of your body may help reduce your fever. You can apply the oil directly or dilute it with a drop of almond or olive oil. Rub the peppermint oil on to one or several of the following areas:Forehead and temples
Back of the neck
Back
Bottoms of feet;
, Congestion can cause headaches and other discomfort. Breathing in steam with peppermint oil can help clear your sinuses of any congestion and relieve any discomfort or pain you have. Boil a pot of distilled water and remove it from the stove. Add a few drops of peppermint oil. Cover your head and the edges of the pot with a warm and moist towel. Inhale the steam deeply for a few minutes to help clear your sinuses., Much like your sinuses, your respiratory tract may get congested. Rubbing some peppermint oil on your chest can open up congested airways.Use 2-3 drops of peppermint oil and rub it on your chest. If you have sensitive skin, dilute the peppermint oil with a drop of almond or olive oil., Peppermint oil has long been used to ease the pain of tension headaches and, in some people, migraines. Breathing in or rubbing on peppermint oil may relieve your headaches within 15 minutes of application.Apply 1-2 drops of peppermint oil to your temples, behind your jawbone, and/or across your forehead for relief. Dilute the peppermint oil with 1 drop of almond or olive oil if you have sensitive skin., Taking a whiff of peppermint oil may quickly ease any nausea or vomiting you experience.Open the bottle of peppermint oil and take a small sniff of 1-2 seconds. If you find that this helps relieve your nausea, vomiting, or motion sickness, consider boiling diffusing the scent through your home to maximize its effectiveness., Peppermint oil can soothe skin irritations, burns, and dryness. Mix together 15 or fewer drops of peppermint oil with one ounce of carrier oil, such as almond or olive. Gently massage the mixture onto irritated skin.Stop rubbing the peppermint oil mixture on to your skin if you feel any additional burning or irritation.
 Peppermint oil is a great way to relax the body. If you are experiencing any joint pain, including from rheumatoid arthritis, massaging a bit of peppermint oil can quickly relieve your discomfort. Peppermint oil can also temporarily relieve pain or discomfort from overworked and strained muscles. Dilute 15 or fewer drops of peppermint oil with one ounce carrier oil such as sweet almond or coconut oil. Then rub this either directly onto painful joints or sore muscles for quick relief.