 Making a collage is easy and fun! To start, gather a big collection of pictures to use. Exactly which pictures you use is up to you, but here are a few ideas to get you thinking:


You could use pictures of your friends, family or pets. Make sure you have permission before cutting up old family photos.
You could cut images from your favorite magazines, such as pictures of celebrities, athletes, or fun fashions.
You could use newspaper headlines.
You could use old comic or "funny page" clippings.
You could use interesting postcards or stamps from places you've visited or would like to visit.
You could use individual letters to spell words and phrases ("ransom note" style).
 Cut each picture you're using into a size and shape that will allow everything to fit together more or less like a jigsaw. Your pictures can overlap somewhat — this is perfectly fine (and if you don't want any of the surface underneath to show through, it's something you should shoot for.)


Set your pictures down where you want them to go, but don't stick them down yet. Feel free to try different layouts and designs. Once you start securing your pictures, it will be trickier to make any adjustments.
 Once you know where you want everything placed, begin to stick each piece down. A small dab of school glue or a rub from a glue stick usually works well.


You can glue the images to your paper-covered binder or, if you don't mind ruining your binder, directly to the binder itself. Test the first couple of pieces to make sure the glue you are using holds firm.
On the other hand, if your binder has clear plastic sleeves on the outside, you can just glue your collage to a piece of paper and slide it into the sleeve.
 Collages can look great, but since they're made of so many tiny pieces, they're vulnerable to having pieces tear and fall off. Luckily, there are a few ways to protect collages:


You can seal your collage with it with a paint-on fixative (Mod podge is a popular product that dries clearly).You can also find spray-on fixatives and sealants (Krylon Crystal Clear is a product to try).If you don't have these products, you can try carefully covering the entire collage with clear packing tape, pressing each piece smooth to avoid wrinkles.

