 Most people state that they hear a popping noise when the ACL is injured. If you heard a ‘popping’ or ‘snapping’ noise when you experienced your injury, it is likely that your ACL has been at least partially torn. You should go to the doctor to get this diagnosis confirmed.


Though you will most likely be in pain, try to remember the exact sound your knee made. Describing the noise your knee made can actually help your doctor to diagnose your injury.;
, Injuring your knee, regardless of whether it is a partial tear or just a minor sprain, can really hurt. In particular, you will most likely feel a radiating or gnawing pain when trying to do any physical activity.


When you suffer a partial tear of you ACL, the pain receptors in your knee get activated. This can lead to a moderate to severe pain.
 Swelling is your body’s way of repairing internal structures whenever it has suffered an injury. If you notice that your knee has become swollen after your accident, you have most likely suffered at least a partial tear.You should also take note if your knee becomes swollen after any time you do a physical activity. While you may not have noticed the swelling right after your accident, swelling after physical activity is a definite sign that you knee has been injured and could be partially torn.
 Along with the swelling, your knee will become warm to the touch and reddish in color. Your body will increase the temperature at the spot where the injury occurred to prevent infection since bacteria can’t generally thrive in a warm environment., If you have suffered a partially torn ACL, you will most likely have trouble moving your knee from side to side and back and forth. This is because the ligament has been injured, so you will probably have a hard time walking.Even if you can walk, your knee will most likely feel weak.
 An ACL injury almost always occurs when motion is involved. You may have suddenly changed direction in a basketball game, or you may have landed awkwardly while going off a jump on the ski slopes. If you think you may have partially torn your ACL, it is important to know the instances in which ACLs are generally injured. These instances include:


Suddenly changing direction.
Suddenly stopping while you were in motion.
Having a heavy force or pressure put on your knee, such as when colliding with someone in football.
Jumping and landing incorrectly or awkwardly.
Suddenly slowing down when running.
 While anyone can get an ACL injury, some factors or activities can predispose you to getting injured.You are much more likely to get an ACL injury when:


You engage in athletic sports that involve the active use of your legs. Sports that involve physical contact can also increase your chances of ACL injury.
You experience muscular fatigue. Muscular fatigue can also make a person prone to ACL injury. Since the muscle works together with the bones, ligaments and tendons, exerting your muscles and making them tired can lead to a higher risk of injury. For example, a tired soccer player is more susceptible to ACL injury than an energetic player who has just started playing.
You have a medical condition that causes you to have weak muscles or bones. For example, having weak and brittle bones, having ineffective development of your cartilage, or being obese can all increase your chances of an ACL tear.

