 If you believe that that SSN was stolen and you are the victim of identity theft you need to place fraud alerts with your credit agencies right away. Contact a credit reporting company (Equifax, Experian or TransUnion) and ask them to place a fraud alert on your credit file. The company will notify the other credit agencies so that each one has the same information.The fraud alert will stay in place for 90 days, and can be renewed after that time.
You should also request your free credit reports to see whether fraudulent credit card use has affected your credit.
 The FTC Consumer Complaint website is https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov. Make sure the “s” is in the web address. If your Social Security number has been compromised, contact the FTC first. The FTC collects information that can lead to an investigation or prosecution but does not resolve individual cases., After you have done so, a list of options will appear to the left. These include “I am a victim of identity theft” and “Someone tried to use my personal info.” Click on the appropriate option. The Complaint Assistant website will walk you through the appropriate process for your situation.
 The complaint process contains several sections. These will vary depending on the type of complaint you are filing.


For example, if you have lost your purse or wallet, you can file a complaint that will record the loss. This may help you protect against later identity theft.
The “Getting Started” section is designed to make sure you selected the appropriate option and specifically determine your current situation. Single questions will appear with multiple choice answer options. Choose the option that best fits your situation.
 The more information you provide, the more likely it is that your complaint will be useful in preventing or stopping identity theft.The sections of the complaint will ask you to fill in information about your own lost or stolen information, anything you may know of the suspected identity thief, and any financial losses you have incurred as a result.
 While using a SSN is federal crime, if you believe that someone in your local community community used your SSN (especially if you know who they are) you should contact local police authorities. Call your police department and ask for the division that deals with fraud to file a report.


For theft that took place in a different state, contact the FBI to file a report.

