 Take your time and sweep with gentle strokes to avoid stirring up the dust more than you have to. Use a dustpan to scoop up the dust pile and place it in a trash bag. Tie the bag up immediately to seal the dust in. If you are working with a significant amount of dusk, there are products you can buy that will help the dust cling to the floor. This will make it easier to sweep up.


You can buy sweeping compound products at any home improvement store. They are usually sold in bags or buckets. The compound itself has a dust/sawdust-like consistency.
To use, shake the compound over the floor where you want to sweep. It holds the dust down to the floor so that you can sweep it up more easily.
Many of the products require 24 hours to settle over the dust before you can sweep it, so read the instructions carefully.
 If you don’t own one already, many home improvement stores rent them out. Use vacuum bags that are made specifically for collecting dry wall dust. For the finer particles, use a HEPA filter.


The filters can get clogged so, if possible, use a filter that can be washed and reused.
It’s also wise to have a back-up filter on hand, just in case.
 Dip the cloth in the water and wring it out well – a soaking wet cloth can damage fresh drywall. Start at the top of the walls and work your way down. You’ll need to rinse and wring out the cloth often.


Change the water in the bucket as soon as it gets cloudy.
After the walls, wipe down every horizontal surface in the room. This includes baseboards, light fixtures, outlet covers, etc., Insert a brush attachment for the second pass. Brush attachments help to get in the nooks and crannies. It also has a hose attached that will allow you to vacuum the walls. Start at the top and vacuum your way down to the bottom.


After the walls, vacuum the floor again.
You’ll will probably need to vacuum in the corners of the room and over the joints twice.
 Check the room and wipe up any lingering dust that you see. Run the cloth over the baseboards and window ledges one more time. If you want to be extra vigilant, damp mop the floor as a final step.Make sure you’re using clean water in the bucket, even for the final wipe down.

