 These products have really improved. They are easier to apply, last longer and don't rub off on your clothes. Drug stores and some upper priced makeup counters carry spray leg makeup.


Match your own skin tone or go slightly darker for a tanned look. They work much like foundation makeup works on your face to conceal flaws.
You need to smooth it out with your hands and wash your hands afterwards.
 Darkening your legs can minimize the colors of blotches and spider veins by creating an overall tan look. Tanning booths or salon applied sprays are a big business now. You will probably need to exfoliate at home before coming in.


In booth tanning you control the spray by twisting your body around in front of the jets. (Be sure to wash the palms of your hands afterwards.)
In salon-applied tanning, the operator moves the spray gun around your body. If you want tan only on your legs, you should discuss the strategy with the salon ahead of time.
Of course, a variety of sprays and lotions are also available for home use. Finding one that won't turn you orange is important. If it's not summer, or you just prefer, you can apply a lighter color lotion only to your legs. The best method also requires using an exfoliating scrub to remove loose skin particles. Exfoliating gloves with rough surfaces for scrubbing have also become available in some stores. Exfoliating works best in the shower. After the skin is carefully dried, apply the tanning lotion to your legs or wherever you like. Thin rubber gloves can be useful to help spread around the lotion for more evenness. Some people prefer using their hands directly for more control. The palms of the hands need to be carefully washed afterwards.
 As you know from years of wearing pantyhose, legs tend to look better when smoothed over by the sheer fabric. The problem is that when wearing a peep toe shoe or sandals, the unsightly pantyhose toe cover shows over the toes. Now there are a few clever toeless styles to help with this. Several well-know brands offer a toeless version which is available at some drugstores. More expensive designer name brands are super-fine so that they look virtually invisible. They're quite effective in giving a smooth glow to the legs that looks very close to bare.


With all the toeless pantyhose, be sure to conceal the edge of the toe hole inside the shoe.

