 You probably have people at work that your friendly with but you haven't taken the time to get to know better. One of the keys to encourage friendships at work is to slowly make your relationship more personal. That is, you slowly start to share more about yourself with the people you enjoy talking to you, which in turn invites them to share more about themselves., In general, you tend to make friends with people who are nearby, which includes your neighbors. If you've talked a few times with a neighbor, consider trying to encourage a friendship by inviting the person over for dinner or bringing her brownies. Alternatively, meet your neighbors by bringing over a treat to encourage good will., One of the best ways to meet new people is to follow your passions. Find local groups that have the same interests you do. Look for groups that meet at your library with the same hobbies. Take classes in subjects that interest you at your local art museum or community college. By getting out in the community, you'll find people with similar interests who could become friends.If you can't find a group for your hobby, start one yourself. Most libraries have space to host groups, or you could meet at a coffee shop or restaurant. Try forming groups through social media such as Facebook or Meetup., Besides benefiting the community, volunteering also gives you a chance to meet new people. Consider volunteering at a library, a school, a hospital, a soup kitchen, or a food pantry, for instance. Pick something that will use your talents well., Spirituality comes in many forms, from more traditional religion to pagan groups and meditation. No matter what form you choose, it usually involves a group of people for you to engage with who likely have at least somewhat similar beliefs., If you see someone reading a book you love in a coffee shop, don't be afraid to go over and say hello. Similarly, if you've been smiling at the same person for weeks in one of your new classes, be sure to go over and introduce yourself. You can't be friends if you never hold a conversation, and the worst that could happen is you get someone who is a little grumpy and doesn't want to talk to you., You like to hear nice things about yourself, and other people like to hear nice things about themselves, too. Try to offer compliments to people you are getting to know. It will make both of you smile, plus the person will associate happiness with being around you.Try to make the compliment fit the person. That is, "You look nice today" is a good start, but a better compliment would be, "You have an awesome sense of style. I love how much color you wear." or "I love how your smile lights up a room."

, That is, once you start meeting with a group of people, continue to see that same group. With repeated to exposure to each other, you'll slowly begin to make friends with different people in the group., When you're in a new situation, set a goal for how many people you'd like to meet or make friends with. While the goal is important, it's more the mindset it creates. It encourages you to be open to meeting different kinds of people and opening yourself up to a friendship.