 The up-side to applying online versus on the phone or in person is that you can start your application process immediately, without waiting for an appointment. Click here to get started.
 This checklist lays out the things you'll need to submit a disability application. Print out the PDF version and check off items as you collect them. Collecting all the materials may take a few weeks, so start a folder or binder to store everything. In order to start your application, you'll need the following information:


Basic information: name, date of birth, social security number, address, and all medication you are taking.
You will also information on family members including: the social security numbers of everyone who lives in your household and proof of marriage if applicable.
 In order to start your application, you'll need the following forms and information:


Military service discharge (Form DD 214) for all periods of active duty.
W-2 Forms (or IRS 1040 and Schedules C and SE, if self-employed) for the last year.
The Social Security numbers of your spouse and minor children.
Checking or savings account number and bank routing number, if you wish to receive benefits through direct deposit.
 This is a compilation of your medical records that show your disability and allows the SSA to make a determination as to whether you are disabled under the guidelines. You may have to call the offices of your medical providers and request records. Be aware that some offices charge a small service fee for the labor and materials required to copy and send your records. You'll need the following information:The name, address and phone number of someone knowledgeable about your condition, whom SSA can contact regarding your claim. The doctor who made your diagnosis, oversees your treatment or first treated your injury could be a potential candidate for this, but may cost you a small fee.
The names, addresses, phone numbers, patient ID numbers and dates of treatment for all doctors, hospitals and clinics. You may want to obtain and refer to your medical records for this information, so that it's as correct as possible.
The names of medications you're taking, as well as the dosage and who prescribed them. You can obtain this information using the pharmacy label on your medicine bottles. If you're currently off a medication that's relevant to your claim, contact your doctor's office for a record of the prescription.
The names and dates of medical tests and who sent you for them. If you already have copies of lab results, add them to your folder; if not, request copies from your doctor's office.
Information on your last 5 jobs, including type of job and dates worked. Refer to prior W-2 forms for greatest accuracy.
Information regarding any worker's compensation claims or insurance claims you've filed. Have the claim number, and the name, address and phone number of the insurance company.
 As your application goes on, SSA may request copies of your birth certificate, or citizenship and naturalization papers. You might also need to provide educational transcripts and proof of a high school diploma or college degree.
 You can start the application here. The process should take between 10 and 30 minutes, but don't worry, you can sign out of the application and return to it later. You'll need to:Sign the application. Once you've answered all the questions, you'll be asked to verify the validity of your information under penalty of perjury. Sign electronically when you are sure everything is correct. Note that if you're helping someone else fill out a disability application, only the person applying for benefits can sign.
Prepare the documents. At the end of the application, a list of documents you need to provide to SSA will appear, as well as how to submit them. Generally, you can mail in the documents or physically take them to an SSA office; SSA will return all documents or copies unless otherwise indicated.
Provide your Social Security number. On a separate piece of blank paper, write down your Social Security number in large print and enclose it with your other documents. Do not alter your documents to include your Social Security number.
Do not mail certain documents. If you're asked to provide a foreign birth certificate, or documents issued by the Immigration and Naturalization Service or the Department of Homeland Security, do not put these documents in the mail. They can be costly to replace, if they're replaceable at all. If you're required to submit these documents, take them to your nearest SSA office and do not lose sight of them.
 The report can be located here and will go into more detail about the specifics of your condition. It has 7 sections: Overview, Identification, Medical, Work/Education, Remarks, Review and Submit.You don't have to complete the report in one sitting. If you wish to take a break, sign off and you'll be provided with a re-entry number. Write it down and use it to log back in to your saved report.
Use the Remarks section. This allows you to include additional information about your condition. If the online form doesn't provide enough room, write or type your remarks on a separate sheet of paper and mail it to the SSA address provided.
Save the receipt. After you submit the application, you'll receive a receipt that includes a copy of the entire report. Print it and save it for your records.
Be aware of the time limit. A page will expire if you're on it for more than 25 minutes. Be sure to save your work and avoid being automatically logged out, or your work will be lost. (You must have JavaScript enabled to receive the notification that your page has been inactive for 25 minutes.)

, To process your application, SSA will ask you to sign a form allowing them to discuss your information with other parties in order to assess the validity of your claims, as well as your ability to manage benefits. Signing is voluntary, but failing to do so could prevent timely processing and result in denied or lost benefits. You can find the form here. Print it out, and mail or take it to your local SSA office when it's completed. You'll specifically need to know:


a few guidelines for completing the form: Fill it out and sign in blue or black ink only, before a witness. The form will be valid for 12 months from the signing date.
what information will be shared and what won't: Signing the form authorizes SSA to contact your friends, your family, employers and public officials regarding your condition, as well as the people involved in your medical care, education, and social services. The form authorizes SSA to re-disclose information about your case to third parties without prior written consent, except information regarding alcohol/drug abuse, mental health, developmental disability, HIV/AIDS, and educational records for a minor.
 SSA will respond to you by mail if your application is approved. You'll be told how much money to expect and when payments will start. If you move during the application process, be sure to notify SSA of your new address.
 If you're unhappy with the SSA decision regarding your application, you can appeal within 60 days of the date that you received the Notice of Decision. (SSA calculates the date of receipt as 5 days after the date of the letter, unless you can prove otherwise.) Submit your request for appeal in writing to the address indicated on your Notice of Decision.


Appeal online. If your application was denied for medical reasons, you can appeal online. Just make sure you have your Notice of Decision on-hand before you start. Click here to begin.
Know the levels of appeal. Appeals to SSA for disability benefits can potentially go through 4 levels. They are: reconsideration by someone not involved in your first application, a hearing by an administrative law judge, a review by the Appeals Council, and a Federal Court review. If you lose your appeal, you cannot reapply for disability benefits unless your condition changes and becomes more severe or you are diagnosed with a new condition that renders you disabled. If this situation applies to you, you may reapply for disability 60 days after your denial (either the original denial if you do not appeal the decision or the loss of the appeal if you appeal).

