 A little bit of exfoliating shampoo goes a long way. After showering as you normally would, squeeze about a quarter-sized drop of shampoo into your palm.Consult the instructions on your specific shampoo, however. Most shampoos do not need more than a quarter-sized drop, but some brands may suggest using more or less.
Application may also vary depending on your type of hair (i.e., curly hair, thick hair), so consult the instructions here. It may be a good idea to look for an exfoliating shampoo specifically designed for your hair type.;
, You want to make sure you work the shampoo into your roots. Use your fingertips to massage the shampoo in order to remove dead skin cells to exfoliate properly.If there are any areas where your scalp is particularly itchy, focus extra energy here.
Keep massaging until you have worked the shampoo into your entire scalp.
With exfoliating shampoo, you primarily focus on applying it to the scalp and near your roots. You do not need to work your shampoo into your tips.
 Make sure you rinse completely. Lingering traces of exfoliating shampoo could leave your hair greasy or otherwise damages. Use warm water to rinse. Rinsing may take longer after applying exfoliating shampoo due to its grainy nature, so give yourself extra time to get all the shampoo out.Keep rinsing until the water runs clean. There should be no traces of shampoo or exfoliating grains in the water running off of your scalp.
 Some exfoliating shampoos should be used more than once. Check the directions on your bottle of exfoliating shampoo. If the bottle specifies the shampoo should be used twice, repeat the process of exfoliating., Dry shampoo can be great to cut back on shampooing your hair. However, dry shampooing every day can lead to clogged hair follicles. This can lead to hair loss, scalp dryness, and other issues that exfoliation is meant to counteract. If you want the most effective hair exfoliating routine, cut back on dry shampooing.For example, if you dry shampoo your hair every day, cut back to dry shampooing once every two to three days.
 You should exfoliate at least once a week. If you have trouble remembering, put a notification in your calendar. Choose a day when you have extra time, like a Saturday, and make a point of exfoliating your scalp then.If you wash your hair less often, you should exfoliate more. If you wash your hair less than four times a week, make a habit of exfoliating twice a week instead of just once.
 You should continue to do things like conditioning your hair and anything else you do in regards to styling. The only thing you should cut back on is dry shampooing your hair. Otherwise, maintain your regular routine.
 Store bought shampoos can be pricey. If a store bought exfoliating shampoo is out of your price range, you can make your own shampoo by adding an exfoliating agent to your regular shampoo.Any household product that is grainy can be added to your regular shampoo. Try something like cornmeal or ground almonds.
Mix an equal part of your exfoliating agent with your regular shampoo to make your own exfoliating shampoo.
You can also add a few drops your favorite essential oil to create a pleasant scent.
 Some exfoliating shampoos contain turmeric. Some DIY shampoo recipes also call for your to use turmeric. If you have very light hair, turmeric can cause staining. Scan ingredients labels for turmeric and avoid using turmeric as an exfoliating agent if you're making your own shampoo., It's very important to get all traces of an exfoliating shampoo out of you hair. If you leave shampoo in near your scalp, this can cause more harm than good. Spend extra time rinsing your hair after exfoliating., Issues with dandruff and hair loss can sometimes indicate an underlying health problem. If you're still noticing flakes and hair loss despite exfoliating regularly, make an appointment with your doctor. Things like psoriasis can cause a dry, itchy scalp and require medical treatment.