 When you go to your salt therapy session, wear loose, comfortable clothing. You want to be relaxed, not restricted. Most places give you covers to put on your shoes or feet.Some places may give you a covering for your clothes and a hair net to help protect the integrity of the salt.If you are going to a session for a skin condition, consider wearing clothes that expose the skin, like short sleeves or a tank top and shorts.
If your child is going to a session, pull long hair away from his or her face. Make sure your child is clean and in clean clothing.
Salt does not harm or get on your clothes.;
, You start your salt therapy in the group salt room, which generally seats five to ten people at a time. Most salt rooms have reclining chairs and soothing music. Some salt rooms may have magazines or books to read, and many will have testimonials for you to browse.Relax in a chair, close your eyes, and enjoy your mini escape from real life.Some treatment centers offer private salt beds. You usually stay in these for 15 to 20 minutes.
Many places have separate kids salt therapy room. These kid-friendly rooms have quiet activities for the children to do during their treatment. Parents can go into the room with their children.
Kid-friendly rooms area also good if you want to go with a friend and have a quiet conversation.
 After you get settled, the dry aerosol will be released. You will breathe in the salt as you relax. The salt goes deep into your lungs and through your respiratory system, including your sinuses.The salt helps to eliminate bacteria and pollutants. It also gets rid of mucus while opening up airways.
A typical sessions lasts around 45 to 60 minutes., You can bring iPods, mp3 players, iPads, and cellphones to most salt rooms. Make sure to place it somewhere it will be protected, like a case or pocket.Be aware that salt is corrosive to metals.
Salt therapy centers state they are not liable for damage to electronics.
Most salt rooms will not allow any cell phone conversations and require cell phones to be on silent.
Most salt rooms do not allow any electronics that have fans, like a laptop.
 You can go to one session, a few, or buy yearly memberships for multiple visits per week. It depends on what you care to do. Depending on your condition, you might only need a few or weeks of treatment.Session costs are approximately $50.

