


Use your computer or human resources system so you can easily access and edit this list over time.
An employee that has been with the company for a long period of time has two distinct benefits. One, that employee demonstrates loyalty. Two, that employee has intimate knowledge of the business. He or she is fully trained and aware of all protocol procedures and company policies.;
, Note any promotions or position changes within the company as well and how long he or she has held each position.



Mark those who are already in a leadership role, either assigned or taken on by choice. Also identify anyone who seems to demonstrate the potential for positive leadership skills.
It can be difficult to quantify intangible personality traits. To help make your assessment more meaningful, assign each person's work ethic a number between 1 and 10. It will still involve judgment, but the hard numbers will help create workable data.
 Within this parameter, also consider factors such as willingness to work overtime and dedication to the quality of work output.



Even in jobs that don't directly require group cooperation, key employees are those that know how to get along with many different personality types. Use complaints filed by or against an employee with human resources as a gauge of an employee's overall attitude and temperament at work.
Employees that are secretive or overly sensitive are generally counterproductive to a team, especially at the management level.
,


Missing deadlines is, of course, a red flag for any employee. Be equally cautious, however, of those who always appear busy but are actually dedicating all time and effort on small tasks with little consequence or outcome.
 Write who does the position now as well as who else could also do the position. This helps identify which employees have specialized skills as well as those employees that are capable of fulfilling multiple roles.
 These can be changes in personnel, changes in position or changes in work performance.

