 Place cutters, scissors,  rounders, flatters pliers and materials needed for the kind of jewel you have chosen to make close by on your working table for easy access.;
, Are they the socialites, the working class, plain housewives or the youngsters? Each piece you make should satisfy the diverse tastes of women in such a way that it enhances their personality.
 Avoid too much dangling stones for the working class for this could get entangled with papers, clips and materials on their work place.  Consider the kind of locks that you use. Locks should be easily maneuvered to lock when you wear and unlock when you are headed for the shower or sleep.
 Study the kind of skin your target audience has. ]Cool colors usually fit those who have blue tones on their veins seen on their wrists. Warm color- skinned people have yellow undertones on their skin and the veins behind their wrist look greenish. Let your handmade jewellery enhance and beautify every woman who wears them by letting colors compliment their individual beauty and personality.
 Too loose or too tight pieces make things ill-fitting and ruin a look. Comfort has to do with providing the perfect fit and should be given emphasis when making handmade jewellery which enhances the personality. Consider body type and structure.
 Be sure to make your jewellery smooth to the touch. Flatten them well by using flatters and long nose pliers without hitting the lock which can break and get deformed.
 Knowing this will help your clients, suggest to them what fits and compliments them best. Earrings should match the necklace that one wears. Short-necked women or stout women should not wear a too short necklace for this will make their necks more shortened. Big women too should wear big earrings so their faces would appear smaller. Too small earrings would make their faces appear wider. Round faces should wear oval or angled accessories to balance their round faces. As angled/square faces should go for round and oval- shaped accessories to soften their angular looks. There are more things to know and it’s best when we know these things to also help others.
 Patiently and artistically make your handmade jewelries and never give room for discomfort and compromise to happen. Women will love your handmade accessories when you make your designs fit the need of every woman.

