 If you current DVD does not have certain subtitles, found under the "Settings" or "Language" headers on the DVD menu, you will not be able to add them without advanced software and equipment. DVD's are protected and cannot be re-written, and your DVD player will not be able to add new languages. Your computer, however, is a different beast entirely, and you can add any new subtitles you can find to a movie watched on your computer.


If you're watching on a DVD players, try the "titles" or "subtitle" button on your DVD player's remote.;
, Find the folder or movie file in Finder or Windows Explorer. More likely than not it will be a .mov, .avi, or .mp4 file. Luckily, you do not need to adjust the movie file at all, however, you will need to find it and link it to a new subtitle file. Subtitle files will usually end in the extension .SRT, and are simply the words and the times that each title needs to play during the movie.


You need the movie in it's own file, with the .SRT file, for it to read the subtitles.
Some older subtitle files might end in the extension .SUB., Go on your favorite search engine and search for the subtitles in your language. If, for example, you want Indonesian subtitles for X-Men: First Class, you might search for "X-Men: First Class Indonesian Subtitles." The first site you find is likely good enough, as these files are small and not likely to contain viruses., Download an SRT. file from a website such as Subscene, MovieSubtitles, or YiFiSubtitles. Make sure you avoid any pop-ups and only download .SRT or .SUB files. If you feel unsafe on a site, leave and find another.
 If the movie is BestMovieEver.AVI, your subtitle needs to be written as BestMovieEver.SRT. Find you newly downloaded file wherever you put it (often in the "Downloads" folder) and make sure you rename appropriately. The .SRT file name must be the same name as the movie., Make a new, dedicated folder for you movie if there isn't one already. Place the .SRT file in the same folder as your movie. This will automatically link them in most video players.


The easiest video player to use is the free VLC player, which handles most file formats.
 After clicking Captions, click on "Add a Caption Track" and find your .SRT file. Make sure that you have "Caption Track" enabled and not "Transcript Track." Click the "CC" button when watching your video to enable captions.

