 The first thing to do to look effortlessly stylish is to make sure that you’re wearing clothes that are good for your body type. Since effortless style is supposed to be subtle, you’ll need your clothes fitting well in order to get the elegant, expensive look from your clothing. You want clothes that make you look thinner and the perfect height, with everything in proportion.;
, Wear colors that suit your skin tone. Skin tone is broken down into “cool” and “warm.” While you do not need to limit yourself to a range of colors based solely on your skin tone, certain colors may make enhance your complexion better than others.


Cool toned skin has pink undertones, while warm toned skin has yellow or olive undertones. People with cool toned skin should look for colors on the blue side of the spectrum. Most blues look good on cool toned skin, as well as blue-tinted greens and violets. Light pinks also work well, as do vibrant oranges, which act as a complementary contrast. As far as neutrals go, look for blacks, grays, silvers, and stark whites.
People with warm toned skin should look for colors on the red side of the spectrum. Most reds and yellows look good on people with warm skin, as well as yellow-tinted greens and red-tinted violets. Browns, tans, golds, coppers, and off-whites tend to be the best neutrals.
 Think about who you are and how you want to be perceived by other. Your style needs to match your personality. Your clothes are like a description of you!


Go bold. Create an outfit that matches your style! Don't be afraid if you think your outfit is bad. It's your style! Everybody is different.
 Instead, mix it up a little. Choose garments because you love what they look like and the way they look on you.


Do you ever feel like some models could wear a brown paper sack and still walk down a runway looking like the height of fashion? Do you know a guy who wears a tracksuit and still somehow manages to look totally fashionable? What the fashion industry doesn’t want you to know is that a lot of looking stylish really comes down to projecting confidence.
 You don’t have to actually be confident, of course, but if you walk down the street in clothes that you clearly think you look great in, people will usually be inclined to agree that (at a minimum) those clothes are perfect for you.
 Clothes that are washed, dried, and wrinkle-free just look better than dirty clothes that have been piled in a corner in your room for the last week. No matter what clothes you choose, make sure that your clothes are in the best shape possible so that you look your best, as well.
 Trends come and go, so think carefully before you choose a style simply because it seems popular right now. Hair magazines can be especially helpful since they offer a variety of styles for a variety of lengths. Look at celebrities hairstyles. Find celebrities that have a similar face shape and hair type. If you have very curly hair, trying something suited for flat limp hair may work for a while, but you want to pick a hairstyle that is easy to take care of and that matched your natural hair. Bring a picture to your hair specialist.
 Again, effortless style is all about looking awesome while also looking like you didn’t try at all. Effortless, right? So relax. Take a generally chill attitude to everything in life. Always stay calm and happy, and you’ll look much better, no matter what you’re wearing.


Look comfortable, even when you’re not. Even if you’re wearing high stilettos, you need to look like it’s all perfectly natural and like if you were you’re perfectly comfortable. Don’t complain and constantly readjust your clothes. If that style isn’t working out for you, if you can’t seem casual in it, then try something that’s actually more comfortable. You can be comfortable and stylish.
 Take it as a compliment: that means you are becoming a trendsetter and people look up to you. Blush and don't bite! Keep your style updated with little tweaks and it will be hard to copy you.

