 When there is a speck in your eye, the best and most natural way to get a speck out of it is to make your eye water. It might do this on its own since it is irritated, but if it doesn't, try blinking rapidly and frequently to make your eye water. Your natural tears will help flush out your eye and may pull out the speck.



Do not rub your eye to make it water. Whatever foreign object you have in your eye could damage your cornea or get embedded in your eye.;
, If your tears won't get out the speck, you need to identify where the object is. Ask a friend or family member to look for it in your eye. Hold you eye open wide and have them look for the speck as you look around. Make sure you look up, down, and side to side so they can see all the areas of your eye.


If you can't find it at first, you may need to pull down your lower lid and check under there. You can also hold open your top lid and check there are well. The speck might get stuck on the back of your lids.
If you are by yourself, grab a mirror. Hold your eye open and move it around and look for the speck as best you can., Eyelashes are made to help remove specks from your eye. Pull your upper eyelid over the top of the lower eyelid. As you close the upper lid over the bottom lid, roll your eye. The eyelashes of the lower lid may be able to brush away the speck from your eye.


Try this a few times if it doesn't work right away. If you can't get it to work, however, you can try other methods., If your eyelids didn't help, you need to remove the speck with a cotton swab. Look for the speck placement on the white part of your eye. Wet the end of the cotton swab with water. Hold your eyelid open with one hand and gently remove the speck with the tip of the cotton swab.


You can also use a clean washcloth or a soft, damp towel if you don't have a cotton swab.
If the particulate is on the cornea (the non-white portion of your eye), do not use a cotton swab to get it out. The cornea is very sensitive and you may damage it., If you can't get the speck out with a cotton swab or the speck in on your cornea, flush your eyes out with water. Have someone else gently pour a glass of room temperature water over your eye from the nose outward as you hold it open with two fingers. Check to see if the speck is removed after it is flushed once. If it isn't out yet, flush your eye one more time to try to remove the speck.


If you are by yourself, try a slower, gentler method such as an eyedropper or smaller cup of water., If you don't have access to clean water or you want to try a different method, try flushing your eyes with a saline solution. Take the saline solution and drop a few drops into your eye. If that doesn't get the particle out, try a few more drops.


Eye drops or artificial tears work the same as a saline solution. While holding your eye open with one hand, tilt your head back and squeeze several drops of eye drops into your eye to remove the speck., You may have access to a sterile eyewash, a product that is available over-the-counter from a drugstore or pharmacy. The solution will come with a sterile eye cup that you can use to flush the affected eye with the solution. To use the eyewash, fill the cup halfway with the eyewash solution. Bend over the cup and press it tightly against your eye so that it doesn't spill. Then, tilt your head backwards and open your eye. Roll your eye around in the socket to thoroughly rinse.Make sure you wash the eye cup after each use.