 Wash your face to remove any unwanted oils or old makeup. Use a cleanser that is marketed as gentle or pH-balanced. These cleansers won’t dry out or irritate your skin.You can also choose cleansers that match your skin type. For example:









If you have dry skin, use moisturizing cream cleansers.
For normal skin, use a gentle cleanser without any microbeads or exfoliants.
If you have oily skin, use an oil based cleanser. These cleansers will reduce your skin’s oil production.;
, You should always moisturize after washing your face. There are many different kinds of moisturizers to choose from. For example, if you spend a lot of time outside, choose a moisturizer with sunscreen in it to protect your skin. Other considerations:









If you have oily skin, choose an oil free gel moisturizer. This moisturizer will soften your skin without stimulating oil production.
If you have dry skin, choose a lightweight cream moisturizer.If you struggle with acne, choose a moisture with salicylic acid in it.
 Primer is a makeup product that fills your pores and smooths your skin in preparation for foundation. To apply primer, dab a small amount onto your cheeks, forehead, and chin. Blend the primer into your skin using your fingertips or a foundation brush.Tinted primers can be used to correct color problems on any skin tone. For example:









If you have dull skin, use a light pink primer to give your skin a healthy glow.
If your face looks sallow, use a lilac tinted primer to neutralize any unhealthy tones.
Green tinted primer neutralizes uneven redness or acne spots., Foundation evens out your skin tone and gives you a beautiful glow. To apply foundation, dab a small amount on your cheeks, forehead, chin, and the bridge of your nose. For light coverage, use your fingertips to blend the foundation towards the edges of your face. For a heavier coverage, use a damp beauty sponge to blend the foundation into your skin.








Make sure you use the right color of foundation. The right shade should be invisible on your chin and neck in full daylight.If your neck and face are different shades, match your foundation to your neck. Otherwise, you will look like you’re wearing a mask., Concealer can be used to cover up acne, red spots, or dark circles under your eyes. For heavy coverage, use a liquid foundation and apply it with a small makeup brush.For lighter coverage, use a concealer stick. Blend the edges of the concealer into your foundation to give yourself flawless coverage.









You can use your fingertips, a q-tip, or a makeup brush to blend the concealer.Buy a concealer that matches your foundation exactly. If possible, buy within the same brand to be sure that the colors will match.
 Translucent setting powder is a clear powder that locks in foundation and soaks up any excess oil that your skin produces. Apply a thin layer of setting powder all over your face with a large fluffy makeup brush. Make sure to blend in the areas around your eyes and mouth to avoid any cakey buildup.


Choose a loose powder instead of pressed powder for a lighter coverage., If you already have dark, well-defined eyebrows, you can skip this step. Otherwise, use an eyebrow pencil that closely matches your hair color to fill in your eyebrows. Use short, dash-like strokes to create small “hairs” on your skin. Next, use a dry makeup brush to gently blend the eyebrow pencil into your natural brow.








After you fill them, define and shape your eyebrows by combing them with a colored brow gel or wax.You can buy eyebrow kits for your hair color. These kits usually include an eyebrow pencil, an eyebrow brush, and shaping gel or wax.
 Use a blush brush to apply blush to the apples of your cheeks. Use long, smooth motions to blend the blush towards your temples. Focus on blurring the edges of the blush and creating a natural-looking glow. Use a blush that matches your skin tone. For example:









If you have fair skin, choose a baby pink or peach blush.
Medium skin tones should wear apricot and mauve blushes.
If you have olive toned skin, wear an orange peach or rose pink color.
Dark skin tones look best in bold raisin purples and brick reds., For a simple look, apply a darker color to your creases and blend it onto your eyelids. Next, brush a lighter, shimmering tone onto the center of your eyelids.Purchase quality eyeshadows that won’t wear off throughout the day. Additionally, choose shades that match your eye color and skin tone. For example:









Blue eyes look best with pinks and corals. Green eyes are complimented by colors with red undertones such as maroon and apricot. Brown eyes can wear any color but look especially good with bold purples.
Choose shades that match your skin tone. Cool skin tones look best with wintery colors while warm skin tones look best with earthy colors., First, purchase high quality eyeliners that won’t smudge or wear off throughout the day. Next, apply a small amount to each eye and examine them for differences. Add more eyeliner where needed to make your eyes match.Eyeliner can be used in a variety of ways. For example:









Draw a thin line of eyeliner along your lash line to make your eyelashes appear thicker.
Use liquid eyeliner to draw dramatic cat eyes.Use bright turquoise or gold eye liners to bring a splash of color to your look.
 Lean your head back and look forward to hold your eyelashes away from your face. Hold the mascara wand near the base of your eyelashes. Move the wand from side to side to press the wand bristles between your eyelashes. Draw the wand up along your eyelashes to coat their entire length.








For a natural look, choose a dark brown mascara. For a smoky, bold look, choose a carbon black mascara.
After the mascara dries, apply another coat to further define your eyelashes.
 Choose a bright color that makes them pop. For a bold, heavy lip coverage, use lipstick. For a lighter, shiny color, use lip gloss. If you’re worried about your lipstick or lipgloss smearing, line your lips with a lip pencil before applying your lip color.









To avoid getting lipstick on your teeth, gently suck on your index finger. This will rub away any lipstick inside your mouth.
Use a makeup brush to apply lipstick. The color will last longer and you’ll have more control over your application., If you are worried that regular foundation will worsen dry skin or acne problems, mineral foundation may be a good alternative. Mineral foundation won’t clog your pores and is more gentle than regular foundation. However, if you don’t blend it in with a foundation brush, it will appear cakey and powdery.









Use small, circular motions to blend the foundation into your skin.
Liquid mineral foundation is great for people with dry skin. Alternatively, if you have oily skin, try powdered mineral foundation., BB Cream is an all-in-one cosmetic that acts as a moisturizer, primer, and foundation, reducing the amount of time it takes to put on makeup.Additionally, It has a light coverage that can look more natural than other kinds of foundation. However, BB Cream usually doesn’t provide enough coverage to erase blemishes or sun spots.









Some people use BB Cream as a primer underneath their regular foundation to help cover scars and severe acne blemishes., Contouring is a makeup technique that allows you to subtly alter your face shape. To do so, apply light and dark shades of foundation to add shadows and highlights in places where you don’t actually have them. However, contouring takes a lot of time and is generally seen as too much trouble for daily use.









If you want to look like a particular celebrity, you can find many contouring tutorials online to help you achieve that look.
Contouring compacts can be bought online or at beauty supply stores.
 Bronzer is a makeup product that can be used to give your cheeks a sun-kissed tone. Additionally, bronzer can be used when contouring to create natural-looking shadows under your cheekbones. Bronzer is usually applied with a rounded, fluffy powder brush.


Bronzer can be purchased in powder form or as a compressed compact.
Select a bronzer that is one or two shades darker than your natural skin tone., Highlighter can give your skin a healthy glow and enhance your favorite features. Most people apply highlighter along their cheekbones to enhance their natural bone structure. However, you can also apply highlighter to your forehead and chin to give your skin a dewy finish.









Use a large, fluffy makeup brush to apply a thin dusting of highlighter onto your skin.
Choose a highlighter with golden undertones instead of silver. This will give your face a soft, bright glow.,