 Advantix is not a ‘one size fits all’ treatment, so you will need to make sure that you choose the correct dosage. Advantix comes in four dosage levels according to a dog’s weight.If you do not know your dog’s weight, contact your veterinarian or refer to the paperwork from your dog’s most recent veterinary visit.


Advantix comes in packs of four or six.Small dogs (4 to 10 pounds) – 0.4 milliliters (mL) Medium dogs (11 to 20 pounds) – 1.0 mLLarge dogs (21 to 55 pounds) – 2.5 mLExtra-large dogs (over 55 pounds) – 5.0 mL;
, You can either separate and peel the foil down with your fingers or use scissors to open the foil packaging. Using scissors may be easier and quicker., There is a specific way to remove the cap so that you can dispense the Advantix from the tube; it is not as simple as just twisting off the cap and squeezing out the product. First, make sure that you are holding the tube in the upright position. Next, remove the cap, turn it upside down, and put it back on the tube.Placing the upside-down cap back on the tube will break the seal on the top of the tube, allowing you to squeeze out the Advantix.When you see that the seal has broken, remove the cap from the tube and lace it to the side., You will apply Advantix to various locations along your dog’s back. Having your dog in the standing position will help you apply Advantix more easily and accurately on his skin.If your dog tends to be a bit squirmy, you can have someone gently restrain your dog while you apply the Advantix.
 Use your fingers to part the fur until you can see the skin. Advantix needs to be applied to the skin for maximum effectiveness. The first location where you will apply the Advantix is at the start of your dog’s back, right near the base of his neck. Small and medium dogs will need three Advantix applications along their backs.Large and extra-large dogs will need four Advantix applications along their backs.If your dog is extremely furry, it may be helpful to clip away a little bit of hair to make it easier to apply the Advantix.
 Gently place the tip of the tube on your dog’s skin. Squeeze about 1/3 or 1/4 of the Advantix onto the skin, depending on how many applications your dog will need. You want to be careful not to apply too much Advantix to the skin; this could cause the product to get on your dog’s hair and drip down his side.Not only will this waste the product, but it increases the likelihood that your dog may ingest the Advantix.


Advantix should not be applied if the skin is wet or broken.Dry your dog’s skin if it is wet. If the skin is broken, do not apply the Advantix and contact your veterinarian.
It is not necessary to massage the product into the skin after applying it.Another reason not to massage the product into your dog’s skin is that Advantix can be harmful to human skin.The remaining applications should be spaced at least a few inches apart down your dog’s back. For large and extra-large dogs, the last dose should be near the top of the tail. For small and medium dogs, the last dose should be near the middle of the back.Avoid petting the dog for several hours after application, as you may wipe the product off the skin. It might be best to apply Advantix shortly before the dog goes to bed to minimize the chances of accidentally wiping it off.
 If you used the entire tube, you can dispense of it by putting it in the regular trash. If you did not use the entire tube, you should still throw it away. However, do not throw the partially-filled tube in the trash or pour it down the drain. Contact your local waste department to learn how to dispose of the partially-filled tube.The remaining tubes that were not used should be stored at room temperature in a cool, dry place., Advantix can be harmful to human skin. Even if you are sure that Advantix did not get on your skin, washing your hands thoroughly is still a good idea after applying a product on your dog’s skin. If you notice that Advantix has gotten on your skin by accident, immediately rinse your skin with water for 15 to 20 minutes. Call a poison hotline or your doctor for further treatment recommendations., The Advantix will need time to be absorbed into your dog’s skin. Bathing your dog would remove the product from your dog’s skin.Even though Advantix is waterproof, it will take at least two days before it has absorbed enough in the skin so that it will not come off with bathing or swimming.
 Given that you applied Advantix to your dog’s back, his mouth should not be able to get to the areas where you applied the product. However, if some of the product happened to drip down his sides and land on the floor, he may be able to ingest the product that way. Advantix can be harmful to dogs if ingested, so contact your veterinarian or local pet poison hotline immediately for guidance on treatment.If you have other pets, keep your dog separated them so that they do not have a chance to ingest the Advantix or get it on their skin.
 It is rare that Advantix causes side effects in dogs. Potential side effects include lethargy, vomiting and drooling.You may notice that the skin is red where you applied the Advantix, which indicates irritation. Your dog may scratch at the application site if the skin is irritated, or he might just look uncomfortable in general.If your dog has any of these side effects, take your dog to your veterinarian.