 Turn off the power switch on the back of the case and remove the side panel. Most cases have thumbscrews, but older cases may require the use of a screwdriver to open. Many cases will require you to remove both panels in order to secure the hard drive, though some have removable housings.;
, Before you begin working on the interior of your computer, make sure you discharge any electrostatic charge you may have. If your computer is still plugged into the wall (with the switch off), you can touch any of the exposed metal of the case to discharge. You can also touch a water tap to discharge your electrostatic charge.


The safest way to work inside of a computer is to wear an antistatic wrist strap while working on the computer.
 The location will vary depending on the case, but it can typically be found beneath the optical drive bay. If you are upgrading or replacing a hard drive, you should see one already installed.
 Locate the HDD you wish to replace and disconnect each of the two cables coming out from the rear of the drive. If you are adding storage to your existing configuration, you should leave the original hard drive installed where it is and skip down to Step 5.


Notice that the cable on the left is insulated and has a wider connector than the other. This is the Serial ATA power cable which connects the HDD to the computer's power supply. The flat, red cable on the right has a smaller connector. This is the SATA Data Connector which connects the hard drive to the motherboard. Disconnect each from the drive by pulling gently on the connectors.
 The method for securing the HDD into the drive bay will vary somewhat from system to system, but it typically requires two small screws on each side of the drive that hold it in the bay.


Remove the screws and slide the old HDD out from the drive bay. The old drive has now been removed.
 If your case permits, try to maintain some space between the new drive and any existing drives to help promote airflow and cooling. Be sure that the metal side faces up and the black, plastic side faces down. Also verify that the two SATA connection ports in back of the drive are accessible.
 Secure the drive into the drive bay by inserting two screws into each side of the hard drive through the corresponding holes in the drive bay. Make sure to only use short screws designed for hard drives; if the screws are too long they could seriously damage the hard drive when it is running.
 Connect the insulated power cable with the wider tip into the larger connection port situated on the left-rear of the HDD. If the power cable does not fit easily, check to make sure that it is not upside down. Connect the data cable to the smaller SATA port on the hard drive.


If the power supply is older, it may not have any SATA power connectors. If this is the case, you will need a Molex-to-SATA adapter. Molex plugs have four pins, and may be white or black.
 If you are adding a new drive, you will need to connect the data cable to a SATA port on the motherboard (if you are replacing and old drive, the data cable should already be connected).


SATA ports are usually grouped together and labeled. If you can’t see the labels, refer to your motherboard’s documentation.
Your primary (boot) drive should be connected to the lowest SATA port on your motherboard, unless otherwise specified in your motherboard documentation. This is usually SATA0 or SATA1.
If you don’t have any SATA ports on your motherboard, your motherboard does not support the SATA interface. You will need to Install-a-Motherboardinstall a motherboard]] that supports the SATA format.
 Once the hard drive is secured and connected, close up your computer and power it back on. Before you can use your new drive, you will need to format it. If you are replacing the primary drive or building a new computer, you will need to install your operating system. Follow one of the guides below for more detailed instructions:



Install Windows 7.

Install Windows 8.

Install Linux.

Format your new storage drive.

