 Fasting or skipping a meal can trigger a migraine in some people. Aged cheese and salty and processed food may also be triggers. Decrease salt in your diet by avoiding potato chips and other snack aisle foods, and seasoning your meals with spices and herbs instead of table salt. Avoid frozen and pre-packaged meals, as well as fast food.Food additives, like aspartame (an artificial sweetener) and MSG in various foods, can trigger migraines in some people.Avoid these products by using natural sweeteners and asking restaurants if they use MSG – request your meal be MSG-free!
Nitrates are also a common trigger, and can be found in processed meats like pepperoni, hot dogs, and lunch meat., Drinking alcohol, especially wine, can trigger migraines.Stop drinking alcohol or limit your intake to moderate amounts – 1 glass a day for women and men over 65, and 2 glasses a day for men under 65 is considered “moderate.”, Highly caffeinated beverages like espresso drinks and energy drinks may trigger migraines due to the “caffeine crash” a few hours later.A sudden drop in caffeine level is potentially a migraine trigger. If possible, drink tea instead of coffee, and try to keep your caffeine to a minimum to avoid the crash.


If you drink a lot of caffeine now, don’t stop all at once – that can cause headaches and other withdrawal effects. Taper down. For instance, if you currently drink 2 cups of coffee a day, drink 1 cup for a week or two, then drink half-caff (half regular, half decaf).
 For some people, migraines are triggered when they change their sleep habits and get too little, or even too much, sleep. If you’re prone to migraines, set a regular bedtime and wake time for yourself so you get approximately 8 hours of sleep nightly.Jet lag can also be a trigger. If you are travelling into a very different time zone, try to minimize the disruption to your sleep schedule as much as possible.
 Vasodilator medications like nitroglycerin can make migraines worse, as can oral contraceptive pills.Of course, these medications are important, so do not just stop taking them if you have migraines. Talk to your doctor, and they may be able to switch your medication to something different that is less likely to worsen migraines.
 It can be difficult to determine your triggers unless you pay careful attention and write things down. Keep a journal, and when you have a headache note what you did that day, what you ate in the last 12 hours, and any other stimuli you encountered (someone’s strong perfume, only getting five hours of sleep, etc.). This may help you recognize patterns so you can avoid triggers in the future.

