 What I did was make a homemade manikin head that was the size of my head.
 Draw the pattern to scale on a piece of paper (8" x 6 1/2"). Do a neat job- you want it as accurate as possible (make sure your measurements are precise!). Cut out the pattern.*Note: you can adjust the measurements to fit your head size. My head is 22" around and my first finished wig was a little on the loose side. Just to give you a general idea., You will need four pieces. Cut out all four pieces., Notice that they round at the end. This is half of the base! Put that half to the side, and sew together the remaining two pieces. Now you have two halves., Then sew the last side. You now have a complete fur wig base.,

Now it's time to make some ears: You can either replicate the pattern I made (on the right) or simply cut out two triangles. I recommend cutting out the pattern on cardboard because you'll have it for future projects. If you decided to cut out two triangles, sew the sides together just like you did for the wig. Finally, sew the other sides together. Fold the piece inside out and you have an ear! If you want to ensure that the ears are stiff, you can either stuff them with cotton or slip a triangular cardboard piece into them. This will keep them erect.  Important note: Do not sew the sides all the way down. Sew down until there's about an inch long slit. This is how you'll sew it on to the wig., It's very tricky sewing the ears on to the base, because the only way to do so is to sew them on top! I have no tricks to attaching them on, unfortunately. This is why I advise leaving a slit in the ears, because it will be easier to stitch. Poke the needle through the slit and base, do your best to feel around for the needle, and poke it back up and through. It won't be the prettiest stitching in the world, but as long as the ears are secure, you're fine. It can also be tricky getting them in the right spots. Put the wig on your manikin and use your tape ruler to do a neat job. Look in the mirror and hold the ears up to your head to figure out where you would like them. I had to undo the stitch a few times because they were crooked. It can be tedious, but stick with it. Once you've done it a couple of times, it will become easier., Cut the pattern in half, and then cut the two pieces in half. You will have mini strips. Sew the strips together. For a solid multi-colored wig such as Bombalurina, simply cut the pattern in half and use different colored faux fur. , Pinch the hair together and tie them together to make the ears, or make your own. Easy-peasy!, Sew to wig. Or simply buy a pre-made wig and beard combo and attach ears., Or buy whatever fabric you think will work best. Make your wig base. For the ears, cut out a long rectangular piece and sew the sides together to create a long tube. Sew the piece on the side of the wig.