 To help you brainstorm, make a list of potential people you might invite into the delivery room. This could include family, friends, and even your other children, if allowed by the hospital. You might include on this list:Your partner
Your parents
Your partner’s parents
A doula
A trusted friend
Your other children;
, Some people prefer private births, with just their partner and their mother present. Other people like to make births a larger event, where their families and friends join together for the delivery. Consider carefully what would make you feel most comfortable.Remember that giving birth can be stressful. Make sure that you are comfortable with people seeing you in labor. Take care to choose people who will not be offended if you snap at them.
 If anybody makes you tense, stressed, or upset easily, do not invite them into the delivery room. You want to pick people who give you positive energy and encouragement. Labor can last a long time, and it can be very painful. The people by your side should be helping you persevere. They should not make you feel nervous or anxious.For example, if your mother upsets you with her unsolicited advice, you might not include her in the delivery room. If she is patient and upbeat, you might find her to be a helpful presence.
 In addition to being helpful and encouraging, you should pick people who you trust to see you in moments of distress. Make sure these are people who will not share unflattering pictures on social media without your consent or tease you about how anxious you were during birth. Choose people who understand your needs and preferences while respecting your privacy.Immediate family members, such as your parents and siblings, are a good place to start. Your best friend may also be a good choice to bring into the delivery room with you.
You may not want to include family members you do not know well, even if your partner vouches for them.
You may want to have a talk with the other person when you invite them to let them know what type of privacy you expect. You might say, "I do not want any pictures of my birth appearing online. Can I trust you not to do this?"

