 Offer to do chores in exchange for earning some money which you can put towards the cost of designer bags and other things you would like to have.;
, Offer to help around the house in many ways. Don't always expect to be paid. This will help you show yourself to be responsible and deserving.
 Look online for inspiration. But bear it mind; if this is your first designer bag, you shouldn't start with Louis Vuitton ($500 for a small bag) unless your parents are rich, or if you insist on saving up. Rather for the average person, it's recommended starting with Dooney & Bourke or Coach. ($100-200 for a small bag) Now that you have a designer in mind, choose what kind of bag you want. Considering this is your first bag, it is suggested that you stick to the classics/signature styles

, Choosing where you will possibly buy a bag is fairly simple if you want to pay full price at an actual retailer. But to save some money, you could go to other places as well! You could always buy it at an outlet, which will carry real bags for less. At an outlet, they most likely will not have newer bags. Rather, they will have last years bags as well as classics. Another option is eBay. In preparation to ask your parents, you want to show them proof that you have looked into this! Perhaps print out a picture of the bag you want and find out prices at different places. You could even do a PowerPoint presentation, if you really want to impress them!

, When confronting your parents about your desire to buy a designer bag, be as calm, polite, and mature as possible. Show them all of the research you diligently worked on, and maturely explain why you want a designer bag. Show them the prices, and think of occasions where they could buy you one. The possibilities are endless! If they said yes, that's awesome! Skip to the tips. If they said no? Don't give up hope yet, try offering to save up! If you get motivated, you will have your bag in no time! If it turns out that they won't even let you save up and will absolutely not let you have one under any circumstance, you're out of luck. You could always find some good quality knock offs though!

