 This is the ideal length for rooting a new tomato plant. You can find healthy suckers of this size between a main production stem and a leaf.Place the shears at the base of the sucker, against the main stem. Cut it cleanly and firmly, then use a knife to cut the bottom of the sucker at a 45 degree angle.


If you want to give the sucker some extra rooting help, you can scrape the sides of the stem with a knife.
Make sure you’re using clean shears. That way you’ll avoid spreading disease between your plants., Eight ounce (237ml) cups are the perfect size for this. Transparent cups will allow you to see the roots once they sprout, so you can more accurately gauge their progress. You can use any garden soil for this step, though regular soil from your lawn may not be the best choice.Poke holes in the bottom of the cup. This will allow water to drain from the cup, and air will flow more freely, promoting the growth of healthy roots.You should place the transparent cup on a windowsill. This will give it enough light to grow without shocking the roots with too much sunlight.
 Because a rootless cutting doesn’t draw water from soil as effectively, it’s important to provide it with an abundance of water. You want the soil to be so moist that water will drip from the holes at the bottom of the cup.


You should place your cup on a surface that won’t be damaged by dripping water., It should be large enough to cover the plant with plenty of free space; you should leave about four inches (10cm) of clearance between the sucker’s leaves and the top of the plastic bag. Leave it unsealed.


The baggie will retain the moisture released by the plant’s leaves, which the plant will then reabsorb. This will help it stay alive as it roots.
Don’t be alarmed if the plant looks to be wilting in the first couple of days. It will recover., This should be sufficient time for new roots to have sprouted. Simply look through the side of the translucent cup to check for roots. If you see roots, transplant the tomato sucker to your garden. Otherwise, let the plant root for a few more days, checking for roots occasionally.


If you want to transplant the tomato sucker to a larger pot, make sure it’s opaque. Direct sunlight can kill roots.