 Nail down a space to provide your vocal lessons. A recording studio is preferred for independent, commercial or celebrity vocal coaches. If you decide to teach vocal lessons for grade-aged children, than a school would be appropriate for you. Have sound equipment essentials, including a keyboard, microphone and speakers on hand for your students to use. Make sure your space clean, airy and welcoming.
 Ask possible students about their desires to be a singer. Find out their career goals. Tune in to their needs, and any ways they’d like to improve their voice. Ask about any singing experience, or previous vocal training they’ve had. Create a profile for the student that shows their end goal, and how you plan to help them reach it. Hold a formal or on-the-spot audition, if possible, to learn their voice.
 Have your students sing for you, both in their head voice, and in their chest voice with vocal warm-up exercises. If they struggle with singing loudly, or on key, help them to find their note. Be kind, and mindful not to pass judgment or give harsh criticism on how they sound.


Plan lessons that offer give them singing and music basics, such as finding your music register, singing with notes and how to breathe properly while singing. If you need assistance with planning your lessons, Google “vocal lessons for teachers online” to find examples, or print and download vocal lesson plans.
Consider teaching quick hacks to improving your singing voice, such as using vocal control, clear pronunciation and musical phrasing. Include lessons in stage presence for students that want to be commercial singers or actors.
 Listen to concerns and future goals of your students in regards to your singing. Offer USBs, or recording devices during your sessions to record students as they sing. Have your students practice self-evaluation exercises. Be honest and constructive when giving feedback. Not all of your students will have what is considered to be a ‘great singing voice’, or star quality. Set reasonable, but measurable expectations for each student based on their voice. Their mental and vocal health will be a top priority. , Show up on time to teach your lessons, both in person and online. Be presentable and approachable for students. Address any concerns your students, or parents of the students might have as they progress with lessons. Develop a good rapport, so that students will continue to take your classes and support your business.

