 Some people believe that therapy is only for when you have problems that seem insurmountable. However, that's far from the truth.A counselor or therapist can help you with your self-analysis because she is a trained, impartial person who understands the common thought traps that humans can fall into.


People go to therapy for a variety of reasons, from past traumas to wanting to learn to cope with everyday life. There is no "bad" reason to seek counseling, and it's a sign of strength and self-care to seek help when you could benefit from it.A therapist also provides a safe, welcoming space for you to explore your own thoughts and feelings in. She will not judge you or make you feel silly for having thoughts. This type of environment can be very productive for self-discovery.
 CBT is a type of psychotherapy focused on the relationship between your thoughts, feelings, and behaviors. For example, if you've identified that you have self-esteem issues, a therapist trained in CBT can help you identify the unhelpful thought patterns that are contributing to that problem, such as negative self-talk. A CBT professional can help you learn new ways of thinking and behaving that will help you lead a happier, healthier life.CBT has been demonstrated as a helpful treatment for a range of conditions, including anxiety, depression, and sleep disorders. Even people with chronic pain may be helped by CBT.
 If during your self-analysis you realize that you have had traumatic experiences that you need to deal with, a therapist who specializes in trauma can help. It can take time and effort to process past injuries and work through them, but a trained specialist can help you through the process.


CBT is a very common treatment for people with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Other types of treatment include exposure therapy, where you learn to overcome the trauma by talking about it repeatedly, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) therapy, where you focus on bodily stimuli as you think or talk about your traumatic memories., There are many ways to find a therapist. You can search online, ask your doctor or friends for a referral, or cold-call various providers or clinics. The key to successful therapy is realizing that it is a relationship, and you should feel comfortable with your provider. That isn't to say you will always feel comfortable with what you discuss, but you should feel like your therapist is there to support you. If after several sessions you just aren't "clicking" with your therapist, it's okay to try another one.
 Psychiatrists and psychologists aren't the only providers who can offer mental health services, including therapy. There are a range of mental health professionals who can help you, so consider your options. Below are some types of mental health professionals:Psychiatrists are medical doctors. They can diagnose conditions, prescribe medication, and offer therapy. Because of their specialized and extensive training, they are often rather expensive to see, but they are excellent for people who may have more severe disorders.
Psychologists have doctorate degrees in Psychology, such as Ph.D. or Psy.D. In some states, they can prescribe medication, but most cannot. They can diagnose conditions and offer therapy.
Licensed clinical social workers (LCSWs) have a master's degree in Social Work and have had extensive clinical experience to earn their license. They can offer therapy and a variety of other services that connect you with community resources.
Psychiatric nurses are registered nurses (R.N.s) with specialized training in psychiatry and therapy. They can usually prescribe medications and can offer therapy.
Marriage and Family therapists (MFTs) have a master's degree in marriage and family therapy. They have training and clinical experience in offering therapy, but cannot prescribe medications.
Licensed Professional Counselors (LPCs) have a master's degree in a professional counseling field. They have training and clinical experience in offering therapy, but cannot prescribe medications. LPCs tend to have a wide range of counseling areas, such as career counseling, in addition to mental health counseling.

