 Having a rent deposit not only gives you funds to deal with rogue tenants, but also encourages them to treat your property carefully so that they can get the deposit back when they leave. Make sure to make the rent deposit and conduct agreement clear to each tenant when they sign the lease. The agreement will let the tenant know what actions or situations will reduce the part of their rent deposit that will be returned to them. This will give you a cushion in case the tenant is unable to pay their rent or causes damage to the property.Rent deposits vary in size, but are usually less than or equal to the value of two to three months of rent.
 Not having enough insurance or the right insurance to cover your property can leave you with a big bill if something happens. Make sure to check with an insurance agent to make sure all of your properties have enough insurance and that you are covered in every way. You will want to make sure you are covered against any natural disasters, personal injury liability, or tenant action. Review your coverage options with your agent and decide what level of coverage you need for each property., Even if you have good insurance, it is still in your best interest to prepare for and prevent damage to your property where you can. In an emergency, like a fire, make sure your tenants know how to easily evacuate the property. Provide your tenants with a personalized evacuation plan to ensure their safety. You should also make sure you know where utility shut-off valves are so that they can be turned off.


To prevent emergencies from occurring or worsening, you should maintain utilities and safety equipment on your properties. For example, you should make sure safety equipment, like smoke alarms, carbon monoxide detectors, and fire extinguishers, are functioning by having them professionally inspected regularly.
You should also maintain heating appliances and systems to make sure they are safe.
Back up your lease contracts and other important documents off-site or online so that they can be retrieved in the event of an emergency., Maintaining property safety is the most important part of being a landlord. You should endeavor to make sure the properties are structurally sound, free of environmental hazards, and safe from crime. Doing so will not only ensure that your tenants stick around but that you are not sued for negligence. Start by making your buildings meet all local and state safety regulations and setting regular dates to re-check these requirements. You should also take tenant complaints and repair requests seriously, getting them taken care of as soon as possible.


You should also ensure that your properties comply with safety laws and that you screen your tenants and employees before taking them on to weed out anyone who may be liable to commit crimes on your property., Hire a tax professional to make sure you are filing your taxes properly as taxes for rental properties can be complicated. In addition, you should institute a reliable system for keeping records of every transaction and expense related to your properties. Misrepresenting your income on your taxes can lead to costly audits and unnecessary hassle.