 Make sure you take time to observe how they interact and make sure you are feel that you can trust the potential caregiver.;
, Start early in your pregnancy as it can be difficult to find good, affordable child care. Sometimes word of mouth is the best way to find the best child care provider.
 Some areas offer a free referral service for licensed child care providers.
 Licensed facilities should have a safety plan including an evacuation plan posted, depending on state requirements. Check for cleanliness and nap facilities. See how other children interact with care givers and other children in attendance.
 Does the caregiver have a back-up care giver, if he/she should become ill? Are you responsible for finding alternate care while your care provider is ill? Will your child care giver take care of your sick child?

, What actions will the care giver take to discipline a child who misbehaves? Does this fit within your views of how your child should be disciplined?

, Will you need to pay any portion of your child care fee while you are on vacation?

, Will your care provider be willing to care for your child outside of his/her normal work hours? Does the care facility offer night and weekend hours? Will there be extra fees charged if you are late for picking up your child?

,


Licensed child care providers, whether in the family care home or large day care facility, can participate in a federal nutrition program. Child care providers follow much the same guidelines as the federal school lunch program and are reimbursed by the federal government for food costs. Finding a child care facility that offers meals using the federal guidelines ensures your child will receive nutritionally balanced meals and snacks. As a parent, you are not required to provide meals which can be a bonus as it's one less thing to worry about before heading to work.
 Care givers usually have facility rules which must be complied with.
 Most, if not all, licensed care givers will have their finger prints taken and a security check done as part of the licensing process.
 Allow your child to adjust to the new day care setting before dropping by unannounced. The unannounced visit will allow you to see what a typical day is like for your child. During the visit observe how happy the children are, how clean the facility is, and look to see if the care giver is operating what you consider a good facility for your child.
 Deep down, you know what is best for your child. Trust that feeling. When you walk into a facility what is your first impression? Is it cold, is it inviting, it is a place that you are comfortable leaving your child. What is your first impression of the caregivers? Is there any doubt in your mind that this person to take care of your child. Leaving your child with someone that you do not know is scary, especially for new mommies and daddies, because no one will care for your child better than you, but is this care giver a good second choice. Will they complement your parenting style, are you comfortable talking to them. Do they talk to your child or only you. Every child is different. The the center with the best website or the caregiver for your neighbor's child may not be the right fit for your family. Trust your parental instincts.
 Realize your care giver's job is important and deserves respect.

