 Think about your past interactions with the hater. There might be absolutely nothing you can do but you might discover their hate is rooted in a single conversation, action, or event that could easily be rectified. This does not mean that you have to make an effort to resolve the problem; rather, it will allow you to identify the source of hate and provide you with the knowledge of how better to live your life around the hater if you choose.People are often quick to judgment and perhaps there was a bad first impression left by you. If so, try to re-approach them and let the hater get to know you a little better. Their attitude might change.
The same can be said about shyness. Some people mistake shyness as rudeness. Make an effort to at least say hello or good morning. This will at least prove you are not ignoring them.
You might illustrate your success in way that another person might perceive as boastful. Or, they might be jealous of your achievement because they lack the traits necessary to attain the same success. In this case, you might want to tone down your triumphs for the sake of peace.
Joking or horsing around could also lead to issues with haters. Some people don’t like to see others enjoying life when they are miserable or they might not be part of the “in” crowd and resent it. Either try to include everybody in the fun or simply cut it out when the hater is present.
 The issue the hater has with you is their problem and not yours. The quicker you realize this the quicker you can come to peace with the situation. Indeed, most haters have no real basis for their animosityThe most direct way of dealing with the problem is to ask them what their problem with you is if they have not already made it clear. If it is their own personal problem, tell them to seek help and leave you out of it.
It is important to remember that hurt people hurt people. Have you ever met a happy, well-adjusted person hurt you or somebody else? Of course not because they don’t waste their time being negative and hurtful.
Don’t take on a hater’s vicious criticism. Since they spend so much time trying to destroy your image they spend less time being creative and constructive. Avoid their problems so that you can move forward with your life.
 As a person, no matter if you ignore the hater or not, you will still probably wonder why they are giving you such a hard time. In order to come to some type of conclusion, think about the situation from a different perspective. Look at it from a third person’s point of view and find the source of the problem. Seeing the situation from a new angle will help you rationalize their hate on a deeper level.No matter how much you try to avoid it, there could have actually been something you did to make a hater dislike you. As hard as that can be to accept, try to put yourself in their shoes and consider what issues they might be dealing with.

