 Your identity is important, and you don't have to fight it. It's okay to be tall, chubby, artistic, disabled, geeky, introverted, and whatever else you are. You have your own unique style and personality, and your traits don't make you inferior to anyone else.
 Your feelings are important, and it's good to recognize them and find healthy ways to channel them. It's normal to experience a range of emotions, and learning to deal with them is an important part of growing up.


If you are angry, try taking a walk, getting exercise, reading, or taking some quiet time to calm down.
If you're sad, spend time with a pet or loved one, take good care of your body, and talk to someone about how you're feeling.
If you're scared or worried, do something about the thing that scares you (e.g. making an action plan), take some deep breaths, or tell an adult how you feel.
 Relaxation is an important part of feeling healthy and balanced, and it'll allow you to stay calm when problems come your way. Do your hobbies, read a fun book, go for a walk, take a relaxing bath, or spend time with someone you love.
 Sometimes tasks feel overwhelming, to the point that it's difficult to start. When this happens, you can write down the steps you'll need to take, and only do one at a time. For example, if you have to write an essay, write one paragraph now, and then go play with your dog.


Taking breaks is an important life skill! It will help keep you from feeling overwhelmed, and you will be able to focus better when you sit down again.
Write out a schedule if it helps.
 Part of being strong is recognizing when something is too big for you to face alone. You might want to ask an adult for advice, or get help in solving whatever problem you're facing. Sometimes, you might just need a hug and a listening ear. Recognizing that you need help, and going to ask for it, is a sign of bravery.
 It's okay to have bad days, and it's okay to be vulnerable. Your strength isn't determined by how much you cry—it's about how you bounce back. Plenty of strong people ask for help and need to lean on other people sometimes.
 You will find people who dislike you for no good reason, and who like to insult you or try to get in your way. You don't need to listen to them. Being polite is good, but you don't have to stand around putting up with a mean person just for the sake of manners.


Say "please stop" or "I'm busy" if someone won't leave you alone.
If you're being insulted, pretend not to have heard them, or say "I'm okay, you're mean." This takes all the fun out of it for the bullies.
Tell an adult if handling it yourself doesn't work, or if you don't know what to do.
 Think of people you can talk to when you're having a bad day—parents, friends, siblings, and other people in your life. Take time for those who are important to you.
 Give sincere compliments, use good manners, help people in need, and reach out to other people who look friendly. An attitude of kindness will draw people to you and help make life easier for you.
 Girls are often told that they're bossy, catty, weak, and incapable. Tell yourself that you can. Practice power posing, recognize that you're skilled, and work on building your own confidence. You are stronger than you know.

