 The basic terms you need to know when considering short selling are shorting, covering, and margin.



Shorting is the process of selling stock short. When you short a stock, you sell stock that you borrowed from your broker at a set price. You are making an informed guess that you will be able to re-buy that same stock later at a lower price, thus making a profit.Covering happens when you close the short sale transaction. Because your broker only loaned you the stocks to short, you must eventually buy back enough shares of the stock to cover the stocks you were loaned.

Margin is the way you purchase stocks to be sold short. When you buy on margin, you borrow funds from your broker and use the stocks bought or sold short as collateral for the loan.;
, If you have a financial adviser already, consult with him/her to discuss what investment options are right for you. Short selling is an aggressive and risky investment strategy. Depending on your individual circumstances and investment goals, short selling may not be a good strategy for you.Your financial adviser will be able to tell you whether short selling is a good strategy. S/he may also be able to recommend ways to pair short selling with other strategies to reduce your risk.
 Short selling can result in a pretty profit if your research is correct. Consider the following example: you, the investor, want to “short” 100 shares of XYZ Company stock. This stock is currently trading at $20 per share. You contact a broker, open a margin account with a minimum cash deposit of $2000, and borrow 100 shares of XYZ from the broker. You sell these shares short so that the $2000 proceeds are credited to your margin account.After you sell the shares, you wait for the price of the stock to drop. After a disastrous third-quarter earnings report, the stock price of XYZ Company drops to $15 per share. You buy 100 shares of XYZ Company at $15 to “cover” your initial speculation. You then have 100 shares to give back to the broker who lent you the stock in the first place. This is the process known as “covering” your short.Your profit is the difference in the price when you sold the shares and when you bought them back (or "covered" them). In this instance, you sold XYZ Company stock at $2,000 and covered at $1,500. You made a profit of $500 by shorting XYZ Company stock. This profit, added to the $2000 cash deposit you originally made, gives you $2500 in your margin account.
 Short selling is much riskier than going long. When you go long, you speculate that the price or value of an investment is going to go up. If you buy 100 shares of JKL Company at $5 per share on a long position, the most you can lose is 100 percent of your investment, or $500. The amount you can gain, on the other hand, is unlimited, because there's no upper limit to how high a stock price can go. That means there's a limited downside and an unlimited upside.With short selling, the opposite is true. There's a limited upside and an unlimited downside. You can profit only in proportion to how low the investment drops, which is finite. However, you lose money in proportion to how high an investment rises. Investments like stocks have potentially unlimited share prices.
For example, return to the XYZ Company example from the previous step. Let’s say you buy 100 shares of XYZ at $20 per share and sell them immediately, just as before. The proceeds of the sale ($2000) are deposited into your margin account. When added to the cash deposit of $2000 you were required to make when you opened the margin account, the proceeds make a total of $4000 in your margin account. Then, you wait for the price of the stock to drop so you can cover your shares.
However, this time, XYZ Company’s stock doesn’t drop. Somehow, the company turns itself around and its share price jumps to $3. You decide to cut your losses, so you buy 100 shares at $30 to “cover” before the stock rises any more. You return the borrowed stock to the broker and close the margin account. Because you had to pay $3000 to cover your borrowed stock, you wind up with a net loss of $1000 -- one half of your initial $2000 deposit.
 Selling short, like going long, is an investment strategy. Pay attention to market trends and learn what companies and securities may be vulnerable to falling in price. Don't go into the research phase expecting to short; decide to short after the evidence tells you it's a good idea.Stocks: When looking at stock market vitals, pay special attention to expectations of future earnings. This is the most important factor in determining a company's stock price. Although future earnings are impossible to predict exactly, they can be "guesstimated," based on the proper information.Stocks may become overvalued. This is especially common with trendy and fad-based stocks.For example, ABC Company announces that it has a new drug that will cure cancer. Enthusiastic investors buy and drive the price of stock up from $10 to $40 overnight. Although the company's prospects may be good, many hurdles still remain: drug trials, competitors, etc. Investors who consider these hurdles may see the share as overvalued, and due for a drop in price. Overvalued stocks are good candidates for short selling.

Bonds: Because bonds are a security, they can be sold short. When deciding whether to short a bond, look at bond yields, which are closely tied to interest rates. When interest rates go down, bond prices jump; when interest rates go up, bond prices fall. An individual shorting a bond would want interest rates to go up and bond prices to fall., The best stocks to short are those that are likely to decline soon, but haven’t yet fallen in price. Several indicators can help you discover potential candidates for short selling:



Price/Earning Ratio (P/E). The P/E ratio is calculated by dividing the market price by actual (trailing) or projected (forward) 12-month earnings.The P/E is important relative to the market as a whole, or as compared to other companies. A high P/E ratio may suggest that the stock is overvalued. However, it may also be a sign of a strong-performing company.For example, a company with earnings of $5 per share a market value of $60 per share would have a P/E of 12 (60 ÷ 5 = 12).



Relative Strength Index (RSI). The RSI indicates whether there are more buyers or sellers of a stock over a certain period (usually 14 days).RSI is a complex calculation, but in simplest terms, it is calculated using the number of days within a defined time frame where the stock price closed higher than the previous day’s price. This number is divided by the number of days in the same time frame where the market closed lower than the previous day’s closing price. RSI runs from 0-100.

In general, when the RSI is about 70, the stock has seen a strong increase in price for a long period. This may not be sustainable growth. This stock may be “overbought” and due to fall.


Neither P/E nor RSI give you enough information on their own. Be sure to take a variety of factors into account when considering short selling. No specific indicator is a fool-proof signal to buy or sell.
 A company's short interest is the percentage of outstanding shares that are short. For example, a stock with 1.5 million "short" shares and 10 million shares outstanding has a "short interest" percentage of 15%.The short interest will let you know who else is betting against a certain stock. Short interest is reported in financial publications such as Barron’s and The Wall Street Journal. A high short interest usually indicates that investors think a particular stock or bond will drop in value. Check research and reports to see whether these investors seem likely to be correct.On the other hand, a high short interest also may make the price of the stock or bond more volatile. This may happen when many investors cover their short positions in a small amount of time, driving the market price up. The result can be a larger swing in prices than some investors are used to.
Consider the “days to cover" ratio. This refers to the number of short shares outstanding compared to average daily trading volume (for the same security or area).For example, if the short interest was 20 million shares and the average trading volume was 10 million shares, the short interest ratio would be 2 days. Investors usually prefer lower short interest ratios., Do not short a stock that does not have high liquidity. Liquidity means that there are many shares of stock available and there is a high level of trading activity.If the stock is not liquid, you may not be able to liquidate your short fast enough to retain your profit.Stock without liquidity also leaves you open to the threat of “early sale.” If the original owner of the shares you’ve borrowed decides to sell the shares, you must replace them. You can do this by finding other shares to borrow from your broker or by buying shares on the market. If your stock is not highly liquid, you may find it hard to find shares to borrow so you can replace the originals.Be aware short covering can temporarily boost the price of an investment. This is an unintended consequence of short selling. When you short a stock initially, for example, the stock price goes down because you're effectively selling shares. When you buy the stock back in your cover, the stock price rises. If many people who are shorting a particular stock decide to cover at the same time, the stock price may rise dramatically. This is called a "short squeeze.", Short sellers usually move in and out of the market rapidly. They may only make an investment when an opportunity for profit presents itself. Be patient, and don’t “chase” profits.With online discount brokers and 24/7 access to market news, day trading has become increasingly popular. However, day trading can be very risky, especially if you are not an experienced investor. Proceed slowly and with caution.
 If you don’t already have a broker, you’ll need to locate one. There are more than 4,250 securities firms in the United States. With so many options, it can be difficult to figure out what to look for. There are two basic types of firms: full service and discount.Full-service brokers usually offer a wide range of financial advice and services. They usually provide a personalized investing approach. Full-service brokers usually operate on commission, meaning they make money off of the number of trades you make. Their fees may also be higher than discount brokerages.
Discount brokerages do not offer the personalized advice and research of full-service firms. Usually, they just conduct your trades. Because they are less involved in your investing process, these firms often charge much lower fees. Discount brokers are usually salaried and don’t earn commissions.
The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is a non-profit regulatory agency, and offers a “Broker Check” feature on its website that will provide you with information on services, employment history, licenses, and any complaints or violations., Once you find a few reputable brokers, meet with several candidates and ask them questions. This will help you determine whether the broker is a good fit for your needs. Areas to investigate include:How the brokers are paid. Are they salaried or paid on commission? Are they offered extra bonuses to suggest investments from their own firm to you? Do other firms pay them to suggest investments to you? Are their commissions negotiable?
Fees. For example, several brokers charge higher fees for trades of more than 500 or 1,000 shares. Certain types of trades may also be charged at different fee levels. Know what you can expect before making a commitment.
What type of advice the brokers offer. The large brokers can offer a wide range of analysis, research and other tools to help you invest. Some can offer access to Standard & Poor’s research. Others offer sophisticated Internet tools to help you track markets. Learn exactly what services and advice will be available to you.
 If you already have a cash account with a broker, it will be quite simple to open a margin account. Margin accounts act as a kind of escrow when you short sell a stock. In essence, a margin account operates as a type of loan from the broker to you at some point in the future.Just like other loans, the broker will charge interest on the margin account, and will use the securities you buy (in this case, shorted stock) as collateral for the loan.Because you do not own the stock when you short it, you need the margin account to hold your proceeds from a short sell until you “cover,” or replace, the shares you shorted.The proceeds from your short sells are held as collateral until you cover. You may lose some or all of your collateral if the market is unfavorable. You may also need to replace the shares or funds in your margin account under certain circumstances to maintain "equity."Equity in the context of margin trading refers to the value of your securities in a margin account, minus what you have borrowed from your broker.You will need to sign a margin agreement to open a margin account. This agreement will specify the terms of the account, including the terms and conditions of the loan, the interest, your repayment responsibility and how your securities will serve as collateral.Review your agreement carefully before you sign it. If you have any questions, ask your broker to explain.
Most brokers will require a minimum of $2,000 cash as a deposit. This is the equity that serves as the “minimum margin.” However, many brokers may require more., The Federal Reserve Board, along with organizations such as the New York Stock Exchange, create rules that govern how trading operates.In addition, your broker will have specific maintenance margin requirements you must meet.


According to Regulation T, short sell trades must have 150 percent of the value of the trade at the time of the short sell. For example, if you shorted 100 shares of stock at $40 each, you would need to have a total of $6,000 in the margin account: $4,000 of this is the proceeds from the short, and the other $2,000 (50 percent of the proceeds) is the equity you deposit to meet the margin.
Once you have shorted, you must usually maintain at least 125 percent of the market price in the margin account as a maintenance margin. This amount will vary between brokers.Many larger brokers require 30 percent or more.
When the price of a short stock rises, the loan amount rises and your equity falls. When the price of a short stock falls (which is what you hope for), your equity increases.For example, you shorted 100 shares of stock at $40 each. Your initial margin balance is $6,000. If the price of the stock increases to $50, you will need to increase your maintenance margin. The new market value of the stock is $5,000, rather than $4,000. If your broker’s maintenance margin is 25 percent, you would need to deposit another $250 into your margin account to cover the “maintenance margin call.”
If you can't deposit additional money to cover the margin, your broker may liquidate your position by buying back 100 shares at the current market value. You may have a defined period of time to cover a margin call before your broker liquidates your position. However, the broker can call your loan at any time and cover the short position without notifying you., Before you can place a short sell order, you must determine whether the stock to be shorted is available for borrowing. Borrowed stock may be available for a definite, pre-determined period (a term loan). More commonly, it can be recalled any time by the lender.


You do not own the stock that you short. Your broker will lend you the shares of the stock you’re shorting, but you will have to eventually “cover” or pay them back.
Most brokers will have a “hard to borrow indicator” that will let you know whether shares are available for borrowing. If your broker can't find shares to borrow, you will not be able to short the stock.Short sellers pay a fee to the share owners, as well as any dividends or stock splits that occur during the borrowing period.
The more difficult the stock is to find, the more expensive it is likely to be.
 You can choose from a variety of options when entering a sell short order. The options you have available may vary depending on your broker:Sell Short Market Order. A short sell market order will sell the stock at the best price when it's received.In some cases, SEC Rule 201 may apply. This rule was passed to “promote market stability and preserve investor confidence.” It prohibits short selling in cases where the stock price has fallen more than 10 percent from the previous day’s closing price unless certain conditions are met. It is sometimes known as the “alternative uptick rule.”Sell Short Limit Order. A limit order will be executed only if the stock meets an amount that you set. This limit can be a minimum amount that you’re willing to receive for a sale. Unlike market orders, these orders are not guaranteed to be executed.Sell Short Stop Order. A stop order will become a market order once the stop price is reached. For example, if you believe that ABC Company’s share price will plunge once it hits $15, you might enter a price of $14 as your stop order. If the price reaches $14, your order will be executed immediately., To close a short position, you must enter a buy order to “cover” the borrowed stock. You can choose between a few available options to close a short position.Buy to Cover Market Order. A buy to cover market order is guaranteed to be executed, but the price is not guaranteed. A market order will repurchase the stock at market price when the order is received.These orders are best used when:

You are trying to cover the short position as quickly as possible.
You have large profits and are concerned that the price will recover fairly quickly.



Buy to Cover Limit Order. A buy to cover limit order will be executed at a lower price than the current market price.For example, a Buy to Cover Limit Order at $20 will buy shares to cover at the next available price of $20 or lower.

Limit orders may not be executed if the price does not drop.



Buy to Cover Stop Order. A Buy to Cover Stop Order is especially important to short sellers. You can use this order to protect yourself from losses or to preserve gains. Once the shares trade at or above the stop price you set, the order immediately becomes a market order. It will be executed as soon as possible. Prices are not guaranteed.Inexperienced short sellers should always use a series of Buy to Cover Stop Orders to prevent large losses. For example, you short ABC Company at $60 per share. You might immediately enter a Buy to Cover Stop Order at $66 per share. Once the price hits $66 per share, your stop-loss order will turn into a market order and will buy enough shares to "cover" before the price rises any higher. This is will limit your potential loss to about 10 percent of the market price.If the price of your stock falls to $50 a share, you might cancel your original Buy to Cover Stop Order at $66 and set a new one at $55. This would protect your gains if the price of the shares began to rise again. This process is known as trailing stop orders., Usually you can hold on to a short position for as long as you want. But because you're borrowing the stock from a broker or bank, you're going to have to pay interest on your position. The longer you hold on to the investment, the longer you pay interest on it. There’s no such thing as free money.If the shares of the stock you’re shorting are hard to find, the interest rate will also be higher. Some interest rates may be up to 20 percent for extremely hard-to-find stocks., For example, sometimes an investor trying to short a stock is forced to cover sooner than expected because the broker "calls" or requests the borrowed shares back (remember that you don't own the stock you're trying to short; you're merely borrowing it.) If this happens, you may be forced to cover an unfavorable position and thus lose money.


Because you do not own the shares of stock you short, you may be required to cover them at any time.Most lenders reserve the right to recall their loaned stocks at any time, without notice.
Although being called away doesn't happen often, it's not unheard of. Being called away can happen when a large numbers of investors are all trying to short a particular stock at the same time., As an investor, you are required to retain a certain level of equity with your broker.If a margin call is issued because you have fallen below the minimum equity, you must either deposit an additional margin into your account or cover. If you cannot meet the margin call, you may need to cover the stock before you planned to do so.In the United States, the Federal Reserve Board requires short sale accounts to maintain 150 percent of the value of the short sale. Many brokers have additional requirements.If you short 100 shares of stock at $20 each, $2,000 will be deposited into your margin account. However, you will also need to deposit 50 percent of that amount ($1,000), making the total $3,000.
If the price of the stock then increases to $30 while you are holding the short, the maintenance margin will also increase. Because the market value of your short sale in this example is now $3,000, you will have to make up the difference. If your broker requires a 25 percent maintenance margin, you will need to deposit another $750 into the account to meet the margin call.
 In addition to the market risks of shorting, the actions of the company you have invested in can also affect your risk and profit. You are responsible for paying out dividends, and you must cover any splits that occur while you are short.For example, companies and corporations often pay dividends to their shareholders.If a company decides to pay a dividend to its shareholders and you are short the stock, you will owe the dividend on the shares you’ve “borrowed.”Consider this example: you buy 100 shares of XYZ Company and short them. While you are waiting for the price to drop so you can cover, XYZ Company decides it will pay a 10 cents per share dividend. You will owe that $10.This may seem insignificant on small trades, but if you shorted large numbers of shares or are financing large dividends, it can add up to a significant loss.
If a stock splits, you are responsible for the resulting number of shares. A common split ratio is 2-for-1. In this scenario, XYZ Company might “split” a $20 share into two $10 shares.If you borrowed 100 $20 shares to short, you will return 200 $10 shares. The material position of the investor is not fundamentally changed by a split; just keep in mind that when you cover, you'll buy back more than the original number of shares., Long investors often hold on to their investments for significant periods of time, waiting for the opportune moment to sell. Some investors hold on to stocks for their entire lives.Short sellers may not have the luxury of time. They often need to sell and cover very quickly. Because they borrow their positions from brokers, they're working on borrowed time.


If you do decide to short sell, be ready for the price of the stock to fall quickly. Set yourself an artificial deadline with a buffer period. If the stock hasn't fallen significantly after the artificial deadline and the buffer period, re-evaluate your position:

How much are you paying in interest?
How much have you already lost, if any?
Do the same circumstances exist that caused you to believe the stock was going to fall?



