 Insurance agents must be well versed in the handling of rejection, calling leads, marketing and asking for sales in order to survive in this competitive field. If you can handle a high-pressure sales environment, you can be an insurance agent.


If you are in school and you want to apply for an insurance agent position after graduation, work in sales during your summer breaks. Many companies like to hire recent university graduates, but they will be looking for people who are social, resilient and have tried sales in some form.;
, You may need to prove to your potential employers that you can hit quotas. Keep track of your sales goals and achievements.
 Many insurance agents, particularly non-captive agents, must be able to drum up sales without a lot of management.
 If you want to begin your career path in insurance, this is an excellent entry into the industry. Many companies like to hire and train recent graduates.
 Agents and brokers are often referred to in the general term "producers."

, You can enroll in a certificate course or technical college course that is accepted by your state licensing agency.


You may be required to take between 25 to 50 hours of class before signing up to take the exam. If you are earning a bachelor's degree in insurance, business or finance, you should be able to take classes during school that will qualify you to take the test.
, Pass the exam and gain a job with a licensed insurance firm to begin work as an agent.


If you want to work in a state where you do not live, you will be required to obtain a non-resident insurance license.
 You can use job search sites or contact insurance companies and brokerage firms directly.


Captive insurance agents work for an insurer and only offer their company's insurance. Non-captive agents research several types of insurance for their clients and offer them several options. They can receive commissions from many different companies.
 Insurance agents should look for jobs with opportunities for learning and advancement.
 This may be required by your state. All insurance agents are only licensed to sell insurance policies under this condition.
 New insurance agents may have a mentor or trainer before they start working with a territory.
 You will need to achieve quotas regularly in order to be a successful insurance agent.
 You will need to submit proof of a certain amount of classes every few years.

