 If the parrot is mainly blue, it can only belong to the macaw or lorikeet families. This excludes colour mutations. Other colors may help you to identify other species or types of parrots.
 Due to the structure of these birds' feathers, they can only produce white, yellow, pink, red, or black colours. They also have specialised beaks, but this is not easily observed. Most have a short tail, but the cockatiel almost resembles a parakeet.
 Conures all have long, tapered tails, they fall under the classification of aratinga, pyrhurra, or miscellaneous. The Pyrhurra conures all have scalloping under the breast along with a red belly patch. The Aratingas are brightly coloured (some bright orange yellow), and may have a horn coloured beak. They also have prominent eye rings.


If the parrot has an unusually long tail, it may be part of the psittacula genus. This can be confirmed by a different head colour, a shoulder patch, or a ring encircling the neck (this only appears on males in most species).
Australian parakeets have thin, long tails, small beaks, thin toes and legs, and are most likely to exhibit sexual dimorphism. They usually prefer not to hang upside down.
 Lorikeets look similar to parakeets, but their diet consists almost entirely of nectar. They are perfectly at home hanging upside down to reach suitable flowers. Lories are genetically similar to lorikeets, but usually have short tails.
 Macaws range from 30 centimeter (11.8 in) to over 100 centimeter (39.4 in). They all have bare facial skin and most have individual feather tracts over this skin.
 Kakarikis are genetically similar to Australian parakeets, but appear almost like conures. They all have a two tone beak, and are mainly green. The Kaka, Kea, and Kakapo are all large, short tailed parrots with very large beaks, and largely drab plumage. Notably, the Kakapo is flightless.


Amazons often have a scalloped appearance. Most are mainly green, but have contrasting patches of blue, yellow, orange, lilac, or red. These are used in visual displays. They also all have red undertail coverts. Pionus parrots are similar to Amazons but are usually smaller and lack the red tail patch.
 These are small, heavily built parrots, mainly green but usually with a different coloured head. In captivity these are rarely purebred, as interbreeding was once extremely common.

