 Also, colleges like Liberty University and Liberty Theological Seminary even allow the admission fee to be deducted later from your financial aid. You can apply online without any money. Books costs are also deducted later. You are given a voucher with which to purchase your books from their affiliated bookstore online.;
, Try to stay away from diploma mills. These are easily researched online and many are noticeable by their extremely high tuition. Once you have chosen your college, call admissions and speak with someone. As a person who loathes these types of procedures, I have found that this method works better because admission counselors are there to help you. They know information that you do not and they can connect you with the right degree program.
 Many schools only require a 2.4 to gain admittance to their college. While other programs or colleges may require a 3.0 or higher, do not let your grade point average deter you from your degree. In certain instances, you can obtain conditional admission, allowing you to take prerequisite courses before you are officially admitted into the regular courses. This can easily raise your grade point average.
 Do your front work and make sure you are cooperative and proactive in getting this information in. Check and double-check your forms and resources. There is an online banking institution called Higher One, which allows your financial aid to be disbursed as a student checking and debit account. It is without a monthly fee and if you use your debit card as a credit card, there are no small fees for using the card for payment. Higher One was designed by students. You obtain faster access to your financial aid because as soon as the funds are disbursed to your college, they automatically transfer these funds to your account. Be aware that you will receive a rather large sum of money at one time. The temptation may be there to splurge. Use common sense and pay your bills first. Then, if there is an item that you can realistically afford, then, perhaps, purchase it but not before serious consideration. There is nothing like checking your bank account and realizing it is empty one month before any financial aid is due. Although many class schedules allow for working a part time job, some of the programs are so rigorous and additional responsibilities may not allow for paid work. Let your degree be your full-time job as much as possible.


Financial aid for online classes is the same as for residential classes, in many instances. The additional benefit of online classes is that you do not have to travel back and forth to campus. You may prefer studying at home or a local library or coffee shop. With the technology available with iphones and androids, many lessons and lectures may be listened to anywhere, even as you jog down the path. Discussion boards online are also easily accessed from any location with these devices, although appropriate reference material should be nearby as these discussion boards are highly intellectual and require book citations to back up your views or stances.
Financial aid is one of the more tricky areas to maneuver around. You must have all your college and financial information available. This includes your program of study, your start and projected end date, and your yearly income from tax records. Whether you are a dependent or independent student also decides the amount of financial aid available. For instance, Liberty University allows all information to be submitted and the FAFSA or federal financial aid application to be submitted online, as do most colleges. It is also very important to consider whether the funds you are entitled to will need to be allocated over two or three semesters. Make sure you complete your FAFSA as soon as possible because it takes several days to be determined for financial aid purposes.
 It takes about two minutes online. If you intend on attending classes all three semesters, then you can divide the funds between the three semesters. This allows a larger amount of funds to be obtained between just two semesters than if they are divided out among three semesters.


If you are in a position of caring for a loved one then perhaps the division between three semesters is better. Another very important factor to consider is that Fall semester is five months long so far as financial aid is concerned. Why this happens is December falls at the end of Fall semester and this leaves several additional weeks which require one to carefully consider their resources.
 Again, Liberty University has a student friendly approach. They allow all books to be ordered two or three weeks before classes start so you may begin reading your material. The prices of the books that are ordered are deducted from the upcoming financial aid. Although you may be able to purchase these books on Amazon or elsewhere much cheaper, make sure the ISBN numbers match exactly or you may have the wrong book. MSBN allows a student voucher code to be entered in order to purchase books. When you order, make sure you state the correct semester or the class materials may be different. Online financial aid does not disburse the first day of class at Liberty. It does not disburse until 25 days later. This is a blessing and a curse. It is a blessing because you are not anxious to go spend the money in your account because it isn't there. A curse because with beginning new classes there is the additional burden of figuring how to pay the bills until another month has passes. Again, many of the classes are very rigorous. You will not have time to work. Let your classes be your job.

