 With the shemagh completely open, match one corner with the corner diagonally opposite from it, folding the square in half and into a triangle.


This style is not necessarily the most practical, nor is it especially traditional, but it can be a casual and trendy way to wear a shemagh.
 The folded edge of the shemagh should cover your nose and mouth. Two corners should appear on either side of your face, and the other corner should drape down in front of your face and over the top part of your neck and chest.
 Bring the short ends to your left and right over your shoulders and around the back of your neck. Cross them over each other at the back of your neck before bringing both sides back around to the front.









As you bring the shemagh around your neck, hold the ends up to keep the material taut against your face.
For this style, you should not tie the shemagh behind your neck. Instead, the two ends should only cross over each other once. While still keeping the two ends secure and taut, bring each end back over the shoulder opposite its original side so that both are positioned over your chest. Do not let go of the ends yet.
 Tie the two ends in front of you, still holding them taut. Hide the ends under the long end or remaining corner of your shemagh.









Use a single knot at the approximate center of your neck.
The knot should be tight enough to hold the shemagh in place but not so tight that you have difficulty breathing or turning your head.
 If you are wearing a jacket, blazer, or other form of outerwear, unbutton or unzip the top portion and tuck the ends of the shemagh underneath. Partially button or zip the jacket back up to hide these ends and create a tidier appearance.









This step is only optional. You can leave the ends hanging out of your jacket, if desired. Doing so can make the style look a little more relaxed.
 Gently tug on the top part of the shemagh so that the portion covering your nose and mouth is re-positioned to rest just below your chin and around your neck.









This step completes this particular tying method.

