 Perhaps the best way to limit your convenience purchase spending is to know exactly what items cost the most. Basic convenience items which don’t entail any skilled labor, such as frozen potatoes, meat, or canned goods, are marked up, but not as much as complex convenience items, such as prepared cakes, take-home dinners, and frozen pizzas, which take into account the cost of preparation and labor.Carbonated and alcoholic beverages also carry some of the highest markups at the grocery store.
 Many people make regular convenience purchases not because they hate to cook or don’t care about paying more for these products, but because they simply haven’t planned out their meals for the week. Since they don’t know what lunches and dinners they’ll be preparing, they don’t know what ingredients to buy, and thus they end up buying a bunch of ready-made foods, such as frozen dinners and boxed mixes. By planning your week’s meals ahead of time, you can create an exhaustive master list for the next time you’re in the grocery store, meaning you buy mostly basic, unprepared ingredients rather than packaged, processed foods.


If you need help organizing your list, try using a mobile app, like RecipeIQ or Paprika., In addition to planning out your grocery list ahead of time, you should also set yourself a weekly or monthly budget that accounts for this shopping. Approximate as best you can how much all of your weekly ingredients will cost, and then, if you buy unplanned convenience purchases, you’ll end up going over budget. Even if it doesn’t totally eliminate your convenience purchases, you’ll be able to keep track of them more clearly and see how much they’re really costing you each month.


As a general guideline, you should use 5 to 15% of your household income on food.If you’re spending much more than that, it’s a good sign that you’re spending way too much on convenience purchases or expensive items.
 Though it may seem odd, buying an item in bulk will cost significantly less than buying the exact same item individually. For example, while you should avoid bottled water in general for ecological and budgetary considerations, you’ll end up paying much more for that water if you buy one bottle a day from the drug store or gas stations. Instead, buy a crate or case of bottled water and keep track of the difference between individual and bulk expenses.


Specialty warehouse stores, such as Costco and Sam’s Club, trade almost exclusively in bulk products. You can also get bulk quantities of certain items at general retailers, such as Target and Tescos.
 In addition to thinking about what you buy, you should also consider where you buy things. Many items, including food, drinks, toilet paper, and cleaning supplies, cost up to 60% more at the convenience store than they do at supermarkets or warehouse stores. This means that you can significantly reduce your spending on convenience purchases simply by being strategic about the kinds of shops you frequent.Bottled water and individually packaged beverages are the most profitable items for gas stations and convenience stores, so avoid those tempting coolers next time you’re paying for fuel or popping in to use the toilet.
In the same way, don’t buy health or hygiene products at the grocery store or convenience store, as the typical markup for these items in such venues is about 100%., Some of the most tempting convenience items at the grocery store are pre-prepared bakery and deli products, and they’re also some of the costliest. Limiting your exposure to these ready-made tidbits can help you reduce your convenience purchases, so do your grocery shopping by ordering through an online service rather than browsing the tempting aisles in-person.For example, order toilet paper, paper towels, and cleaning products in bulk through Amazon, and get groceries delivered from services, such as Peapod and instacart.

