 If you are starting any time between July and November, try NaNoWriMo (www.nanowrimo.org), but you could also search for some other ones.;
, Get them interested as early as possible, so they don't have any excuses for you. A challenge is always more fun when you can talk to someone about it.
 A laptop is ideal for this, because you can write wherever you go, but a desktop is fine also.
 If you have no idea what to write about, see the websites at the bottom of this page for ideas. Once you have your plot established, create characters. Again, see websites below for character-creating advice and help.
 character, setting, time, or even one event) and run with it.
 An average goal on NaNoWriMo is 50,000 words (not as hard as it looks), but for younger kids, anywhere from 20,000 to 40,000 is a good idea. Over the days/weeks, you can check your word count from the menu in the writing software.
 Don't worry about how good the writing is. Just write for the sake of writing, and hopefully have a little fun along the way! The only thing that matters at this point is getting that word count up.
 Maybe at your first thousand words, you'll get up and get a piece of chocolate. At 5,000, you'll play a game on your computer. At 10,000 you'll take the dog for a walk where YOU want to go, not him. When you finally reach your goal, throw a party!

, Don't look at, talk about, or even think about your novel for at least a month. That way, when you go back to edit it, you can have a clear conscience.
 This can be very helpful to your story and it's also so much fun to read what your friends have written!

, There are no rules other than that the story has to be very, very interesting. It can be exciting, scary, fun, funny or sad — but it must not bore the reader.
 Take your favorite novel of the type that you want to write and read it again, as if it were a how-to manual for becoming a millionaire. Then read it again, breaking the book down into sections. Outline the action on large sheets of paper that you pin to your office wall.

