 For some people, the cause of sadness is concrete and easily identifiable, like a breakup, death of a loved one, or loss of a job. For others, the cause may be more elusive and all-encompassing, like having low self-esteem or feeling lonely and isolated. If you can't seem to identify the problem, then try asking yourself an inverse version of the question: What would it take for you to feel happier?


Once you have identified what you want or what is lacking in your life, then ask yourself the following questions: Is there a tangible way to fix the problem at hand? What would you have to do in order to fix the problem and get what you want? Is what you're doing on a daily basis helping you get closer to what you want, or keeping you from it? These types of questions help you channel your negative emotions to finding constructive solutions. More importantly, they force you to take some responsibility for the way you are feeling.
If the thing you long for is intangible or impossible, like the reappearance of a dead relative, then acknowledge that fact. Remind yourself that whether you spend your days being upset or spend them being happy and moving forward, the circumstances will remain the same.;
, If you are feeling down, it is probably because you feel that there are certain things, whether they are material or not, missing in your life. But no matter how unfortunate you may think your circumstances are, you inevitably have some things to be thankful for. Make a list of those things.


Think of the people in your life that you are thankful for, from your parents to your siblings to your friends to your teachers. Take some time to remember and appreciate all of the positive experiences you have had in your past. If you are not living in poverty, then be thankful for the fact that you have enough food to eat.
If you have recently suffered a traumatic event like an accident or a divorce, then take a moment to be thankful that things didn't end up worse than they have. Though it may not seem like it, things absolutely could have been much, much, worse. Additionally, be thankful that the event, whatever it was, is over and in the past.
 Talking to a friend or family member about how you are feeling will not only serve as a form of catharsis, allowing you to get all of your feelings out there, it will also help you put your thoughts in perspective. Having an objective point of view can help you realize that maybe your understanding of your reality is somewhat skewed and unrealistic. People have a tendency to over-dramatize or exaggerate their own problems, which is how they find themselves sucked into a "sadness spiral."


You may find that some of the people in your life have struggled with the very same issues you are struggling with, which will make you feel less isolated. They may even be able to offer solutions or insights that you would never have thought of on your own.
If the issue you are dealing with is too private, or if you don't feel that you have anybody trustworthy to talk to, then write about how you are feeling in a journal. You don't have to keep the journal forever, but getting everything down on paper will help you organize your thoughts and maybe even come to a resolution of some sort.
 Having a neat, organized environment will instantly have you feeling more at ease. Fold and put away your clothes, vacuum/sweep the floor, and get rid of any excess clutter. Do this in your home, your office, and anywhere else where you spend a great deal of time.
 Put on your favorite music (making sure that it's upbeat), close your bedroom door, and dance. Though dancing may feel like the last thing you want to do right now, the combination of listening to your favorite music and getting up and moving will instantly make you feel better.
 If you spend the majority of your days doing things you don't enjoy or feel connected to in any way, then it's no wonder you're feeling down. Find time, either on the weekends or during work/school breaks, to do things you are passionate about.


These activities should be active (though not necessarily physically), engaging activities. Passive activities like watching TV or surfing the web don't count. The key is to do something that occupies 100% of your attention and forces you to be in the present moment rather than letting your mind drift off to negative thoughts.
If you don't have any enjoyable hobbies or interests, then find some. It could be an outdoor activity like golf, tennis, swimming, or hiking, an artistic activity like music, painting, or photography, or a philanthropic activity like volunteering at an animal shelter.
 Having tangible things to work toward will instantly make you feel more enthusiastic about life, and give your life a sense of purpose. Your goals can be personal, having to do with your career, education, or personal relationships, or they can be external, like striving to make a positive impact on your community.


Set both short-term and long-term goals. For example, make a list of things you need to get done today, like finishing your homework, buying groceries, or walking the dog, and check each one off as you go. This will give you a sense of accomplishment and motivation to leave the house.
If you are having trouble setting long-term goals because you don't know what you want to do with your life, then start by asking yourself what kind of legacy you want to leave behind. How do you want to be remembered by people once you are gone? What kind of impact do you want to make on the world?
Whatever your long-term goal(s) are, be sure that they are things that you genuinely care about and want, not necessarily things that your parents or people around you are pressuring you to do.
While you want your goals to be realistic, they shouldn't necessarily be easy. Easy goals won't push you past your comfort zone or make you feel accomplished or excited. Don't underestimate your own abilities by setting mediocre goals.
 If there are specific people or things in your life that are truly getting you down, then it's important to remove them as soon as possible. If your job is making you miserable, then quit. If you are in an unhappy or abusive relationship, then end it immediately.


There will always be aspects of your life that annoy or irritate you, but that doesn't necessarily mean getting rid of all of them. The key is to determine whether the benefits of having the person or thing in your life outweigh the negative. For example, school or work may be exhausting, but the benefit of being educated and able to support yourself financially are worth the hard work you put in. Similarly, the support and unconditional love you receive from your family are a fair trade for the occasional fighting and bickering.
 No matter how wonderful your life becomes, it will always seem horrible if you have horrible thoughts. Our thoughts have the power to transform the world around us for either the better or the worse. Happy people aren't necessarily the ones with the best circumstances; they are the ones with the best attitudes.


Learning to pay more attention to your thoughts is the first step toward becoming more positive. Notice when you are having excessively pessimistic or negative thoughts, and tell yourself "I'm being very negative right now." Eventually, you will learn to become your own happiness coach by reminding yourself to stop approaching things from such a negative point of view.
 Having a sedentary lifestyle is not only detrimental to your physical health, putting you at greater risk for obesity and cancer, it also negatively effects your emotional health, causing you to feel lethargic, bored, and apathetic. You should get at least 30 minutes of physical activity everyday. This doesn't mean you have to join a gym or play an organized sport. Even the simple act of walking around the mall or park for an hour is enough to do the trick.


It's especially important to conscious effort to get up and moving if you work a desk job or are a student and spend most of your time sitting at a desk studying.
Buy a pedometer to track the number of steps you take in a day. If you are walking enough, then you don't necessarily need to have formal exercise every day.
Make small lifestyle changes to fit more activity into your day. Park further away from your destination, take the stairs rather than the elevator, and do chores around the house.
 Everybody feels sad or disappointed at some point in his or her life. If you never knew what it felt like to be down, you would have no reference point to understand what it means to be happy. The important thing is to keep a balance in your life between the ups and downs, and not letting the downs spiral out of control.
 A major reason why people feel inadequate or dissatisfied with their own lives is because they constantly compare their own circumstances with those of people who seem to be better off. What's more, people tend to compare the low points of their own lives with the high points of other peoples' lives, without taking into account that even the most "fortunate" people deal with their own struggles behind closed doors.


Rather than comparing your life to people who seem to be better off then you, take a moment to compare your life to people who are suffering from poverty and disease. This will help you notice how fortunate you are, and realize that perhaps a lot of your so-called "woes" are actually quite trivial in the grand scheme of things.

