 No is written 不 and pronounced bu4. "Not" in Mandarin is very similar and is written 不是 and pronounced bu2shi4. The 4 in the pronunciation means that it is a high tone falling and should be said like a curt command in English. In Mandarin, there are five tones which determine the meaning of words. The tone determines the meaning of the word as much as the difference between the words horse and mother. For example, depending on the tone given to the word "ma" in Mandarin, it could mean mother (妈), flax (麻), horse (马), scold (骂), or a question participle (吗). Mandarin is the most spoken language in China as well as the world. There are 873 million native speakers of Chinese and 178 million second language speakers. It is an official language in China and Singapore. People in the north of the Yangtze River in China speak Mandarin along with other parts of the population, and overall, it is the native language of ⅔ of the population.
There are four types of Mandarin spoken in China with the most prominent form being the form in the capital, Beijing. The form in Beijing is considered Modern Standard Chinese or Guoyu.To say “No, thank you,” you would say bu2xie4, and it is written as 不谢. The tone 2 means that the pronunciation of bu2xie4 is a middle pitch that is rising, much like a question in English. The 4 means that it is a high tone falling and should be said like a curt command in English. An informal way to say, “No need to thank me” or “Not at all” in Mandarin is bu2yong4xie4. It is written, 不用谢.
A quote with bù in Mandarin is 不作死就不会死 or bù zuō sǐ jiù bú huì sǐ. Literally translated it means "no zuo no die" which means that if you don’t do foolish things, you won’t be in danger of the repercussions of your folly. , When using a negation in Burmese, you use the structures, ma + ___ + bu or ma + ___ + neh. The first indicates that the verb did not accomplish what it does, for example, nei ma kaing bu means you did not touch it. Nei ma kaing neh structure means that the verb must not be successful, and the translation is “you do not touch it.” To say yes in Burmese, you say ho de.Burmese is spoken in Myanmar, which was formally known as Burma, and it is located in the western part of mainland Southeast Asia.“Never” in Burmese is be daw hma. “No problem” in Burmese is pyat tha nar ma hoat ba bu.

The rounded script of written Burmese comes from the use of palm leaves as the original writing materials. Early Burmese script can be found from as early as the 11th century, and this script was a derivative of the Pāli alphabet of India and Taiwan.Burmese is a tonal language like Mandarin and has three tones, high, low, and creaky as well as a stopped and reduced tone.

