 Remember, time is of the essence, not only to address your symptoms before they become too severe (should you have Ebola), but also to prevent additional spread of the infection.If you have a fever or body aches but have not been near an Ebola outbreak region (or person who visited one), you probably don't have to worry. Likewise, if you've had such exposure risks but have no symptoms, you are unlikely to be infected. It's when both factors (symptoms and risk factors) are present that immediate action needs to be taken.
 Diagnosis via symptom is somewhat difficult, because the symptoms are general. If you're experiencing any of the symptoms described in the previous section of the article, however, and you're in an area with reported infections, it's essential that you go to the hospital immediately and have a diagnostic test performed.Depending on the facility and the amount of time since your symptoms appeared, any of the following diagnostic tests may be performed:

Antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) testing
IgM ELISA (Immunoglobulin M enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay)
Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
Virus isolation



, If you're in an area of infection and suspect that you may be infected, contact the CDC immediately to report your illness. Keeping the disease contained is essential, meaning that new infections need to be reported as quickly as possible in order to deploy resources and put efficient quarantines into place.


The CDC main phone number is 800-232-4636 (CDC-INFO).
Outside the U.S., contact the comparable health organization in that nation. Or, contact the World Health Organization (WHO) at + 41 22 791 31 11., Although some promising testing has been done,there is currently no vaccine or other "cure" for Ebola, so most of the treatment available involves addressing the specific symptoms and making the patient comfortable. Common symptom treatments include the following:Maintain your electrolytes and stay hydrated. One of the most uncomfortable symptoms of the disease is severe diarrhea and nausea, making it important that you stay hydrated and keep your electrolytes up. Sports drinks can be used for mild dehydration, but IV-drip should be used in serious cases.

Monitor your blood pressure and control it if necessary. Rising blood pressure can destabilize a patient, while dropping blood pressure may be a serious sign of infection, making it important to keep your blood pressure under control. Health care workers should therefore keep a close watch on your blood pressure.
Breathe in an oxygen-rich environment. Difficulty breathing and chest pains are common in the infected, so oxygen is typically administered to make breathing as easy as possible. If you're struggling to get your breath, talk to a health practitioner immediately and have your oxygen levels checked.
Quickly address any symptoms of infection. It's important to communicate openly with the hospital staff and let them know of any discomfort or complications so that they may address your symptoms programmatically. Infections need to be treated locally with antibiotics and addressed swiftly, so be honest about when and where you're feeling pain.
 In the end, despite the best efforts of your medical providers, there's not much to be done but to try to ride out the disease. Keep your strength up, stay hydrated, and try to get as much rest as possible.


The disease is fatal in roughly 50% of the cases,but patients in good health with strong immune systems can often pull through if swift care is provided and safe recovery practices are followed.
 Currently, there have been but a few vaccine trials that have shown promise, but scientists are working around the clock to develop effective measures to combat Ebola. Check with the CDC or WHO periodically for more information regarding potential vaccines/cures, and for up-to-date, general information about Ebola.

