 There is some debate about when exactly a puppy should be fixed.Some say when the puppy is two months old is a good time. Others say to wait until the puppy is four to six months old. In general, however, there is an age range when you can begin to think about getting your puppy desexed and that is usually after it has been weaned from its mother but before it reaches sexual maturity.There is some evidence that spaying and neutering can affect the growth of a dog, with an early spay or neuter increasing the dog's growth because it increases the length of time the bones grow. However, waiting until the dog's skeleton has matured would require a very late spay or neuter, which would create other health issues.;
, The estrous cycle in female dogs usually starts when the dog is about six months old, lasts for three to four weeks, and occurs about every six months. Having a female dog spayed before this cycle begins can have positive benefits for the dog's lifelong health.


Spaying a female puppy before her first reproductive cycle will reduce her risk of mammary tumors later in life., Telling the difference between a two month old puppy and a four month old puppy can be difficult. If you have adopted a puppy and you are not sure exactly how old it is, you can look for clues that will give you an approximation. Begin my looking at your puppy's teeth. Assess both the number and type of teeth the puppy has, as well as the condition of its teeth.


If your female puppy is going into heat, meaning that it is having an estrous cycle, then it is old enough to be spayed.
 Every dog is different and that should be taken into consideration when you decide when to get is spayed or neutered. Discuss when your veterinarian thinks it should be done and why that time is ideal.


One variable that may affect when your puppy gets fixed is if it has any medical problems. Dogs that have illnesses or ailments, and thus have compromised immune systems, may need to wait until they are well to get spayed or neutered. Spaying and neutering requires anesthesia and, while very common, is a surgery that should be taken seriously.