 Be sure to set aside a time when you will have at least one hour for some self-reflection. During this time you’ll want to focus on your habits, goals, competencies, and general performance. An hour will also give you plenty of time to review personal notes and other information that will help you write an accurate self-evaluation of your performance.
 Do not be shy about listing all of the great things that you have done.In fact, it’s okay to be proud of yourself. The main goal of this kind of self-analysis is to highlight your accomplishments. Consider all of the projects that you’ve worked on, extra duties that you were assigned, and all the ways that you have brought value to your organization. Whenever possible, use specific examples during your self-assessment.


Reviewing your emails is a good way to remember some of the things that you accomplished earlier in the year that you may otherwise forget to include.
If there is a place where your work is documented on a regular basis, such as a log or computer data entry system, you may be able to jog your memory by reviewing that documentation.
Ask yourself questions to help with your self-reflection. For example, you could ask “Did my efforts further the company’s mission?” or “In what ways did I take on leadership roles?”

, This method allows you to highlight a specific situation when you brought value to the company. This detailed approach can be used multiple times and before you know it, you will have a comprehensive list of accomplishments. Here is an outline of the STAR approach:Identify the (S)ituation: Briefly describe a situation when you felt very proud of your job performance.
Describe the (T)ask that was at hand regarding this situation. What is it that you had to do?
Describe the (A)ction that you took in order to complete the task.
Highlight the (R)esults that was achieved through your action.
 It can be tempting to only focus on your accomplishments, but it is very important to be objective during your self-analysis. Consider areas where you could be a bit more effective or times when you did not meet your goal. By reflecting on your challenges too, you can get a more accurate reflection of your actual performance.


Although you are using this opportunity to do some self-reflection, reviewing your supervisor’s feedback from recent performance evaluations could help you to get some honest feedback on your performance.
 This part of your self-analysis is your action plan and should focus on things that you can do to enhance your work performance. Make sure that the goals clearly demonstrate your commitment to providing more value to the company.

