 To give the right impression, men should have a clean, simple, well-ironed top. Having a top that fits well over the shoulders, is long enough in the sleeves and torso, and is free of stains or wrinkles is the key to success.


For a professional environment, wear a solid color suit top, long-sleeved shirt, and matching tie. Avoid a tie that is too goofy or loud and pick a subtle, simple color, or a quiet pattern.
For a business casual environment, try a khaki top, a sweater, or a well-ironed, short sleeved button-down shirt. Your tie should still be professional, but you can pick a more fun color or pattern.
For a casual environment, a well-fitting cotton shirt will do, but don't wear your favorite t-shirt.
Avoid necklaces or jewelry for any environment. This will make you look too flashy.
 The right pair of pants can go a long way in showing that you will be competent in the work force. Here are some tips:


For a professional or business casual environment, your pants should match your suit top or sweater.
Make sure your pants are well-ironed and are the right length and size. Your ankles should not peek out under your pants.
Avoid wearing jeans, even if you're dressing for a casual work environment. You can wear jeans when you're actually hired.
Avoid shorts at all costs. You'll look like you're on vacation instead of a job interview.
 Your interviewers will notice your feet and the right pair of shoes can make or break your outfit. Here are some tips:


Wear shoes that are shiny, clean, and preferably new.
Make sure your shoes match the rest of your outfit.
For a professional environment, wear shoes that are a solid color, preferably black or brown. Leather business shoes or classic loafers are the safest bet.
Have shoes appropriate to the culture. You can wear more casual wingtips to a casual interview, but avoid wearing flip flops at all costs.
Wear subtle socks. Your socks should be a solid color and preferably dark or otherwise just coordinated, matching either your pants, shoes or dress shirt. They should be high enough to cover your ankles when you sit or cross your legs.
 For men, accessories should be kept at an absolute minimum. However, the right accessories can add a nice touch to a good outfit. Here are some tips:


Wear a nice gold or silver watch. Make sure it's tasteful and not too flashy.
A solid-color leather belt with a silver buckle will tie your outfit together. Don't go without one.
A portfolio or briefcase. Even if you don't need one to give your interviewers writing samples or any other information, bringing a portfolio or briefcase will show that you're ready for work. You can skip these for a more casual interview, especially if you're interviewing for a position that won't require you to ever use a briefcase.

