 Ideally, a homecoming dress should fall at or just above the knee. Full-length gowns, while appropriate for prom, are a classic homecoming faux pas. Homecoming dresses tend towards tighter, more sleek silhouettes and cuts that allow for comfortable dancing and movement. However, a bit of tulle or ruffles is perfectly permissible as well. Straps or some form of support are recommended, and if a dress is strapless, be sure that it fits impeccably. While the dress's length and cut should be fun and sleek, remember that you won't want to be worrying about your dress when you're on the dance floor!;
, While homecoming is fun and casual, it is also traditionally in late autumn. Bright colors, tie-dye patterns, or summery florals are not the components of a perfect homecoming dress. Dark colors, whites, ivories, metallic tones, or blacks are good colors for a solid homecoming dress. As for prints, animal prints are always a fun option, or a dark, elegant brocade can also be stunning with a youthful cut. Also, fabrics with a sheen to them are a staple of homecoming attire.
 While all-over sequins may jump off of a magazine page, they might not be the best choice for a homecoming dress. If your school has a strict dress code (i.e., no sleeveless dresses) make sure that you have a shawl or shrug to cover your shoulders. Also, be sure to pair your dress with a chic coat, because chances are the night is going to be chilly. Lastly, keep the term "semi-formal" in mind. Dresses with too many runway ruffles, or other cumbersome forms of ornamentation, are not the best choice for homecoming.
 Your homecoming dress should reflect your day-to-day style and personality. Are you outgoing, brash, and flirtatious? Your perfect dress may be Animal Print, or a dazzling one-shoulder silhouette. Do you normally dress classically, with an elegant touch? A dark, shimmering brocade or floral with a sweetheart neckline and a clean hem may be your perfect dress. Are you quirky, fun and creative? Maybe some tulle, ruffles, or bows will make an appearance on your perfect dress. The girls who really stun at homecoming are the ones that can take their personal style and reflect it in the limited colors, fabrics, and cuts of a homecoming dress.
 It may take a few months to chance upon that perfect homecoming dress, so make sure you start early! An early start means that more dresses will be in stock, the stores will be less crowded, and if a store doesn't have your size in stock they can ship it in time for homecoming

, Your dress should make you feel fun without overpowering your natural beauty. It should fit very well and flatter your body type, and be secure enough to stay steady after an hour of dancing. You should feel special in your homecoming dress, and be able to walk into your school confidently and ready for fun.
 Once you have the perfect dress, try to find pieces that make it even better. If your neckline is open, maybe a statement necklace will add punch to your look, or perhaps a shimmering bracelet will add some needed sparkle. When selecting shoes, keep comfort in mind, While at many schools, heels are taken off to ease dancing in about an hour, it's still a good idea to pick a low or medium heel (i.e., anything above 2 1/2 inches is pushing it.)

, Generally, homecoming hairstyles have some hair down and some up, with gratuitous curls. However, a sleek, effortless ponytail or free-flowing waves can work wonders with certain dresses. Flip through prom magazines or photos of your school's homecoming for hairstyle ideas. Makeup should be fun, but also light and durable. A solid foundation and a glossy lip with some shimmering eye shadow, light eyeliner, and your best mascara should do the trick.

