 When you are sued, the first document you will receive regarding the case will probably be the plaintiff's complaint. The complaint is a legal document that tells you why you are being sued and why the plaintiff thinks you violated the law. It is submitted to the court and you receive a copy for yourself. In addition to the complaint, you will also receive a summons, which is a form detailing how you must respond and when you must respond. In general, you will be required to respond to the lawsuit within 30 days of being served (i.e., being given a copy of the complaint and summons).Read the complaint carefully as it will lay out the law under which you are being sued.


In a premises liability case involving a trespasser, the plaintiff will have to prove that you willfully injured them. If they cannot prove willful injury, they will have to show that you knew, or should have known, that there are frequent trespassers on your land. If you knew or should have known, you can be held liable for a trespasser's injuries caused by an unsafe condition if you created or maintained the condition, the condition was likely to cause death or serious harm, you had reason to believe that trespassers would find the condition, and you failed to exercise reasonable care to warn trespassers of the condition and its dangers.
If the trespasser is a child, you have a duty to inspect the property to find any potential dangerous conditions that might attract children, and, if there are any, you have to correct those dangers immediately. You may be liable to a child for their injuries if you knew or should have known that young children were likely to trespass in your area, that young children would not be aware of the risk, and the risks utility (benefits) are greatly outweighed by its dangers.;
, As soon as you are served with the plaintiff's lawsuit you should hire a lawyer. A lawyer will help you understand the allegations against you, prepare a defense, and argue your case in court. Without an experienced lawyer you may end up paying for injuries you never caused or for which you have an excuse. To hire a lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few questions about your legal issue, the lawyer referral service will get you in touch with a number of qualified candidates in your area.


Contact each candidate and set up initial consultations. These meetings give you an opportunity to discuss your case with each lawyer while they assess their ability to represent you. Be sure you ask each lawyer about their credentials and background defending premises liability cases in court. Also, don't forget to ask any personal questions you think will help you determine if you can trust the lawyer. Finally, be sure you understand how each lawyer's fees work and how you would be billed.
After the initial consultations, compare the candidates and hire the best choice. Choose the lawyer you feel most comfortable with and who will handle your case with professionalism and zeal.
 Once you hire a lawyer, sit down with him or her and discuss your case in detail. Show your lawyer the complaint and summons you received and discuss how to proceed. During this discussion your lawyer will ask you factual questions about how the case came to be. For example, you should be prepared to tell your lawyer when the incident occurred and what your story is. The lawyer will be listening and trying to determine whether you may have a defense to liability. Your possible defenses to premises liability will generally fall into one of the following categories:


Procedural defenses, which occur when the plaintiff makes a mistake in filing their case. Some of these defenses can be fixed by the plaintiff while others will result in the permanent dismissal of the case. For example, if the statute of limitations (i.e., the time limit within which an alleged victim must bring a lawsuit) has passed, you will not be able to be held liable, even if you did fail to protect your property adequately.
Elemental defenses, which occur when you can show the court that the plaintiff cannot prove one or more elements of premises liability. For example, if you can prove that there are not frequent trespassers in your area or that you did not know and should not have known of any possible dangers on your property, you could use this fact as a defense to liability because these are elements the plaintiff must prove.
 When you and your lawyer have a defense strategy, you will draft an answer to the complaint that was served on you. An answer tells the plaintiff and court what defenses you will raise and why you should not be found liable for the condition of your property.Your answer should also specifically admit or deny every allegation made in the complaint.Some defenses must be raised at this stage of the litigation or you will be deemed to have waived them. If you forget to raise these defenses, you will not be able to claim them at a later stage. For example, you will usually have to raise procedural defenses at this stage of the litigation. If you do not, the plaintiff will be able to proceed as if no procedural defect existed.
 In addition to defenses, your answer might include cross-complaints if you believe you have a cause of action against the plaintiff. For example, you might sue the plaintiff for trespass. Any cross-complaint you make must concern the same events that brought rise to the original lawsuit.For example, if you are being sued for premises liability, you can not make a cross-complaint alleging the plaintiff committed medical malpractice.
 When your answer has been drafted, file it with the clerk of courts at the same court where the plaintiff filed the original complaint. Be sure you file your answer within the allotted time stated on the summons (usually 30 days). If you try to file after the allotted time, your answer may be denied and the plaintiff may win the lawsuit by default. When you go to the courthouse to file, be sure you bring at least two copies of your answer, as well as the original. One of these copies will be served on the plaintiff and the other will be yours to keep.


Before your answer will be stamped "filed", most states will require you to pay a filing fee. These fees will vary depending on your location and what you are filing. For example, in New Jersey, the filing fee is $175 when you file your answer. If you are also filing a cross-complaint, you will be assessed an additional $75 fee on top of the $175.If you cannot afford the filing fee, you can ask the court for a waiver. To be successful, you will have to show that you do not have the income to pay the fee without it causing a hardship.
 After your answer has been stamped "filed", you will have to serve a copy on the defendant. When you serve the plaintiff, you will hire a third party to give the plaintiff your answer either in person or through the mail. The server can be anyone over the age of 18 who is not connected in any way to the litigation. If service is successfully completed, the server will complete a proof of service form and return it to you. That form must then be filed with the court to prove you served the plaintiff.


If the server cannot find the plaintiff, you will have to ask the court to waive the service requirement or ask to have it completed in another way (e.g., through publication)., During discovery, you and the plaintiff will exchange information in order to prepare for trial. You will be able to interview witnesses, collect documents, find out what the plaintiff is going to say at trial, and figure out how strong your case is. In order to achieve the goals of discovery, you will need to use at least one of the following tools available to you:Informal discovery, which involves interviewing witnesses, gathering publicly available documents, and taking photographs.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to the plaintiff or other witnesses. These questions must be answered under oath and can be used in court.
Depositions, which are in-person interviews with the plaintiff or other witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are formal requests to the plaintiff asking for documents not otherwise publicly available. Examples of documents you might ask for include, emails, text messages, and phone records.
Requests for admissions, which require to the plaintiff to admit or deny a specific statement.
 As soon as discovery concludes, you should consider filing a motion for summary judgment if you think you have a strong case. When you file a motion for summary judgment, you are asking the court to rule in your favor immediately and end the litigation. To be successful, you must persuade the court that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that you are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, you must prove that, even if the judge made every factual assumption in the plaintiff's favor, he or she would still lose. You can prove this be submitting affidavits and evidence.Your motion for summary judgment may attempt to end the entire litigation or just a portion of it.
 If your entire case is not disposed of with your motion for summary judgment, you might consider trying to settle with the plaintiff. After this point, if your case goes to trial, you will incur large legal fees and will have a large time commitment. Sit down with the plaintiff and discuss what your issues are and how they can be resolved. If you and the plaintiff cannot come to an agreement, you might try the following:


Mediation, which involves having a neutral third party come in and discuss options with each party. The third party will try to help you settle but he or she will not take sides or voice opinions.
Arbitration, which involves having a third party come in and act as a judge. The arbitrator will hear each side's case and then take a side and give his or her opinions about who should pay who.
 Where no settlement is reached, you will have to attend one or more final pretrial hearings in order to set the trial schedule. At these meetings, you and the plaintiff will sit down with the judge and discuss what needs to be decided at trial. The judge will then put together a trial order as well as a trial road map. These documents will set out exactly what the trial will look like.


It is important to raise every issue you want to have heard at trial during these conferences. If you do not, the judge may not include time for that particular issue in the road map and you will not be allowed to talk about it during trial., When your trial begins, you will make an opening statement to the court after the plaintiff does. You might also be able to choose to wait until you present your case to make your opening statement. During your opening statement you should give the court a road map of your case and tell it why you will ultimately win. Do not introduce specific pieces of evidence here and do not make it too long.


For example, you might simply tell the court that during the trial you will prove that you maintained your property in accordance with the law. Tell the court that you will introduce evidence that will prove this.
 The plaintiff will get to present his or her case before you. After the plaintiff questions each witness, you will be given a chance to cross-examine them. During cross-examination, your goal is to poke holes in the witness's testimony by making the witness look dishonest or biased. For example, if the plaintiff testifies that he or she wasn't trespassing, but during a deposition the plaintiff stated that they were trespassing, you will want to bring this up in court., After the plaintiff has presented their case and rested, you will be able to present your case. To do so, you will call witnesses to the stand and offer evidence through them. Evidence can be in the form of witness testimony and physical evidence. When you are presenting your case, only evidence that complies with the local rules of evidence will be allowed. Therefore, it is important that you understand those rules. Every court will usually have these rules available on their website.


After you question each witness, the plaintiff will have an opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses. Be sure you prepare your witnesses to handle these cross-examinations by coaching them about questions they might encounter., When you have rested and presented your case, the plaintiff will offer a closing argument. When the plaintiff finishes, you will have an opportunity to deliver your closing argument. The closing argument should tie the entire trial together and highlight all of the important parts. Tell the court why you have proved your defenses and why you should not be found liable. Also, consider discussing why the plaintiff did not prove their case.
 After the trial is complete, the fact-finder (i.e., judge or jury) will have an opportunity to deliberate and consider the evidence they heard. Once the fact-finder comes to a conclusion about your case, they will announce their verdict in court. If you win, you will be found not liable for the condition of your premises and you will not owe any money in damages. If you lose, the court will require you to pay a certain sum to the plaintiff. If you do not agree with the verdict, you may be able to appeal the decision to a higher court.