 Towels (terrycloth), fleece, felt, and wool fabrics produce lint. Lint fibers can become attached to your corduroy, making the garment dingy and dull. Separate clothes made with any of these fabrics into their own laundry load. Do not wash corduroy with such materials., The dye in corduroy fabric can run, so it is important to wash dark colored items with like colors, or by themselves. Separate your laundry by color., If you stuff too many clothes into your washing machine, you run the risk of crushing and damaging your corduroy. To best protect your fabric, keep your laundry loads to small or medium-sized., Some corduroy clothing items may have specific instructions. For instance, some items may be dry clean only. Before washing your garment, be sure to read over any fabric care instructions, and follow them accordingly., In order to protect your garment from damage during washing, completely zip and/or button the garment. Don't forget any buttons on collars and cuffs., To further protect your garment from damage, turn your garment inside out before washing. The helps to prevent snags, and also helps reduce fading., Before starting your load, select the gentlest cycle available on your washing machine. This may be called "delicate," "gentle," or in some cases "permanent press.", If you have the option on your washing machine, select a shorter spin cycle. Sometimes this can be accomplished by choosing a shorter wash cycle (or "quick wash").If your machine has one, select the "reduced crease" setting.
 The dye in corduroy fabric (even light colors) can run and fade a bit faster than other types of fabric. In order to protect your garments and slow down this fading process, wash your corduroy clothing in cold water., If you have a top loading washing machine, start the wash cycle and add your detergent before adding your clothes to the washing machine. If you have a front loading washer, simply add a bit of water to your detergent before pouring it into the washing machine. This helps to dilute the detergent in water, which reduces the risk of detergent stains on your clothes. Be sure to add the appropriate amount of detergent for the size of your laundry load.Any standard laundry detergent is fine as long as you use the proper amount.
Add 2-3 Tablespoons of salt to dark-color loads to reduce the effects of fading and color-bleeding.
 Once you've selected right settings, added your detergent (and salt, if needed) it is time to add your clothes. Remember not to overfill your machine with clothing, as this can crush your corduroy., The best way to prevent damage to your corduroy clothes is to avoid putting them in the dryer. Instead, hang your clothing outside on a clothesline, or place them on hangers from your shower curtain rod.If you are not able to hang your clothes, you can dry them on the low-heat setting.

