 Although being in the sun can result in peeling skin, that does not equate to sun kissed, more like sun burnt. Thus, the first thing you need to do is to prepare your skin well so that it looks glowing, natural and dewy.;
, Check that the label reads non-comedogenic (won't clog pores) and hypoallergenic (won't cause a reaction). For best results, you can use an Olay scrubbing brush or a Clarisonic brush. The Clarisonic brush is more expensive and both of them have the relatively the same performance.
 To get dewy skin use moisturiser daily, twice a day.
 For bright eyes put in eye drops to make you appear bright and awake.
 For a bright happy aura, you also need a bright and big smile. Of course, take care of your teeth and whiten periodically when needed. Practice a genuine smile in the mirror; for the most genuine smile, try laughing.
 For smooth flawless skin, use acne strips on problem areas. Application/ directions are on package.
 A luminous foundation will reflect light onto any blemishes and make them appear larger.
 On your nose, forehead, and chin, swipe on a tinted moisturiser. Spread it out evenly across your face.
 Apply a gel bronzer on your cheek bones and blend it in with two fingers in a downward motion.
 Apply a peach or coral colored light blush. Base the color you choose based off of your undertones- warm, cool or neutral. Use a color that has an orange or red-pink base. No matter what, do not go overboard with your blush. If you are naturally flushed, don't use blush. The less makeup, the better.
 Apply a few coats of black or brown mascara and tightline your waterline with black on top and a lighter color on your bottom waterline is optional. Whatever works for you.
 Keep your brows well groomed. Next, apply a primer to your lids and a light base color. On top of that, add a eyeshadow based on your eye color. No colors too bold. Different colors work differently but for reference copper goes with green eyes, bronze/rose gold for blue eyes, and gold for brown eyes.
 Or for a touch of color put on a peach or light coral gloss. Try to find a sheer pale pink that matches your skins natural lip color. Do not make it evident that you are wearing any lip color- just a bit of color or shine to enhance your natural lip color. If you are to choose a tinted color, than be sure that it is definitely not lighter than your natural lip color and not anything much darker resulting in a flamboyant or faux lip color. Although that new Oxblood lipstick just came out, that is a statement color on it's own that controls your look. This look will appear overdone if you are wearing a bold color and a different color theme on the rest of your face. This look is naturally beautiful to enhance your features and appear fresh and sun kissed.
