 Using a sharp knife, cut the eggplant into 1/3-inch (8.5-mm) thick coins or slices.


It's a good idea to rinse the eggplant under cool, running water before slicing it. If you don't clean it, surface contamination can get onto the knife and onto the flesh of the eggplant.
You may also peel the skin of the eggplant using a standard vegetable peeler, but doing so is not necessary.
 Fill a large saucepan with water and bring it to a boil over medium-high heat. Cook the eggplant in the boiling water for four minutes.Begin timing as soon as you place the eggplant in the boiling water. Do not wait for the water to begin boiling again if it slows down.
You only need to blanch the eggplant; do not cook it completely. Blanching the eggplant destroys enzymes that could otherwise ruin the flavor and texture of the vegetable while it sits in your freezer.
 Use a slotted spoon to immediately transfer the blanched eggplant to a large bowl of ice water. Allow the eggplant to sit in the ice water for five minutes, or until it feels cold to the touch.


Rapidly cooling the eggplant can prevent it from overcooking.
After cooling the eggplant, drain the ice water and pat the slices dry with clean paper towels.
 Transfer the eggplant slices to a large, freezer-safe plastic bag. Remove as much air as possible from the bag before sealing it.


To prolong the lifespan of the eggplant, consider using vacuum-sealed bags instead of ordinary plastic bags.
If you want to prevent the eggplant from sticking together as it freezes, you'll need to wrap each slice in a small sheet of plastic wrap before placing all of the slices into the same bag.
 Place the bag of eggplant slices in your freezer. Defrost and use the eggplant within six to nine months.


If you vacuum-seal the bags and store them in a deep freeze, the eggplant may last as long as 14 months.
The freezing process will rupture some of the cell walls, causing the eggplant to become notably softer. This shouldn't be much of a problem if you plan to use the vegetable in a dish calling for tender eggplant, though.

