 If your main parachute is malfunctioning or has become tangled, it's important that you can break away from it before deploying your reserve or else the reserve parachute may become tangled. To get in the breakaway position, spread your legs to reduce your velocity and keep your head up with your back arched.Being in the wrong position could get you entangled in your main chute.
You must break away at a minimum of 1,600 feet to allow you enough time to fully deploy your reserve.;
, Make sure to take the time to look down at the lever that you're pulling. The release is typically found on the right-hand side, but you should talk to your skydiving instructor before you jump. Grab onto the handle with both hands and prepare to pull. The breakaway handle will look like a cloth loop on the strap of your parachute pack.
 Once you pull the breakaway handle, throw it away. Keep your eyes on the reserve handle. When falling at incredible speeds in a high-stress situation you are more prone to becoming nervous or confused. Keep your concentration on the thing you must do next. The breakaway handle will release your main parachute so that your reserve does not become entangled.


You do not have to pull the breakaway handle if your main parachute did not deploy. Just pull your reserve ripcord.
 With both hands, pull the reserve ripcord and deploy your secondary chute. The reserve ripcord can usually be found on your left-hand side. The reserve static line lanyard is a system that should automatically deploy your secondary shoot if you detach from your main parachute, but should not be relied on in the case of a malfunction.The reserve will be on the other side of your breakaway handle and will usually be either a red cloth loop or loop made of metal., Look up to make sure that your reserve has successfully deployed and prepare to land. You'll have less time to prepare for your landing because you're using your reserve, so execution is crucial. To assume the landing position, point your feet to the ground with your heels up, and try to absorb the shock from landing with your legs. Use the steering cables to your left and right to guide you. Find a suitable place to land, like an empty field. Avoid cliffs or other dangerous objects like power lines.To move to the left, simply pull the left cable. To move to the right, pull the right cable.