 If the person wakes up, then check for the following symptoms: amnesia, headache, confusion, lightheadedness, drowsiness, or a rapid heartbeat. Also, check to see if they have the ability to move all of their body parts.Ask them, “How do you feel?” “Can you wiggle your toes and move your fingers?” and “Do you feel any pain or discomfort in your chest?”
If the person is unresponsive, then check for a loss of bladder or bowel control, i.e., incontinence. If incontinence is present, then call 911.
Unconsciousness is caused by major illness or injury, substance or alcohol use, or choking on an object. Brief unconsciousness, or fainting is caused by dehydration, low blood sugar, temporary low blood pressure, or even serious heart or nervous system problems., If the person wakes up, you will need to determine how alert they are. Do this by asking them simple questions such as, “What is your name?” “What is the date?” and “How old are you?”If the person is unable to answer the questions or provides the wrong answers, then this means that a change in mental status has occurred. You will need to call 911 or a doctor immediately.
If you witness the person fainting—collapsing with a brief period of unconsciousness—and exhibiting a change in mental status, the person has chest pain or discomfort, is experiencing pounding or irregular heartbeat, cannot move their extremities, or has vision problems, then seek emergency medical help., If the person is unresponsive, place one hand on their forehead and tilt their head back gently. Their mouth should slightly open reflexively. At the same time, place your other hand on their chin and lift it. Move your head close to the person’s mouth to see if you can feel their breath on your face or hear them breathing.Also examine their chest area to see if it is moving up and down to determine if they are breathing.
If they are not breathing, then you will need to perform CPR and call 911.
If you witnessed the person choking on something, then perform abdominal thrusts, also known as the Heimlich Maneuver.