 Are friends important to be around at this time? Do you find yourself on the internet a lot? Are you someone who goes to the library to study in a quiet environment? Are your parents around to assist you or prefer to ask for teachers' help?;
, Any educational/academic studies must come first, then extra curriculum activities, and then social life. Friends will want to hang out with you on the weekends, but they will understand if you explain to them that you need to study or catch up on school work.
 This will greatly help you to remind you when things need to be done by. Next, sort extra curricular activities. Any activity dealing with school should be placed before the After School ones. Then, input non-educational events, such as babysitting, jobs around the house, etc, with team events, such as sports, coming first. Finally, treat yourself to a computer game or time with friends.
 Don't go overboard on one subject and forget that you have several others to catch up on before going to bed. Also, don't rush through studying; take your time and concentrate. You may want to set an alarm clock so when it rings, go to another subject, and reset the alarm.
 If you have more or less sleep than you should have, you may start lacking in your schoolwork and become lazy because of the urge or want to sleep.
 You'll be more refreshed, alert, and relaxed as you start the day. Night showers are sometimes "missed" if you have your face covered in books and realize that it's time to go to sleep.
 It's always a positive action to get your parents involved. When this is not possible, ask your teachers for advice.
 If you are babysitting or doing jobs around the house, compromise on set days and times that go around your school life. If you cannot commit to your studies because of football practice, then you must take action. When something gets in the way, you need to drop it, even if it's temporarily.
 Just because you're short of time doesn't mean you should live on junk food. Try to get your fruits and vegetables everyday. Remember to exercise at least 30 minutes a day. Doing these things will support mental, physical and emotional function.
