 A good binder can make the difference. If your breasts aren't large, a well-fitting binder could flatten your chest so much that people would think you just can't be a female.


If you don't have a binder yet, you could try some temporary solutions. Each has its own advantages and flaws: Ace bandages should never be used, because the health effects are too risky. Lycra tights (With the legs cut off and a cut in the middle, to be worn alike to a sports bra.) are cheap and available, however they rarely last for more than a couple of days. A sports bra with high Lycra content (Title 9 has a good one branded as "Frog bra".) can do if you have small breasts, but it could never completely bind them as a binder does, and will have less effect on larger breasts.;
, If men's Small size is clearly too big for you, avoid it. It will only emphasize your tiny measure and make you look frail. In that case, however, go to the children section and pick carefully for items for boys in your size, usually European 10-16 should do. Try to pick carefully and avoid anything that is clearly aimed for children: Nothing that has childish prints or has words like "Youth" and "Kids" on it. Button-ups, dark T-shirts that aren't tight, hoodies and etc. can be good for you.
 A button-down shirt over a T-Shirt, a loose T-Shirt over a tighter one, etc. This can make you appear flatter.
, Many Emo/Scene boys are short and slender, and appear somewhat feminine or androgynous, so it will only seem reasonable on you. Also, since Emo is identified with teenagers, it could explain why you don't have face hair yet/have such a slender body/Such gentle face. This could work well especially if you live in a place where Emo/Scene is rather common and popular.
 If your feet are small, you'll have a problem finding good shoes. You can try the children section, or stick to unisex brands—Vans, Converse All Stars, Doc Martens (Docs could also add about an inch to your height) etc. Try to stick to solid or masculine models and avoid strange colours. Unisex shoes are healthier to your feet rather than children shoes. Take that in count.
 This is a little difficult because it demands a constant awareness, at least until it becomes a habit. Try to get yourself used to speak in a lower key (Think Contra-Alt). You might not be able to reach low enough to sound exactly as a biological male, but the closer you achieve, the better it is.
 Men tend to catch more space than woman. Sit with your legs parted. Don't cross your legs but prefer square-cross.
 It is a rather girlish move that will emphasize how narrow your waist is.
 Not only it is a feminine mannerism, it will also attract attention to the feminine structure of your face.
 This, of course, does not catch when it comes to your partner. Also, try small talk. Men do not tend to share intimate information with people they aren't close to, while girls tend to open up rather quickly.
 Avoid a marines cut or anything too short, because it could emphasize the feminine structure of your face. Avoid bangs, or prefer emo-ish side-swept ones. Square off your sideburns (Those little bits of hair in front of your ears)- This is a girlish feature. Alternatively, keep your hair long and in a loose ponytail- This could mostly work if your face is rather androgynous/masculine.
 Consider shaving it off, but first check out how shaving effects your skin. For some people it can make hair grow darker, which might be good or bad for you, depending on your own feeling. Try to shave a small portion of body hair somewhere else where its similarly light and soft, and check out if it suits you or not.

