 You can only use the Internet on your PSP if its firmware version is 2.0 or later.


Push the "Home" button on your PSP and select "Settings." The "Home" button is located on the front of your PSP in the bottom left corner.
Select "System Information" and verify that the system software version is shown as 2.0 or later.;
,


Press the "Home" button on the front of your PSP, then select the "Settings" icon resembling a suitcase.
Select the "Network Settings" icon that resembles a globe with a small wrench in its upper-right corner, then press the "X" button on your PSP.
Choose "Infrastructure Mode" from the options provided, then press the "X" button to proceed.
Select "New Connection," then verify that the "Scan" option is highlighted on the following screen.
Press the right directional button on your PSP and wait for your PSP to scan for available wireless networks in your area. When your PSP has finished scanning for networks, you will be presented with a list of networks in your area that you can connect to.
Highlight the name of the wireless connection, or access point, that you want to connect to, then press the "X" button. You will also be provided with the network security details and signal strength of each access point.



Verify that "SSID" is highlighted on the screen of your PSP, then press the right arrow button on your directional pad to continue. If you want to edit the name of the Service Set Identifier (SSID), press the "X" button and enter your preferred SSID name.
Choose the type of security you will be using on the following screen, then press the right directional arrow to proceed. If you are unsure of the security type to use, you will be required to consult with the administrator for that specific wireless access point.
Enter the network password into the field entitled "WPA Key," then press the right arrow button on your keypad to continue.
Verify that "Easy" is highlighted on the Address Settings screen, then press the right directional button.
Type in a name for your connection or accept the default connection name, then press the right arrow button to review your connection settings.



Push the right arrow on your directional keypad after you have reviewed your connection settings, then press the "X" button on your PSP to accept and save your settings.
Test your Internet connection by pressing the "X" button once more, then scroll down to verify the status of the connection, which will display as "Succeeded."

,


Push the "Menu" button located in the bottom left corner on the front of your PSP to access the main menu.
Select "PlayStation Network" to browse your gaming and download options, or select "Network" to access the Internet browser.

