 As sufferers of Crohn's disease are prone to inflammation of the intestines and diarrhea, it is better to limit your consumption of dairy products - especially if you are lactose intolerant.


This is due to the fact that lactose found in dairy products is not easily digested by the intestines causing stomach pain, inflammation and diarrhea.
Examples of dairy products include: butter, milk, yogurt, and cheese.;
, It is not advisable to eat foods that are rich in fat. This is due to the fact that most foods that contain fat are harder to digest.


Fat will just pass through the intestines without being digested, thereby worsening inflammation and diarrhea. That is why you need to cut down foods that are high in fat and stick to a low-fat diet.
Examples of low-fat foods include: low-fat yogurt, cereals, oats, lean meat, tuna, lean beef, chicken meat without skin, white fish, cottage cheese, egg whites, dried beans, lentils, and boiled potatoes.
 In most people, following a high-fiber diet is good for overall health, however eating a lot of fiber-rich food is not advisable for people with Crohn's disease. This is due to the fact that high fiber foods can induce bloating, making diarrhea worse. Try to eat small meals and include a small amount of soluble fiber with every meal, such a serving of vegetables or fruit with a lean protein source and a small amount of brown rice.


Some sufferers will tolerate some high-fiber foods better than others, so it's a good idea to observe which foods are causing your symptoms and to adjust your diet accordingly.
Avoid foods that are labeled "high-fiber."

, Since bloating is a symptom of Crohn’s disease, it is better to avoid foods which increase your body's production of gas as these types of food can aggravate your bloating.


Excess gas can irritate the inflamed intestine causing more abdominal pain and bloating. Examples of gas-forming foods to be avoided are: cabbage, broccoli, beans, alcoholic drinks, and soda.
 Small meals are more easily digested than larger ones. Therefore, eating smaller meals can reduce the chances of acid rebound.


The stomach usually produces large amounts of gastric acid when large amounts of food are eaten. This will then result in increased gastric irritation within one to three hours of eating due to the remaining gastric acid in the stomach.
 It is important to avoid dehydration, especially when experiencing diarrhea. Severe dehydration is dangerous, so replacing lost fluids and electrolytes is very important.


Drinking water is essential for your overall health and bodily functions. It is recommended that you drink water in between meals to avoid dehydration.
Drinking 8 to 12 glasses per day is recommended.

