 The best place to find an edible bug is a dark, damp spot like the underside of a fallen tree or rocks on the edge of a stream. While it requires a bit of trial and error, this is by far the easiest way to capture insects and arachnids for food. As long as you move quickly, you can catch plenty of edible insects, including:


crickets
pillbugs
larva
dragon and damselflies
beetles
termites
ants
centipedes.;
, Termites are the second-most eaten insect in the world, and for good reason. They are naturally defenseless, plentiful, and nutritious. They are also easy to find, making their home in any dead wood and eating until there is nothing left. Turn over logs and fallen trees and harvest as many of the small white bugs as you can.


In the drier climates of Africa and Asia, termites often form enormous mounds that are easy to break open and harvest., This is especially helpful when catching bugs over water, or low-flying bugs like butterflies and moths. Once you've surrounded the bug, you can close the two sticks together to trap the insect. For a bigger net, tie your shirt between the two poles, then sweep it across the surface of the water to round up the insects and grab them tightly.Moths, butterflies, and dragonflies are all viable sources of protein.
 If you run across an ant mound, you've hit the jackpot. Take a thin, straight stick and stab it into the top of the mound. You'll quickly notice the ants swarming around it, climbing and covering it after a few minutes. Once it's covered to your liking, removed the stick and wipe the ants off into a container.


The only ants to avoid are the bright red fire ants. The rest are edible, though most people find them sour and unpleasant when they are uncooked., Crickets, grasshoppers, moths, and butterflies are all much easier to catch if you can stun them first. A young tree sapling with a bushy, leafy top acts like a large flyswatter, knocking bugs out of the air and temporarily stunning them. Cut down a young tree or a long branch with a wide, leafy top, then use it in an open field or meadow to trap the insects before they can fly off., There is little reason to dig into an insect mound by hand, as it is dangerous and impractical. Instead, stab deeply into the mound and upturn it, causing the bugs to scatter. Any long, reasonably thick branch will work. Once you've cleared a space, you can quickly reach in and snag the precious food inside. You should also dig into damp, loose soil underneath fallen trees and use your stick to break apart rotting wood.


White and plump larva or maggots are nutritious, if unappealing, insects that will hardly move when disturbed. Search them out in damp soil or rotting wood.
 Both of these big arachnids are delicacies across the world and taste a bit like crab. The biggest hurdle when catching them is avoiding a sting, so use a long, thin stick or skewer to get them from a distance. Be sure to remove the stinger before eating and cooking.In general, you want to avoid any smaller arachnids, like spiders or scorpions, unless you have no other options. They have minimal nutritional value and are more likely to contain toxins.
 An old Japanese tradition, smoking out hives is difficult but rewarding. You can use a big, smoky fire to remove the dangerous adults and get to the larva inside. Build a normal fire, then create a lot of smoke with young or fresh wood, leaves, or branches and place it directly under the hive. After 1-2 hours, once you no longer see wasps entering and existing, remove the hive to harvest the rich larva inside.Adult bees and wasps are edible raw or cooked as well, as long as you remove the stingers first.
 Most bugs are edible, and even more are easily eaten when cooked properly. In the wilderness, however, it is better to be safe than sorry. Since there are so many insects available, it should not be difficult to avoid the following:


Disease-carrying bugs like ticks, mosquitoes, or flies.
Brightly colored bugs, specifically red, yellow, or orange insects.
Hairy or furry bugs, with the exception of tarantulas and bees.
Foul-smelling insects.
Bugs found near foul-smelling waters or animal carcasses, with the exception of maggots.