 Much like with digging straight down, you can choose where the entrance to your cave starts. It’s good to pick somewhere that is easy for you to find and is either connected to your base or close by. That way you can avoid getting lost and you have easy access to your base when you’re returning from mining the cave once you’ve found one.


When you’re digging down diagonally, you’re essentially creating a staircase that goes straight into the cave. For this reason, it’s a good idea not to create the entrance inside your base without blocking it off, or adding some kind of barrier since enemies would be able to follow you back up from the cave.
 Like with digging straight down, it’s most important that you just focus on the tools needed to get you to the cave, not the tools you’ll need once you’re in the cave. This is because it’s much easier to return to your base to restock on supplies. These are the most essential tools to bring when looking for a cave in this fashion.


Pickaxes: Most of the blocks in between you and the cave you’re looking for are going to be stone, so you’re going to need one very durable pickax at the least.
Torches: While this method can sometimes provide more light than digging straight down, you’re still going to be underground, and torches are still going to be extremely useful.
Shovel: You’ll most likely encounter a lot of dirt blocks and a lot of gravel blocks, which can be tedious to move out of the way by hand. Though a shovel isn’t required, bringing one could save you a lot of time.
Food: Digging out steps into the ground is a lot more time consuming than just digging a hole, so you might want to bring some food to help keep your fullness meter up.
 Like with any aspect of Minecraft, there are a lot of personal preferences involved in how you want to dig. If you tend to get claustrophobic while playing, for instance, you may want to make your staircase more than a single block wide and make the ceiling above each of your steps higher. There is no wrong way to do it, but here are a few things to keep in mind.


You need to have at least three blocks of blank space above each of your steps in order to be able to get up and down the stairs smoothly.
The wider your staircase is, the more time it’s going to take to dig out, but the easier it’s going to be to find, and the more ground you’ll cover. You should weigh those thoughts before deciding what you’re comfortable with.
If you’re building any structures where you’ll be using a lot of cobblestone, a wider staircase will help you collect more of it to work with.
If you’re hoping to find a cave more quickly, a single block staircase is going to get you to one the fastest, and might be a better option for you.
If you’re unsure of how wide you’d like your staircase, you can always start small and then expand later if you find yourself wanting more space, or wanting your entrance to be easier to find.
Signs are also a great way to mark your stairs so you don’t lose them from inside the cave and are a faster alternative to making a wide, easily visible staircase.
 If you have to dig down any length of time before you find a cave or anything of interest, it can get tedious, but you need to pay attention for the following things:


Music: When you’re near a cave, there’s ominous music that will play. If you hear the music before finding a cave, it might mean that you’re right next to a cave and should start heading in that direction.
Water/lava: You can hear both running water and lava when you’re close enough to them. If you hear the sound of rushing water, it would be a good idea to mine in that direction. If you hear the sound of lava, it probably does mean there’s a cave nearby, but you should exercise more caution when mining in that direction to avoid actually touching any lava.
Monsters: Monsters such as skeletons and zombies will make noises that you’ll be able to hear through a couple blocks, so if you hear them, digging in their direction will most likely lead you to a cave, but prepare yourself for combat before heading in that direction.
 This is the most effective method for cave finding. If you reach bedrock, and still have not located a cave, there are a number of options of where to go from there.


When you hit the bedrock, you can ascend until you’re 10–12 blocks above that and keep mining. 10–12 blocks above bedrock is where things like diamonds and gold naturally spawn, and they’re most commonly found at the bottom level of the biggest caves, so this is a good place to continue your search at.
You can always start this process over, digging yourself another staircase from a different starting point.
Another option would be to continue forward, and dig yourself a staircase that goes up, the opposite direction from the way you came in.
If you’re tired of digging, you can always resurface and try to find an exposed cave entrance.

