 Wire transfers are quick and secure, but different banks often have slightly different procedures required to execute them. Contact your bank to find out what their procedure is and how much they charge for wire transfers.


Make sure to ask about the fees associated with the wire transfer.
Ask what specific information your bank requires to execute a wire transfer.
 A wire transfer can be one of the more expensive options when transferring money between bank accounts. Make sure you have enough money in the sending account to cover the transfer as well as the cost associated with executing it, otherwise your account may be overdrawn and you may incur additional fees.Expect to pay around $25 to transfer money to another bank account domestically.
Transferring money to an international account will likely cost more than $40.
Recipient accounts sometimes also charge a fee to receive a wire transfer. These fees usually range from $8 to $10.
 Some banks allow you to complete the wire transfer form online or over the phone, but you may also choose to fill one out in person at a branch location. Your wire transfer form will require the sending and receiving accounts and routing numbers as well as the amount you intend to transfer.You can find the account and routing numbers on a check. The routing number is on the bottom left, and the account number is on the right.
Ensure you have these numbers written clearly and accurately otherwise the money will not be transferred to the right account.
 Depending on how you complete a wire transfer, different forms of identification may be required to verify your identity. If you complete the form online, your log in information may be sufficient. When completing a wire transfer over the phone, you may be asked a few questions to verify your identity such as your date of birth and social security number. In person, you can simply provide a photo ID.Be prepared to offer proof of your identity that is appropriate for the method you are using to complete the wire transfer form.
Some banks may ask you to establish a pin or code word to use over the phone. You will need to provide that as well as your personal information.
 Wire transfers are often extremely quick and can post to the new account within just a few hours. Be aware that the time of day you request the transfer can affect how quickly it posts to another account, as they may not be processed over the weekend.International wire transfers can take up to a few days to post, whereas domestic ones often post the same day.
If the money does not post within a day, contact the sending bank to ensure there were no issues.

