 When doing household chores or cleaning, put on a pair of latex or heavy plastic gloves. The corrosive elements in cleaners can eat away at your nail beds and wearing gloves prevents any possible damage., The chemicals in many antibacterial sprays, furniture polishes, and cleaning wipes can irritate your skin and nails. When shopping for cleaning products, choose natural or non-irritating formulas. Avoid products with ammonia, hydrochloric acid, sodium hypochlorite, or lye., If you find yourself biting or tearing at your nails, then this is a likely cause of at least some of the damage. Make a decision to end these behaviors and follow through by coating your nails in an unpleasant taste, such as lemon juice. There are also nail polishes that are designed to dissuade you from biting.Nail biting can happen in your sleep. To prevent this, put socks or mittens on your hands before you go to bed.
If you feel as if your nail biting is crossing the line into a compulsion, talk with a mental health professional.
 Look for biotin pills or multivitamins in the health or medical areas of most stores. Taken daily these pills will start to strengthen your nail beds. This is a slow process, but will result in nails that can withstand rougher treatment without breaking or tearing. Expect to take biotin for at least 4-6 months., Make sure that your diet contains many foods with the vitamins A, B, C, and E. These vitamins will help to build up your nails and cuticles. Foods, such as olive oil and eggs, or a good multivitamin can give you these nutrients. Also, make sure to drink at least eight glasses of water a day to prevent dehydration and brittle nail beds an dry cuticles., The main ingredient in most nail polish removers, acetone, can easily eat through your nail beds if not used properly. Only apply the minimum amount needed when removing your polish and place the remover on a cotton swab, not directly on your nail., If your nails are damaged, then it is a good idea to go to a professional for any polishing or new nail applications. Tell the technician about the problems that you’ve been having and ask for their treatment suggestions. If offered, go for hand massage as well as it will increase blood flow to the area and stimulate healing.A hand and nail massage with coconut oil, or any oil, is even better as it moisturizes the nail bed.
 New nail growth takes anywhere from 3-6 months. So, expect to wait that long until you see clear improvements with your nails. Resist the urge to speed up the process by trying out aggressive treatments, as they may cause more harm than good.