 Positive reinforcement via encouragement and a healthy amount of treats can help teach your cat to do certain things. While this approach only indirectly addresses specific negative behaviors, positively reinforcing good behavior will encourage your cat to spend their time doing things it knows will lead to affection and rewards.Stated simply: when your cat is doing something you want it to repeat, reward them.
Initially, food treats will work best as rewards.;
, It will working against your training regimen to give your cat treats haphazardly. Save treats only for when you want the cat to repeat the behavior it literally just performed.


For instance, you may like it when your cat meows and rubs up against you. However, you may not want to reward this behavior, as the cat will learn that the behavior leads to treats and before you know it, it’ll be rubbing up on you and meowing nonstop.
 You must provide a reward within seconds of the behavior you’re trying to reinforce in order for your cat to associate the behavior with your positive reinforcement. For instance, if she jumps onto the couch and sits on your lap without licking anything, give her a treat as soon as she sits down.Use verbal reinforcement while giving treats. Scratch your cats head and tell them they’re wonderful when you’re forking over the goods.
 Use the same kind of reward to reinforce a behavior you want repeated, and provide it the same way. Either placing a treat on the ground or letting your cat take it from your hand will work, just go the same route every time. If you live with others, make sure they’re on board with your training regimen and will either comply or refrain from giving treats at all., While using food treats, know that they will be especially effective when your cat is hungry. You can likely even teach your cat to do certain things – such as come to you – using treats right before meal time.Once it seems your cat associates a certain behavior with a treat, stop providing them as consistently.
Wean them off by reducing the frequency of food treats. For instance, simply skip a food treat, then go back to food treats the next few times you observe the positive behavior you’re hoping to reinforce.
After a while, only provide food treats on the rare occasion your cat is being especially well-behaved.
 Continue using positive reinforcement by saying things like “now that’s a good cat” and “you’re the finest feline in the whole entire world.” Aside from verbal praise, a good scratch on the chin or belly, or a loving cuddle sends the message you’re happy with your cat. Alternatively, throw their favorite toy across the room to excite your cat., Not only is it hurtful to your cat, being abusive is simply less effective than positive reinforcement. Especially if you respond negatively after the fact, yelling, hitting, or shaking won’t teach your cat anything. In fact, abusive treatment will likely lead to more bad behavior – including incessant licking – from your cat because they will be more fearful and insecure.