 Add 1 egg white and ⅛ teaspoon (½ g) cream of tartar to the bowl of a stand mixer with the whisk attachment in place. Whip the mixture on medium until stiff peaks form, which should take approximately 1 to 2 minutes. Set the mixture aside.It’s best to use a stand mixer to make the nougat center filling for the pecan log roll. A handheld electric mixer may not be strong enough for the heavy texture of the candy.
To separate the egg white, crack an egg against a flat surface, such as a countertop or table. Pry the halves apart over a bowl, and let the yolk fall into the lower half. Move the yolk back and forth between the shell halves while allowing the white to drip out into the bowl below. When you’ve let all the white drip out, set the yolk aside for use in another recipe and add the white to your stand mixer bowl.;
, Add ¼ cup (75 g) of light corn syrup, ¼ cup (59 ml) of water, and 1 ¼ cups (284 g) of sugar to a medium saucepan with a heavy bottom. Place the pan on the stove, and heat the mixture on medium, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon until the sugar dissolves, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.Make sure to stir the mixture gently to avoid splashing it against the sides of the saucepan.
 After the sugar has dissolved, place a lid on the pan. Allow the mixture to cook on medium for another 3 to 4 minutes while covered. This will create condensation to wash away any sugar crystals that may have gotten stuck to the sides of the pan., Remove the lid after the corn syrup has cooked for another few minutes. Raise the heat to medium-high to bring the mixture to a boil, and heat the pan until the mixture reaches 255 degrees Fahrenheit (123 degrees Celsius) on a candy thermometer.For best results, use a candy thermometer with a metal clamp that secures it to the side of your pan.
If you don’t have a candy thermometer, you can use the cold water test. Place a drop of the syrup in a glass of cold water. Remove it from the water after several seconds -- it should form a firm but pliable ball., When the syrup has reached the right temperature, turn the stand mixer with the whipped egg mixture still inside to medium-high. Slowly pour the hot syrup into the bowl to mix them. The egg whites will double in volume.Be careful when you’re pouring the syrup into the egg whites. The mixture will be extremely hot, and can easily burn your skin.
 Once you’ve mixed the syrup into the egg whites, add 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Turn the mixer’s speed to high, and continue beating the mixture until it becomes dull and has a rough texture. That may take between 10 and 20 minutes., Use wax paper or parchment paper to line a 9-inch by 5-inch (23-cm by 13-cm) loaf pan. Lightly grease the paper with butter to keep the nougat from sticking to it.You can use a butter-flavored nonstick cooking spray in place of the butter if you prefer.
 Use a spatula to pour the nougat out of the stand mixer bowl and into the prepared baking dish. Smooth it gently, and then allow the nougat to set for 3 to 5 minutes or until it’s cool enough to handle comfortably.To keep the nougat from sticking to the spatula, grease it lightly with a small amount of butter.
 Once the nougat is cool enough to handle, use a knife to separate it into six equal pieces. Lift each piece from the baking dish and roll into a log that’s approximately 5-inches (13-cm) long.You can make the smaller or larger logs depending on how many you’d like. Customize the size to suit your needs.
 After you’ve rolled all of the nougat pieces into logs, wrap each one individually in wax or parchment paper. Place them back in the baking dish, and chill in the freezer for approximately 30 minutes or until the logs are firm.You can freeze the nougat overnight if you want to get some of the work done ahead of time.
 Add 1 12-ounce (340 g) package of caramels and 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of milk to a medium saucepan. Heat the pan on medium, stirring the mixture regularly until the caramels are completely melted and smooth.You can substitute half-and-half for milk if you prefer.
When the caramel has melted, you can lower the heat to medium-low or low. You don’t want it to burn, but it sets quickly so it’s important to keep it warm.
 Once the caramel is melted, pour 2 cups (250 g) of chopped pecans into a shallow dish, such as a pie plate. Spread them in an even layer so you can easily roll the logs in the nuts.If you prefer, you can leave the pecans in whole pieces rather than chopping them.
 When you’re ready to coat the logs, use a pair of tongs to place them one at a time into the warm caramel. Turn the logs over in the pan to ensure that they’re well coated on all sides.If you don’t have tongs, you can use a wooden spoon or fork to dip and turn the logs over in the caramel.
 Right after you’ve dipped the logs in the caramel, roll them one by one through the pecans. You may want to roll them a second time to ensure that they’re fully covered., When the nougat logs are coated in the caramel and pecans, set them down on a cookie sheet that’s been lined with wax or parchment paper. Refrigerate the logs for 30 minutes to help set the caramel.If you like, you can slice the chilled logs and wrap in foil for individual servings.
Store the logs in the refrigerator for up to a week.

