 One of the biggest mistakes that a stepparent can make is to rush in and try to create a family out of all of the moving parts in this puzzle. That whirlwind from dating couple to married couple to family may work in the movies but in real life there are a lot of things to consider.


After all, these are some very serious changes for a child and they can be a little much to take. By letting the child set the pace you honor his emotions which may change from day to day and can be difficult for him to sort out.
Remember, you are not “replacing” a parent. Whether there was a divorce or a death, that child has two parents- and a stepparent. Respect that.;
, The child may still be working through issues related to the end of the marriage- there are all of the stages of grief for him to get through no matter how that marriage ended.


You are a new person- the child is still evaluating how he feels about you. These feelings may change from day to day so there will be good and bad days ahead.
You must be the adult here and accept that it will not always be a perfectly smooth process. By pushing the child, you are telling him that the focus is on you, that his feelings or his real parents do not really matter. Is this really the message you intend to send?

, A young child may be more open to a relationship with you but is also more likely to be confused by the entire situation.


For a young child, remember to minimize upheavals in schedules and routines as much as possible. Again, look to the child for cuing here- ask the child what he likes to do or what he would like to do. maybe he would like to stay with traditions and maybe he would like to try something new. Let him guide you.
Do not put too much thought into being called “mommy” or “daddy” on one day and then something else the next. Young children have been known to call their teachers mommy so, it is a matter of title confusion and not an accurate assessment of their feelings.
 An older child may be more hesitant to connect out of a sense of loyalty to the “other” parent. There may be anger and animosity from the child toward the parent that “left” because in his mind, the family was abandoned. All of these possibilities can hinder the relationship and can make some situations needlessly tense.


For an older child, be aware that you may not know how much or how little real information the child has been given. You also do not know what information the spouse has been letting slip in front of that child.
Do not feel like it is your job to “set things straight” because the truth is, you may not know the whole story about the end of the marriage. Even if you do know the full story you still do not need to “correct” the child’s narrative about it.
 While a divorce can be hard to understand and accept for a child, the death of a parent is even more devastating. It can be hard for a child of any age to allow themselves to have feelings for someone without feeling like they are betraying the memories of the parent they have lost.


There are conflicting emotions at play here and grief counseling may be needed so that the child can process the situation and then start working toward healing.
The need for understanding and reassurance is vitally important here. It is equally important to understand that the child may lash out at their parent because he or she is moving on “too quickly”.
Family counseling may also be beneficial so that a counselor can help the child understand that you are not the enemy or that you did not cause the parent to die.
 As you slowly start building a relationship with the child it might be natural to want to give him affection. Again, look for cues and signs that your child is ready for this or is comfortable in your attempts.


The child may be withholding signs of affection in an attempt to remain loyal to his parent or he may be a less physically demonstrative child. Respect these boundaries.
It is also important to remember that in the case of some divorces parents may still be battling behind the scenes so any affection could be used against you or the parent as a way to discredit you or make you out to be a “bad guy”.
 What a child calls you will depend on preferences and customs as well as what the child is comfortable with.


Do not expect the child to be okay with calling you mommy or daddy right off the bat. You may need to find some type of compromise.
One family used a pet name that the child came up with. Upon being introduced to his stepmother the small boy asked if he could call her “Mimsie”.
 Only the parents are to discipline the child, especially in the early days, according to the experts at the Stepfamily Foundation of Alberta (which provides information about easing the transition with stepchildren).


This is one of the cardinal rules and is without a doubt the one that should be heeded most stringently The goal that you have is to build a relationship with the child and then parental duties can be assigned to you more and more as the relationship builds.
But until that happens, stay out of the punishment business.
 One of the most important things to remember here is that you are all part of a team - part of a family unit. This includes the other spouse so if you cannot work together, there is always going to be a problem.


If you cannot be civil during custody exchanges then excuse yourself from the room or do not go with your spouse when the children are retrieved or returned.
Being an adult means the ability to get past insecurities and jealousies and being able to act like a decent, mature person.
 Do not speak ill of the other spouse when the child is in the house. Even if you think you are speaking privately you may be louder than you think or the child could be snooping.


It may seem unreal to you, but the other parent could ask the child to listen and see what is being said about them. If you have to speak about the other spouse then remain civil and wait for the child to be completely out of the home.
This applies for when you need to speak to your spouse about the child. Do not assume that just because you are behind a closed door that they cannot hear you. They will listen and then go back to report what has been said.
 If you are moving in to the home that the family once occupied you are likely going to hear plenty of comments, especially if you start changing anything around.


This is especially true if you are going to be living in a house where the spouse has passed away and the child will be a full time resident. In this case you might be better off asking the child for input on changes to the home- and expecting less than enthusiastic responses.
Do not underestimate the need for privacy especially for a teenager. If the teen will have a room or space in your home part time, they need to feel confident that no one is touching or looking through their things while they are not there.
 When a couple gets a divorce there is often a question about the family home. The kids may be afraid they will have to move far away from friends and a school they are used to. Staying in the family home is a relief until the parent who is living there finds someone new and that person moves into the space.


Now for the kids there is not only a “stepparent” to deal with, it is a stepparent in the family home. Everything that you do in this home could be seen as critical to the spouse that no longer lives there. You want to paint and that may cause a battle. Taking down a picture or putting up a new one could be seen as a full act of war.
But, being the stepparent in a new home is not necessarily any easier. The child does not have an established space in the new home and may feel like they are not being welcomed into this new home. It is important to help ease the child into the home first and then work on bridging the gap between you second.
 Blending households is never an easy thing- you have your things and they have their things and when you add children into the mix it can get even more confusing and frustrating.


To make space for everything consider having the kids help you to consolidate things and then help you decide what to do with the things that no one needs any longer. Perhaps a family yard sale would be something that you could all do as a group?
You could also take the extra things to be donated to groups that help the needy. Let the child see that you are basically a good person and maybe they will start to believe it for themselves.
 If you are going to be increasing your family it is important that you are open and upfront about this with your stepchildren. It is important for them to know that they are not being pushed out or replaced.


This added stress can change the dynamics of the growing family and may even set you back to square one. All of the ground you had gained with the stepchild may be undone because they have new worries and concerns to deal with.
Try to minimize the disruption that the new baby might cause. Avoid just sticking the baby into the child’s room and do not assume that you can just give him the child’s clothes or toys. This may also cause animosity between your spouse and the former spouse for a number of reasons.
Again, family counseling may be a viable suggestion and should include all members of this extended family including the former spouse.

