 Do this by tapping the Flipboard icon on the home screen, or from the application drawer of your device.;
, Once open, you will be taken to a gorgeous welcome screen. Swipe up to get an interactive list of topics to follow. To follow a topic, simply tap it to mark it as followed, and scroll down to find more topics that interest you.


You can also use the search bar at the top to type a topic, and the results will show themselves at the bottom. Tap the search results to follow them and press “OK” when done.
Flipboard takes your chosen topics and uses them to compose a list of content depending on which topics you’ve chosen.
 Once you have finished selecting five or more topics, hit “Next” at the upper right corner. Flipboard requires you to choose at least 5 topics, but there are no limits to the maximum you can choose. You will be instructed to sign up with either your Google account (registered on the phone), Facebook account (if you use the Facebook app, those credentials will be used), or manually by entering an email address at the bottom. Select an option.


Signing in with Google or Facebook will use the saved login details of the respective accounts. Give permission to Flipboard to use the account by tapping “OK” in the bottom right corner of the window that appears.






After this, Flipboard will begin loading your news.
 Highlights aggregate the newest and most popular posts related to your chosen topics. Tapping on the home icon in the upper left corner will take you to the Highlights Flipboard. Scrolling down (on a phone) or swiping from right to left (on tablets) will scroll through headlines of stories, while tapping on them will display the full article. Swiping up or sideways will turn the pages on multi-page articles.
 When you like an article you are reading, tap the heart icon in the upper right corner to add it to your liked articles on Flipboard. Depending on your connected social media accounts, Flipboard can share your liked articles on those accounts.


When you tap the heart icon, a pop-up may appear, asking if you would like Flipboard to share the article over a particular social media account. You can tap “Share” to share, or you can tap “Cancel.”
If you wish to enable sharing likes on Flipboard, tap on the Account icon at the rightmost of the icon row at the top of your screen. Tap the Gear icon to view the Settings menu, and scroll down to see Accounts. Tap the account with which you wish to share Flipboard like, and tap on the “Share likes” checkbox to enable it.
 Do this by tapping on the speech bubble icon beside the like icon in the top right corner. You can type a comment in the text field below, then press “Send” to post the comment on the site where the article is hosted.
 You can save an article by tapping the + button at the upper right, beside the comment button. You will then be able to sort the article into a category of your choosing. You can choose from existing magazines you created, Picks, Read Later, or New. Just tap on your selection, and the article will be saved there.
 A box will appear asking you to input the Title of your magazine, as well a description (optional).
 When you’re done, tap “Create” at the upper right corner of the box.
 A pop-up will appear asking you if you want to collaborate with other people in making the magazine. If you tap on “Yes,” a list of applications will appear. Choose an application you want to use to invite collaborators, like sending an email with Gmail or any other application that can give links to the magazine. Invited collaborators must also have Flipboard installed on their device.


If you don’t want to collaborate, just tap on “Maybe Later.” You can edit the magazine later under the Accounts menu.
Once you have created your own magazine, you can access it under the Accounts tab (the right most icon on the main header, next to the bell).
 Press the Back button until you reach the Highlights page again. Swipe to the right (on both tablets and phones) to access the Categories menu. There are four tabs in this menu: All, People, Topics, and Accounts.


Under the All tab, you will see the different categories of news and stories collected by Flipboard. Tap on a category of your choice to view stories from a variety of sources.
 Tap the People tab, and tap on the button that says “Find People to Follow” if you want to follow people on Flipboard. When you follow people, you will be able to view the magazines they have created.


You will be able to choose between Staff Picks, people who Flipboard suggest that you follow, and people from Facebook, Twitter, and Google Plus. All their feed will go to the People tab under the Categories screen.






Unfollow people by tapping on the person under the People tab. Then, tap on the checkmark at the upper right corner on the next screen to unfollow them.
 Press back until you reach the Categories screen again. Tap the Topics tab, and you will see the topics you have selected for your Flipboard. Tap “Find More topics to Follow,” and the same selection menu will appear as when you first created your Flipboard. Select topics by tapping on them.


You can unfollow topics by tapping on them under the Topics tab, and then tapping the checkmark in the upper right corner on the next screen.
 Press Back until you reach the Categories menu again. Tap on the Accounts tab, and you will be able to choose social media accounts to use with Flipboard. Once an account is linked, you can use Flipboard to view its feeds by tapping the account or share content using the “Share” button.
 Tap the magnifying glass icon next to the Categories icon. This will show you a search bar where you can type in topics, people, websites, and others, which you can then follow on Flipboard.
 Once a result for your search is displayed, tap on the result, and then tap on the follow icon in the upper right corner to add it to your Flipboard feed. Now, all the posts from that site or source will appear among the Highlights in your Flipboard, as well as being individually viewable in the People or Topics category (depending on what you searched and followed).
 Tap on the bell icon next to the search icon at the top of Flipboard. Below, you will see Notifications under the “Shared with you” header, which alert you of things your friends have shared with you.
 Tap the “View all shared with you” button right below the “Shared with you” header. This will open a list of pages shared with you by your friends.
 If you want to open the page shared with you by your friend, just tap on it, and the full article of the page will open.
 Press the Back button on your device until you reach the main screen. On the top most row of icons, tap on the last icon to the right, beside the bell icon. This should show you your account name, as well as the magazines you have made using the Save feature. Here, you can tap on each magazine, and modify its contents.
 Tap a magazine to open it then tap on the menu button on your device, or the menu icon on the lower left corner to open options regarding that magazine. You will then be able to choose options for modifying the magazine, like deleting, editing, posting it on social media, and changing the layout density.


You can also share the magazine by tapping on the share icon at the upper right of the magazine you selected. Tap on the share option of your choice: email or posting to a social media.
 Tap on the gear icon at the upper right corner. You will then see the Settings options, such as Edit Profile, Sign Out, and various configuration options, such as Text Size and Push Notifications.


Editing Profile—Here you can edit your full name and username. You can also add something about yourself (150 characters) in the Bio field. Tap the “More Settings” link below Bio to access the menu where you can change password, change email, and delete account.
Text Size—This option allows you to set the text size of the articles: small, normal, large, and extra large.
Push Notifications—Here you can set which notifications you want to receive by tapping on the checkbox. By default, all options are checked.
Sign Out—If you don’t sign out of Flipboard when you’re finished with your session, every time you launch the app, your account will be opened. For security purposes, it is best to always sign out once you’re done using the app.

