 The more people you can round up, the better. Ghosts in the Graveyard is a game that works best with at least three players. 








You can add or subtract players as you continue to play as well. If someone wants to join in, just wait until the next round. Likewise, if someone wants to leave, that’s ok too.
Try to play with at least three people. More people will make the rounds last longer and can be more fun.;
, Pick a few houses, yards, or another area in the neighborhood for the boundaries. You will also need a home base at which everyone can run to when the ghost is found.









Make sure that all players understand the boundaries of the game. You can even make the rule that if a player goes outside the boundaries that player is eliminated for a round.
Your designated safe spot is where the players run to when the ghost is found. It can be a large tree, front stoop, back patio, etc. Try to designate a spot that everyone can physically touch or stand on.
 You can do this any way you like: picking a number, asking for a volunteer, or rock, paper, scissors, etc.









If you want to pick a ghost the old fashioned way, you can have everyone form a circle with both of each player’s feet. Then one person says a rhyme while tapping one foot for each word. Each time the rhyme ends that player removes a foot. The rhyme is repeated until there is one foot left. That person is the ghost.
The rhyme could be: “Bubble Gum, bubble gum in a dish. How many pieces do you wish?” Then whoever’s foot is touched says a number. The leader counts out that number and then says “…and you are out.”
After the first round, the next ghost is determined by the losing player. This is the player who was last to reach the safe zone. It can also be the first person if you wish.
 Everyone but the ghost stands at the home base while the ghost runs off to hide somewhere outside.









The ghost must hide somewhere within the designated boundaries. The ghost cannot hide inside anywhere.
The ghost should go and hide somewhere that’s not close to the base. Finding a spot that’s further away and hidden will allow the ghost to have a better chance at tagging a player.
 Chant slowly as a group, “One o’clock… two o’clock… three o’clock..." and so on, up to twelve o'clock. Then shout, "Midnight! I hope I don't see the ghost tonight!"









Alternatively, you can all count to 50 and then chant “Starlight, star bright, I hope to see a ghost tonight!” Depending on how large the playing area and how many places there are to hide, you want to give the ghost a good amount of time.
 The ghost's job is to jump out, surprise, and tag a player.









When anyone encounters the ghost that player should yell, “Ghost in the graveyard!" and try to run away. When the ghost catches someone, the new person becomes the only ghost.
If the ghost doesn’t catch anyone, then the last player to reach the base is the new ghost.

