 Exercise has innumerable benefits and lowering your heart rate is chief among them. In the moment, exercise will raise your heart rate; however, over the long-term, consistent aerobic exercise can lower your resting heart rate. You can exercise in any way that you are familiar with and reap these benefits. Try exercising for at least 30 minutes per day.If you find it hard to find time to exercise because you get busy during the day, try setting aside time early in the morning before you start any other activities.
If you find it hard to set 30 minutes or more at time aside for exercising, you can even exercise in two 15 minute blocks at different times during the day and still benefit.
 A lower resting heart rate is attained when the heart is strong. Aerobic exercise provides cardiovascular conditioning, decreasing the risk of heart disease, lowering blood pressure, and increasing high-density lipoprotein (HDL) or "good cholesterol.”Good aerobic exercises include:


Running
Swimming
Walking
Cycling
Dancing
Jumping jacks

, Moderate and vigorous exercise have been shown to lower your resting heart rate.You can try a variety of exercises, but make sure they pass the talk/sing test to ensure that they are at the right level of activity: if you can’t talk while exercising, you are working too hard, but if you can sing while exercising, you aren’t working hard enough., Determining your target heart rate allows you to aim for a certain heart rate range during exercise. This allows you to push your heart to get stronger without dangerously overworking it.First, you must estimate your maximal heart rate by subtracting your age from 220. This is the maximum number of times your heart should beat per minute while exercising.
Then calculate your target heart rate: moderate exercise should lead to 50 to 70 percent of your maximum heart rate; vigorous exercise should lead to 70 to 85 percent of your maximum heart rate.
For example, if you are 45 years old, your maximal heart rate is 175 (220 - 45 = 175). Your target heart rate should be about 105 (60% of 175 = 105) for moderate exercise and 140 (80% of 175 = 140) for vigorous exercise.
 Before exercise, take your pulse first, either in your wrist or neck, counting for a full minute with a wrist watch. Then after exercise or during cooling down, take your pulse again.


Taking your pulse at regular intervals lets you know whether you are exercising within your target heart range.
You can also wear a heart rate monitor or a fitness device (possibly even your smartphone) that will monitor and record your heart rate.

