 Disney regulates that in general, adults can't wear Disney-related costumes to the park; the only exception to this during Halloween is if they're attending Mickey's Halloween Party.. If the guest is nine years or younger, they can go in a Disney costume.
 While Halloween only comes once a year on the calendar, Disney doesn't feel the same way. They set up their Halloween season from the middle of September to the first week of November.
 Book everything you'll need, including airline tickets, hotel and restaurant reservations, Fast Pass tickets, and special tickets to the different Disney Park events.
 At Walt Disney World, these attractions are primarily focused around the Magic Kingdom, although others have other smaller attractions. Epcot may have their own pumpkins exhibit, but this exhibit is less well known and so fewer people might look at these.


If you're visiting Disneyland in California, only the Disneyland Park has Halloween events. California Adventure doesn't have any Halloween-inspired events or attractions
Know which of the parks have their Halloween nighttime parades. The Magic Kingdom has their own special parade that differs from that shown during most of the remainder of the year, which Disney calls Boo to You Halloween Parade. But look out for a Disney-inspired "spooky" phantom visitor whos a main person to draw a crowd in at all parade times during these nights/season.
If you are a nocturnal person, realize that the fireworks to some of the parks change with this season. Wishes (Walt Disney World in FL) changes along with the fireworks in Disneyland, California.
 Queues tend to be a little long during certain times of the Halloween season, but are shorter when you compare them with the queues during the summer!

, This special ticket isn't included in the cost of your park ticket and must be purchased separately. You can purchase these at the Walt Disney World Ticketing and Guest Services locations, over the phone (at 407-939-5277) or from Disney's Website at disneyworld.disney.go.com/events-tours/magic-kingdom/mickeys-not-so-scary-halloween-party/. Tickets can be mailed to you, printed out on a printer or can be picked up later at the Magic Kingdom Will Call window.


This special Halloween party doesn't happen every day of the season. The event days are generally planned each year throughout September, October, and even early November. According to the 2013 and 2014 dates, there are about 20 dates that this party is generally planned each year, so plan accordingly.
Plan on leaving the park at 7pm Eastern Time (before this time) if you aren't ticketed for the event. For those guests, expect to see a few Disney employees holding up a sign with letters that spell out "See Ya" (or See Ya Soon) on items that look like candy corn. All other non-ticketed park guests have to leave before the fun begins. The employees do make a second trip around to escort any remaining guests who haven't paid the separate admission fee out of the park, or who didn't realize that this event was a separate ticket event about 15 minutes into the party., This will give you a head start on researching where you want to start first, so you don't end up wishing you hadn't gotten there first when the remainder of the visitors wander in.
 This Halloween-inspired parade is shown to anyone willing for a fun but spooky time. Although weather has an impact sometimes, most times this parade will happen at about 7 PM. There is an alternate viewing time for people who remain after the first version of Wishes. Look on your guide map for the parade route, however, often this parade will step off from a Frontierland gate and end in Main Street USA about 25 minutes later.


Be careful of Main Street USA. This is an extremely populated area in which spectators look for the Halloween parade, so don't be late! Also, try to avoid spots near Cinderella's Castle if you are planning to get there no earlier than 5 minutes before the parade begins (people start lining up at spots along the parade route well before the parade arrives, as if the parade can be in two places at once; but you can plan accordingly with this knowledge of the parade.)
Look for HalloWishes, Disney Parks' Halloween version of the Wishes Fireworks extravaganza. Although your events list will tell you when, the first airing of HalloWishes usually happens at about 9 PM. Since the fireworks can be seen over top of Cinderella Castle, look for a spot near the Castle. Be prepared to pay a price if seen from the bridge of the train station looking towards the Castle, as employees will push you away from sitting or standing anywhere close to it.
 Trick or treating can be done by both adults and children. Candy and other goodies can be found at multiple locations including at the turnstiles, which is the only place where you can find Halloween-colored Marshmallow Peeps and the Enchanted Tiki Room for "Craisins," and Pinocchio's Village Haus is the only location for Werther's Caramels.




If you have specific dietary restrictions, candy can be switched at City Hall for dairy-free, egg-free, gluten free, nut-free or sugar-free candies including bat suckers, butterscotch buttons, chocolate pumpkins and Jelly Belly treats.An almost complete list of these places can be found on the specialty guide map you'll get when you ask a park employee at the time.
Disney's candy stations are constantly refilled throughout the party, so never expect to run into problems of not finding a certain candy at the station of your choice!


Watch the Disney Villains Mix and Mingle stage show near Cinderella Castle at 8:30 PM, but don't get your hopes up to have a villain sign their autographs..
There is a second showing of this later in the night, but most people will want to attend the first showing.
Dance or twerk with Mike and Sulley at the Monstrous Scream-O-Ween Ball on the Rockettower Plaza Stage in Tomorrowland.Dance at Woody's Happy Harvest Roundup inside Liberty Square's Diamond Horseshoe Saloon. It takes place between 7 PM and midnight on nights when there are no HalloWishes nighttime spectaculars.Look to spot and interact with the ghost-like storyteller who sits in front of The Haunted Mansion every evening.

