 These traps are basically wooden boxes with a door in the front for the rabbit to enter. Live traps can be used to humanely capture and then release rabbits.You will need a trigger in the middle of the trap to close the door once the rabbit nudges it. The trigger is usually a wooden peg with a wire or string that you attach to the front door. Wooden traps, even when made with plywood, can be somewhat heavy to move, though.
Place the bait to the back of the box as a lure to coax the rabbit into the trap. The rabbit should bump the trigger as it tries to reach the bait. Wooden traps are easy to build if you test the trigger a few times. They also are not very expensive.
 These traps are made of heavy wire mesh or gauge wire, and they might have a steel frame. You can find them at some pet or hardware stores or online.


Such traps usually have a single entry, where they are open at one end, or even a double entry, where both ends open, and they collapse for easier storage or moving. They work the same way as wooden traps. The rabbit is enticed into the trap with bait, and a trigger causes the door to close.
These traps are lighter in weight and more open. The animal doesn’t realize it’s being confined as much as it would with a wooden trap, so mesh traps can be more effective. Rabbit traps are usually 24"x7"x7" and 24"x8"x8". You don’t want to make it too big or you could catch other animals.
 Remember that rabbits usually live in areas with good cover. This means you will find them in brush piles, in fence rows, and in briar patches.


Rabbits also like low-cut bluegrass. You should place the rabbit trap along trails that rabbits have already made in these areas. Rabbits are likely to use the same trails as they have in the past.
Put the trap right in the pathway. You could also put the trap in front of a hole in the ground or in front of a brush pile, if you know that these are being used as rabbit dens. You could also place a trap in an area where you see rabbit droppings.
 In a trap with a single door, put the bait at the end. In a trap with two doors, put the bait in the center of the trap.


You want to position the bait, so you lure most of the rabbit’s body into the trap. This should set off the door trigger by engaging the metal plate in the trap.
Wear gloves when you bait your trap so that you don’t leave a trace of human scent in the trap. This will stop rabbits from coming into it. Put a brick on top of the trap so the animal won’t knock it over.

