 Use compounds that contain milk and water as a basis.;
, Encourage her to wash her face with a facial wash in the morning when she wakes up and in the evening before she sleeps in order to feel fresh and clean and to prevent acne. Tell her to use water that is comfortably warm and to lather foam all over her face. Remind her to rinse well and drying her face gently with a towel (pat do not rub).
 If her skin is oily, the toner is the perfect solution to balance oils on her skin. Tell her to wash her face and dry it before using the toner. Also, tell her to get a tissue and wet it with some drops, then wipe her face.
 Moisturizing creams makes the skin pure and soft and gives it radiance and vitality and protects it from drying out. Get her a moisturizing cream from the drugstore.
 If she's got acne, get her a mild soap made for people with acne. Also, use an acne cream. Also, tell her to put some toothpaste on the pimple, leave it, and rinse. Tell her not to pop pimples or it will become bigger, more red, and itchy! If the situation does not improve, consult a dermatologist.
 Tell her to exfoliate her skin once a week to remove the build up of dead skin cells. She can make her own natural exfoliator. Lemon juice, sugar, and salt will do it. If she has a sensitive skin, sugar and olive oil are the solution. Search for other recipes on the internet or buy a mild exfoliator. Make sure it's very gentle.
 Masks have many benefits. Brighten your skin. Treats acne. Very relaxing. Inexpensive. You can make your own mask at home! Mashed avocados, yoghurt, honey, everything in the kitchen! Look for homemade face masks on the internet.
 Dark circles shouldn't appear at this age. If it appears, you probably do not get enough sleep. Start treatment before they worsen. Sleep early and don't forget to open the windows for good ventilation. Also, put frozen cucumber slices/ice cubes on your eyes everyday until it gradually disappear.
 Tell her she can use it a minimalistic at concerts or parties for example. Buy her a set to have fun including lip gloss and nail polish.


Tell her that she has inner beauty and make-up only makes her look elegant when she goes out with her friends.
If she wants to use makeup, get her children's make-up. Children's make-up is safe, easy to use, and it's all natural. It's especially made for children.

