 Cut the lid and flaps off of an egg carton first. Next, cut off six cups from the carton. Cut them apart so that you have six separate cups.You will connect the cups with string. This will allow the caterpillar to wiggle.
Neaten up the edges of the cups with a pair of scissors. The caterpillar will wiggle more if they are rounded and don't have corners.
 You can paint all of them the same color, or different colors. If you want to make a "very hungry" caterpillar, paint one cup red, and the rest green. Let the paint dry before moving on.Acrylic paint, tempera paint, or poster paint will work the best.
 Use scissors or a pencil to poke a hole in the first cup along one of the four top edges. Do the same thing for the second cup. The holes need to be about ¼ to ½ inch (0.5 to 1 centimeter) down from the edge. These will make the head and tail of the caterpillar.Young children may need and adult's help for this step.
If you made a "very hungry" caterpillar, use a red cup and a green cup for this step.
Make sure that the holes match up. They should be in the center of the edge.
 This time, poke the holes straight across from each other. You will need one hole on the left side edge, and another hole for the right side edge. These will make the body pf the caterpillar.Make sure that the holes are aligned.
 Cut a piece of string that's longer than all six cups put together. Tie a knot at one end, then thread it through a yarn needle. Take one of your single-hole cups, and push the needle through it.Make sure that the needle comes out on the outside.
If the knot falls out of the hole, tie a bead around the end of the string instead.
 Thread the two-hole cups onto the string. Finish off with the other single-hole cup. Tie another knot at the end of the string.If you have any string left over, cut it off.
 Flip the caterpillar over so that you can see the bottoms of the cups. Choose an end to be the head. Use a pair of sharp scissors or a pencil to poke two holes in the top of the head.If you made a "very hungry" caterpillar, the red end is the head.
 Flip the caterpillar over so that you can see the inside. Poke each end of the cut pipe cleaner through a hole. Flip the caterpillar back over, then twist the ends of the pipe cleaner together. Spread open the pipe cleaner to make a V. Save the other half of the pipe cleaner for another project.If the antenna are still too long, cut them down with scissors.
 Draw a face onto the head, just below the antenna. Use a pencil to curl the antenna, or glue pompoms to the tips. Here are some more ways to decorate the caterpillar:

Glue a pompom to the top of each cup.
Glue on googly eyes instead of drawing them.
Paint spots or stripes onto the caterpillar.
Draw on some eyelashes, eyebrows, or a silly tongue.

