 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.


Make sure your device is connected to Wi-Fi or a mobile network and "Airplane Mode" is disabled. Siri requires Internet access to function.;
, It's in the same section as the "General" and "Battery" menus.
 It will turn green.


Turn on Access When Locked to use Siri when your phone is in locked mode.
Turn on Allow "Hey Siri" to access Siri by simply speaking "Hey Siri" into your device.
 It's in the last section of the menu.
 Do so by tapping the language you prefer to speak.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's in the last section of the menu.
 Doing so tells Siri what information belongs to you.


Siri uses contact information to call you by name and to execute commands like sending emails.
If you haven't created a contact card for yourself, open the Contacts app from the home screen, tap +, enter your information, and tap Done.
 It's the round button on the face of your device, below the screen. You're now able to use Siri on your device.
 It's the black, apple-shaped icon in the upper-left of your screen.
 It's in the second section of the drop-down menu.
 It's in the lower-left part of the menu.
 It's in the left pane of the dialog box.
 It's at the top of the right pane of the dialog box.
 Do so by clicking on the language you prefer to speak in the drop-down menu.
 It's at the bottom of the right pane of the dialog box.
 Do so by clicking on the red dot in the upper-left corner. Siri is now enabled on your Mac.
 It's a brown icon with the silhouette of a person and colored tabs along the right side.
 Siri uses contact information to call you by name and to execute commands like sending emails.


If you haven't created a contact card for yourself, click on +, enter your information, and click on Done.
 It's in the menu bar at the top of the screen.
 It's near the middle of the screen. Siri will now "know" who you are.
 Do so by pressing and holding the Home button until you see the words, "What can I help you with?" on your screen or by saying, "Hey Siri", if you've enabled the voice activation function.


On Mac, click on the Siri icon in the the menu bar, in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 Speak clearly into your device's microphone and say, "Siri, call me..." followed by the name or nickname by which you'd like to be addressed.
 Siri will confirm what you want to be called. If it's correct say, "Ok" into your device's microphone.


If Siri is incorrect, say "No," and try again, speaking slowly and clearly.
If Siri is having difficulty pronouncing your name, open the Contacts app from the home screen/desktop.

On iPhone or iPad tap your name at the top of the screen (the words "My Card" should appear beneath it). On Mac, click on Card then Go to My Card.
Click on or tap Edit. It's in the upper-right corner on mobile and in the lower-right on Mac.
On iPhone or iPad, scroll down and click on or tap add field. On Mac, click on Card then click on Add Field.
Tap Phonetic name on iPhone or iPad. On Mac, click on Phonetic First/Last Name.
Scroll to the top of the card and click on or tap the phonetic field(s) you added.

Spell out your name out phonetically.
Click on or tap Done. It's in the upper-right corner on iPhone or iPad and in the lower-right corner on Mac.



