 There are some common symptoms that occur when you contract malaria. You may have some or all of these symptoms at some point while you are sick. The symptoms include:


High fever that ranges from 101 to 104°F (38.3 to 40°C)
Chills and involuntary chills, called rigors
Headache
Sweating
Disorientation about your identity and location
General confusion
Body aches
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Jaundice, or yellowing of the skin, which occurs due to busted blood cells;
, There are parts of the world where malaria is common, known as malaria-endemic countries. These countries include most of Africa except the most northern and southern areas, northern and central areas of South America, India and the surrounding areas, and many of the Pacific Island nations. Malaria is also present but not endemic in most of Asia, parts of central South America, western Mexico, and most of Central America.


Although malaria is endemic in these countries, it is less common in areas that are high in altitude and in desserts, except in oases. It is also less common during colder temperatures.
In areas near the equator, it is hot year round, which means malaria is more concentrated and you can contract it all year long., The incubation period, or time before the symptoms appear, is typically seven to 30 days from the time you get bitten by the infected mosquito. Certain types of the malaria parasite can lay dormant and not cause symptoms for up to four years after you get bitten. The parasite remains in the liver but eventually invades the red blood cells., You can be diagnosed with malaria no matter where you are. There are doctors that know and can recognize the symptoms all over the world. To get diagnosed, a single drop of blood will be taken and evaluated under a microscope. The doctor will check for the presence of the parasite inside your red blood cells. This is the most definitive test, since you can actually see the live parasite in your blood cell.


This is complicated by individuals falling victim to other tropical diseases while being immune to malaria.In the United States, physicians are not trained in tropical medicine, which causes the diagnosis of malaria to be missed 60% of the time., Cerebral malaria is a late stage manifestation of malaria. Malaria parasites have the ability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, which is one of the worst problems associated with malaria. If you have cerebral malaria, you may experience coma, seizure, altered consciousness, abnormal behavior, and other changes in sensory perception. Go to the hospital immediately if you think you have cerebral malaria.

