 You have your own opinions and ideas, and it's time to start sharing them with the rest of the world. Hiding behind popular opinion is a good way to fit in, but it won't make you remarkable.


The moment you surrender your individuality, you surrender your ability to rise above the crowd.
Of course, that doesn't mean you should rock the boat for no reason. You don't need to argue against popular opinion if you honestly agree with it, and even when you do need to speak out, there are often ways to do so with tact that can help you avoid making unnecessary enemies.;
, Instead of turning away and hardening your heart to the wrongs you see, let yourself be moved by those problems. It's easy to grow numb to misconduct. Standing against it is far more extraordinary.


You might find yourself bothered by the abuse of power within your workplace or by the abuse of the powerless worldwide. Either way, when you choose to stand and fight back against that which is wrong, you take the first step toward a positive change that the average person is unwilling to commit to.
 Instead of accepting the status quo, you should be questioning everything about it. The current approach to something may or may not be the best approach, but you won't know for sure until you take the time to examine it.Some questions you may need to ask can include:

Why does this rule or standard exist?
What are the consequences of ignoring this rule or standard?
What alternative options exist, and why are those options rarely/never used?


Answer these questions honestly, understanding that you may not like all of the answers. An honest understanding of yourself and the world around you will provide you with the best perspective from which to work.
 You already have your own unique set of abilities and interests. Look for ways to apply them to your life.


When you love the work you do and have a talent for doing it, you'll usually find yourself going further than you would while doing something you felt indifference toward.
 If you can't trust yourself, you will never be able to move past mediocrity.


Trusting yourself can inspire others to trust you, too. If you project an image of uncertainty, others may pass you by and offer opportunities for growth and success to other, more confident people.
 Don't be afraid of seemingly unrealistic goals. Oftentimes, that which hasn't been done before simply hasn't been done because no one has attempted it yet. Never assume that a dream is out of your reach just because it seems difficult to realize.


Of course, there might be some goals that you won't be able to accomplish, but there generally isn't any way of knowing whether one is or isn't until you actually pursue it for a little while. When you're just beginning to dream, dream big. If a dream is impossible, drop it only after you learn that from experience.
 Once you have a dream, start telling people about it. Doing so can keep you more accountable to your dreams while opening potential channels of opportunity.Discuss your dreams with other positive people since they will be the most likely to encourage you.
When you talk about your dreams to anyone, you suddenly gain an audience. It may not seem like much, but the knowledge that people are watching you can apply a helpful dose of pressure to get you going.
Additionally, you never know when someone you talk to might have the resources or connections to help you pursue your goals more thoroughly.
 It can be far too easy to focus on what can go wrong, but if you want to do remarkable things with your life, you need to start thinking about all of the things that can go right. Optimism will generally get you further than pessimism can.


Understand that there is a difference between optimism and idealism, just like there's a difference between pessimism and realism. You should strive to be both optimistic and realistic. Pursue the most positive goals that are within your reach and realistically plot the path you need to reach them.
 You will make mistakes; this is a non-negotiable fact of life. If you want to get anywhere impressive, you need to confront your fear of failure and push past it.


If you need a little overcoming your perfectionism, think of the most exceptional person you can think of and remind yourself that even he or she has made mistakes on the path to success. In fact, if you do a little research, you can usually learn about some of the more notable mistakes that individual made throughout his or her life.
 Stop making excuses and accept responsibility for your life. No one ever accomplishes anything of significance by talking about all the reasons why they can't. Your life is ultimately your own, and at the end of the day, the actions you do and don't take are your responsibility.


Life may put restrictions on you. For instance, the project idea you had may not be approved by your boss, or you might not be able to secure a loan for the business venture you want to try. When these roadblocks come up, though, it doesn't mean you should stop trying. It simply means that you need to find a different path to reach your desired destination.
When you experience success, accept responsibility for it. When you experience defeat, accept responsibility for it. Acknowledge the results you get for your work. That's the only way to move forward.
 The world is filled with distractions. Everyone needs a little time to relax, but when the things you do for enjoyment stop you from making good use of your time, these distractions ultimately do more harm than good.


The biggest problem with distraction is that it leads to drifting. You might become so comfortable with the way things are that you fall into a routine. Once you get yourself into a rut, you can easily spend your days letting life pass you by.
 This may seem like an inconvenient time for any number of reasons, but if you don't act while the desire is fresh, you may not act at all.


There will never be a “perfect” time. There will always be some minor or major inconvenience standing in your way, and if life made remarkable accomplishments easy to perform, they wouldn't be remarkable anymore.
 Find a step you can take with the resources and authority you currently have, then take that first step. You may succeed or you may fail. Either way, making that first attempt is the only way to get the process started.


Consider making an attempt at something small, especially if you still need to build confidence. If you fail, your losses will be minor. If you succeed, your success will be pretty minor, too. Success can be addictive, though; once you get a taste of it, you'll naturally feel more inclined to seek out further opportunities for success than you felt before.
 Once you succeed with the resources you presently have, you'll likely find those resources growing. Step through each door as it opens to you.


For example, if you excel while leading a minor project, your boss might ask you to lead a major project next time.
Don't be afraid to ask for more responsibility, either. If you have both an eagerness to excel and a history of doing so, those with greater power are likely to feel more confident in your abilities and will be more inclined to consider your request.
 No one becomes remarkable by doing as little work as possible. You will need to work hard, and your work ethic will need to be both consistent and persistent.


For the average person, the path of least resistance might work well enough. You're not trying to be average, though; you're trying to be remarkable. For that, you will need to work harder and contribute far more than the average person.

