 Snow forts can be anything from a simple one-wall design to more complex fortresses with four walls and a roof.


Part of this decision depends on how much snow you have.
Take into account length, depth and height as you estimate the amount of snow you'll need. Four feet is usually an adequate height.;
, Use a shovel or branch to mark out the fort's perimeter. If you're low on snow, opt for a single wall with two wings on either side., If you don't have one, make it! Use shoveled snow from the driveway or anywhere else.
 Test the snow by making a ball in your hands. If it sticks, the snow is prime for building. If not, see the next step for making your own denser snow., Pack Tupperware containers, coolers, or plastic buckets full of as much snow as will fit, invert, and lift off the container. Alternatively, pour cold water over the snow to make a layer of ice. If you're planning to dig a tunnel, leave a space with no water poured over it so you can dig more easily.
 Use the packed snow or bricks to form walls, making sure that they are perpendicular on the inside of the fort.


If you're using bricks, work like a bricklayer: put down one layer, leaving a few inches (or centimeters) between each brick, and stacking the next level so that each brick straddles two underneath it. Have another person follow you by packing snow in between the bricks.
If you're digging a fort into a snowdrift, use a shovel or your hands and burrow your way into the pile. Once you've made your entrance, clear out a room from the inside with your hands or a small shovel.
 Smooth out the exterior of the walls, adding in extra snow for support if necessary. If you've used bricks, fill in the cracks in between the snow bricks, then smooth out with a shovel. Be careful not to break the blocks in doing so. The outside walls should slant just slightly for durability. , The water freezes into ice, solidifying the structure and protecting it from melting.


Work from the bottom up to avoid ice overbearing the top and collapsing.Make sure it's below freezing outside when you do this so the water turns quickly into ice., Dye the blocks as you make them by adding colored water to the snow, spritz colored water from a spray bottle, or mix food coloring in with the cold water you pour over as a finish.
 Low-powered lights generate minimal heat to reduce melting., If there's an abundance of snow, make guardian snowmen or turrets for your fort. Add some furniture if you have room. Carve designs into the exterior of the walls to customize your construction.

