 In Christianity, prayer is the act of reflecting upon your actions and feelings and communicating them with God. While you pray, you can ask God to help you, seek his forgiveness for a sin you committed, or ask for guidance on a problem in your life.The more you truly reflect, the closer you will be to him.


In some forms of Christianity, there are pre-written prayers that you can recite like Our Father, Hail Mary, and The Apostle's Creed.Protestant and Catholic followers recite The Apostle's Creed while Orthodox Christians use the creed from Nicaea and Constantinople.When you talk to God, make sure that you turn off distractions like your cell phone or TV., God is around is everywhere you go and communicates through events that happen in your life. To listen to God, you need to have to be open and receptive to signs that he gives you. Also, you need to have a firm grasp of scripture and morality to be able to discern between personal desire and the desire of your Lord.Take the morality of Scripture and allow it to dictate your actions towards other people.


In Romans 10:17 it says "Consequently, faith comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ."

, When you do God's work, it makes you closer to him. Consider the scripture and morality when you make decisions, and always aim to help other people. The more that you abide by his word and live a good life the closer you will feel to him.


For example, if you need to decide on whether to lie or to be truthful at your job, consider that bearing false witness is a cardinal sin.
If someone comes to you for help and guidance, instead of turning them away, do what you can do for them.
 When Jesus walked the earth, he visited many places in what is now known as Israel. Traveling to Holy sites is sometimes referred to as a pilgrimage for Christians, and is meant to bring you closer to God. While many of the original Holy places are in Israel, many places are considered Holy around the world.


In Israel, some Holy sites include the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, Mount Zion, Bethlehem and Nazareth.Other places across the world that are considered Holy include, Zaragoza in Spain, Vatican City in Rome, and Mt. Sinai and St. Catherine’s Monastery in Egypt.