 Different motherboards support different speeds of RAM. You must use a type that is supported by your motherboard, or you may experience significant performance problems. Check your computer's documentation or look it up online to see what types of RAM are compatible.


Consumer desktop RAM comes as DDR (Double Data Rate), DDR2, and DDR3. DDR is extremely uncommon in modern computers; most modern computers use DDR2 or DDR3. You must use the type that your motherboard supports.
RAM is measured by two different numbers: the PC/PC2/PC3 number and the MHz speed. The PC number (ex. PC3 10600) refers to the maximum "bandwidth", or maximum amount of data that can be transferred at once (e.g. 10600 = 10.6 GB maximum bandwidth). The clock speed of the RAM, which is a measure of how quickly the RAM can perform functions, is signified by the number after the DDR specification (e.g. DDR3 1333 = 1333 MHz).;
, This will allow you to visually inspect your RAM slots and currently installed modules, which can make choosing your new RAM easier.



Click here for detailed information about opening your computer.
 The number of available sockets will impact the amount of RAM you can add. If you are trying to upgrade and all of your sockets are filled, you will need to remove some to add new modules.
 Beyond the number of physical modules your motherboard can fit, there is typically a limit to the amount of memory your motherboard will support in gigabytes (GB) .


Your operating system may also put a limit on how much RAM can be used. If you are using a 32-bit version of Windows, you can only use 4 GB of RAM. A 64-bit operating system has no real practical limit.
 If you're planning on expanding the amount you have installed while keeping your old modules, you'll need to ensure that the speeds match for all of the newly-installed modules.


If you're planning on replacing your old RAM, ensure that all of your new RAM has matching specifications, and that they are compatible with your motherboard.
 Most motherboards require that RAM be installed in matching pairs, or the performance will be drastically reduced.


For example, if you wanted to install 16 GB, you would need to purchase either four 4 GB modules or two 8 GB modules.
 Before you start removing old modules and installing new ones, make sure you are properly grounded. This will help prevent damage from electrostatic discharge. You can ground yourself by using an electrostatic wriststrap attached to your case or by touching a metal water tap.
 If you're removing the old modules to make room for bigger ones or taking them out to upgrade to a faster speed, you can quickly remove them by releasing the latches on each side of the module. Once the latches are release, the RAM will pop out a little, and you can pull it straight out.
 Make sure that you only touch the RAM along the side edges so that you don't get oils on the contacts or circuitry.
 RAM can only be inserted in one direction, so make sure that the slot and module line up.
 Apply even pressure to the module, but do not force it in. The latches on either side will snap into place when it is correctly installed.
 Make sure that the matching pair are installed in the correct pair of slots. Most matching pairs of slots are designated by different colors or labeled with printing on the motherboard. Your motherboard's documentation should also have a diagram.
 Install the rest of the modules, ensuring that pairs match, and then close your computer's case. Plug your devices and peripherals back in.
 If your computer boots normally, chances are everything went fine. You can check that your operating system is recognizing your RAM by opening the system properties window:


Windows - Press ⊞ Win+Pause


, If your computer doesn't boot after you install your RAM, you encounter errors, or experience any other problems, click here.
 There are a lot of housekeeping tasks you can perform on your computer that can significantly increase performance without spending a dime. Click here for detailed instructions.

