 As a rule of thumb, you should change your vacuum filter every one to three months or every four to six uses. However, the frequency with which you clean a vacuum filter depends on how often you vacuum.To keep your appliance in the best working order, check the filter before each use and clean it if it's covered with a layer of dirt or debris.
 Most air purifier manufacturers recommend cleaning both washable and vacuum-only HEPA filters once every three months. Remember that your filter will get dirtier if you live in a dusty environment or use your appliance more frequently, so check the filter periodically and clean it more often if necessary.Check your user guide for your product manufacturer's recommendations for your specific model.
 There's no need to be afraid of cleaning your HEPA filter before it's due. As long as you clean your washable or vacuum-only filter using the correct method, you shouldn't worry about cleaning it more often than the user guide recommends.


In general, the cleaner you keep your filter, the more efficiently your appliance will operate., Some air purifier models come with an electronic filter clean reminder. The timer either keeps track of the appliance's hours in use, which is a more reliable guide, or just tracks calendar days. You should check your filter regularly instead of relying on the reminder timer alone, especially if it doesn't track actual time in use.If you don't use the appliance often, the filter might not need to be cleaned when the timer light comes on. On the other hand, if you always keep the appliance on, but the timer tracks calendar days instead of actual time in use, you'll likely need to clean the filter more often than the timer recommends.
You can check your user guide to find out if your appliance tracks use time or calendar days.
 Since filter replacement standards will depend on your appliance type and model, it's best to check your user guide for information about replacing your filter. In general, washable and vacuum-only HEPA filters are designed to last much longer than disposable filters. Some can go years without needing replacement.Some manufacturers suggest replacing your filter when it becomes visibly worn or discolored, so inspect your filter's condition when you clean it.

