 Remember that it can take a long time to work out your sexual identity, and that your feelings may change over time. There’s no need to rush into giving yourself a label. Just relax, allow your feelings to develop naturally, and think about how you feel without judging yourself., Even if you have never had a romantic or sexual relationship with another person, you may have had feelings of sexual or romantic attraction toward other people. Think about people you have been attracted to, whether they are people you know personally, celebrities, or even fictional characters.If you find that all or most of the people you are/have been attracted to are of a different gender from you, there is a good chance you are straight.
 Think about your close relationships with others, whether they are platonic (just friends), romantic, or sexual. Take a moment to ask yourself how you feel about those relationships, without judging or over-analyzing those feelings. Consider which relationships have felt most comfortable (safe, fulfilling, happy) to you.Do you feel any romantic or sexual attraction toward your close friends of the opposite gender? If so, ask yourself how you would feel about dating any of those people.
How do you feel about any romantic and sexual experiences you have had with people of the opposite gender, or with people of the same gender, if you’ve had them? Did you enjoy them and feel fulfilled by them? Make note of which relationships you feel the most positive about, and ask yourself how much the gender of the other person had to do with that feeling.
 Picture yourself in romantic or sexual situations with people of different genders. Let your mind take you where it wants to go without overthinking things or judging yourself. Think about how you feel when you imagine these situations:If you mainly enjoy imagining yourself with people of a different gender from yourself, you may be heterosexual.
If you feel happy and excited when you imagine yourself exclusively in straight relationships or situations, then this may also be a sign that you are heterosexual.
 Sexual orientation is not black and white. You may be straight, gay, or somewhere in the middle (bisexual or bicurious).Some people think of themselves as straight even if they occasionally feel attracted to (or have even had relationships with) people of the same gender, and some people consider themselves gay even if they have felt some attraction to/had relationships with people of another gender. Others are not interested in sexual or romantic relationships at all, with people of any gender. These people may consider themselves asexual or aromantic.What’s most important is how you think of yourself.Try writing down, or saying to yourself out loud, “I am heterosexual,” or “I am straight.” How do you feel when you refer to yourself this way? Does it feel comfortable to you?

