 If you can’t get to a private place, but you know the tears will fall anyway, you can try to keep it a secret by crying silently. Although you likely won't be able to keep the tears in, you can do your best to keep the noise in.


To do this breathe deeply, but do it as quietly as you can. This isn’t supposed to be a deep sigh, but rather you want to keep your breath moving steadily so you won’t sob.
Don’t hold your breath! Eventually, you will have to breathe, and if it has built up in your chest, a sob may come out with it.
If a sound does escape, try to play it off as a cough or a sneeze if you can.
 This will depend largely on your specific situation, but you should try to get as far away from the center of attention as possible.


If you are at work or school, sit at your desk, and try to make it appear as though you are casually reading something on your screen or desk. Place your hand on your forehead, as though you are shading your eyes from the sun. This will make it more difficult for others to see what your eyes are doing.
If you are in a more social situation, pretend you got a call on your cell phone, and walk to the most private area you can find. Keep pretending to talk on the phone so that people will pay less attention to you.
 If you have managed to keep the attention off of yourself, you can casually dab the tears away. You can use a tissue if you have it, or your sleeve. If you are wearing a short sleeve shirt, just use the back of your hand.


Avoid rubbing! It will be tempting to just rub your face and eyes to try and stop, but this will only add to the redness and swelling that naturally occurs when you cry.
 In this case, you probably don’t just want to let it out. Instead, you will want to gain control of yourself. You can try to stop yourself from crying by smiling, which can help to trick your brain into happier thoughts.Think about a funny thing that happened recently, or about something you are looking forward to.
If you can’t think of anything, try to become very focused on what is going on around you. This will help distract you from what is upsetting you.
 If you are somewhere where it will be noticed if you don’t rejoin, then at some point you will need to get back into it. How you do this will depend on how you’re feeling.


If you’re feeling much better, and you aren’t worried that you will cry again, then jump back in. It may take a couple of minutes for you to get back into the conversation normally, but don’t worry about it. If you’ve successfully completed all these steps, it’s unlikely that anyone will notice that you were crying.
If you’re worried that you might cry again, try to join in, but minimally. Don’t try to be super involved in the conversation. Instead, do your best to look happy (smiling as best you can might also help you feel better), and listen to the conversation. This may also help distract you from what is causing the tears.
If you’re at your desk at school or work, simply go back to working as you normally would. You are at an advantage in this situation because there won’t be any expectation to be social. Take a few minutes to cheer yourself up after crying, for example, by watching a funny video, or looking at things you enjoy on your phone or the computer.

