 Out of all the food groups, kids are most likely to resist eating their veggies. However, it is important that they get at least 5 servings of vegetables and fruits each day. There are several ways you can incorporate vegetables into common foods without your child even knowing.For example, you could puree a sweet potato or cauliflower and add it to mac and cheese.You can also add these purees to dishes like sloppy Joe's.
Chop spinach up finely and add it to cheesy scrambled eggs.Try making zucchini muffins or cauliflower crust pizza., Eating too much sugar can be harmful to your child's health. Keep your house stocked with healthy snacks and treats. Your child can only eat what you have in the house, so try to make sure that there are plenty of healthy choices available.If your child asks for candy, try offering her some fresh strawberries dipped in chocolate sauce as a healthier alternative.
Dried fruit is great to keep on hand for a healthy, sweet snack.
You can also make your own fresh fruit popsicles to keep on hand for a healthy dessert.
 The best way for kids to learn is to model positive behavior. You can set a good example by trying a variety of foods and enthusiastically trying new things. You can also demonstrate good eating habits by choosing healthy snacks for yourself.If your child sees you grab an apple as a snack, they will be more likely to do so themselves.
You can also set a good example by minimizing distractions. Don't allow TV or other electronics during mealtime. This will help your kids focus on eating.
 Children like both routine and predictability. It makes them feel secure and stable. Try to feed your child at approximately the same times each day. Aim for three meals and two snacks each day.Giver them a heads up. Let your child know when it is 15 minutes before mealtime. This will allow them a chance to wind down whatever activity they are involved in and mentally make the shift to focusing on eating.
Make it clear that meals are for spending quality time together. Ask your child to remain seated at the table until everyone is done eating.
 Sometimes you just can't convince a toddler to eat their vegetables. This doesn't mean that you have done something wrong, or that there is anything wrong with them. It is normal. Consider giving them vitamin supplements to make sure they are getting the proper nutrients.Talk to your doctor before adding vitamins to your child's routine. Often, kids are getting more nutrients than you realize. Be prepared with a list of all the foods your child is eating so that appropriate recommendations can be made.
If your doctor recommends adding a multivitamin, look for one that is appropriate for your child's age.
Make it clear to your child that vitamins are not candy. Keep them out of reach.

