 Any person on this planet, even supermodels, would look unappealing and seem unapproachable if they lacked confidence. Smile, stand up straight, and be proud of who you are, no matter what. If you're confident and okay with who you are, others will pick up on that vibe. Confidence is a way of telling other people that you count and that they need to deal with that.;
, You've lost your hair, but this is only one part of your body. Look into the mirror and find other things you like about yourself. Do you like the colour of your eyes? The shape of your face? Your lips? Just because you don't have hair doesn't mean that you've lost all your other beautiful features.


Do a search online, such as using Pinterest or Google images for "bald women". You'll see many amazing photos of bald women who have made themselves up in all different, inspiring ways that might influence your own take on some of their ideas.
 Sure, you may look different than some people, but there are tons of women without hair! People who insult bald women are simply ridiculous. It's the same thing as saying "That girl looks funny because her hair is long!" It just doesn't make sense.
 When it comes to makeup, the general rules apply: do not overdo it. Having no hair doesn't mean you can wear more makeup. Stick to the basics - you don't have to cake on makeup just because you don't have hair.
 It could be impermanent (henna or Sharpie) or permanent. You could tattoo on spirals, patterns, hair locks, an image, anything you like really.
 Be sure to wear slightly girlier clothes if that's okay with your general style, because some women may feel they look boyish without locks. Wear some earrings, a dress, flats, and clothes that accentuate your figure. If your personal style isn't girly, don't change it just because you're bald. Wear what you like to wear and what makes you feel comfortable.
 Consider wearing big, bold earrings. Or, if you don't want to wear big earrings, try emphasizing one ear. For example, wear a diamond stud in each ear and wear several small diamond studs in one ear. This really adds a nice touch.

