 If you have all wheel or four-wheel drive, you should make sure it is activated before you try to drive your car out of the snow. Ultimately, the more tires that can spin, the more traction your car will have and the easier it will be to move out of the snow., Instead of just switching your car into drive, make sure to put it into the lowest gear. Putting it in the lowest gear will provide your tires with more power and make sure they spin slower. This will lower the risk that your tires dig a deeper hole into the snow., Turn the steering wheel so your front wheels are as straight as possible. By straightening your wheels, you’ll make it a lot easier to get your car out of the snow. However, make sure to adjust for any obstacles – like fire hydrants or signs – that might be in front of you., Slowly back your car up. If you move a few inches, you’re making progress. Then, drive the card forward. Once again, even a few inches is progress. Continue to do this until you’re in a rocking motion. With a little luck, you’ll make more-and-more progress forward and will be able to get out of the snow.


If rocking the car out doesn't work after about 5 minutes, stop doing it. It could damage your transmission., Because your wheels may be spinning too fast or at an unequal pace, you should press the brakes slightly as you try to rock the car out. This will make it so all your wheels are working to move you out of the snow.


Don’t ride the brakes for too long. If you do this, they could overheat., Take your index finger and slightly push the pin in the center of the tire's air valve to the side. Release air until you can push the wall of the tire in just a little bit. This shouldn't take more than 20 to 30 seconds.


If your tires are completely inflated or even overinflated, this will help your tires to get better traction.
If your tires are already low, don’t let any air out.
If you don’t have any way to re-inflate the tires, don’t let too much air out., If your tires spin and you’re not making backward or forward progress, you should stop the car immediately. This is because tires will slowly be digging themselves deeper into the snow.