 The basis of a raw foods diet is large quantities of raw or dehydrated fruits and vegetables.In general, you should aim for about 5-9 servings of fruits and vegetables each day. However, on a raw foods diet you may end up eating more than this.
Aim for 1 cup of vegetables, 1/2 cup of fruit or 1 small piece and 2 cups of leafy greens per portion.There are a significant amount of foods limited on a raw foods diet, so the majority of your meals will be fruits and vegetables. This is great for weight loss because these foods are low in calories, but high in fiber and other essential nutrients.;
, Obviously raw food diets don't suggest eating raw chicken or beef. However, protein is an essential nutrient to your diet and still needs to be consumed at every meal.Protein in general is great for weight loss. It helps keep you feeling satisfied longer after your meals are completed.In addition, the proteins that are suggested on a raw foods diet are also higher in fiber and healthy fats which emphasize increased satiety.
Even though you're following a raw foods diet and protein options are limited, you should still include a serving at each meal or snack. Aim for a 3-4 oz serving or about 1/2 cup.Protein options typically included on raw foods diet are: raw seafood (sushi or sashimi), nuts, nut butters, seeds, beans, lentils and raw cheeses.
Since raw beans and lentils are inedible, these are allowed to be soaked so you can eat them., In addition to fruits, vegetables and some sources of protein, raw food diets also allow the consumption of some 100% whole grain foods.Note that raw food diets suggest only eating 100% whole grains and avoiding all refined grains.
Whole grains are minimally processed and contain all parts of the grain - germ, endosperm and bran. They are higher in protein (which can help meet protein needs), fiber and other essential nutrients.Like legumes, you'll need to soak whole grains.
Include a 1/2 cup or 1 oz serving of whole grains at your meals or snacks.Try: quinoa, millet, farro, or oats.
 Although there are certain types of fat to avoid on a raw foods diet, there are other types of fat that you should include on a raw foods diet.


Include regular servings of "heart healthy" fats throughout the week. These types of fat have been shown to support a healthy heart and cardiovascular system.These fats are found in a wide variety of foods like: avocados, olive oil, olives, nuts, seeds, nut butters, salmon, tuna and mackerel.
If you're eating seafood, stick to a 3-4 oz portion of these foods. If you're eating nuts or using olive oil, stick to 2 tbsp per serving., Staying properly hydrated with the right types of fluids is important for any diet - including a raw foods diet.


Most health professionals recommend consuming around 8-13 glasses of clear, sugar-free beverages each day. This amount will be dependent on your age, gender and activity level.Stick to items such as: water, flavored water, and homemade steeped waters.
Keep a water bottle with you at all times to help you reach your required fluid needs throughout the day.
 Raw foods diets are based on the principle that eating foods that are uncooked or very, very minimally cooked provide more nutrients to your body. However, finding enough foods that can fit into a raw foods diet can be difficult if you're used to preparing meals with your stove, oven or microwave.


The theory behind eating raw foods is that heat, especially high levels of heat and heating foods for extended periods of time, destroys vitamins, minerals and antioxidants in many foods (especially fruits and vegetables).
In addition, raw fruits and vegetables can provide a little more bulk and volume to your meals and snacks which can help you feel more satisfied with your meals.
Soaking whole grains and legumes and fermenting vegetables are great ways to replace cooked food in your diet.
 Certain types of cooking techniques are not recommended or used in "raw food" diets. Using a juicer or blender can help you incorporate a lot of nutritious foods without needing to cook them.


You can put in raw fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds into smoothies or homemade juices. These beverages will be nutrient packed and provide your body with a large quantity of the essential nutrients it needs each day.
All the nutrients from the fresh fruits or vegetables will also be present in the juice. However, if you only make a juice, not a smoothie, you do miss out on the essential fiber in the skins and flesh of fruits and vegetables.Juicers and blenders can be pricey (especially if you're considering the option to purchase both). Blenders are typically cheaper overall and can make "juice" if pureeing only fruits or vegetables. Note there will be fibrous parts in your juice since you're pureeing the entire fruit or vegetable.
 Changing the texture of foods or getting them "cooked" to an edible state can be difficult if you're not using a stove or an oven for cooking. Using a dehydrator can help you get around the need for an oven.


Dehydrators "cook" foods at very low temperatures for long periods of time. It slowly evaporates all the moisture from foods leaving them in a dehydrated state.You can also achieve the same effect in a low temperature oven.
Dehydrating foods does destroy some nutrients, but allows you to get different textures of foods instead of only eating raw fruits and vegetables.For example, you can put sliced sweet potatoes in a dehydrator or oven and in a few hours have crunchy dehydrated sweet potato chips.
 Whenever you're trying to lose weight, a good place to start your diet is by speaking to your doctor or a registered dietitian.


Talk to your doctor about why you want to lose weight, how much you want to lose and how you're thinking about losing weight. He or she will probably give you additional tips on safe weight loss.
Ask your doctor for a referral to a local dietitian or research one online. Many dietitians focus only on weight loss and can be of great help to you.
Talk to your dietitian about losing weight and following a raw foods diet. He or she should be able to provide you with a calorie goal and even a meal plan to help get you started.
 Regardless of what diet you follow, you'll need to cut out a few calories each day to result in weight loss.Most health professionals agree that cutting out about 500 calories daily (or burning 500 calories through exercise) will result in a 1-2 pound weight loss each week.Although this is more slow or gradual weight loss, it’s the safest and most sustainable long-term.
Trying to lose weight at a faster rate may result in you following an overly restricted diet or not eating an adequate amount of calories each day.
 In addition to diet, participating in regular physical activity is essential for weight loss.


Both cardio and weight lifting offer benefits towards weight loss. They will help support your raw foods diet and help burn additional calories throughout the week.Aim for 150 minutes of aerobic or cardio activities each week. Walking, jogging, swimming or dancing all count as aerobic activity.In addition to cardio, add in a few days of strength training each week. 1-2 days of weight lifting, yoga or pilates can help build lean muscle mass and support weight loss attempts.