 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cookies, you must preheat it. Set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.Keep an eye on your oven so you know when it’s reached the proper temperature. It will likely beep or flash an indicator light as an alert.;
, For the hermit slices, you’ll need two baking sheets. Line each one with a sheet of parchment paper to keep the cookies from sticking to the them.You can substitute silicone baking mats for the parchment paper if you prefer.
 Add 1 ½ cups (360 g) of all-purpose flour, 2 teaspoons (5 g) of ground cinnamon, ¾ teaspoon (4 g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ g) of baking soda, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground ginger, and ½ teaspoon (1 g) of nutmeg to a medium size bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully mixed, and set aside.If you want even spicier hermit slices, you can also add ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of ground cloves.
 Add ¾ cup (150 g) of light brown sugar and 10 tablespoons (156 g) of unsalted butter that’s been softened to room temperature to a large bowl. Use a hand mixer on medium-high speed to beat the two until the mixture is light and fluffy, which should take approximately 4 minutes.As you’re beating the brown sugar and butter together, be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl periodically to ensure that they’re fully combined.
 Once the brown sugar and butter mixture is light and fluffy, add 1 large egg to the bowl. Continue beating the mixture on medium-high until the egg is fully incorporated and the mixture is smooth, which should take approximately 2 minutes.Once again, be sure to scrape down the sides of the bowl occasionally as you beat the egg into the brown sugar and butter so the mixture is fully blended.
 When the egg is completely mixed in, add ¼ cup (85 g) of molasses and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium-high speed until it’s combined, which should take approximately 2 minutes.For the best results, use light molasses.
 Once all of the wet ingredients are combined, turn the hand mixer speed down to low and gradually begin adding the dry ingredients. Blend the dough until the dry ingredients are just incorporated.Be careful not to overmix the dough. If you do, you may end up with tough cookies.
 When the dough is fully combined, add 1 cup (125 g) of coarsely chopped walnuts and ⅓ cup (50 g) of raisins. Use a wooden spoon to gently fold the nuts and fruit into the dough.If you prefer, you can substitute pecans for the walnuts.
You can substitute dates for the raisins or use a combination of the two if you prefer.
 When the dough is fully mixed, separate it into two equal pieces. Place them on a floured surface, and roll them each into a log that’s approximately 14-inches by 2-inches (36-cm by 5-cm).You can also shape the dough into two 12-inch by 2-inch (30-cm by 5-cm) rectangles if you prefer., When you’ve formed the dough into logs, carefully transfer them to the lined baking sheets. Use your hands to gently square off the ends of the logs., Place the baking sheets with the logs in the preheated oven. Allow them to bake for 20 to 30 minutes or until the edges are firm.To ensure that the logs bake evenly, rotate the cookie sheets halfway through the baking process.
 While the dough is baking, place 1 tablespoon (14 g) of unsalted butter in a small saucepan and melt it over medium heat. Allow the butter to cook until it starts to foam and then browns, which should take approximately 4 minutes.Swirl the butter in the pan as it’s heating to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 Once the butter has browned, add ¼ cup (31 g) of powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of water to the pan. Whisk the mixture until it has a smooth, glaze-like consistency., When the logs come out of the oven, use a pastry brush to apply it all over them. Once the glaze is applied, let the logs cool for at least 20 minutes.Applying the glaze while the logs are still warm allows them to absorb the glaze more easily.
 When the logs are fully cooled, use a sharp knife to cut them into slices on an angle. The slices should be approximately 1- to 2-inches (2.5- to 5-cm) large.Store the sliced cookies in an airtight container at room temperature. They should stay fresh for up to 5 days.

