 Ask yourself what, exactly, you are afraid of. It might help to write down your fears. After you’ve established your specific concerns, take some time to analyze those worries. Ask yourself how realistic the fear is. Are you afraid that your server will think that what you ordered is stupid? Ask yourself how likely it is that your server will single your order out when they take similar orders all day long. Remember that other people are not as focused on you as you are.
Put your fears in perspective. If your server doesn’t like your order, does it really matter? If you’re bored while your food is being made, will that hurt you in the long run?
Think of ways to prevent your fears from happening. If you’re worried, for example, that you will feel uncomfortable while you wait for your food, think of a way to avoid that—like bringing a book or magazine along with you.
Remember that your anxieties about what might happen are not facts. They are guesses about the future—often unlikely worst-case scenarios. Try to think of a more likely scenario. For example, rather than being disgusted by your order, your server is more likely to write it down and deliver it to the cook without thinking much about it at all. , Even if you get nervous at the restaurant, there are some simple things you can do to relax which won’t draw any attention to you. If you’re feeling overwhelmed, it’s okay to tell your server that you need a moment.


Steady your breathing. If you feel yourself getting anxious when it’s time to order, try breathing in and out slowly through your nose. When you’re anxious, you breathe faster. Taking slow, steady breaths through your nose helps signal to your body that there’s no need to be anxious.
Relax your muscles. You can do this by tensing different muscles in your body and then relaxing them. This signals to your body that it’s time to relax and also helps your brain to focus on something other than your anxiety. , When you catch yourself having negative thoughts about the situation, try to replace them with something positive. For example, if find yourself worrying that the cashier doesn’t like the sound of your voice, remind yourself that it’s just as likely that they think you’ve got a great voice.


Remind yourself that you’re not a mind reader. Assuming that others are thinking bad thoughts about you is just projecting your anxiety onto them. If you’re going to make projections, assume that they’re thinking something good about you. And remember that you can’t control what others are thinking. , When you focus all of your attention on yourself and your feelings, your anxiety is likely to build. Instead, try focusing on your surroundings.


Try picking out details about your environment which are especially interesting. For example, you might try to decide which piece of decoration on the restaurant’s walls you find most interesting. Then look for the table that has the most people at it and try to guess why they’re all there. The key is to turn your focus completely away from yourself.
If you’re with other people, try asking them open-ended questions and then listening carefully to their answers. This has the added bonus of making your dining companions feel important and interesting. , The last thing in the world they want to do is cause you stress or unhappiness. They are probably just as concerned about your liking them as you are about their liking you! 