 Anything with conventional insecticides (pyrethrins, permethrin, d-limonene, chlorpyrifos, or carbaryl) might irritate or harm your pet and the people around it.Instead, try natural insecticides or flea irritants. They shouldn't harm your pet but will be mighty nasty for fleas. Make sure to check with your vet first, though. Here's a list of insecticides or irritants you could consider:

Rosemary oil
Eucalyptus oil
Citrus oil
Cedar oil (toxic to cats)
Tea tree oil (toxic to cats)Can be toxic to dogs if ingested, not worth the risk!!



, This way, fleas don't jump up to the head during the bath.


When fleas sense water, they immediately seek cover in dry, hard-to-reach places on your pet. So it's a good idea to at least wet, if not clean, the rectum, ears, eye cavity, and neck before getting the entire body wet.
For extra security, keep lathering up your pet for up to 15 minutes. 5 minutes is the minimum time needed to begin killing off the fleas, but 15 minutes is the safe bet.
Rinse your pet under warm/lukewarm water for several minutes, making sure to cleanse the soap from its skin and soak the remaining potential hiding places for fleas.
 This could be a flea-collar, a spot-on, or oral medication. Prescription strength (from a vet) spot-on treatments usually work best.If the collar contains only insect growth regulator (which prevents larvae from turning into adults, but does not affect the existing adults), use another treatment such as a spot-on product, to control adult fleas. Collars can be irritating to the pet's skin and are sometimes ineffective.
The following products are not considered to be effective: Vitamin B1 (thiamine hydrochloride) supplements, herbal collars and ultrasonic devices.
 A flea is covered with tiny hairs that allow them to "grip" onto the host's fur. Using a comb with teeth that are close enough together that the flea can't slip through is the most effective way to dislodge them. A comb designed for another purpose or a brush won't remove all the fleas., Add mild dish soap.
 Add more dish soap as needed. Wash for around 15 minutes.
 Let the water fill in the cup under the faucet, as you check for soapy areas.
 Spray or pour only vinegar in areas of the pet where heavy flea activity was found.
 Give the pet extra TLC, and apply flea medicine.

