 Typically, agents are used for booking celebrities for an appearance, concert, endorsement, movie, or similar activities. Publicists deal with anything related to the public, like magazines articles, blogs, and interviews.

Agents, managers, and publicists each have their own parts that they represent for a celebrity. They handle the business and image aspects of the celebrity. There are a few different ways of getting in touch with these representatives.
The best way is through email, and it is how most business deals are done with celebrities. Email allows for a paper trail, and it is the preferred method of contact for representatives.
Phone is another route to take, but it is not the preferred route. Also its important to keep in mind that many representatives have assistants and gatekeepers, so you will likely be unable to reach the representative by phone.
By snail mail isn't a feasible option unless you are sending free product to someone. Even doing this, you want to have spoken through the representative through email or by phone.
Please note that representatives are only to be reached out to for business and publicity inquiries, not for fan mail.
Celebrities change representatives frequently. You can monitor these changes through booking agent info databases.
A celebrity’s manager is involved in all aspects of their career. Less known celebrities may only have a manager. These people are generally very busy, but can help you contact your celebrity.
You may be able to find manager, agent, or publicist information through your celebrity’s Facebook page.
Look on your celebrity’s Internet Movie Database (IMDB) or Wikipedia page. You can often find publicist or management company information in these places. Then look up the publicist or management company contact information. , Depending on the contact information you’ve found, this could be a written letter or email. You might want to break the letter into two parts, one for the publicist and one for the celebrity. Be clear and to the point. Be straightforward in your request for a return message to prove your contact.


When addressing a publicist, manager, etc., you might want to say something like, “Thank you for helping us fans get in touch with so-and-so.”
Include a request with your message when appropriate. It would be natural to ask a concert promoter, for example, for a ticket to a concert and a chance to meet the celebrity.
Some celebrities have a considerable number of staff managing their public relations. If you have the contact information for a few of these, try them all. It’s unlikely these people will discuss amongst themselves fan mail they’ve read., It may take some time before you receive a response to your message. In some cases, you may get a “canned” response, where you receive a pre-made message that says something to the effect of, “The celebrity is too busy to respond to your message now.”


After a reasonable period of time has passed, like a few weeks to a month, try another means of contact. Aim to make yourself noticeable among other fans, but not overbearing.