 No deed, no matter how much noble it is, is accepted to Allah without this purification.;
, Tell yourself that this journey is sincerely devoted to please Him and to beg for His mercy and forgiveness.
 Not every Muslim gets a chance to prepare for this spiritual journey. Remember Him always and continue to thank Him for blessing you with this opportunity.
 Remember the morals of Islam and try your best to maintain them. It's hard to be good all the time, specially during a long journey, but that is where you need to ask Allah for His help in all matters.
 Seek the blessings and resources of Allah to perform this journey. Keep your intention strong and continue to supplicate to Allah. Surely, He will make a way out for you from where you might not have imagined.
 If you can afford it, Thank to Allah. If you cannot, ask for His help and guidance. Hajj is a long journey and might require a life-time investment of a person.
 Have knowledge about the laws of Saudi Arabia before starting this journey. Apply for Saudi visa and make sure your passport isn't expired. Complete all the required paper works before you leave for Saudi Arabia. You can contact travel agents to guide you with the whole process.
 Since it is almost a month stay in Makkah and Madina, make sure to buy all the necessary things before you set off. Make a list of things that includes clothes, medicines etc and purchase good quality and long-lasting items for yourself.
 Search the internet for scholarly articles on performing Hajj. There are many handbooks available on this subject too. Plus, get help from those who have already performed Hajj.
 Hajis are bound to experience intense heat, pushing, standing in long lines etc because a large crowd of people has to accommodate in a comparatively small area. Therefore, keep in mind that Hajj is not an easy journey but those who perform it with strong intention, will be rewarded by Allah, for sure.
 It is necessary to complete your uncompleted tasks before you set off for a journey. And since this is the most important journey for any Muslim, it is better to prepare yourself for all kinds of situations.
 Ask them for their experiences during their stay in Makkah and Madinah and how they managed there. Also learn about the beauty of this journey from the experienced ones. This will, indeed, help you to be prepared mentally for all tough situations.
 Therefore, one must prepare his/her body for these challenges. For this purpose, develop a habit of walking at-least one month prior to your departure for Hajj. Start with walking for 30 minutes daily, and then gradually increase the time period.
 You can do squats, crunches, cycling, swimming etc to strengthen your muscles for the great amount of physical activity ahead.
 So it is always better to adapt a healthy and simple life style (if you're not used to one!). Include a greater portion of fruits and vegetables in your diet to get the essential nutrients. Don't forget to take milk on a regular basis.
 Certain vaccinations are required to be done and an overall medical check-up is necessary. If you get approved as medically fit, you are ready for this journey, but still, never forget to keep along basic medicines and first aid material. Also, get more information regarding the medical issues one has to face during Hajj from physicians and health experts.