 The very first thing you must do before stretching is a warm up jog, run, or bike to get loose. You don't have to run or bike that hard or far, but it is good to do at least 20 minutes of warm up before stretching. This will prevent injury and strain.


If you are older or if you have limited mobility, you may not be biking or jogging. Try to do your stretching after some physical activity which has had you moving around for about 20 minutes, such as cleaning.;
, Try to do a full workout before stretching. This will ensure that your muscles are as warm and loose as possible, ensuring you get the most out of your stretching sessions.
 Dynamic stretching should always be done before static stretching. Dynamic stretching includes motion and is meant to mimic and exaggerate the movements of actual exercise and daily motions. This is a much safer form of stretching.








Do arm circles: Hold your arms out straight to either side, so that you form a T. Make circles with your arms. Do this twenty times before reversing the direction. As you become more flexible, you can make the circles bigger.Do Leg Swings: Bracing yourself against a wall, swing your outside leg up like a clock pendulum. Increase the height of the swing with each return. Switch sides to do the other leg. You can do a similar exercise with your arms.

Do Walking Lunges: Take the deep, exaggerate steps show in the linked article by essentially walking and nearly dropping to your knee with each step. You can add even more stretch by twisting your upper body away from the extended back leg with each movement.
Do Inchworms: If you are already somewhat flexible, you can try this exercise. Beginning in a pushup position, slowly walk until your feet are as close to your hands as you can get them. Once you’ve managed this, walk with your hands until you are back in the starting position. You can arch your back in order to add a spine stretch.
 Static stretching is the form of stretching that most people are familiar with from childhood gym classes. These are stretches done in a sitting or otherwise stationary position. These can increase flexibility but should only be done when working out is completed, as they present a large risk for injury to tight muscles.









Do a hamstring stretch: Either sit on the floor with legs extended or sit in a chair. Spread your legs apart. Reach forward to touch one foot at a time with your finger tips. You can also bend the leg which is not being reached if it makes the stretch less painful.
Do a butterfly groin stretch: Sit on the floor. Pull both ankles in towards your crotch, getting your heels as close as you can to touching your crotch. You can also press your knees to the floor to increase the stretch.
Try a tush push: If you cannot do the butterfly groin stretch, you might try a tush push instead. As you stand, keep your feet as wide as possible and hold onto the back of a chair. Push your tush to one side and hold. Then push it to the other side.
Do a shoulder stretch: Pull your elbow across the front of your body, towards the opposite shoulder, pressing against your arm as you do so.
 You can do this alone or assisted. Move into a stretch, then release for a moment and contract the muscles in the area. Release the contraction and relax the muscles while moving into the stretch again. You should be able to stretch a little farther with each repetition. If you have assistance, instruct the person to push your limb lightly into the stretch to help your muscle lengthen more.

