 There are plenty of outdoor playtime options. Play tag, catch, or make up an adventure. If you’re a younger, ask your older sibling to teach you how to do cartwheels, throw a ball better, give you tips on kicking a soccer ball, or whatever else they might be good at.


If you’re older and are playing with a much younger sibling, try planning out a scavenger hunt by hiding little toys or other objects around the yard. Try having them look for certain flowers or leaves. Remember to keep an eye on them and don’t hide anything in any potentially dangerous areas.
Go on bike rides together, or for a walk or jog around the neighborhood, as long you have permission from a parent. If you’re taking care of a younger sibling, make sure to keep an eye on them and don’t leave them behind.;
, Do special, unique activities to add diversity and interest to the time you spend together. Find a nearby hiking trail and plan a day to go exploring. If you don’t have your own swimming pool, find a nearby recreation center or a beach.


Try going to a museum together, especially if either of you have an interest in a particular subject. For example, if you're older and can drive, and your sibling loves science, take a trip to a museum of science within driving distance. If you love art and want to share that interest with your sibling, ask them to go to a nearby art museum.
Go roller skating or ice skating together. If you skate but your sibling doesn't know how, try to teach them, or vice versa.
 Cooking and baking together is a great way to have fun while working on cooperation skills. Make fun shaped snacks, such as cookies or sandwiches. Make sure you get a parent’s permission, and supervision if necessary, to use the oven or stovetop.
 Use blankets, boxes, or sticks and longs to build an awesome fort. Build it inside or outside, depending on the space and materials you have on hand. Tell ghost stories, play a board game, or just hang out and talk in your new special clubhouse.


Consider asking a parent, relative, neighbor, or other handy adult to help build a more permanent fort or treehouse outside.
 Get creative, and look up various crafts that you both might enjoy. Make a volcano, an art project for your parents, or anything else that interests you. Paint or draw, and think about working together on a project like a comic strip.


You could try making sock puppets, candles out of broken crayons, modeling clay out of household items, or a miniature city out of boxes and cans.
Make sure you have a parent’s permission when doing arts and crafts and get help from them to avoid making a big mess.

