 To advertise using Instagram, you will first need to create a company account for your business. To do so, go to the Instagram website using your mobile phone. Create an account by entering your e-mail and creating a password. Specify this is a business account rather than a personal account.You will have to select a username while creating your account, so be sure to select a name that reflects your business. For example, if you're advertising a bakery called Roy's Deli, your name could be something as simple as "RoysDeli."
Unfortunately, sometimes names are already taken. If the name of your business is unavailable, you will have to tweak the name slightly. For example, if "RoysDeli" is taken, try things like "TheRoysDeli" or "RoysDeliOfficial.";
, After creating your Instagram business, you will be asked about your ad objectives. There are several options to select, so choose the one that matches your Instagram objectives most closely.If you're trying to get users onto your website, select the Clicks to Website objective. If you want users to take a specific action on your website, such as buying a product, select Website Conversions.
If your business involves mobile app sales, click Mobile App Installs to get more downloads. If you want more user engagement with an app you're selling, click Mobile App Engagement.
If you're promoting videos of your product, select Video Views.
If you're trying to promote a specific message with your app, select Reach and Frequency.
If you want more engagement with your Instagram account, select Page Post Engagement.
 After choosing your objective, Instagram will let you choose your target audience. You will be presented with a variety of filters such as location, age, language, gender, behaviors, interests, and so on. Try to use the filters to target as specific an audience as possible for your ad campaign.For example, if you're advertising for a local business that sells preteen clothing, target people who live in your town or city. Target a younger audience and look for people posting about fashion and clothing.
 After targeting your ad, Instagram will let you set a schedule. You will choose how much money you'll spend on the ad and when and how often it will appear.You can choose between a daily budget and a lifetime budget. A daily budget lets you decide how much money you spend per day. A lifetime budget lets you choose a total amount to spend for the full length of your ad campaign.
You can either run your ad continuously or run it for a specific set of time. If you're running an ad campaign based on something temporary, like a sale, it makes sense to only run the ad for a specific length and time.
 Optimization settings affect who sees your ad. Different factors influence when the ad shows up. Choose an objective fitting with the goals of your ad campaign.Link Clicks is what Instagram recommends. This will target your ad to specific users based on clicks to your website. This helps you identify Instagram users already interested in your company.
Impressions will simply deliver your ad as much as possible to a wide range of users. Your ad will remain on users news feeds all day long.
Daily Unique Reach delivers your ad to users up to once a day.

