 It might be more beneficial to find benchmarks and compare them with current prices. When buying, some people recommend a general rule of thumb that the second best CPU (or mother board, video card, etc.) is often the best in cost/performance, though this isn't a hard and fast rule. For a more objective comparison, look up benchmarks for the processor such as PassMark's list of high end processors and sort by "price performance".;
, Take note of the processor socket (ex: LGA 1150, LGA 1151, or AM3+), the memory module type (ex: 240-pin) and the RAM frequency (ex: 1066 MHz) in choosing a motherboard. CPU sockets are only compatible with particular CPUs. Some motherboards come with features such as HDMI, so look for a motherboard with these features if desired. There are different kinds of motherboards: Mini ITX, Micro ATX, ATX.


Beware of high frequency RAM. While it may at first seem that any computer part which works harder or faster must certainly be better, this is not always the case. The benefits of high frequency RAM are inconsistent and it is known to have a high failure rate.You should note the number of pins for your memory module only because of how it will connect to your motherboard. More pins does not equate with better performance. The same can be said of the processor socket: different types do not necessarily indicate performance.
 Having more RAM, or desktop memory, will offer smoother performance and shorter loading times. Choose memory that is within your budget from a known manufacturer like Corsair, Kingston, etc. There are many different memory manufacturers, but a select few make quality memory.


You will want to choose the highest clock speed (the rating in MHz) and the lowest timings as possible (displayed in #-#-#-#) -- the performance of your memory relies greatly on them.
You will want to buy enough memory to run your applications. Understand that while your games may say that 2GB is enough, what it really means is that it’s enough to run the game badly. If you want games to run smooth, generally you should overshoot the requirement. At the same time, more RAM won't always mean better performance. It really depends on what types of programs you want to run such as rendering programs and how many programs you are running at once. For example, if you are just running a couple of light to programs such as Roblox, you won't need more than 4GB for it to run smoothly. But if you are playing the newest triple A titles, try to get at least 16GB of RAM for it to run decently.
32-bit CPUs and Operating Systems can only support up to 3.5 GB of RAM; 64-bit CPUs and Operating Systems can support much more, up to many terabytes in theory. The practical limit to how much RAM you can install is a function of how many DRAM slots your motherboard has (most have either 2 or 4), and the maximum capacity of DRAM modules available to you. The specifications of the chipset on the motherboard may also state a limit, for example 32 GB or 64 GB.
Since big DRAM modules are expensive, the most important question to ask is, "how much DRAM can my programs actually use?" Very few consumer application programs can actually make use of more than 1 or 2 GB of DRAM even if you have more than that installed.
A good strategy for determining your RAM usage is to start off with a smaller amount such as 8 GB of RAM and upgrade as needed. You can always use task manager to see how much RAM is being used by each program. Remember that additional RAM creates a substantial amount of extra heat and will cause more power usage.
If you are building a 64 bit system, check the price of the DRAM modules that your motherboard requires, in 4GB, 8GB, and 16GB sizes. If the 8GB modules are the least expensive per GBB, buy one to start with. For a gaming system, you want to research the specs on the games you will be installing, and see how much DRAM these games can actually use, then buy the next larger size. For example, if a game says it wants 4GB of DRAM, buy a single 8GB DRAM. On a 2-slot motherboard, that gives you more than enough memory for the apps you are running today, with some room for future games with higher performance. And, it leaves you a second slot for future expansion if you ever need more; on a 4-slot board, that's 3 slots still open for future expansion. As of late 2015, 8GBB DDR3 RAM modules were only a couple dollars more than 4GB modules, so there was absolutely no reason to buy any DRAM smaller than an 8GB.
 This may be one of the most important, yet toughest decisions to make because there are so many different video cards on the market. Because there are so many, the best way to find your card is to look for reviews on cards within your budget. Use review websites such as Tom's Hardware to compare performance between video cards.


There have been some confusion on the NVIDIA cards, which are recommended by gamers. A higher number in the card name does not mean it is better. The first number is the card series, while the second and sometimes third indicate performance level.
If you really want to pump up the game, and you have a motherboard that can support it, get 2 identical cards from the same manufacturer and run them in SLI (Nvidia), or Crossfire (AMD) mode. This is generally a bad idea, however, unless you already have a top of the line card, because it's cheaper and more efficient to get a single better graphics card. However, in some cases, it may be cheaper to get 2 GTX 660s and run them in SLI.
 Games, audio, and videos require plenty of space to store the large files associated with media such as these. Read reviews on hard drives and choose the best for the price.


Faster hard drives will only affect game loading times, and even then not by much. Focus mainly on ensuring that you have enough storage space and do not prioritize hard drive speed.
SATA cards are currently the best choice because their small cables allow for better airflow and transfer speeds than older PATA cables. Look into SATA 3, SATA 6...higher is faster.
Having an SSD (Solid State Drive) impacts gaming performance hugely. They have much faster read and write times, allowing for much faster launch times and performance. However, as these storage devices are expensive, it makes sense to get both a hard drive and a SSD. Keep all your games and if you have enough room, your OS on your SSD and everything else on your hard drive.
 Check the power of the power supply. Power supplies come with either 20-pin or 24-pin connectors. Get the same number of pins as your motherboard has so that it will connect. Be sure that it meets all the recommended power requirements for your parts, such as the graphics card.


It is important to remember that most power supplies that come with cases are of low quality. Consider replacing it with one that is more powerful and more efficient as soon as possible.
350 Watts is the minimum you should expect for modern computers. More powerful components such as high-end video cards may require 500 Watts or more.
There are different standards. 80+ Bronze, 80+ Silver, 80+ Gold, 80+ Platinum. The difference is power efficiency and stability, platinum is more efficient than bronze.
 Never overlook the importance of your case. After all, it houses all the expensive parts that run your computer. Here you will want to focus on cooling.


Some cases use 80mm, others use 120mm fans, and some are built for both. Fans come in all sizes. Generally, larger fans produce less noise and push more air through your case. More powerful components will require more cooling, so be thoughtful of which case you purchase.
If possible, you will want to have equal pressure in your case. Usually, you will want to have back fans blowing out, front fans sucking in, top fans blowing out, bottom fans sucking in, side fans sucking in.
A mid-tower case is standard, but a full-tower case may be necessary if you have a high number of peripherals, such as CD-ROM drives and hard drives.
 With all the above components purchased, you will want an operating system which can make use of the system you have put together. When it has installed, check online for driver updates.


Windows tends to be the best operating system for gaming, though you may initially want to choose a newer version of Windows like 10 or 8.1, since these have improved performance.
Linux-based operating systems are growing and may have limited game support. Most distributions are free and lightweight, and are a great option if you have a lower-end computer or the games you want to play have a Linux version available. Many Windows games are even perfectly playable using Wine (some games may have reduced performance or bugs when run under Wine).
 Generally, with high-end computers, case fans don't cut it. Generally, liquid cooling is the best.
 This is very important. You don't want to damage your CPU. You can remove static by simply touching the outside of your computer case, or by getting things like anti-static hand pads or anti-static "watches" for some extra peace of mind.
 Putting together a computer is more complex than it sounds. Make sure you do it correctly or it will not run.
 A high quality gaming PC will usually be more powerful than a gaming console. You may enjoy connecting your PC to your high def TV to get the big screen experience with the powerful PC performance. At the same time, many veteran PC gamers prefer a monitor over a TV screen. There are many companies offering monitors such as BenQ or ASUS. A good standard resolution is 1920x1080 or for high end computers, 4K displays. As a tip, remember that some connectors support higher resolutions than others.
 PC gaming controls can be hard to learn and use for people who are more familiar with console gaming. However, you can easily connect a console controller to a PC and play your game as normal.

