 On the first day, you're getting to know everyone and adjusting to a new place. This is likely the day when you will feel most homesick and most tired as well, so if you feel any of this, it is completely normal!


Of course, don't over-think this, or you will make yourself feel really awful. Try to keep your mind off of how you might get homesick and have fun with your day.
 Making friends with your bunkmate (the person who sleeps below or above you, depending on whether or not you are on the top bunk or the bottom bunk) is easiest, but talk to some of your other cabin-mates/tent-mates too. Chances are, you will find that you and your cabin-mates/tent-mates will have at least one thing in common!


Usually, every unit has at least one camper who will say hello to everyone and make them feel included. Go up and talk to this person, and you may find yourself making friends with them!
If there's no one in your unit who says hi to every new person that comes in, step in and be that person! You'll make a lot of new friends this way and not only will it make them feel more comfortable, it'll make you feel pretty good too!
If you're feeling shy, don't forget that, especially if you're sharing a unit with people who are at camp for the first time, everyone else is probably feeling shy or nervous too. Remember, all of you (or almost all of you) are meeting each other for the first time, so it's bound to be a little awkward for anywhere between a few minutes and a few days, but things will get better as time goes by.
Don't forget that hello is the first word in a friendship. Say hello to someone. Both of you will be glad you did!

, Your counselors will probably play a few name games on the first day to get to know everyone. If this is the case, don't feel embarrassed or feel like these are games that you played in kindergarten (even if they are). Stand up and introduce yourself!


If you're going to have/get rid of a nickname, this is the time to do it. Introduce yourself by your real name, but then state what you want to be called. For example: "Hi, I'm <insert name here>, but please, call me <insert desired nickname here>."
If your counselors do not do introductions (but they probably will have some semblance of intros), introduce yourself to the people in your unit anyway. That way people will know who you are!

, This is a great way to de-stress and to get to know some of your camp-mates, and it's a great way to pass the time.
 It's not going to be easy (unless you are really, really good at falling asleep in new places), but try to get as much sleep as you can that first night. Even if you only get 10 - 20 minutes of shut-eye, every little bit counts and you'll be less tired the next day.

