 It may seem obvious, but bringing one is absolutely critical for any Christian Israel pilgrimage. Having a Bible on the tour helps Christian travelers to embrace the significance of the gospels, from the annunciation of Christ to His crucifixion on the cross at Calvary. As tourists walk in the footsteps of Jesus, this enables them to follow along verse-by-verse to gain a renewed appreciation for His sacrifice and a deeper understanding of Israel’s culture, land and people.;
, Israel’s rough terrain, rocks and sandy hills require that travelers wear comfortable, rubber soled shoes, or better yet, sturdy sandals. Travelers should dress in plenty of layers as temperatures can fluctuate significantly in a single day. Hats, sunglasses and sunscreen are strongly recommended. Dress is casual and modest, although many Holy sites require more formal attire. For men, cardboard hats are usually provided; and you have to cover your head at these sites. Women should generally wear scarves to cover their heads and skirts that fall below the knee when visiting these Holy sites.
 Choose a guaranteed tour in order to avoid having their trips cancelled or rescheduled at the last minute because of low participation. Additionally, take the time to research a tour’s itinerary to ensure a complete Israel tour experience. A few sites that should be on your must-see list include:


Caesarea, the capital of Judea under the Romans. (Acts 9.30 Acts 10 24-48)
Tabgha, where Jesus performed the Miracle of the Bread and Fish. (Matt. 13, Mark .33-45, & John 21)
The Mount of the Beatitudes where Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount. (Matt. 5, 6, 7, 8)
Ein Karem, the birthplace of John the Baptist. (Luke 1.39-80)
The Banias Spring and Waterfall, where Jesus was recognized as The Messiah by His Disciples. (Matt. 16.13 and Mark 8.27)
Nazareth and Cana of Galilee. (Luke 1.26, 4.16-29, Matthew 2.23) (John 2.1-11)
Mount Zion, where travelers can see the tomb of King David and the nearby Room of the Last Supper. (Mark 14.13, Luke 22. 10-38, Matt 26 17-29, Acts 1.13 and Acts 2 The Pentecost).

