 To do this for most lighters you'll need to buy a butane can. You can buy one of these at your local hardware store. Make sure you bleed all of the remaining fuel out of your lighter first. Turn the lighter upside down with the fill valve facing upwards. Put pressure on the fill valve and keep the lighter away from your face and away from anything flammable. Make sure the butane can nozzle fits in the hole in the bottom of the lighter. It has to fit in the upright position with the lighter on top of can. You'll want to insert the nozzle then flip the whole contraption upside down so that the lighter is under the can. Now apply pressure until you feel the metal of the lighter get cold. That means you've successfully gotten the butane inside.
For a Zippo lighter you'll have to buy Zippo lighter fluid from the Zippo online store.Keep in mind, it's probably just easier to buy a new lighter unless you are attached to your current one.
 The flint is the piece of equipment that creates the spark. It's tiny black cylinder about a quarter inch long. To replace the flint, remove the metal surrounding the flame and the spark wheel. You'll have to twist it out of position. Once you have removed the metal you'll see that there is a spring. The spring should be about an inch to an inch and a half long. The flint is the small piece of equipment that is about a quarter inch. It will be black and cylindrical. The flint is used to make the spark. Remove the flint from this spring. Now put in a new piece of flint. Reassembling the lighter is easy - put the flint in, stick the spring back in the hole, and then place the top back on.


You can buy a new flint for 75 cents online.
 To replace the flint, flick open the lighter, and pull up on the chimney. The chimney is the thing with five holes of each side of it. You'll want to pull until its all the way out. Under the chimney there should be a piece of what looks like cotton that is held in place by a screw. Carefully unscrew the screw and pull it out along with the spring and small piece of metal inside. Drop the new flint in, replace the spring, tighten the screw, and replace the box back in the lighter casing. You should be good to go. , This means you have a problem with your fuel release. You can do this with tweezers, needle-nose pliers, or anything else that works. Turn the nozzle from which the gas escapes counter-clockwise a few times. It might just be too tight. If that doesn't work you might might need to get yourself a new one. Luckily they aren't that expensive. 