 Picking at dry skin around the nail only exacerbates the problem, and often leads to hangnails. Hangnails are generally made up of dead skin around the sides of your nails, but they can include strips from the nail plate if it has become damaged. Hangnails will keep recurring if you continue to pick at the skin around your nails.Biting your nails increases the chances of spreading infection, so try to avoid this too., If you have a hangnail developing you can cut it off early before it grows and becomes an irritant. Before you do this, gently wash your hands and then soak your nails in warm water for five minutes. With your nails still wet, carefully clip the hangnails with nail clippers.Specialist cuticle scissors can be used for this if you have them.If it doesn't cut easily be extra careful and always avoid pulling on the skin., Part of caring for your hands and nails, and keeping the skin healthy and free from infections, is cleaning them regularly with soap and water. This is common sense, but it is an important part of caring for your hands and nails so don't neglect it.


Try to find a soap that doesn't dry out your skin.
 Over time, the regular application of nail polish, followed by nail polish remover, can damage your nails and skin. This is especially true if the products you are using are acetone-based, contain formaldehyde, or formaldehyde resin.


These chemicals can cause dryness and irritation which can lead to hangnails.
Look for products that are acetone-free.
 If you find that your hangnails keep recurring, or you are struggling to stick to a good nail care regime, you can make an appointment at the nail salon. You can ask for some advice on preventing hangnails or just get a manicure. Sometimes if a professional does a great job with your nails you will be more inclined to look after them yourself to keep them looking good.


Just trimming your nails regularly will help keep them in shape and prevent hangnails., Hangnails are not a serious medical problem, despite the pain and discomfort that they can cause. There are circumstances, however, when you should go to see your doctor. If an infection develops that resists a basic antiseptic or antibiotic cream then you should make an appointment with your doctor.An infection could run up your hand and cause nerve problems.Indicators of infection include redness, swelling, feeling generally unwell, fever or high temperature.

