 The best time to confess a crush? Right now. There's no use in waiting, because you're only giving your crush the opportunity to start dating someone else, or find someone else to crush on and forget about you. If you know someone and like them, the perfect time is now.


The only time you should wait is when your crush is currently dating someone. Telling someone that you like them while they're in a relationship can make things kind of complicated. It's best to find someone else to crush on for a while, and return to the person later when they're single.
 Despite what you may think, telling someone that you like them shouldn't be a big deal. Even if they don't feel the same way, it'll be such a nice thing to say! Especially if you approach them in a calm and cool way, being gentle and humorous in your approach. Make it easy and try to take the pressure off yourself.


Build yourself up before you do it. Look in the mirror and say, "I got this. I'm a cool person my crush should want to be with." Then go put yourself out there.
Look your best on the day you decide to do it. Wear clean, stylish clothes that fit you well and flatter you, and make sure you're fresh-breathed and clean-haired., If you don't know your crush very well, it can be kind of difficult to confess a crush. The last thing you want to do is to take the risk of saying so and having them say, "Wait, who are you?" If you're not sure whether or not the person knows you, go up to them and introduce yourself.


It doesn't have to be complicated: "Hey, I don't know if you know me real well. We're in the same grade, I think we had Mr. Robinson's class last year? Well, I've wanted to tell you something for a while..."

, The best way to have this conversation is in private. It's important that both of you feel as comfortable and calm as possible, to avoid making this a super-big-deal, but it's also good to have a little privacy so it's less embarrassing.


Passing between class periods can be a great time to catch someone really quickly. Right after class or when you're leaving the same class is a good time, too. Or, you could try to sit together on the bus. Just hang back and say, "Hey, can I talk to you for a minute?"
Never go up to a crush while they're in a big group, or try to confess in the middle of the lunch room while everyone can hear you. It can be really awkward if it doesn't end up going well. It's a private conversation, so do it one-one-one.
 If you say, "I like you" and your crush says, "I like you too," then what? Are you just going to say, "Well....cool." No! It's important to have a specific date in mind so you can follow up.


If a dance is coming up, say, "Cool, I hoped maybe we could go to the dance together. Would you like to?" If there's nothing school related, or you're not in school, say, "I hoped we could get a bite to eat sometime. Want to go for pizza this Friday? Say around 7?"
In some cases, it might be better to not rush it. Don't expect much of an answer if you tell someone that you like them. They may want to think about it for a while. That's a good thing. Don't worry about waiting.
 The big moment doesn't have to be a big deal. There's no point in making it complicated, or super-creative, when the content is "I like you." Just introduce yourself, smile, and say, "You know, I've wanted to say this for a long time. I've always noticed you, and you seem really cute and sweet. I find myself thinking about you. I like you a lot."


Don't follow a "script" when you Try to talk. Lots of people who feel awkward in this situation think it will be better if they're reading from a script, but that'll just make you sound like a robot. Talk naturally, as if you were talking to one of your oldest friends.
 You know what? It happens. It's happened to everyone. Being rejected might sting a little at first, but it's a whole lot better than wondering what might have happened if you'd have said something, but didn't. You'll grow up, you'll move on, and so will your crush. Just get out there and go for it.


If you get rejected, just smile and say, "Well, I'm glad to know at least. Have a good rest of your week." Never complain, scoff, or do anything dramatic. Even if you're feeling upset, at least you know now and can move on.

