 Gin & Tonic is one of the most popular drinks of all time, thanks to its wonderfully simple, yet refreshing quality. To make the perfect Gin & Tonic you will need: a large highball glass, plenty of well-frozen, clear ice cubes, a lime, a chilled bottle of tonic water and the best quality gin you can get your hands on. To prepare:


Roll the lime on the counter beneath your palm to release the juice, then use a sharp knife to cut it across the center. Turn one lime half onto its flat side and cut it into four equal quarters.
Take one lime wedge and squeeze its juice into the highball glass, then drop the wedge into the glass. Grab your bottle of gin and pour a double measure (1.5 oz.) into the glass. If you don't have a measuring cup, you can use the cap of the gin bottle. Three cap-fulls plus an extra dash is about right.
Fill your glass with as many ice cubes as you can fit, then use a long spoon to stir the drink for a couple of seconds. Open the bottle of chilled tonic and pour 3.5 oz. into the glass. Stir the drink again to combine the gin, tonic and lime juice.
If needed, add more ice to bring the level of the liquid about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) away from the rim of the glass - don't add any more tonic water. Take another lime wedge and slot it onto the rim of the glass to garnish. Add a clear straw, if desired.;
, Rum & Coke is another classic drink whose flavor can vary depending on the type of rum you use - you can go for regular dark rum, spiced rum, coconut rum, whatever you feel like! The traditional Rum & Coke uses light rum, and when garnished with a lime wedge becomes a drink known as a Cuba Libre. To prepare a perfect rum and coke:


Fill a highball glass with well-frozen, clear ice. Measure out 2 oz. of your chosen rum and pour it over the ice.
Measure 4 oz. of Coke (or another cola brand) and pour it into the glass, stirring with a long spoon as you pour.
Garnish the glass with a lime wedge for a Cuba Libre, or with a maraschino cherry if using spiced or coconut rum., Vodka & Cranberry is a tasty alcoholic treat whose vibrant color makes it a popular choice in bars across the world. Though many people prepare Vodka & Cranberry juice just using those two ingredients, the traditional recipe also calls for a dash of Rose's lime juice and a dash of orange juice, to really enhance the flavor of the cranberry. To prepare:


Half-fill an old-fashioned glass with clear, well-frozen ice. Measure out 1 oz. (or 2 oz. if you want a stronger drink) of vodka and pour it over the ice.
Add 4½ oz. of cranberry juice and, if using, a dash of Rose's lime juice and a dash of good-quality orange juice. Serve with one or two straws and garnish with a wedge of lime.
 Although whisky buffs may decry the notion of mixing whiskey with anything other than ice, this drink is growing increasingly popular thanks to its crisp, flavorsome nature. It's most commonly made with Jameson Irish whiskey, but also works well with bourbon and rye whiskeys. To prepare:


Fill a highball glass with clear, well-frozen ice. Measure out 1.5 oz. of your chosen whiskey and pour over the ice.
Open a fresh, chilled can of ginger ale and pour into the glass, until the level of the liquid is about 1 centimeter (0.4 in) away from the rim.
Squeeze the juice from a lime wedge into the drink, then drop the lime wedge in. Use a long spoon to stir the drink, and serve.