 Leave your bangs loose in the front and comb them flat. Make sure that every piece of your bangs is free from the hair tie.;
, Slide your index and middle fingers down to that point and use them as a guide while cutting.
 Start trimming in the middle of your bangs and then work your way to the ends.


If you are unsure about length, always start off cutting your bangs longer. You can always go back and make them shorter.
 Blunt, straight-across bangs should be slightly shorter in the middle and slightly longer at the ends. Similarly, side-swept bangs should be shorter on the side with the part and longer on the other side.
 Use a makeup brush or paper towel to clean hair off your face and clothes, and sweep up any hair that may have fallen on the ground.
 It's best to trim your split ends when your hair is wet so that you can make a more even cut. Use a conditioner in the shower to help remove tangles.
 Be sure to remove any existing tangles prior to cutting.
 Tie one section with a hair tie, and start cutting on the other side.
 Slide your index and middle finger down to the bottom of each section and use your dominant hand to cut as much length off of each piece as you would like.
 If you want to create a tapered, natural look, then hold your scissors at a slight angle. If you want a more blunt, dramatic look, then cut horizontally.
 Before cutting the other side, brush both sides of your hair with the comb to determine how short you should be cutting.
 Inevitably, one side may be slightly shorter than the other, so double check in the mirror to make sure that you have made an even cut.


Use a hand mirror to check the back of your hair and make sure that you have cut in an even line.
 Brush your hair one more time and cut any stray hairs that may have been missed the first time.
 Cutting your hair while it is wet will help ensure that you make an even cut and don't miss any parts of your hair.


Alternatively, you can dry your hair and style it as you normally would. Cutting your hair while it is styled can help you determine where the layers fall and decide how short you want your layers to be. This may be helpful if it is your first time trimming your own hair.
 Fasten the top section with a large hair clip or rubber hair tie.
 Comb each piece and then slide your index and middle fingers down each section of hair to use as a guide. Trim each piece at a slight angle to create a tapered look.


If you are unsure about length, always cut your longer at first. You can always go back and remove more length later.
 Allow your hair to fall down and frame your face as it normally would.
 Hold your scissors at a vertical angle to create a tapered cut. The layers should be shorter on the inside (near your face) and longer on the outside.
 Make additional cuts if necessary.

