 Whenever you're trying to lose weight or reduce your body fat, it's a good idea to start a journal. You can include a variety of information, but this log will help you see and measure your success.


Start a journal prior to making any changes. You might make notes about what you plan to change, your timeline and any other ideas or thoughts you have.
Think about keeping track of your foods and beverages. Logging what you eat has been shown to help people stay on track. It will also allow you to see any slip ups or help you determine if what you're eating is affecting your success.Also keep track of any measurements you take like your weight.
 When you're trying to lose weight and reduce your overall body fat, it's important to monitor your progress. One way to check in is by weighing yourself weekly.


Studies have shown that weekly weigh-ins help people stay on track and on target. You're more likely to be successful long-term if you continue to self monitor and check-in with your weight.Ideally, weigh yourself about one to two times a week. It might be harder to see accurate progress if you're weighing yourself daily due to normal fluctuations in body weight.
For the most accurate measure of your progress, weigh yourself on the same day of the week, at the same time and in the same clothes. First thing in the morning, before eating or drinking, before dressing, but after using the restroom is best.
 As you continue to lose weight and reduce your overall body fat, you'll notice that it's not only the scale that's changing. If you're losing body fat, you should also notice the size and shape of your body also changes.


Prior to starting your diet and exercise program, take a variety of measurements. These will help you see where you're losing the most fat.
Typical places to measure and track are: waist, hips, bust, thighs and upper arms. Keep these measurements in a journal. Every month, re-measure yourself to help you track your progress.
If your weight is staying the same, but your measurements are smaller and you have been working out, you are likely gaining muscle and losing fat, which is a healthy improvement.
 If you're able, get your body fat percentage tested and evaluated. This is the percentage of your body that is made up from fat. As you continue to diet and exercise, this percentage should decrease over time.Many gyms offer body fat percentage as a free service to their members. Ask a staff member or trainer at your local gym for more information.
You may also ask your doctor or physician if they have the equipment in office to evaluate your body fat percentage.
There are devices you can purchase for home use, but these typically take a lot of experience and practice using. Your margin of error will most likely be much larger compared to a health or fitness professional doing the tests for you.

