 The first part of re-doing your kit is to start taking it apart. Take off the rims and the skins with the drum key, leaving the shell of the drum with the hardware attached to it. With the Phillips head screwdriver, remove the screws on the inside of the drum – the drum lugs should fall right off leaving only the wood shell with the vinyl wrap on it. Make sure to put all of the hardware form each drum into its own bag. Stay organized so that when you re-assemble your drum it can be done easily.;
, This step requires some dexterity. The vinyl wrap on your drums has been glued on with adhesive, so ripping it off too quickly can leave gouges in your shell. To safely remove the vinyl, first find the seam where the vinyl wrap is glued together. Then, take a hair dryer, turn it up as hot as possible, and point it at the seam. The vinyl wrap should start to bubble up and fall off. IT WILL BE HOT, so use pliers to slowly pull the vinyl wrap away from the shell. Continue to use the hair dryer and pliers to heat up and pull off the entire vinyl shell.
 There will most likely be some gunk on the shell from the glue – especially where the seam was. Take the hair dryer and a paint scraper and melt/scrape away the glue.
 Sand the shells of the drums until they are completely smooth. Be sure to use 220 girt or lighter sandpaper, as anything heavier can damage the shell.
 Paint a cool design on the shells. It may be a good idea to use a stencil or to outline the design with chalk to before you paint.
 Tape up the bearing edges and the holes where the hardware was before you apply any stain or polyurethane.
 Take your preferred color of stain and stain the shell using a foam brush. The more you use, the darker it will be. Stain will run very quickly, so start out using small amounts!

, Apply a large amount of polyurethane. Using a foam brush (NOT the same one you used for the stain!), apply even strokes on the shell. Let the Polyurethane dry for about 4 hours, then take some light sandpaper and gently sand the dried polyurethane. Wipe the dust off, and apply a new layer. Repeat this step several times.
 Depending on what your stain/paint job looks like, you may want to get your hardware powder coated. This is a complex process that is usually best left to professionals. Find an instrument shop near you and bring in your drums to have them powder coated.
 Once the polyurethane has dried and the drums have been powder coated (if you chose to powder coat), put your hardware back on the drum shells and put the drum heads and the rims back on.
 Your drums are now refurbished and ready to be played!

