 Substitute a casserole dish and microwave for a pot and stove.









The steps are generally the same as blanching on the stove with a few minor tweaks. Instead of keeping your green beans whole, chop them into small pieces. Put salt on them directly instead of in the water.
Fill a casserole dish with 3 quarts of water. Place two cups of green beans into the dish and cover. Microwave the casserole dish for 5-6 minutes, stopping to stir at least twice throughout the cooking process. Shock and dry the beans as you normally would after boiling.
This technique is best for smaller quantities of green beans and for when you may not have access to a pot or stove. Know that microwaving may not be as effective as boiling when trying to achieve crunchier and brighter green beans., Replace your pot and water with a basket and steam.









Use a pot with a tight lid and a steam basket that holds food at least three inches above the pot. Put an inch or two of water in the pot and bring it to a boil. Place your green beans in a single, even layer so that the steam reaches all parts quickly.Cover the pot with the lid and keep the heat on high for about 3-4 minutes. Shock and dry the green beans how you typically would.
Steam blanching, while a nice alternative to water blanching, is not as efficient. It takes approximately 1 1/2 times longer to steam blanch green beans than to water blanch them.Using steam is typically advised for specific vegetables, such as broccoli or sweet potatoes. Though you can blanch all vegetables in steam, water blanching green beans is quicker and more effective.
 Though this is not a substitute for water blanching, it is a nice flavor supplement to your already crispy green beans.








After drying your beans, heat a large skillet over medium heat. Add oil and butter and Sauté the mixture for about 30 seconds. No exact measurements are required; just add enough oil and butter to fully coat your beans. Add the beans and continue to Sauté until they are coated in butter and heated through. Remove the beans from the skillet and add lemon zest, salt, and pepper.
For even greater flavor, mix red pepper flakes and garlic into your butter before sauteing your beans.

