 The most important part of digital filing may be ensuring that all your files aren’t lost if a hard drive shuts down, a computer is stolen or a password is lost. Purchase a removable hard drive or a cloud storage system.


Better yet, create two backups. If you are going paperless, you should have an on-site and off-site backup, in case something happens to your office or computer.
 For businesses that log a lot of information daily, you should back up every hour.
 Scan each important document when it arrives in the mail to create a digital backup and filing system. For extensive digital filing projects, buy a document scanner with an automated document feeder and filing software to save time., Remember that it is safer to write down your password on a piece of paper stored in your wallet or on your desk than it is to store it on a document on your computer. A digital thief is less likely to go into your office than onto your computer.
 If you want to control all of your files directly, you should simply set up folders and sub-folders on your computer’s hard drive. If you want to jump into a previously created document management system, buy a filing software and scan program with Optical Character Recognition (OCR).


OCR means that the scanned documents that are created are searchable. The computer can read the documents when you type search terms into the software program.
OCR filing systems will allow you to search for documents using text that might be within the document, such as a store name or a subheading.
 Name each document in the same manner, including the subject, date and other pertinent information. For example, receipts should have the store name, date and products you purchased.
 If you are filing using folders instead of a document management system, you will need to separate your documents using dates, subjects or projects. Create a new subset of folders to organize folders that have too many documents in them.
 Once you download files, name them according to your system and file them immediately for easy access.
 Apple computers come with color-coded tags for frequently used files. Both Apple and Windows computers often come with automatic backup and search capabilities.

