 To mix this drink you will need a chilled cocktail shaker, a chilled cocktail glass, a cocktail spoon, a cocktail strainer, a jigger, chilled gin, chilled vermouth, plenty of ice, and an olive.


Measure out 4 small jiggers of gin.
Measure out 1 small jigger of vermouth.;
, Place the ice in first and then add the vermouth. Swirl the vermouth around to coat the ice cubes and the shaker. Pour in the gin.Leave the olive out, and add it once you have poured the drink into the serving glass.
If you want your martini to be extra dry, pour out the excess vermouth using a strainer before adding the gin.
 Stir the drink for about 60 seconds so that the drink will be chilled sufficiently, diluted properly, and mixed thoroughly., Using a strainer to keep the ice in the shaker, pour the drink carefully into the serving glass., You can place the olive on a cocktail toothpick, or you can just drop it directly in the martini. Serve the drink immediately., There are many combinations of vermouth and gin you can use to make your martini. Different combinations will lead to different results. Vermouth comes in a sweet version (known as Italian Vermouth) and a dry version (known as French Vermouth). Most classic gin martini recipes will call for dry (French) vermouth, but it is OK to experiment with sweeter vermouth.Keep in mind that using a dry vermouth does not make the martini a “dry martini,” this refers to the amount of vermouth used in the cocktail not the type of vermouth being used.
A good rule of thumb is to simply stick to high quality ingredients. When purchasing gin, don’t just purchase the cheapest gin you can find. If you’re going to make good cocktails you will need good ingredients.
 Martinis are meant to be nice and cold so you should do everything you can to help get it as cold as you can. To help with this you can place your cocktail shaker and your serving glass in the freezer for 10-20 minutes.


Keep your serving glass in the freezer while you mix your martini.
Make sure that the vermouth is chilled in the refrigerator, and that you get your gin as cold as possible by storing it in the freezer.
 A garnish is something that is added to a food dish or a drink just before serving.The purpose of garnish in a gin martini is to add a little extra flavor to the drink. Common garnishes for a gin martini are a lemon twist, an olive, or a few cocktail onions on a toothpick. Which one you choose is a matter of personal preference, but some would say that an olive is the classic addition.If you use cocktail onions, it is recommended to use frozen ones as they help keep the drink colder and lends a better flavor to the drink.
If you choose to use an olive, don’t use olives that are packed in oil. This will create a gross oily layer on the top of the drink. It is probably also best to use an olive that is de-seeded, and not stuffed with anything (e.g. pimientos, cheese, garlic).
 When making your martini, you’ll want to use lots of ice. Don’t leave the ice sitting out while you gather all of your ingredients together, as this will result in ice that is already melting (and will dilute the drink too much). Instead, keep the ice in the freezer until after you have measured out all your ingredients, then add it to the shaker, and quickly add all of the ingredients.Lots of ice will cool the drink quickly without diluting it too much.
Don’t be stingy with the ice. If you don’t use enough ice your martini won’t be nice and cold, as it is supposed to be.
 Although you can serve up your martini in any kind of glass you want, doing it properly requires that your martini be served in a martini glass, which is a v-shaped glass with a long stem (like that of a wine glass)., Whether your martini is wet or dry simply refers to the amount of vermouth you are using in the drink. A dry martini will have about 4 parts gin to 1 part vermouth. If you want to make a wet martini you can add 4 parts gin and 2 parts vermouth or more.In the past, a martini used to be made with equal parts gin and vermouth. Today, this is typically called a fifty-fifty.
Experiment with different ratios. Although some gin martini connoisseurs may have strong opinions about ratios, you should make a cocktail that tastes good to you. If you are making a drink for someone else, and you don’t know what they like, then stick to the classic 4 to 1 ratio.
 Using a jigger will help you get the ratio of gin to vermouth right, which will improve the taste of the drink. If you are making a classic dry martini you will want to use 4 parts gin. This means that you could fill up the big or small half of the jigger 4 times (you will have added 1 jigger of vermouth). Pour it over the ice and vermouth.If 4 jiggers is too much for your drink, you can cut this amount in half. For example, you could do 2 jiggers and then half of a jigger full of vermouth.
If you want to measure your ingredients in ounces, for a dry martini, you could also use 2 ounces of gin and only use the vermouth to “rinse” the ice cubes and shaker.
 This is completely optional, but some people like to make their gin martinis “dirty” by adding the brine that comes from soaking olives.To make a dirty martini, you will use as much olive brine as you would vermouth. If you are using the 4 to 1 ratio you would add 4 parts gin, 1/2 part vermouth and 1/2 a part olive brine.
The more olive brine you add the dirtier your martini becomes.
 Stirring does three things for a cocktail: it blends the ingredients together, it chills the drink, and it helps to dilute the drink properly (by helping the ice melt a bit). Therefore, it is important to stir the drink with the right tools using the right technique.Hold the spoon between your thumb index and middle finger of your dominant hand.
Insert the spoon into the drink all the way (until it touches the bottom of the shaker) and use your wrist to rotate the spoon around the glass.
Stir for about 60 seconds. If you are holding the spoon correctly, it will be moving around in the glass, but will also be rotating on it’s axis between your fingers.
You could also shake the martini, which will cool the drink faster and produce a cloudy-colored drink, but most connoisseurs believe this is not how a martini should be made.
 If you are using an olive, you can stick the olive on a cocktail toothpick and place it in the drink or you can just drop the olive right in. If you use a lemon twist, run the twist around the rim before balancing it on the rim of the glass. If using pickled cocktail onions, you can place one or two frozen ones on a cocktail toothpick and place it in the drink.To make a lemon twist, cut a lemon in half using a sharp knife, and then cut off a thin slice from the middle (where the lemon is largest), remove the pulp from the peel of this slice, and cut through the peel so that the lemon peel is no longer a complete circle. Twist the lemon into a curly-q shape.