 Adhesive options include roll-on, brush-on or even spray-on glues that are specifically designed for mounting photos. For spray-on glues, it's a good idea to use a respirator mask to avoid inhalation of fumes.You can mount the photo on a typical mount board, or use cloth if you're mounting something like a map and plan on rolling it up.
 When wet mounting a photo or print, you'll want to cover your entire work area with a tablecloth, newspapers or a piece of plywood so you don't damage the furniture underneath. You wouldn't want your adhesive sticking to your table or desk and peeling the surface off., Position the photo on the mounting board where you want it to be using a ruler to make sure the bordering edges are the same size, and make small pencil marks just inside each corner on the front of the mounting board. The marks will be used as guides when you turn your photo over after applying the mounting adhesive.


If you don't want a border on your mount board, then you won't have to worry about the bordering edges being even.
 Lay your photo upside down on a flat surface. Spray, rub or brush the glue on the photo in an even coat making sure to cover the corners and edges. Spread the adhesive evenly on the entire backside of the photograph ensuring that there are no lumps or dry spots., Flip the photo over onto the mounting board using the guide marks where you first measured to line it up evenly. Make sure it is centered on the mounting board before pressing down.
 Work your way from the center of the photo to the edges — first to one end, then the other and so on. Then gently lift the corners to get rid of any bubbles, and press from the center to each corner. You can use certain tools such as a rolling pin, round bottle or brayer to smooth the surface and to guarantee an even-textured finish.Because glue can seep out from underneath the print, place strips of paper over the edges and corners of the photo so the tool you're using doesn't get glue on it.
 In the likely occurrence that adhesive seeps from the edges of the photo, wipe it away with a damp cloth. Wring out the towel so you don't soak your finished product. Cover your mounted print with a heavy flat object (like a book) to keep it in place while it dries, and read the directions on the adhesive you used for the recommended dry time.