 Anxiety after a dog bite may be connected to the trauma of the event, but it may also relate to reasonable safety concerns. Address any anxiety relating to your heath immediately after the bite — ask your doctor if you need a tetanus shot or any other treatment to ensure you stay healthy. Then take steps to make sure you feel secure and safe. For instance, you may feel safer if you have the number to Animal Control programmed into your phone, or if you have a First Aid kit in your backpack or purse.

When you visit friends or family with dogs, you can ask them to make sure the dogs are securely in another room or somewhere that you don't have to worry about them escaping and compromising your safety.;
, It’s completely reasonable to be afraid of dogs and to avoid them after a traumatic experience, especially right after it occurs. It’s okay if you don’t want to walk down the street where it happened, don’t want to visit your family member who has a big dog, or otherwise take steps to limit your exposure to dogs. Give yourself time to regain a sense of equilibrium or balance before trying to face your fear., Take deep breaths and relax your body. Clench your fist and visualize all your feelings of anxiety concentrating in your fist, leaving the rest of your body. Hold your fist for five seconds, then release it, and as you do so, imagine your anxious thoughts melting away.You can also try pulling your shoulders up into a shrug, focusing your anxious thoughts there, holding them for five seconds, then releasing them along with your anxiety.
You try these exercises any time you feel anxious or are near a dog.
 When you start to feel yourself getting anxious or thinking scary thoughts, stop what you’re doing. Go on a walk, call a friend, listen to music, or do a hobby that helps keep your mind occupied.Refocus your thoughts, and if your mind starts to race, say to yourself, “Stop. Don’t go into that vicious cycle. I have power over my thoughts and I have the power to put myself in a better headspace.”

, Try not to think of what you should or could have done in order to prevent getting bit. Don’t think of the situation as your fault. Instead, and only when you’re ready, try to learn about dog body language and tips for preventing bites in the future.Say to yourself, “The dog’s owner really should have had him leashed and supervised. It was a frightening moment, but I can use this opportunity to empower myself. I will gradually regain my confidence.”

, Have regular chats with a good friend, family member, a faith leader, or another member of your community whom you trust. Simply spending time with people you care about offers a sense of comfort and will help you regain confidence.You don’t need to talk about your traumatic experience every time you talk to someone. Just staying connected with your support circle helps. You should talk about the experience at some point, but you don’t need to focus only on your trauma in conversations with your loved ones.
 Think about seeing a counselor if you have trouble concentrating at work or school, avoid social situations that you used to enjoy, are unable to go outside, or are unable to discuss your trauma at all. A counselor will help you break patterns of anxious thinking, find new ways of understanding your trauma, and help empower you to overcome your fears.Mental health professionals can also help you consider whether a prescription medication, either in the short- or long-term, would be beneficial.