 Tempered blades have been crafted a particular way so that they can be very finely sharpened and withstand the force of combat. They are considered to be functional, battle-ready weapons.They are also extremely expensive, especially those with historical designs, with prices ranging anywhere from $500 to several thousands of dollars.Unless you are a serious collector or a purist, go with a non-tempered sword.
These are far more affordable and look just as great hanging on your wall.;
, Many collectors and enthusiasts want a sword that is historically accurate for decorative purposes. However, just because it’s ornamental doesn’t mean it can’t be used, and whenever a sword is within reach it poses a potential danger, especially if you have children in the house.


The answer to this predicament is a non-functional replica based on a historical design.These look great, but they're not usable. The blades are dull, the swords are lightweight and the designs are too flimsy to withstand any kind of force.
 Authentic swords are available to be purchased, although the price tags on them are usually rather steep. However, if you have the money, these are a fantastic collector's item. Do your research before you commit to buying a historical sword to make sure you are getting the real deal.


Many establishments or private sellers will provide certificates of authenticity.
If the sword you have your eye on doesn't come with one of these certificates, ask why.
 They are either completely original designs or they are based on descriptions pulled from literature and other works of art. These swords look great on the wall and are relatively affordable.


For example, you can easily obtain a fantasy replica of Frodo’s sword Sting from the Lord of the Rings trilogy.A huge range of other options are also available, especially online.
 Some people want a mostly-decorative sword that can be taken down from the wall and used, if the owner so chooses. These swords are called functional swords – they are battle-ready and forged like real weapons. These tend to be on the pricier side, but the quality is generally quite high.


Functional swords may come with blades that are sharpened, others may not. Be sure to find out from the manufacturer.
If a functional blade does comes unsharpened, you can easily sharpen it yourself. It is a real weapon. However, if you’re concerned about safety, leave the blades dull.
 Swords are extremely dangerous and should be handled and displayed with extreme caution. If you are doing a wall mount, consider mounting the sword high enough so that it can't be reached (especially by children).


A wall mount with a glass case enclosure is the ideal way to hang an ornamental sword.
Even if you don't have small children, speak to everyone in your home about safety around the sword.

