 Money can go a long way in helping a charity reach out to poor children, but you should think about where you want your money to go to. Many charities allow you the option to choose how to spend the money. You can decide to send your money towards:


Food
School tuition and fees
Medical care
Books and toys
Clothes
Clean water
Shelter
Supporting an orphanage

, There are many different children’s charities. Some are focused towards a specific cause, such as education or healthcare. Others are for the general welfare of children. Before you donate money to a charity, research the charity to make sure that they provide the majority of their funds to their cause. Check Charity Navigator to see if they have at least a three star rating.Some reputable charities include:


UNICEFChildren in NeedSt. Jude’s Children’s Research HospitalChildren’s Miracle NetworkYouth Law CenterReach Out and Read, While you can give out of your own pocket, you might also want to encourage other people to donate as well. Advertise your charity of choice to friends and family. Encourage others to chip in so that your money can have a larger impact. You might consider publicizing your cause through:


Social media such as Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram
Blogs
Video appeals
Your personal website

, One great way to raise money for children is to sell something and give the proceeds to charity. You can set up a stall in front of your house, at a school, or during a farmer's market. Advertise your sale as a charity benefit. You may find that strangers are willing to buy things just to help out a good cause. Some different types of sales include:


Yard sale
Hand-crafted goods such as bracelets or scarves
Bake sale
Lemonade stand

, Crowdfunding platforms allow you to set up a special page to raise money for a nonprofit of your choice. These webpages can attract many small donations from a large pool of people. There are many crowdfunding websites that specialize in fundraising for charities. You might consider using:


RazooCausesFundIt.Buzz (UK)Indiegogo