 If you're right-handed and using right-handed clubs, the left side of your body, particularly your shoulder, should point toward your target. If you're left-handed and using left-handed clubs, the right side of your body should point toward your target.


The side of your body closer to your target is your front side (front arm, front shoulder, front leg), while the side away from your target is your rear side (rear arm, rear shoulder, rear leg).





;
, You should stand so that the ball is ahead of your head. Standing so the ball is even with your head ("on top of the ball") or behind it will cut into your distance and make it more likely that you will hit the ball offline.
 Your feet should be wide enough apart that the distance between the outside edges of your feet is greater than the distance between the tips of your shoulder blades, with the ball parallel with the inside heel of your front leg. The wider your stance, the wider an arc you can swing a driver in.
 There are 3 ways you can grip a golf club: interlock, overlap and 10-finger grip. Most beginning golfers should probably use either the overlap or interlock grip, with the rear hand lower on the grip than the forward hand. Hold the club so that your hands aren't pressed forward or gripping it at an odd angle behind the club head. You want to have the club face strike the ball squarely instead of at an angle that will cause the ball to veer left or right.
 Your forward shoulder should be about the same height above your rear shoulder as your forward hand is above your rear hand at the club grip. As you lift your shoulder upward, you should shift more of your weight toward your rear leg.


If you have trouble maintaining the proper angle with your shoulders, briefly remove your rear hand from the grip and briefly put it behind your rear knee. This will automatically lower your rear shoulder. You can then put it back on the driver grip again.






Following these steps successfully will cause the head of your driver to strike the ball at a shallow angle and lift it off the tee. Because the tee raises the ball off the ground, you don't need to hit the ball with a downward stroke as you do with an iron or wedge on or off the fairway.







