 Work a starting chain of 13 chain stitches.









You'll need to start your work by tying a slipknot onto the hook. If you do not know how to do this, see the "Tips" section for more detail.
You can also check the "Tips" section for instructions on working a chain stitch.
 Skip the first stitch of your previous row, then work one single crochet into each of the remaining stitches until you reach the end of the row.









When finished, this row should have 12 stitches.
Check the “Tips” section for more information about working single crochets.
 Work one single crochet decrease across the next two stitches of the previous row. Single crochet once in each of the next eight stitches, then work another one single crochet decrease into the final two stitches of the row.









When finished, you should have 10 stitches in this row.
If you do not know how to work a single crochet decrease, check the “Tips” section for instructions.
 For the next row, simply work one single crochet into each stitch of the previous row.









This row should have a total of 10 stitches.
 Work one single crochet decrease into the first two stitches of the third row. Single crochet once into each of the next six stitches, then work another one single crochet decrease into the last two stitches of the row.









There should be eight stitches in this row when you finish it.
 Work one single crochet into each stitch of the fourth row to complete the fifth row.









This row should also have 8 stitches, just like the previous row had.
 Continue working rows with two single crochet decreases in them, separated by rows of nothing but single crochets. Repeat this for another seven rows, until you reach the twelve row.









Row six should have six stitches (one single crochet decrease, four single crochets, and one single crochet decrease).
Row seven should have six stitches (six single crochets).
Row eight should have four stitches (one single crochet decrease, two single crochets, and one single crochet decrease
Row nine should have four stitches (four single crochets).
Row ten should have two stitches (one single crochet decrease, one single crochet, and one single crochet decrease).
Row eleven should have two stitches (two single crochets).
Row twelve should have one stitch (one single crochet decrease).
 The basic triangle is finished at this point. To smooth out the edges, work one single crochet into each stitch around the sides of the work and three single crochets into the gap at each point.









Cut the yarn, leaving a 2 inch (5 cm) tail. Pull this tail through the loop on your hook and tighten it to tie off the triangle. Weave the tail into the back of the work to hide it.

