 The Notes app got a bunch of new features in iOS 9.3. If you want to take advantage of these features, such as folder storage, sketches, attachments, and more, you'll need to update your iOS device to the latest available version.


You can check for updates by opening the "General" section of the Settings app. You can also connect your device to your computer and open iTunes to check for updates.;
, You can find this app on one of your Home screens. It may be in a folder labeled "Productivity." If you can't find it, swipe down on your Home screen and search for "Notes."

, If you're running Notes for the first time after updating to iOS 9.3+, you may be prompted to upgrade your Notes service. This will give you access to the new features, but will make your notes unavailable on devices running older versions of iOS. The upgrade process may take a few moments to complete.If you weren't prompted, you can find the Upgrade button in the folders list (Tap "<" in the upper-left corner of the screen).
You'll need to be running the upgraded version of Notes to take advantage of all of the features discussed below.
 This button is in the lower-right corner for iPhones and iPods, and in the upper-right corner for iPads. The button looks like a square with a pencil on it.
 Once you've started your new note, you can begin typing and inserting objects. Tap the blank note to make the keyboard appear if it doesn't automatically.


The first line of the note will be used as the note's title on the note list screen.
 This button looks like a microphone. If you haven't enabled it before, you'll be prompted to turn it on. Dictation will allow you to speak instead of having to type your message.
 This will allow you to select from photos or videos stored on your device, or you can take a new one with your camera. See Add Pictures to iPhone Notes for more details.


If the keyboard is open and you don't the the Photo button, tap the "+" above the keyboard or tap "Done" in the upper-right corner to close the keyboard.
 If you're using an iPhone 5 or newer, you can insert a drawing into the note. Tap the squiggle line button above your keyboard to start a new drawing. You may have to tap the "+" button to see the Drawing button.After tapping the Drawing button, you'll be taken to a blank canvas and the drawing tools will appear at the bottom of the screen.
The different tools will make different styles of lines. You can tap the ruler to place a straight edge on the canvas. Use the eraser to erase part of your drawing by "scrubbing" it out with your finger. You can change the color by tapping the currently-selected color.
See Draw in iPhone Notes for details.
 With the upgraded Notes app, you can send content from other apps directly to any of your existing notes, or create a new note from it. For example, you could open a photo in your Photos app and create a note from there, or open a web page in Safari and turn it into a note.


Open the content in the app that you normally use. Not all apps support sending content to Notes, but many do. For example, to send a photo from your Photos app, just open the picture you want to send to Notes.
Tap the Share button. The location of this button varies depending on the app you're using.
Select "Add to Notes" and then select the note you want to add it to. By default, it will be added to a new note. You can enter text to add alongside the content from the app.
 By default, the Notes app will list all of the notes in your iCloud folder. This is the folder that contains all of the notes you have stored in iCloud.
 You'll find this button in the upper-left corner. All of your notes folders will be displayed, along with the number of notes inside of each.
 You'll be prompted to choose a location for the folder. You cannot create folders inside of other folders.
 Notes stored on your iPhone are not synced with other devices, while notes stored in iCloud are available on all of your connected iOS and OS X devices.
 You'll be prompted to enter a name for the folder.
 You'll find this at the top of the list. Selection bubbles will appear next to each of your notes.
 You can move multiple notes at once, but they'll all go to the same place.
 You can choose from any of your existing folders, or you can create a new one.
 Select the folders you want to delete and tap "Delete." You will be prompted to delete the entire folder and all of the notes inside, or just delete the folder and keep the notes. If you keep the notes, they'll be moved back to your iCloud folder.