 Wake up early on the weekend and make a nice breakfast for your partner. If they love pancakes, make them pancakes. If they enjoy savory meals in the morning, perhaps make them a fancy omelette. Use a tray to bring them breakfast in bed. You might like to include a love note and a rose or flowers from the garden.


Make them blueberry pancakes. You will need one and three quarter cups of flour, two tablespoons of sugar, a teaspoon of baking powder, half a teaspoon of baking soda, half a teaspoon of salt, two large eggs, a cup of milk, a cup of sour cream, a stick of butter, a half teaspoon of vanilla extract, half a teaspoon of lemon zest, and a cup and a half of blueberries. In one bowl, sift together all of the dry ingredients. In another bowl, whisk the wet ingredients. Make a well in the bowl with the dry ingredients and gradually pour in the wet ingredients while whisking everything together into a batter. Next, fold in the blueberries. Finally, heat up a skillet, pour on some butter, and cook your pancakes for about thirty second per side or until they look done., Make a little gift bag to go in their bag or briefcase. You could include their favorite cookies, coffee, and a love note or some silly jokes to get them through the work day.If your partner works outside, you could include some hand warmers in the survival kit.
If your partner works in an office and tends to get a lot of paper cuts, you could include some band aids in the survival kit.
 Draw a certificate for “best partner” or “best boyfriend” or “best girlfriend.” You can draw the certificate on a piece of construction paper or design one on your computer using Microsoft Word or InDesign. The important part of the design is to clearly state that your partner is the best. Once you have made your certificate, put it on their work desk so that they are constantly reminded of your love and appreciation., If your partner has a sweet tooth, bake them their favorite kind of cake. If they like chocolate, find a really nice chocolate cake recipe. If they are a fruit lover, bake them a fruity cake. Use icing to write words of love on top of the cake., If your partner is really stressed out from work, consider surprising them with a certificate to your local spa. There are typically many types of certificates that can be purchased. Consider the kinds of treatments they enjoy such as massage, manicure, pedicure, or water therapy, and look at the price range for these treatments. Considering your budget and what they enjoy, purchase an appropriate spa certificate.
 Using some nice paper or a card, write a small note expressing your love for your partner and put it in their car, office, or some other place they might not expect it. Be sure to put it somewhere they will see it but also not expect it, such as on their car dashboard or on top of their keyboard at work.