 A good way to approach this is to not let it be a big, terrifying ordeal. Remember that, even if your parents don't agree yet, marijuana is completely legal in some states, has never caused an overdose, and is non-addictive. It doesn't have to be a big deal. So keep the conversation light from the opening lines onward to prevent them from thinking they should be worried:


"I wanted to talk to you guys about something before you find out, and I know that I can trust you to listen."
"This isn't a big deal, but I wanted to let you guys know that I smoke marijuana occasionally."
"I know you guys trust me to make good decisions, and I just wanted to talk to you a bit about my decision to smoke marijuana.
 Did you know that the National Cancer Society promotes the fact that marijuana kills cancer cells?Marijuana has been used to successfully treat insomnia, glaucoma, chronic pain, slow Alzheimer's, reduce and control seizures, and increase creativity.Like most plants in the world, marijuana has surprising medical benefits we are only now discovering.


Because marijuana research is relatively new, new studies are coming out all of the time. Google "marijuana studies" every now and then to get more concrete evidence for your discussion if needed.
 Marijuana has been maligned for years not because it is dangerous, but because it is misunderstood. However, new studies are showing that marijuana has very few negative side-effects, and no long-term health issues arise from chronic usage other than a slight disposition towards gum disease.Be ready with these facts, and the articles to back them up (see "Sources and Citations" below) to head off any worries of "health effects."


There are almost no known cases of marijuana attributed deaths in the world and has no known effect on mortality rates.
 If you take marijuana purely for recreational enjoyment, then it may seem more difficult to convince your parents that weed is okay. But, when compared to other "acceptable" leisure-time substances, like alcohol and tobacco, marijuana is far safer.It is also non-addictive.


There is no evidence that being high causes criminal behavior. But alcohol is a factor in 40% of all violent crimes in the United States.Whereas tobacco use significantly decreases lung capacity, marijuana has been shown to actually increase user's lung capacity., Many parents worry that weed will make their child lazy, dependent, and dull. But studies and anecdotal evidence from Steve Jobs to Willy Nelson shows this to be blatantly untrue. If you're doing okay in school, can hold down a job, and feel happy and healthy, point out that marijuana has never stopped you from being successful. Remind them that, like a drink after work, marijuana is simply a recreational activity that you enjoy.
 According to Scientific American, only 9% of users exhibit signs of cannabis dependency, and very, very few of them are "addicted."Remind your parents that you like to smoke because it helps you relax or feel better, not because you're hooked. This is an important distinction, and one that shows that you've thought about the potential risks and issues thoughtfully.
 Many parents are clueless of the new, scientific, and exciting ways in which marijuana is grown and enjoyed. From candy bars to pocket-sized vaporizers, the red-eyed, coughing stoner is slowly fading into the background. Furthermore, advances in marijuana technology have led to demonstrable good, making the scene much less dangerous and intimidating:


Greater control over strains leads to specific, medical uses of weed and more precise highs which can target specific maladies, such as the famous Charlotte's Web strain that fights childhood seizures.Vaporizers, edibles (weed cooked into food),and even topical sprays allow people to get high without having to inhale any smoke whatsoever.
Increase revenue from marijuana acceptance brings in billions of tax dollars that previously only benefited drug traffickers., Don't try to talk over your parents, or feel like you need a perfectly written speech in order to succeed. Instead, try to have a pleasant conversation, taking the time to quietly, politely listen to their side of things. Don't cut them off, even if you have a good point to make. This conversation is as much about building trust and honesty with your parents as saying the "right" things.


Ask them if they ever smoked marijuana. If so, why did they smoke? Why did they stop?
If they want to know what, why, or how you smoke, be honest. If they feel like you're hiding something, they feel like there is some dark secret that they don't know.

