 Hypoglycemic drugs act by increasing the uptake (or absorption) of sugar from the blood.A commonly prescribed hypoglycemic medication is Metformin. The usual dosage is generally between 500 mg and 1 gram once or twice a day depending on your blood sugar levels.
Metformin is the most commonly prescribed medication in diabetic patients.
 When you reduce your cholesterol levels, you also reduce your chances of developing hypertension (high blood pressure) that can lead to kidney disease. If you already have high blood pressure, you are generally advised to keep your cholesterol levels under 4.0 mmol/l.


Doctors commonly prescribe a statin called atorvastatin. The dosage is normally 10 to 80 mg a day, depending on your cholesterol levels.
You can also use red rice yeast which contains the same active ingredient as statins.
Your doctor may also put you on other cholesterol medications like fish oil depending on your cholesterol numbers.
 This drug works by reducing a chemical called angiotensin that is found in the blood. Angiotensin makes the blood vessels in your kidneys constrict, which makes you develop high blood pressure. When you take angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, your blood vessels can relax, which lowers your blood pressure.A commonly prescribed angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor is lisinopril. The normal dose is between 5 and 20 mg a day depending on your blood pressure.
In addition to lowering blood pressure, this class of drugs (the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) also has a "protective effect" on the kidneys, so the benefits are multiple.
 These drugs stimulate your beta cells’ release of insulin from the pancreas. They also increase the number of insulin receptors and make your body’s insulin mediated glucose transportation more efficient.The most commonly used sulfonylureas include:


Chlorpromazine (an oral tablet given at 150 to 250 mg per day).
Tolazamide (Tolinase: an oral tablet given at 100 to 250 mg/day at weekly intervals).
Tolbutamide (Orinase: an oral tablet given at 250 mg to 2g per day).
Glyburide (Diabeta or Micronase: given orally at 1.25 to 20 mg per day).
Glipizide (Glucotrol: given orally at 5 mg per day).
 This type of medication is only active in the presence of insulin. It is generally prescribed when other medications have not worked to get your blood sugar levels to the level they need to be at.Rosiglitazone (Avandia) is an example of a thiazolidinedione generally given initially at 4 mg per day or may be divided every 12 hours.
These medications are only occasionally used and are not necessary for all diabetics.
 If you are already experiencing kidney failure, you can talk to your doctor about preparing for dialysis in the future, hopefully years from now. Dialysis involves diverting your blood to a special machine that helps to remove the waste products in your blood while preserving the salt and water to keep you functioning properly.

