 Empty your closet by taking all of your clothes/shoes out of it. It sounds like a lot of work but trust me this is the best way to get started. You may turn some music on to keep yourself going if that helps.;
, We don’t often realize how much dust and dirt can be inside our closet even though it is mostly closed. So, clean inside of your closet with an old piece of cloth for a good start. Use air freshener to get rid of the damp.
 You might have summer and winter clothes kept altogether in the same closet. So, separate them. If you are living in a city/state where the weather is mostly warm, keep your winter clothes on your top shelf/drawer which you can’t reach easily and that is out of your sight. Do the opposite for cold weather.
, If you are a size 4 now and think you might get back into size 2, don’t mix all the sizes together.
 Keep all your whites together and as you go for darker colors arrange them accordingly. You will be amazed to find out how many of black pants and white shirts you own and don’t use them all- rather you keep buying more. Therefore, ordering them by categories will make your job easier every time you want to get ready to be somewhere and when you think you need a new white shirt whereas you already have one.
 Hangers are the best way to keep your closet tidy and so put most of your clothes in hangers. Later if you are in hurry, you can just pull the hanger out and wear what you want instead of searching it from a pile of clothes and making a mess.
 For particular outfits which are not used frequently but we keep them anyhow; like wedding dress and suits, they need extra care. You can put them in suit-covers. This way they can be better protected while being unused in the closet.
 For clothes like loose knits such as scarves or sweaters, do not put them in hangers as they might go out of shape by doing so. Keep your sweaters folded while keep socks, stockings and under garments in drawers.
 You will be surprised that you might have some clothes in your closet which you haven’t worn in a long time and don’t wish to wear them anytime in future. They might be out of fashion or not of your current size. So, no point storing them and it’s time to donate these clothes either to Salvation Army or for a garage sale or to someone who can make use of it. Make a list of clothes that you plan to donate and stack them in a box/bag. If you have emotional attachment with any clothes, take pictures wearing them and post it inside your closet or in an album before you store or donate.
 If you have shoes in your closet, make sure you keep them separated from clothes and of course according the types of shoes. For boots, it’s better to store them with winter outfits. You should also allow some room for your hats, bags and belts. Make sure they don’t take too much space while being neat.
