 Maintaining a healthy body weight through diet and exercise will take excess pressure off your knees as you go about your life.Strive to workout for 30 minutes a day 4-5 days a week for good health. This will help you kick start weight loss and increase circulation to the knee.Your doctor can advise you on a healthy weight range for your height.
Start any new exercise routine gradually so your body can get used to that level of activity. For example, if you’re sedentary, try walking once or twice a week for 15 minutes to start.
 Uneven surfaces, such as grass or gravel, can place unequal pressure on the different parts of your knee. Over time, this can cause joint pain and swelling. If you like to jog or walk outside, look for level pavement or a finished track, where the surface will be gentler on your joints., Squats and lunges can put lots of pressure on your knee joints, particularly if you do them frequently. If you want to perform squats and lunges in a knee-sensitive way, don’t bend your knees beyond a 90-degree angle.It can also help to hold the squat or lunge as a static exercise rather than a moving one., Swap high-impact exercises, such as running and plyometrics, for ones that are easier on your knees, such as swimming and cycling. This will reduce knee pressure and pain related to your feet striking the ground.If you like to cycle, make sure your bike seat is high enough. Your knee should extend completely straight when the pedal is at its lowest point., Thick-soled sneakers can provide your knees with some much needed cushion for running and jumping when you exercise. You can also buy gel inserts for added comfort.If your feet roll inward when you walk, look for a shoe with arch support to keep knee pain in check.Many sneaker stores can measure your feet and fit you appropriately for athletic shoes. Tell the fitting assistant what kinds of activities you like to do when you exercise, and they can direct you to shoes that would be the best fit for your lifestyle.
 Focus on stretching your calves, quads, and hamstrings well before being active. These muscles take pressure off your knees and kneecaps as you move. Building additional flexibility in your hips can relieve pressure from your knees, too. While no one loves stretching, you’re less likely to injure your knees if your body is warmed up before exercise.Some stretches to explore to protect your knees include hamstring curls, step-ups, the butterfly stretch, and straight-leg lifts., Center your head over your shoulders and your shoulders over your pelvis when you walk around during the day. Slouching forward while walking forces your knees to compensate, which can cause pain and swelling. Try to be conscious of your posture both as you exercise and as you go about your daily routine.Building your core muscle strength through plank exercises, yoga and Pilates are great ways to improve your posture. This will lessen extra pressure on your knees.