 The Schengen Agreement applies to Slovenia, which means that there is no border control. However, there is border control in Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus Ireland, UK and Romania. There may be checks at customs, but there are no immigration checks. If you are a Schengen member, you can gain a visa that is valid in all other countries that have both signed and executed this treaty.;
, You can find more information about airport and international bus services from the Ljubljana Bus Station website. During weekdays, connecting buses between Trieste, Italy and Kober and Piran (both Slovenian cities/towns) are often available. In addition, everyday bus trips between Trieste and Ljubljana are available, as well as trips between Gorizia, Italy and Nova Gorica, Slovenia at least once an hour. This trip can also be done by walking.
 Slovenia's main international airport is the Ljubljana Airport and the central part of the national carrier Adria Airways, which provides flights to several cities across Europe with connecting flights to Southeast Europe.


Additionally, the Irish Ryanair services flights from Dublin to Pula across the Croatian border. You can also get to western Slovenia from the Trieste Airport in Italy, and you'd need an hour's drive to get to Ljubljana by highway. You can also take the airport in Klagenfurt, Austria, or the Italian Treviso Airport which provides other entryways to Slovenia.
 There are very good connections with every neighboring country, except for Italy; there are gaps in railway connections in Italy. The most popular connecting routes are found to connect with Vilach or Vienna in Austria, Budapest in Hungary, and Zagreb in Croatia. Travelers can also use the poorer railway connection from other points in Italy, in order to reach Gorizia.


Some destinations offer special international routes, and some even provide contingency tickets that can sell out quickly, but typically they are very cheap. There are also City Star tickets for return trips that are going somewhere from Slovenia.

