 You’ll want to determine the final size of your igloo before you start building. If this is for a class project, make sure to read your instructions carefully in case your teacher wants a certain size igloo. Otherwise, consider how much time or how many materials you are willing to use to build.
 It is important that you build your igloo on a firm foundation, otherwise it may shift around and break, especially if you’ll need to move it. Make sure to consider the weight of the final igloo as well. For a lighter igloo, such as one built from marshmallows, a foam board may be sufficient. For a heavier igloo, you may need a light wooden board.


If you want to change the color of your platform, it is easier to do so before you start building. Go ahead and use markers or paint to create a snowy, white setting to build upon.
 Take a marker or pen and lightly outline the base of your igloo. You will want it to be roughly circular. To get that perfect circle, it might help to trace around the base of a large bowl or perhaps a half-circle of Styrofoam. Make sure that you are happy with the size of your foundation as it will also set the final size of your igloo.You can also cut a Styrofoam ball in half and then hot glue it onto your base. This will allow you to then build on top of the Styrofoam, guaranteeing an even, circular-shaped igloo.
 Plans can always go a bit awry. If you start to build your igloo and it is not turning out as you’d like, then stop and reassess the situation. You may need to place an entire extra layer of building materials on top of your partially constructed dome. You may need to tear it down to the foundation and start over., As you add layers onto your igloo, you will notice that more cracks and spaces will become visible. This is perfectly normal. You can try to fill these gaps with mortar, but you may end up creating a messy look. Instead, it is better to keep tightening your structure with each layer, realizing that it won’t be absolutely gap-free., Sprinkle powdered sugar or white glitter over the entire finished product. Add battery-powered lights on top of, around, or even inside your igloo. Place small figures inside or around your igloo.You can even build a series of smaller igloos around your main one, creating an igloo village.

