 For example, you can jot down the daily chores and estimate the time they might take. It seems something like this:


7 to 7:30 AM: Getting kids ready for school and preparation of breakfast (make the kids' favorite, to remind them that you keep their priorities your priority). Don't forget to kiss and hug them before leaving for school. Physical gestures matter a lot to children.
7:30 to 8 AM: Once the kids are off to school, rush back to your hubby (always wear some good scent to entice him), wake him up in the most romantic manner, take a hot, fresh breakfast tray to his bed (this will keep him cozy and warm). Softly strike his face or kiss him tenderly to wake him up without growing grumpy. A sudden, loud wake up call always disturbs the sound sleep and often leaves the person in a bad temper for the rest of the day. Enjoy your breakfast together, and have a hot cup of coffee with his favored breakfast. This, along with your warm company, will surely brighten his mood and ignite his passions for your closeness. Help him in getting ready for work, keep his laptop bag, car keys, mobile, etc. at proper place and always kiss him before he sets off for his job. All this will make him depend on you and long for you while he'll be away. Try to feed the dog, put yourself together, find your car keys and finish that report your boss needs at the same time if required.
9 AM until the kids are back: Try to finish all household chores before the return of your kids. Prepare lunch and dinner while you are alone and do not indulge in wasteful activities. Do not delay the basic chores; laundry, cleaning, cooking, shopping and the other stuff that might hinder your evening enjoyment. Go to work, drop your baby off at childcare if required. Or, if you have pre-school children at home and work from home, simultaneously work and do childcare at the same time. Pick up the kids from school at the correct time and ferry them around to any after school activities they do. If possible, multitask by picking up your dry cleaning, dropping by any elderly relatives you care for or returning library books at the same time.
When the kids are back: You must greet the kids and hug them passionately when they are back to assure them that you've missed them the whole day. Talk about their routine at school, including any interesting things happening, and encourage them to speak up about their feelings, regrets and dreams. Try to feed and spend their time helping the kids with homework before the arrival of your husband. Give them time to play and feel relaxed and vilified in the comfort of their home.
The time your hubby comes back: It is a crucial time, after the hectic day out at work, your husband needs to revitalize himself, he must feel refreshed once he enters the premises of his home. Be prepared! Refurbish yourself, wear light makeup, do your hair the way he likes, dress up nicely (enticingly) and most importantly, wear a warm smile to welcome him. Don't get disappointed if he gives you a wry or indifferent look. Get him a hot cup of tea or a chilled drink (it depends on the weather). Let him cool down and fresh en up. Do not start discussing an issue or family matter, or complain at that moment. Give him a break! If you have been working all day too, your husband can still get this special treatment, as long as he treats you equally as well as you treat him.
While he is taking a shower or a nap, be with your kids, make their favorite snack to fill those hungry bellies. Remember, a satisfied child will be a satisfying child! Children should consume around 1600 calories a day. Check with your childcare professional to ensure you are not over feeding your children and setting them on the path to obesity.
Once your hubby cools down, he looks forward to your company, and all he desires are peaceful and harmonious family moments. Engage in such activities that involve the whole family and strengthens the bond between each member. Remember, moments spent together are cherished and always remembered. Watch a movie together, play a board game to keep the fun alive, share the interesting incidents and laugh together.;
