 Begin making the curry paste by soaking the dried chilies in water for about twenty minutes until they are soft. Then slice them open and take out the seeds so that the curry isn't too hot., While the chilies are soaking, place the cumin seeds, cilantro seeds and peanuts in a pan on the stovetop over medium heat. Roast the seeds for about five minutes, swirling them around in the pan every so often so that they roast evenly.Keep the seeds and the peanuts all separate, or roast them in separate batches.
If you don’t want to roast the seeds, you can skip the step, though it will alter the flavor slightly.
If you want to simplify the process of making the curry, you can buy Panang curry paste from an Asian specialty store instead of preparing it from scratch.
 After roasting your seeds, use a mortar and pestle to grind them and make a powder. Then remove them and grind the chilies and salt to make a paste. Add the lemongrass and grind, then combine all of the paste and use the mortar and pestle to create a thick paste., Take the pork or beef and cut with the grain of the meat to make bite sized pieces. You can make long slices or small cubes depending on what you prefer., Place a large pan on the stovetop over medium-high heat. Skim the cream off the top of the can of coconut milk, then add ½ cup of the cream to the skillet. When it is bubbling and sizzling, add the Panang curry paste and mix with a large spoon or spatula.Keep stirring to fry the curry paste. If it gets thick and seems to be burning, add in a couple tablespoons of coconut cream.
Fry the curry paste for about five minutes.
 After you have fried the curry paste for about five minutes, you should notice that some oil is starting to separate from the rest of the paste. After you notice this oil, add the meat and fry, turning it over with a spatula until it has cooked, about seven minutes.If the curry seems to be burning, add more coconut milk.
 When the meat is cooked, add the lime leaves, fish sauce and palm sugar, and stir to mix the curry together. Then cook for another 3-5 minutes., Add the lime leaves, then remove the pan from the heat. Add the basil leaves, then serve while hot! You may notice that the Panang curry is a little thicker than other Thai curries; this is normal, as Panang curry is a little drier than curries like red or green curry.