 Whether you live in India or not, sending money to organizations that care for and protect tigers in India helps more than you know. The money will be used to ensure that tigers are looked after and can be kept in areas where there would otherwise be population encroachment.


It costs about $15 million a year to properly protect tigers in India.World Wildlife India (WWF-India) is an organization committed to saving tigers in India, where they work to help tigers and humans peacefully coexist, educate local communities about the importance of conservation, and perform many more efforts.Other conservation organizations in India that you can contribute to include Tiger Awareness,a UK charity that supports Indian tigers, and the Wildlife Protection Society of India.;
, You can make a difference no matter where you are in the world, especially now that the internet is accessible by so many--even from inside India. Join groups on social media websites like Facebook to show your activism in support of saving the tigers in India.


In Facebook, do a search for “tiger conservation India” (or something similar) in the website’s search bar. Make sure you click the “groups” tab underneath the search bar. Once on a group page, click “Join Group,” and depending on the privacy settings, you will either be added instantly or must wait until a group admin approves your membership.Do a search with a search engine like Google using keywords like “save the tigers India internet groups,” and you will find links to many different organizations that you can join, although most of them are general tiger conservation groups and are not specific to the tigers in India.
 There aren’t a lot of conservation groups on Facebook targeted toward the tigers just in India. If you know a few people in your area—or even just on the internet—who want to save the tigers in India as much as you do, consider starting your own Facebook group. This way you can control what the group does and how members communicate with each other.
 If you want to be more involved than just from your computer, you can join a local tiger conservation group in your community and encourage them to focus on the tigers in Indian habitats. If there aren’t any, you can start one yourself.


Book a room at a community center for a certain time of week, then post flyers in the community, such as on bulletin boards in local grocery stores, at the community center itself, at the local library, and on other community boards you see around town.
If you’re a college student, you may be able to start a group on campus if there isn’t one to join already. Do the same as if you were starting a group in a local community—book a room and post flyers.
No matter where your group meets, get the word out about your conservation group by posting it on social media as well as flyers.

