 Some people try to cut around calluses with a razor-blade or other implement to remove them. Do not try this. You could get an infection from an unsterile tool or slice deeper than intended, causing bleeding or a serious injury.Self-removal of calluses is especially dangerous for people with diabetes, which affects feeling in the extremities. An infection is a serious matter for them and they can risk losing the whole limb.Instead, make sure to keep the affected area clean. If your calluses are sore or cracked, wash and dry them and apply antibiotic or antiseptic ointment to ward off infection.
 There are a number of over-the-counter treatments that reduce calluses. Many of these rely on chemicals like salicylic acid, which is also used for warts and softens the top layer of skin so that it can be easily removed. The acid is mild and does not cause pain.Salicylic acid products include callus plasters, pads, and liquid drops.
Chemical treatment will turn the top layer of skin on the callus white. You should then be able to remove or peel off the dead tissue.Always follow the instructions for proper usage. Consult with your doctor if you are not sure how or how often to use a chemical treatment.
Do not use salicylic acid products if you have diabetes or other conditions that affect blood circulation, or if you have cracked skin near the callus. You may be at a higher risk for nerve, tissue, or tendon damage., Consider visiting a skin specialist or foot specialist for treatment. Dermatologists and podiatrists have the means to safely remove your calluses without putting you at risk of an infection or injury. The doctor can do this with a sterilized scalpel during a normal office visit. She can also assess any underlying causes of your calluses.Your doctor may recommend some of the steps above, like moisturizing, softening calluses, and exfoliation. She may also prescribe acid treatments, shoe inserts, or antibiotics to ward off infection.In rare cases, the doctor may find your calluses are caused by a misaligned bone that causes friction. You may need surgery to correct the condition.