 When your eyes are tired, try relaxation techniques. You can try the practice known as cupping or palming', which are practices that give your eyes time to rest. Sit comfortably in a chair with your back straight. Rub your hands together to make them warm. Put your elbows on table and place your hands over your eyes and close them. Breathe normally and relax with your palms on your eyes for five to 10 minutes.For your first attempt, it is recommended to set an alarm for five to 10 minutes. If after this time you feel refreshed, then this is the correct amount of time. If you don't, add an additional five minutes and observe any changes.
The pressure on your eyes should be light and comfortable.;
, When you stare at close distances for long periods of time, you should follow these stretches of time with eye relaxation techniques. You should also try to frequently increase the distance between you and the object you focus on. If not, you can overly strain the ciliary muscle of your eye, which are the ones that control the lens during the work of eyesight at a distance. You can also make yourself nearsighted, either temporarily or permanently.


The breakdown of the eye muscle changes the ability of your eyes to accommodate and ends up flattening the lenses in your eyes., Blinking provides a break for our eyes, but is often disregarded due to our heavy and long workloads. Blinking lubricates your eyes by spreading your tears evenly along your eyes. It can also help with eyestrain caused by dryness.To help with this, train yourself to blink more often to prevent dryness.Put reminders somewhere near you so you'll be reminded to do this.


Blinking also cleanses your eyes by pushing toxins off them through tears.The best amount of blinking is once every four seconds in order to spread tear film and prevent dryness., Some eye strain occurs because you look at things too long without a break, such as a computer screen or book. Take breaks and sit with your eyes closed for a few seconds to rehydrate your eyes. Try to use the 20-20-20 rule, which means that every 20 minutes, take a 20 second break and focus on something else that's 20 feet away.
 To help strengthen your eye muscles, you should exercise the muscles in your eyes. To do this, roll your eyes slowly side to side, up and down, and on the diagonals. Repeat this three to five times.


Perform these exercises a couple of times each day, especially if you are working for long periods of time.

