 Make a creamier sauce for your apples. Use whipping cream as a thickener.


Heat 4 tablespoons of butter in your large skillet over medium heat until it liquifies.
Stir in 2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons of sugar until it melts.
Place your apple slices in the skillet and cook for approximately 10 minutes, or until they brown and tenderize.
Stir in 6 tablespoons plus 3 teaspoons of whipping cream.
Lower the heat to simmer and wait for the cream to thicken after a couple minutes.
Remove the slices from the skillet and enjoy., Give your apples some extra autumn flavor. Note that you can use an equal amount of sugar in place of maple syrup if need be, as well as an equal amount of apple juice to replace cider.Line your large skillet with 2 tablespoons of canola oil and set the heat to medium.
Once the oil heats up, place your apple slices inside and saute for 2 to 3 minutes until they begin to soften.
Pour in 3 tablespoons of maple syrup and a ½ teaspoon of cinnamon and stir them in for an additional 2 to 3 minutes.
Add 1 cup of apple cider and continue to stir as the liquid comes to a boil and then reduces to a syrup.
 Use honey plus lemon juice to liven your syrup up.Heat 4 tablespoons of butter in a large skillet, using low-medium heat.
Add 6 tablespoons of sugar as the butter melts and stir together until the sugar melts, too.
Once the mixture begins to bubble, set the apple slices in the skillet and stir in 2 tablespoons of lemon juice.
Raise the heat to meat and saute the apples for about 10 minutes, stirring and flipping continually to brown their sides evenly.
After 10 minutes, stir in 6 tablespoons of honey and saute for 5 more minutes, until the liquid reduces to a syrup.
 Substitute coconut oil for butter and honey for sugar for a healthier sweet snack.Heat 4 tablespoons of coconut oil in a large skillet over medium heat.
Once the oil is hot, add your apple slices and saute until they become tender and brown.
Combine 4 teaspoons with 4 teaspoons of water in a measuring cup.
Pour the mixture over the apple and stir them together.
Continue to saute until the liquid reduces to the point of evaporating.

