 Treat them with care and look out for them. Show them you care. If they're crying wait a while then come to them.


Studies show that if you leave them crying they will learn to become more dependent of themselves and they probably won't be asking you every week for toys.;
, For example, if they are newborns, buy them diapers, cribs, baby bottles, etc. You can buy toys for them so they can entertain themselves. Just don't go overboard.
 In order to be prepared for school, you have to teach them things. A simple way would be reading a story book before they go to sleep, sing them a song, count their toes while showering, saying aloud the phone numbers of companies advertising their product on T. V. or reading the billboards on the highway.
 If you don't want a rebellious child, you have to spend time with them, not to insult them, but to compliment them.


Bad mother: *Child Chewing Food* You have to stop eating, you're getting way too fat.
Good mother: *Child Chewing Food* Here eat this. It will make you stronger.
 Instead of spending time in your phone, and being a bad example to your child, go outside with them. Encourage them to be outdoors. This will make them more active and healthier. You could play hide and seek with them or you could pretend that you are monster chasing them around. You could play with a ball or dirt. Whatever it is you choose make sure that they are in a safe area where they will hit something soft if they fall.
 If they are preschoolers, they will most likely think they are the only important people, which is fine. They will grow and they will realize there's other people that have worse problems than they do. They're at an age where they are starting to realize there's a difference between pretend and realistic. Give them their time. If you'd like you can still play pretend with them and have some fun with them.
 Some kids will tell you to go and play with them. If you say no, they'll think you don't like them or something like that. If they invite to play with them, go. Don't be a scaredy cat. Once you get there, ask them what the game is called. Then play along. If there are rules, follow them, it won't be fair for them if they have to follow your rules, but you don't follow their rules.
 If you chose their clothes for them, they will feel like they have no freedom even if it's in their home. You may not like the design that is on the shirt or the color they chose, but its their choice. No offense, but they might know a bit more about fashion than you do, and they might want to go all fashionable to school or something.


Keep in mind that you shouldn't go to stores like JCPenny or Dillard's very often because that's where they'll find the most fashionable things, and if you don't have the money, you can't buy those things.
 This is most likely to happen if you are Mexican, no offense. All you have to do is be patient. If they did something that you don't like have them explain everything and why they did it. Don't interrupt them in the middle of the explanation.
 Congratulations! But are you afraid that your oldest child will be jealous of the small one? Here's how to prevent it. Sure babies need special care, but if you spend time with both of them, you will rarely have any problems. If you are at the store buying things for the newborn, buy thing a for the older one too. For example, if you are buying clothes for the baby, buy some clothes for the five year old too. If the five year old wants you to go play outside with them, go. Take the baby with you and sit and watch the five year old play for a while, then go over to them and say, Let's play hide and seek, or something like that.

