 Play according to the spirit and letter of the rules. If you cheat, other players might not want to play with you and/or give you positions that you don't like.
 It's easy to maintain composure when things go right; when they don't real athletes step forward and stand up to the test.
 All of us make mistakes at times and they are not done on purpose. When your teammates make a mistake, don't beat them up physically or emotionally. Tell them that it's okay and that they'll do better next time. Encourage your teammates to be the best they can be, and congratulate them when they make a good play or score a goal.
 A player should be constantly looking around, taking glances at the other players on the pitch to see where the opportunities are when attacking or where the weakness is when defending. If you spot a weakness when defending communicate that to your team mates immediately to rectify the situation before its too late. If you see your team mates out of position when attacking tell them - so as a team you rectify the situation and be more effective in attack. By constantly assessing the position of other players on the pitch you will be able to decide what you should do with the ball before you receive it - this will speed up your play and make you a much more effective player.


Concentrate on your work off the ball (as a team and as an individual) more than you work on the ball as in a typical game an individual player will spend have the ball for only a few minutes in the 90 minutes of a game - the whole team will probably be in possession for less than 40 minutes so what you do off the ball is very important if you want to be a good footballer. A good team will, when not in possession, close down the opposition and cut off their options to pass to their team mates - then when in possession the players off the ball in a good team will be running into space and giving their teammate on the ball plenty of options. Work as a team and that means concentration for the whole period of the game not only when you are on the ball but also when you are off the ball.
 You need to give 110% all the time. Never be beaten because of lack of effort. Even opponents who are bigger or more skilled than you can be beaten if you out-hustle them.
 Having the 'Spirit of Sportsmanship' gives your game a bit of a boost and also earns you a bit of respect within the coaches, team and opponents!

, A player must work on all three to be the best they can be.

