 Cats with CH are prone to falling because of their disability, so it is best to have carpeted surfaces in your home.It is also wise to install carpeting and cushions under elevated spots, so that your cat has a soft landing area.If you currently have slippery hardwood or other flooring, consider getting some carpets to make life easier for your cat.
Carpets are especially important for cats with moderate or severe CH.If your cat has only mild CH, carpeting is preferred but not absolutely necessary.;
, A litter box with high sides will offer your cat greater support. The entrance should be low and free of obstructions.If your cat has mild CH, you may be able to use a normal kitty litter box.If your cat has moderate CH, you should use a low entry litter box.
If your cat has severe CH, you may need to stabilize them while they use the litter box. If you don’t have time to hold them in the litter box, you may want to use puppy training pads.
 You want to use raised food and water dishes, so that your cat can eat without too much trouble.In addition, it is best to locate their eating area in an area of the house that can be easily cleaned since there will be frequent messes to clean up.Use soft dishes so that your cat is less likely to chip its teeth.
Elevated dishes will allow your cat to eat in a more relaxed manner and reduce stress on the spine and the digestive system.The dishes should be raised between four and six inches, depending on the height of your cat. The top of the dishes should align with your cat’s lower chest.
Look for elevated dishes that are not easily tipped over.
 Since cats with CH cannot typically jump, you could use ramps to make their elevated hiding spots more accessible. Make sure the ramps or stairs are covered in carpet so that your cat is less likely to slip.You might consider installing a ramp to your sofa.
If they like the view from a window, you might consider adding a ramp that allows them to access a windowsill.
You can find folding ramps that can be moved from one location to another.You can get ramps with scratching posts.
Cat ramps and stairs cost anywhere from $20 to $120.
 Since cats with CH often have a hard time navigating turns, you may want to add bumpers to soften the blow if they run into a piece of furniture. You can get foam bumpers from home hardware and furniture stores.If you have a low coffee table with sharp edges, you could put bumpers on the corners.
Bumpers are especially important for cats with moderate or severe CH.
Depending on the severity of the CH, you may want to install baby gates. For instance, you could place baby gates in front of stairways and garage doors.

