 You will want to be wearing a skirt or dress so you can try on the spandex shorts underneath while shopping. Then you can head out to a sports store or chain store to try some shorts on.;
, You do not want to bright colours that attract attention under your skirt or dress. Also underwear will not be able to show through black, grey or navy.
 You want them to be tight enough so you can't tell you are wearing them under your skirt or dress. Also make sure they are short enough to not stick out from any of your skirts and dresses, including your short ones, but that they provide enough coverage and should cover a little bit of leg.


Be careful the spandex shorts do not ride up easily; try walking around the store in them to make sure they don't.
 If you don't wear many skirts and dresses then you will only need 1 or 2 pairs but if you wear skirts and dresses nearly everyday then get 5 or 6 pairs to ensure you always a clean pair spandex shorts to slip on under your skirt or dress.
 Basically put your whole outfit for the day minus the spandex shorts first.
 Make sure the spandex shorts are a bit shorter than the skirt or dress so they don't stick out.


Still wear underwear under your spandex shorts as the spandex shorts are not underwear themselves.
 Use a mirror to help aid you in checking your outfit is good. Do a full 360 degree rotation in the mirror.


Ideally, you should not be able to tell you are wearing spandex shorts under your skirt or dress when standing or sitting normally. To achieve this affect, the spandex shorts should not show below the hemline of the skirt or dress.
 If you need to adjust your spandex shorts anytime during the day such pulling them back down or up then do this somewhere private such as a bathroom. You don't want to seen adjusting your spandex shorts in public as that would be awkward.


Bathrooms will have mirrors you can use to help check your outfit.
 Be sure to still be careful no one can see up your skirt or dress even though your are wearing spandex shorts underneath as you are still wearing a skirt or dress. Cross your legs when you sit, hold your skirt or dress down when the wind blows and smooth your skirt or dress behind you when walking up stairs. You spandex shorts are just a backup.

