 Getting adequate sleep can help manage your anxiety. Studies show that sleep deprivation increases the creation of stress hormones, increases anxiety, and may also weaken the immune system. Avoid caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, and sugary drinks four to six hours before sleeping. These can act as a stimulant to keep you awake. Alcohol dependence has also been linked to increased risk of anxiety, and anxiety may provoke alcohol abuse, so limit your daily intake to one serving of alcohol during the day.


Avoid activities such as work or exercise three to four hours prior to sleeping. Physically and psychologically stressful activities can cause the body to secrete the stress hormone cortisol, which is associated with increasing alertness., A regular sleep schedule helps to ensure consistent, better quality sleep. Set a routine by going to bed early and waking up early to set your body’s internal clock. For example, plan to get up at 8:00 AM every morning and go to bed at 11:00 PM every night.


Stick to those times every day of the week to help get your body acclimated to being awake at certain times and asleep at other times., Before you go to bed, turn off the lights to make your room dark and primed for sleeping. Create a room that will help you fall asleep. Reduce the amount of light and noise that comes into your room as much as possible. Close your curtains or blinds to make your room dark. Also try to wear an eye mask to block out light if you can't limit all light. When you are in a dark environment, your body makes melatonin, which is the hormone that regulates sleep.


Also keep the temperature comfortably cool between 65 and 75°F (18.3 and 23.9°C). Also try to keep air circulating with a fan to stop your room from being stuffy., If you have trouble falling asleep, relaxation techniques can help relieve physical and psychological stress. Stressful activities can cause the body to secrete cortisol, the stress hormone associated with alertness and anxiety. Find the things that help you relax and make them into a bedtime ritual. Read a book, listen to calm music, or practice breathing exercises as forms of relaxation.


Struggling to fall asleep can lead to frustration. If you struggle to fall asleep for an extended period of time, change locations. Do something relaxing for a while, then come back to bed., The light that comes from electronic devices can reduce the amount of melatonin that your brain secretes. This lack of melatonin can make it difficult for your to fall asleep.


Gadgets to avoid at least two hours before bed include cell phones, smartphones, tablets, televisions, and computers.