 Psyllium is a popular natural remedy for preventing diarrhea, as it increases the absorption of water in the gastrointestinal tract, resulting in harder stool and reduced bowel movements.


To use psyllium husks, add half a teaspoon of ground psyllium to an 8oz. glass of water. Stir to combine and drink before the mixture thickens. Do this once in the morning at once at night.
As your body adjusts to the psyllium, you can gradually increase the quantity to 2 teaspoons for every 8oz of water.
 Fenugreek works in a very similar way to psyllium, as it absorbs water from the gastrointestinal tract, making the stool firmer.


To use fenugreek, mix half a teaspoon of the fenugreek seeds into an 8oz. glass of water and drink. Do this two or three times per day.
 Blueberries contain tannins which reduce inflammation and mucus secretion in the gastrointestinal tract. This helps to relieve diarrhea.


You can eat fresh or frozen blueberries, or buy dried, powdered blueberries which you can add to smoothies and cereals, or boil in hot water to make tea.
 Ginger tea and herbal teas like chamomile and peppermint have been used as a natural treatment for diarrhea for many years. They are also calming and soothing and help to keep you hydrated.


Ginger contains two substances called gingerol and shogaol, which help to slow down bowel movements and prevent diarrhea. Ginger also helps to ease the abdominal cramping often associated with diarrhea. To make ginger tea, add some freshly grated ginger to a cup of boiling water and let it steep for 15 minutes before straining and drinking. Add honey to taste. Try to drink 2 to 3 cups per day.
Chamomile and peppermint both act as muscle relaxants , producing a calming effect on the muscles of the gastrointestinal tract. This limits the number of bowel movements you'll have and will prevent diarrhea. Chamomile and peppermint teas are easily available at the supermarket and in health food stores. Try to drink two to three cups per day during pregnancy.
 Apply cider vinegar helps to kill the bacteria in the digestive system that causes diarrhea. It also contains pectin, which helps to harden the stool.


Place one teaspoon of apple cider vinegar in an 8oz. glass of water and drink up to three times a day, before eating.

