 Use the provided disc or other means to install the program and get it fully functional on your computer and operating system.


Look at all system requirements for Ableton Live. Like many other modern sound programs, this program may include requirements for an advanced sound card, graphics display card or other piece of hardware, as well as requirements for minimum memory or processing speed. Make sure that your computer has what it takes to effectively run Ableton Live.;
, Get comfortable with the controls and features of Ableton Live through reading the provided help manual or accessing tutorials on the program itself.
 The simple process of finding samples and adding them to a track the right way will help you understand how single tracks are built in Ableton Live.


Access beats, loops and other samples from available file folders in Ableton Live. One of the first steps to creating a track is to know how to locate sounds that will populate your files.
Build the track by adding samples according to rhythm and timing conventions. Through a little bit of trial and error, you should become familiar with how to drag and-drop samples into your track effectively.
 When you have mastered the art of creating the single track, you can use Ableton Live to layer various tracks on top of each other to get a more multi-functional and complex sound.
 When you have a selection of tracks that you feel represent a full sound project, you'll want to use the advanced features of Ableton Live to make the tracks into the best sound combination possible. Features for this use include a volume or amplitude model at the bottom of the screen, as well as individual green dials for each track that are featured prominently in the middle of the screen. Use these to control your various tracks and make your finished project sound better.
 Use available Ableton Live resources to crop and manipulate sound to fine-tune your project.
 If your intended use includes playing live, connect your computer to adequate sound systems and take advantage of the features that Ableton Live provides for live entertaining through sound.

