


While point-shooting sounds like a great idea (to be able to naturally point at a target), it is (for 99% of people) a very bad idea at less than touching distances. Past three or four yards, it may be impossible to get reliable hits on center-mass of a target. And remember, they say: think of the worst day at the range, you will be twice as bad as that in the middle of a gun fight!
The other option is called "flash sighting". This means you pull the gun up to the standard shooting position; focus hard on the front of your gun and when the front post (sight) is somewhere in between the rear sights, you fire! It doesn't matter where; at three to seven yards even the worst flash sighting gets center-mass hits.
Studies in police departments which train with flash sighting against departments who teach point-shooting have shown staggering results. The flash sighting police hit their targets four times as much as those who point-shoot. Average first shot times were less than one-tenth of a second slower (for those who flash sight).
Most people can use that one-tenth of a second to get that guaranteed hit instead of just putting a bunch of holes in the walls behind the bad guy. Flash sighting is something that needs to be rigorously trained, else you might return to point-shooting.
Ultimately the "point of the gun" (mentioned in choosing a good sidearm) is still important as it will decrease the amount of time required to flash sight, but since you are still using the sights it is less important.
The above info may be OK for shooting on the range, but that does not mean it will work in a real close quarters life threat situation.
That should not come as a surprise to many as Bill Lewinski of the Force Science Institute had the following info about the eye in his 2002 Police Marksman article titled: Stress Reactions Related To Lethal Force Encounters: "The eye undergoes three changes under high stress. The pupils dilate, the lens flattens and the eyes begin to move in a "saccadic" fashion...."
The thinning of the lens causes the loss of near vision and the ability to focus on the sights, so Sight Shooting won't be able to be used. And with the result that one will have no effective shooting method to use in their self defense in those situations where there is the greatest chance of being shot and killed. That is, unless they are taught an alternate shooting method such as P&S.
Sight Shooting has been taught for over 100 years, yet there are no pics or videos of it ever having been used effectively in a close quarters armed encounter.
P&S is an effective method of instinctive, fast, and accurate aiming at close quarters distances, and it can be learned with little or no training, and maintained with little or no practice. Common sense and safe gun handling apply to its use.
Basically, the index finger is placed along the side of the gun, pointed at the target, and the trigger is pulled with the middle finger.

