 Using your emulator of choice, load up the Pokémon Light Platinum ROM to start the game.


Since Pokémon Light Platinum is a ROM hack of Pokémon Ruby, you should have no problems using your old Pokémon Ruby cheat codes for it.;
, Once the game is loaded, open up your emulator’s menu and look for “Cheats,” if you’re using emulators for the iOS or Android platforms. In case you’re using the latest version of VBA (Visual Boy Advance) on PC, then you’ll find the Cheats option under “Tools.”


This is where you’ll add the codes that will allow you to play around with the game’s RNG, or Random Number Generator.
 The first code that you’ll need to enable so that you can get Infinite Rare Candies is this Gameshark code for Infinite Items: D261DC6D 197B4DC2.When this code is enabled, you will get 99 pieces/units of whatever item is in the first slot of your PC’s Item Storage. Additionally, the item will always stay on the first slot even if you’ve withdrew all of it to you bag. Essentially, you’ll have an infinite number of whatever item is on the first slot.
 You’re then going to have to add this Codebreaker Item Modifier code for the Rare Candy: 82025BD0 0044.


Since this is a Codebreaker code, it’s best that you add this to your cheat list separately from the Infinite Item code.
It is not advisable to use this code by itself since it might cause your game to crash.
 Starting up the game will lead you directly to the character creation screen. Just input your name after choosing your gender, and watch the short cutscene that introduces the premise of the game’s story.
 After the cutscene ends, your character will now be in his/her room, and you can now control his/her movements. Move toward the clock or door to trigger a conversation with the character’s mother wherein she will ask you to set the time. Just set it to any time you want using your virtual D-pad or keyboard (or actual D-pad, if you’re playing using a controller).
 Setting the time will now allow you to regain control of your character again. Now, you’ll need to go down the stairs and out of the house to trigger another cutscene that will introduce you to Professor Jasmine and two other Pokémon trainers who’ll play an important role in the story later., After the cutscene/dialogue, a member of Team Steam will attack you and Professor Jasmine. Since this will be your first battle, the Professor will ask you to choose between three starter Pokemon: Squirtle, Bulbasaur, and Charmander. Just go for Charmander since you’ll mainly be up against bug-type Pokémon at the start of the game.
 You’ll only be up against one Pokémon during this battle, and all you have to do is spam Charmander’s Scratch attack. The enemy’s Pokémon (Poochyena) should be down after about two or three attacks from you.
 As soon as you beat the Team Steam grunt, the Professor will then bring you to her laboratory and give you a Pokeball. Finish up your dialogue with her and then head out of her laboratory.
 Once you’re out of the laboratory, go up north of the town and look for an area that has tall grass. Moving inside this area will result in you encountering wild Pokemon.
 The majority of the Pokémon in this area are low-level bug-types, thus making it ideal for leveling up Charmander. Just have Charmander fight 3 or 4 wild Pokémon to increase his level to 7, which will then allow him to learn the Ember move.


Due to its high damage output, Charmander’s Scratch should make short work of any Wild Pokémon you come across at this point. If you do come across a Pokémon with a high level, you can always Run Away.
 The moment Charmander’s level goes up to 7, you can now proceed further up north to Central City. Before you get to the city though, you will have to face three trainers who mostly have around 4–5 bug-type Pokemon.
 Don’t worry if the trainers have more Pokémon than you. Charmander should be able to take each Pokémon that he’s matched up against with one Ember attack. There’s no need to plan for a strategy for these guys since you will always get to attack first during every turn., After beating the trainers, immediately go to Central City and look for the Pokémon Center.
 Once inside, make sure to head first to the Nurse to have Charmander healed before heading to a PC.
 The PC is usually found on the Nurse’s station or on the eastern area inside the Pokémon Center. If you’re playing on an emulator for mobile devices, press on the A button on your screen (or its equivalent for those playing on keyboards or controllers), and it should now give you the option to open someone’s PC or your character’s PC.
 Open up your character’s PC and go to “Withdraw Item” under “Item Storage.” You should now see that the PC has Potions and Rare Candy stored inside of it. Withdraw all the Potions (there are 99 in total) to your bag by pressing on A (or equivalent button/key for those playing with controllers/keyboards) again. Doing this will result in the Rare Candy now occupying the first slot of your PC’s Item Storage.
 Now that it is on the first slot, you can get a maximum of 99 Rare Candies for every withdrawal. For those playing on emulators of touch screen devices, just press on A (or equivalent button/key for those playing with controllers/keyboards) when the Rare Candy is highlighted, and select the number you’d like to withdraw to your bag.
 You can log off of the PC as soon as you’re satisfied with the amount of Rare Candies that you’ve withdrawn.
 Use the Rare Candy by pressing on Start and going to the Items section of your Bag. Highlight the Rare Candy and press on A. On the options that pop-up, choose “Use” (press on A again) and highlight Charmander (or the Pokémon you want to level up).

