 Stomachs can often turn queasy during a race, so you are unlikely to stomach one that you don’t like when you aren’t racing.;
, Although you might like the idea of a natural product better, the synthetic product may provide better results.
 Gels are generally easier for the body to digest, since the chews require more work from the mouth and digestive system. However, some runners, bikers, hikers and other athletes might enjoy the taste of chews better.
, You should always take energy gel with a gulp or two of water.
 You may not know what your body will crave until you are in the midst of exercise., Don’t take this type any earlier or you may run out of steam before the finish line. These types of gels don’t work for everyone., Many runners describe this as a “second wind” and the results should be noticeable.
 Although most gels will say to eat a serving 30 minutes before the race, it is far better to fill your body with less simple sugars so that you build a solid store of both complex and simple carbohydrates. Gels are simple carbohydrates, and are designed to keep you going, not start you off.
 Your store of carbohydrates will last between 90 and 120 minutes, depending upon your pace. Spend some time getting comfortable in your pace, and then pull out your gel packs.
 You will need a couple of gulps of water to swallow and digest the goo. Don’t take energy gels without water, and never take them with sports drinks.
 Read the gel packet before you race to see the serving size. It is better to take more gel near the beginning of the race than the end, because digestion may stop completely near the end.


If you know your digestion stops completely and you have trouble even consuming water near the end of a race, then don’t take energy gels near the end. You can end up throwing up the gel, because your stomach isn’t capable of digestion.
 Runners who are prone to sickness should take a quarter serving every 20 minutes throughout the beginning of the race. Choose your flavors carefully and avoid using it near the race’s end., They can help you start to recover. Begin eating more complex carbohydrates at your next meal.

