 General practitioners can help provide a definite diagnosis as to whether a teen does or does not have an eating disorder. Monitoring the teen’s weight over a long period and examining internal features like the condition of the throat (which may be swollen or irritated due to repeated contact with stomach acid following regurgitation) are clues doctors can use to determine if your teen is dealing with an eating disorder.


After detecting your teenage girl’s eating disorder, getting her a thorough medical evaluation should be your first response. A clinical physician as well as a psychiatrist should be consulted in order to gauge the best course of treatment. Doctors specializing in eating disorders can help chart her recovery and write prescriptions if necessary.
In some cases, family counseling might be necessary.This is important because it both allows the teenage girl to receive the active support of her family and gives the counselor a fuller, more objective picture of the girl’s progress in fighting the eating disorder.
 If you are a teacher, coach, or other adult authority figure who is not the girl’s parent, you might talk to the teenage girl directly but you should in all cases bring your concerns to her parents, either directly or in addition to talking with the girl. They will be best equipped to take on the long-term responsibility of assisting her on her path to recovery.


The most important thing when confronting a girl about her eating disorder is not really who you are, but how you express your concerns.Carry out the conversation in a place where the girl feels secure and safe, like in her home. (For this reason, it’s best to have a family member confront the girl about her eating disorder.)
Do not broach the issue if you or the teenage girl in question are eating or in a tired or emotional state.
Be sensitive to the shame or embarrassment the girl may be experiencing due to the eating disorder, and always be gentle and understanding when confronting her about her habits. Do not blame her for her eating disorder; instead, express that you are worried about her and ask her about her feelings.
 Discerning if she’s been having regular periods is a good way to figure out if she has an eating disorder. Two or more skipped periods in girls, along with a loss of weight, is a good signal that she has an eating disorder. Remember, though, weight gain and missed periods could also indicate pregnancy.This question might sound more sensitive when coming from mom or another sympathetic female family member than from dad.
 If the teenage girl often uses convoluted or contradictory reasons as to why she’s eating a certain way, she might be covering the fact that she’s developed a disorder.For instance, she may claim that she ate a big snack before a meal and so doesn’t need to eat dinner, or claim that she will be eating later at a friend’s house.
 If a teen girl is constantly obsessing about her weight and thinks she's overweight when she is actually a healthy weight, it's possible that she is also struggling with an eating disorder. Other body image signs include buying clothes in too-small sizes (known as "inspiration shopping") and collecting images of very thin celebrities and models ("thinspo" or "thinspiration").


She may also check the mirror frequently for perceived body flaws.She may frequent "pro-ana" (pro-anorexia) or "pro-mia" (pro-bulimia) forums or pages on Tumblr or other online social media.
 She may say that she hates eating, or wishes she was thinner. She may constantly complain that she is fat or flabby. She might also express disgust, guilt, or shame about how much she eats (whether it’s too much or too little)., The girl's mood may change, and she may suffer from extreme mood swings. Some moodiness is normal for a teenage girl, but moodiness in addition to eating habits, or extreme moodiness when asked to deviate from an eating routine, may be a sign that malnutrition which attends an eating disorder is altering her behavioral patterns., Teenage girls with anxiety may suffer from anxiety related to food. She may show signs of discomfort or stress surrounding conversations about food and eating. She may also show discomfort around the act of eating, and refuse taking meals with family or friends.Anxiety may manifest as anger related to food. She may become very insecure, angry, or withdraw from a conversation about food, eating or weight gain/loss.

