 Hang your hammock between two trees approximately 10-12 feet apart. The trees should be alive with sturdy trunks of at least 12 inches diameter and no overhead hazards.


The Atlas and Atlas XL can be used to hang hammocks between trees that are farther apart due to the extra adjustment loops. However, a distance of 10-12 feet between the trees is generally ideal. Don’t use trees closer than 10 feet apart.
Check with the administrators of the park or natural area you wish you hang your hammock in first. They may have rules or regulations about hammocks to protect the safety of trees.
 Use the two straps that come with ENO’s Atlas system to secure the hammock to the trees. Wrap a strap around each tree about 5 feet from the ground.









To secure an Atlas strap, pull the multi-adjustment end (with small loops at intervals along the strap) through the end that has the label and a single larger loop. Pull it until the strap is tight around the tree trunk.You are welcome to use other straps or ropes to hang an ENO hammock in this way, but it may not be as easy, safe, or adjustable.
 Ensure you are installing the Atlas straps properly as discussed here to avoid any damage to the trees you’re using to hang your hammock. Place sticks in between the strap and the tree to lessen friction as an extra precaution.


Gather a handful of sticks from the ground in your surrounding area. They should each be about the same diameter, and about the length of your forearm. Note that you need the diameter to be thick enough that the sticks will protrude out from the bark of the tree slightly.
Hang your Atlas straps normally, then place the sticks between the strap and the tree, all the way around the trunk, about a hand’s width apart between each one., Attach your hammock to the available loops on each Atlas strap with the carabiners at either end. Adjust the hammock to your desired height by changing which loops the carabiners fit into.









Atlas straps have a combined total of 30 adjustment loops, while the Atlas XL has an additional 10 loops and 54 inches of length for maximum adjustment options.
Your ENO hammock comes with two aluminum wiregate carabiners at the ends. Visually check that they are closed, and listen for a “click” before you put weight on your hammock.Slowly sit and lay on your hammock to test the height and evenness. Move each carabiner to a higher loop if your hammock is too low to the ground, a lower loop if your hammock is too high, or one or the other carabiner to a different loop if the two sides are uneven.
 Try out the ENO Helios straps if you need an extra lightweight design for backpacking, or you have a tricky space for hanging. Helios uses a bury splice design for extra adjustability.


Secure the straps to each tree like you would with SlapStraps or Atlas, except with Helios you will pull the thin end made with strong Dyneema cord through the end with a thicker polyester strap.
Slip each hammock carabiner through the small loop end of the cord that’s labeled “Place hammock here.” Then pull the long end of the cord to adjust the hammock higher, or pull on the cord between your hammock and the tree to adjust it lower.Note that the Helios straps are designed to hold 300 pounds, rather than the 400 pound maximum that other ENO straps are designed for.