 Think about the upcoming parties and the people you'll likely see at these events. Pay attention to people or activities that you think could trigger stress or make you feel tempted to drink. By planning ahead, you won't be caught off-guard.For example, if there are certain family members that you dread seeing at a holiday event, think about ways to avoid talking with them, or avoid seeing them altogether. Consider coming early or arriving late to an event to minimize time with certain people that trigger your stress.
Don't feel obligated to attend every party that you're invited to. Consider picking events where booze will be less prevalent.
 Friends and strangers at parties may offer you a drink. While they may think that they're being helpful, it can possibly lead to temptation. Keep a beverage in hand to avoid these gestures.Feel free to tell, or not tell, others that you're staying sober when you're at a party.
Keep your glass full and in arm's reach. When you see others passing around alcoholic drinks, you'll have your own beverage to keep you focused.
 Some parties may be more focused on drinking than others. Think about who’s hosting the party, if it’s a late-night event, and where it’s located. Office parties may be less alcohol-focused than a party with your old college buddies. Don’t attend parties that just make you feel tempted at every turn.If you’re not sure what the party will be like, think about how to handle yourself while you’re there. Consider leaving when the alcohol is poured or when people keep handing you drinks.
Know that it’s okay to say ‘no.’ Avoid feeling like you should give into other people’s wishes. It’s important to focus on your health and sobriety first.
 Invite friends and family to your home where you’re better able to control the environment. Remind them that you’re staying sober, so it’s best to leave the alcohol back at home.Have a party with games, music, or other interactive activities. Make it less about food and drink only.
Consider having a party during a time or place where it’s less likely to be about alcohol. An afternoon or early evening party may have fewer expectations about drinking.

