 Dividend stocks pay out a portion of the company’s profits to shareholders. These dividends are paid at regular intervals, so they produce a regular income stream. Investors who hold a large amount of this type of stock are known as "income investors" because they prioritize regular dividends over stock value growth.Dividends do not necessarily lower the risk associated with investing in the stock market.
Before choosing this strategy, be warned that dividends are taxed as income rather than as capital gains, meaning that the taxes you pay on them will be higher than what you would pay on another type of market investment.;
, Typically, the companies that pay the highest dividends are older, more established companies. These companies no longer need to reinvest their income into growing the company, so they are free to allocate the money to investors in the form of dividends. Telecommunication companies, Real Estate Investments Trusts (REITs), and utility companies, in particular, are known for having high dividend payouts.Always check a company's stock price performance and fundamental stability before investing in them. High dividend payments are great, but only if the company paying them survives.In other words, look for very old, established companies that have been paying dividends at roughly the same or an increasing rate for a long time.
 Dividend yield can help you calculate the return you'll receive from your dividend-earning stock. It is calculated by simply dividing the annual dividend payout per share by the price per share. So, a stock that costs $50 and returns $3 in dividends each year would have a dividend yield of $3/$50, or 6 percent. This would be a great dividend yield, as the average company on the S&P 500 returns 2-3 percent., You can grow your portfolio even more by reinvesting your dividends. This means that when you receive a dividend payment, instead of keeping the money, you use it to purchase more shares in the company.Consider doing this every time you receive a dividend until you need to live on the passive returns (perhaps at retirement). Your equity and in turn your dividend payments will continue to build during this time.
 When you purchase a bond, you are purchasing a loan taken out by a company or a government. The bond issuer holds your money (the price you paid for the bond) for a defined period of time. You receive fixed interest payments, usually twice per year until the term of the bond expires. When the bond expires, the bond issuer pays you back the principal.


Bonds are a good option for passive income because they take little time to manage and you can start earning money quickly.
That said, bond prices are at a point now where their values will decline significantly if and when interest rates go up. This means that your returns on bonds purchased now may be very low when you actual receive your payments.