 Observe them and take note of some things:


Is your enemy blind? If you run towards the enemy spawn disguised as an enemy scout and the enemy walking to you does not react, take note of this. You can be more daring in front of him.
Is your enemy deaf? If you uncloak with the DR(Dead Ringer) and the enemy does not react, he is probably deaf. Take liberties with him and do not be afraid to cloak or fire around him.
Is your enemy constantly spy checking? If so, you need to ramp up your game. Put on the full Anti-Pyro Setup (DR and Spy-cicle) and take long detours to ensure you don't get flamed.;
, You have succeeded when half of the enemy's team is playing as pyro.
 From a moderate distance away from the enemy's spawn, start spamming bullet shots at enemies who come out of spawn.


For maximum results, use the ambassador and line up those headshots (particularly easy if enemy players are waiting for the teleporter to recharge). From this location, you can also snipe down enemy buildings. Be clear of your escape routes, as you can be certain that angry enemy team members will hunt you down.
pl_badwater is a good place to do this. When the blue team spawn moves up, simply camp on the roof. There are a total of 4 escape routes (2 staircases and 2 sides of the roof to jump off).
 Simply camp outside the enemy's spawn door and wait for them to come up before quickly stabbing them and disguising again.


You should rack up 3 - 4 stabs before fleeing and waiting a while before doing the same thing. Hit "TAB" to ensure that the enemy you just stabbed isn't coming out of spawn to hunt you down.
 Using feints, mislead the enemy so that they will fruitlessly chase you, and after discovering that you have vanished, they will start to worry that you are right behind them, ready to attack.


Pulling this off is simple. Wait till an enemy sees you and starts to fire at you. Cloak while running in one direction; this will leave a smoke trail. Immediately after that, run in the opposite direction. The enemy will assume you went in the first direction and spend a long time looking for you.
You can do this more easily and while taking less damage if you use the Dead Ringer, a cloaking watch that when active, when you are damaged it immediately makes you fully invisible, the damage when activated and the damage while activated are reduced by 90%, and when you bump into enemy players, instead of being only partially visible, you remain as an invisible wall.

