 If you find yourself constantly fatigued or groggy, you may be missing something imperative to your diet. It can get pretty easy to eat the same things day in and day out, but with a vegan diet, that's not kosher. Make sure you're getting enough protein, calcium, iron, vitamin everything...the list could go on, but it would exceed your bandwidth usage.


Taking a supplement is a good idea. A daily multi-vitamin will ensure that you're getting everything you need. If you have questions, talk to your local pharmacist or get in a quick chat with your doctor.
There are no reliable plant sources of B12 (B12 found in plants is usually due to contamination with animal feces), which can lead to deficiency.You should take a B12 supplement. Deficiency in best cases can cause significant fatigue/debility. In worst cases, it can increase heart disease risk and anemia and may also cause severe irreversible damage to the nervous system. A good tip is to eat foods that are fortified with B12 (check the label) such as yeast flakes, cereals and nondairy milk.
If taking Omega-3 supplements, keep in mind that most are made from fish oil, and are not vegan. Vegan sources of Omega-3s include flaxseeds, flax oil, and walnuts. 1 tsp of flax oil meets your daily needs.
 After learning how to cope with the extreme makeover in your kitchen, your budget, your past time, your health, and your appearance, make it a point to treat yourself to a new wardrobe, a vacation, or a new kitchen. You've earned it!

, There is nothing more satisfying than being acknowledged for pleasing somebody else's tummy. Treat some family or friends to a gourmet meal that you yourself prepared with all the trimmings. Be a vegan evangelist through positive demonstration (not through nagging) and help others discover how they too can make that transition from eating flesh to savoring fresh, whole foods.


That being said, those around you take into account your dietary needs, so take into account theirs. Not everyone will be thrilled when presented with a tofu steak. But that doesn't mean you need to incorporate their love for eating animals in your cooking. If you go eat at someone else's house, be sure to bring your own food just in case. Thank them if they make you a dish or even try to cook something vegan, regardless of whether or not its actually vegan.

