 Any concerns that you may have regarding a real estate agent, appraiser, broker, or any licensed professional in the real estate field, will be handled by the Ohio Division of Real Estate. You can find this by beginning at the website for the Ohio Department of Commerce, at www.com.ohio.gov.From there, find the tab for “Divisions” and click on the “Real Estate and Professional Licensing.” You will be redirected to the Division of Real Estate.Beyond being the gateway for filing complaints, this screen has a great deal of useful information regarding the real estate field.;
, Scroll to the bottom of the screen, under the heading of “How Do I?” Find the link to “File a Complaint Against a Licensee” and select it. You will be redirected to the complaint form that you need.


The Complaint Form online will accept typing. You can enter your information directly onto it, and then print the finished copy. Alternatively, you may elect to print the blank form and complete it by hand. If you choose to do that, make sure that you write very legibly in blue or black ink.
 The top portion of the Complaint Form contains information about the complaint process. It explains what the Division of Real Estate does and does not have the power to do.Before you continue, make sure that the problem you are having is one that can be resolved this way.
 The Division of Real Estate is the licensor and regulator of real estate brokers and real estate salespeople. In its capacity as regulator, the Division will use this Complaint Form to review the following:complaints against licensed real estate agents in Ohio
complaints against people licensed outside of Ohio but working in the state
concerns or complaints about unlicensed people acting as real estate agents in Ohio

, You may not use the Complaint form for any of the following concerns or complaints:concerns or problems related to condominium associations
problems with homebuilders or contractors
complaints about mortgages, banking or lending
problems with title companies
complaints against home inspectors
resolution of legal concerns or rescinding any contractual matters (you may need to take such problems to court)

, You need to fill in your name, address and contact information. In doing so, you are notified that this becomes a public record and will be shared with the subject of the complaints. The Division will not accept or act on anonymous complaints. You are then asked to identify the subject of your concerns. Include as much information as possible, including name, address and employer., If your concerns with this real estate agent originated in connection with a single piece of property, identify that property by giving its address and the date of the transaction, if any., The Division’s objective in accepting complaint forms is to attempt a resolution to your problem. If you have already hired an attorney related to this matter, the Division may contact that attorney in an effort to understand the problem., If someone else was with you through the transaction who may have observed the agent’s behavior, provide the name and contact information here., You are also asked to select from a list of descriptive phrases about the nature of your complaint. You may select more than one that apply. Some of the selections include:Won’t release a deposit / earnest money
Didn’t give me copies of paperwork I signed or requested
Has been convicted of a crime
Has lied to me about this transaction
Threatened me with a lawsuit
Discriminated against me or members of my family
Demands a commission they didn’t earn
Didn’t inform me they owned the property I bought
Promised something not in the contract
Didn’t deliver my offer / present me an offer. (Timely)

, A space is provided for you to write an account of your interaction with the real estate agent in your own words. If you need additional space, you may attach extra pages. In order for your concerns to receive full attention, it is best if you follow these tips in writing your concerns:Report mainly facts.
Try to limit emotional responses. It is understandable that you are upset but be professional in this report.
Type or write legibly. Nobody can help you with your problem if they cannot read and understand it.
Be concise, but also complete. You do not need to include every single detail that ever happened, but you do need to include enough to tell the full story.
 After the complaint form is complete, you need to print it, and then sign and date it. Your signature indicates your affirmation that all the information is true., If you have copies of sales contracts, lease agreements, or anything else that supports you complaint, you should make copies and attach them with your complaint form., After you have all the documentation prepared, you will need to scan it and save it as a single document. You can then send the form by email to webreal@com.state.oh.us.


Complaints are not accepted by email if they do not use the state’s official Complaint Form.
 Upon receipt of your complaint, the Division will begin an investigation. As part of the investigation, the Division is likely to contact you and the real estate agent to participate in a mediation. The objective is to help guide you and the agent (or employer) to a resolution that is mutually agreeable.If the investigation leads to further problems regarding the real estate agent, you may be asked to testify at a hearing.

