 Each state has specific requirements that must be met if you intend to oust the co-tenant of your property and claim the entire property for yourself. You may want to consult an experienced real estate attorney to make sure you're meeting those requirements.All states require actual and exclusive possession of the disputed property for a specific period of time, typically at least five years.
You must make efforts to actively exclude the co-tenant from the property, refusing to allow them to use or enjoy it. You also may refuse to put their name on the deed or remove their name from any ownership documents associated with the property.
As long as you are in complete possession of the property, you also must pay all property taxes. In some states, this is an explicit requirement if you intend to oust the co-tenant.
 Since your exclusive possession and attempt to oust the co-tenant generally must be open, sending the co-tenant a letter describing your intent to take complete ownership of the property strengthens your claim.Just as with a statute of limitations, the co-tenant loses their right to challenge your exclusive possession of the property in a court of law after a number of years.
While your instinct may be to sit back and quietly wait for that period to run out so you can assert complete domain over the property, an open and hostile claim is a key component of adverse possession.
Despite the fact that you may consider sending a letter to the co-tenant as an invitation to sue you, you'll have a hard time proving you've gained the right to oust the co-tenant if they were unaware that you were intentionally excluding them from the property.
 Each state has a statute of limitations that provides a deadline for a co-tenant to legally assert their rights to the property. After that statute of limitations expires, they lose the power to legally assert their rights and can be formally ousted from the property.The length of time you must maintain possession and control varies significantly among states, so make sure you understand the law in the state where the property is located.
Some states may allow you to oust a co-tenant after only three years. However, others require at least 10 years to have passed before ouster will be upheld in the courts.
 If you want to remove the co-tenant's name or information from deeds or other ownership documents related to the property, you may have to file a lawsuit to perfect your title.After a sufficient period of time has passed and you have fulfilled your state's requirements for adverse possession, the co-tenant no longer has any legal right to the property.
A quiet title lawsuit should be sufficient to have the co-tenant formally and completely removed from any legal documents related to the property.
Before you start preparations to file a lawsuit, make sure you have a skilled and experienced real estate attorney on your side to protect your property rights.

