 While both cardio and strength training are important to any exercise program, strength training is far better for boosting the metabolism.Try curls, barbell squats, and bench presses to build strength and increase your metabolic rate


To figure out how much you should be lifting, start at a low mass and work your way up. You should be able to do 14 to 22 reps of a given exercise before feeling a significant strain.
For instance, if you do 20 curls at a certain weight and are “feeling the burn,” you’re at your ideal weight. If you feel the 20 curls were easy, add five pounds and try another set of reps.
Do not lift too much. If you feel a significant strain, or feel your arms quiver while lifting, take a break and try some cardio for a bit. You could also think about reducing the amount of weight you’re lifting, or aim for a lower number of reps. Lifting too much can lead to injury.
 High-intensity interval training (HIIT) is one great way to reap the rewards of the so-called “afterburn effect.” As its name suggests, HIIT involves intense but brief periods of exercise, followed by periods of inaction or low-intensity movement. HIIT workouts encompass many forms of exercise, including weight training, running, or body weight workouts.


Start easy when engaging in HIIT. For instance, try to sprint at your top speed for twenty seconds. As you become stronger and increase your sprinting endurance, try to sprint for thirty seconds, then forty, and so on.
Keep careful track of your training intervals.Use a timer when engaging in HIIT. For instance, if you want to do twenty curls in thirty seconds, set the timer to thirty seconds, then begin your curls.
Do not sacrifice your form for the sake of speed. Always maintain proper form, especially when lifting weights.
Always warm up for about ten minutes before beginning your workout routine.
Keep your intervals short. It is impossible and even dangerous to train at your maximum intensity for long periods. Do not let your high-intensity intervals surpass sixty seconds.


Overall fitness and physical exertion can improve your BMR. Simple activities like getting up and walking while you talk on the phone, using the elevator instead of the stairs, fidgeting while sitting at your desk in office, etc. can add up in burned calories.

Make it a habit to take small walks around the house or workplace, ride your bike instead of driving, and do a few push-ups and sit-ups at the end of your day. This is because simple physical activities aid improvement in the metabolism and burn fat effectively.
 If you are sleep deprived, you could be slowing your metabolism.Adults should get at least seven hours of sleep each night.If you are not getting enough sleep, take proactive steps to increase your sleeping hours. Set a regular bedtime and wake time for yourself. Use an alarm clock to keep track of each. Keep your bedroom quiet and dark. Maintain a median temperature in your bedroom.


Do not use your bed or bedroom for non-sleeping activities. For instance, do not read, watch TV, or play videogames in bed.
Avoid large meals before going to bed. You should not eat within the two to three hours prior to going to bed.
 Yoga, deep breathing, and regular exercise are all proven methods to reduce stress. Everyone responds differently to different stress-reduction techniques. Experiment with several and find one that works for you.


If you work a difficult or stressful job, look for work to which you are better suited, and do not try to overload yourself by taking on too many optional additional projects.
Getting enough sleep is a good way to relieve stress. Try to get at least seven hours each night.
If you suffer serious anxiety or feel chronically stressed, consider consulting a therapist. Therapists are specially trained to help people find positive ways to relieve their stress and anxiety.


For instance, if you find yourself stressed because of negative thoughts like, “I will not have a good day at work,” close your eyes and envision the thought as a red balloon. Imagine yourself letting the balloon go and watching it float away into air. Then, imagine that millions of blue balloons come floating down, each containing a positive thought such as, “Today will be wonderful,” or “I am proud of my accomplishments.”

Do not drink or use drugs to relieve your stress levels.
 During winter months, fight the temptation to crank the heat. Keeping the temperature at about sixty-five degrees Fahrenheit will not only save you money on your energy bill, it will also boost your metabolic rate. During the hot season, stay cool by drinking icy beverages and chilling in the air conditioning.


If you don’t have air conditioning, keep a fan on.
If necessary, head out during the hot part of the day to a friend's house or a public place like a cafe or shopping mall.

