 Many people who identify as emo like to dye their hair black as the dark color can indicate a dark, unhappy mood. Black hair can be appropriate for a work or school setting, keeping your hair emo without going to extremes.You can go to a salon to have your hair professionally dyed. If you're unfamiliar with working with hair, this is probably the best option. If a salon is not in your budget, however, you can use store bought hair dyes to dye your hair.
Choose a black store bought hair dye. Before applying, section your hair into four even sections. You'll be dyeing one section at a time. Use hair ties or clips to secure the sections. Only have one section of hair down at a time as you dye.Pour the dye into a small bowl. Use the wands or brushes that came with the hair dye package. Dip the brushes into the dye and gently paint the dye over your hair, working from the root to the tips. You will want your roots slightly darker, so apply more dye to the top of your head. When you're done with a section, clip or tie it up and move on to the next section.
Refer to the package's instructions to see how long to let the dye sit. You can wear a shower cap over your head while you let the dye remain in your hair. Then, wash out your hair.
 Sometimes, people dye their head in brighter, more dramatic colors to convey an emo look. For example, hair may be dyed purple, blue, or red. Combined with other elements of the emo aesthetic, such as long bangs or asymmetrical hair, this can look emo. However, some people feel this is too extreme.


If you're worried about your hair at work or school, review policies ahead of time. If brightly dyed hair is against the rules, you may want to opt for black.
It's a good idea to talk to a stylist before dyeing your hair a brighter color. Brighter colors are harder to get to show up, and you may need to bleach or otherwise treat your hair before adding a color like red or blue.
 Many people who identify as emo add other colors to their hair. They may add bright colored tips or add highlights to their hair in shades like pink, red, and blue.However, if you want non-extreme emo hair, it may be a bad idea to add color. Unusual hair colors may reflect poorly on you at work or school.


If you'd like to add some color, consider adding color to a part of your hair you can conceal. For example, dye a strand of hair that's not easily visible, like a strand of hair buried in the back of your head, in a bright shade. During the day, you can keep the dyed hair hidden. When you're going out socially, you can clip parts of your hair up to show off the dyed bit, or work the dyed bit of hair into a ponytail or braid.
You can also use hair clips in bright colors, which you can purchase at many department stores and beauty shops. These can be clipped into your hair to make it look as if you have bits of your hair dyed bright.
 Layering is a key aspect to many emo hair styles. You can ask your hairstylist to layer the ends of your hair. If that's out of your budget, see if you have a friend who knows how to cut hair. Some light layering can really help you pull off the emo look, and layered hair is rarely a problem at work or school., If you have shorter hair, layering and bangs may be difficult to obtain. Many emo kids have hair that stands up in spikes. Consider spiking your hair to achieve the emo look without having to grow your hair out.In order to spike your hair, you'll need some product. If you have short, thin hair, light mousse or light hold gel will work. If you have thicker hair, you'll need to invest in a pomade or a stronger hair gel.Apply your chosen product and use your hands to work your hair into the right shape. You can run your fingers quickly through your hair, causing it to stand up slightly. Then, shape your hair into spikes as you wish.
 If you have shorter hair, you can cut it into a mohawk. You can shave the hair around one side of your head, or around both sides of your head, creating a line of hair running down the center of your scalp. If you're unsure how to do a shave your head on your own, have your hair done in a salon.