 Not every breed is well suited to spending most of its time indoors. You might want to avoid a larger, more active breed if you have an apartment in a high rise building, don’t want to spend lots of time outside, don’t have a yard, or have any other reason for wanting an indoor dog.Go with a smaller breed or mix of breeds that requires less exercise. Consider getting a Beagle, Chihuahua, Boston Terrier, Cavalier King Charles Spaniel, or an Affenpinscher.
Keep in mind that even if your dog spends most of its time inside, going on a daily walk is still one of the best ways to get exercise and mental stimulation. Any dog might get bored if it isn’t exposed to different sights and smells.
 One of the best reasons to keep a dog inside is to protect it from the heat or cold. During hot weather, it’s best to keep your dog in an air conditioned environment with access to plenty of water.During the cold, your dog is safest inside, and if it’s a shorthair breed, consider dressing it in a sweater for warmth.Be aware of the humidity during hot spells, since dogs cool themselves through panting and evaporation. If you don’t have air conditioning inside, a fan might not be enough to keep your dog cool. Make sure its water is always cold and put a cold, wet towel over its shoulders if it seems too hot. Take it to the vet if it seems disoriented or has trouble breathing.
 Older dogs often suffer from joint pain and stiffness, and keeping them warm helps to relieve their discomfort. Your older dog will be happy spending most of its time inside. Make it extra comfortable by giving it a warm blanket or heating pad.If you use a heating pad or electric blanket, make sure it doesn’t get too hot. Keep it on a low setting and check it frequently to be sure it’s warm and not hot.
Older dogs don’t need as much exercise, so keeping it active indoors isn’t too much of a concern.
 If you live in a high rise, in an extremely cold area, or just don’t want to go outside every few hours, indoor toilet training will be essential. Use potty pads in a designated area, and keep your dog on a strict eating and potty schedule.Get your dog used to a routine by feeding it at the same time in the morning and at night.
Take it to its potty pad 15 minutes after eating, and consider keeping it leashed so it doesn’t wander. Say, “Go potty!” and give it some time to go. When it uses the pad correctly, give it lots of verbal praise, pet it, and consider giving it a small food treat when you’re just starting with training.
If you see the dog going to the bathroom where it’s not supposed to, say “No!” and bring it to its pad. Don’t punish the dog or rub its nose in an accident area after the fact. If you react negatively even a few minutes after it’s gone to the bathroom, it won’t make the connection between the accident and your response.

