 Play music as you clean, and even dance to it as you mop the floor. Listen to audiobooks or language lessons.;
, Tackle one room at a time, and break that room into smaller areas. Instead of wading in without a plan, focus on one thing at a time. This makes it easier to motivate yourself by seeing your progress. Here's an example:


Remove everything that does not belong in the room by tossing it into a laundry basket or other large container. You can sort this later.
Dust all furniture and surfaces with a damp rag.
Wipe down windows and walls.
Sweep or vacuum the floors, then mop them.
 A time limit motivates many people to work faster and stop procrastinating. If you broke the cleaning into smaller tasks, as described above, set a time limit for each one.
 Each time you complete a task, reward yourself. Take a break and do something you enjoy — though you should set a time limit if you're prone to turning that break into full relaxation mode.


For daily tasks, change your routine so the cleaning is always followed by something you enjoy. For example, start saving your morning cup of coffee until after you clean the kitchen.
 If you have young kids, make cleaning into a game. For example, whoever can make the counter the shiniest or the bathtubs the whitest gets a piece of candy.
 Open the windows to bring a breeze into the house. Fresh air feels wonderful when you've been cooped up in a room that smells of compost spills and bleach fumes.
 If you plan out the meals for your household, plan the cleaning in the same way. Write down which cleaning supplies you'll need, and make sure you have them in advance. This works especially well for occasional cleaning tasks, such as going through the fridge contents or cleaning the stove and oven.
 These cloths can be washed in the washing machine, and they don't develop bad smells as quickly as sponges do.
 Wear gloves whenever you use cleaning products. They'll protect your skin and let you handle unpleasant messes more quickly.
 You'll save a lot of time if your regular cleaning involves one bottle instead of six. A solution of mild dish soap and a little liquid bleach cleans most surfaces for daily upkeep. A commercial all-purpose cleaner works well for heavy dirt.


If you're scrubbing and scrubbing and nothing's happening, you need a more specialized product. Maybe it's worth having that "blue glass cleaner for humid days" under the sink... just don't use it for your everyday cleaning.
 Wouldn't you rather clean before you splash water all over the bathroom? Make it a habit to check the sink, toilet, shower stall, and bathtub before each shower or bath. Scrub anything that needs scrubbing, then hop in the shower and rinse away the gross feeling.
 Use one scouring sponge for all dirty surfaces. Scrub the toilet last, then throw away the scourer.


If you prefer not to waste cleaning products, use washable microfiber cloths.
 If you notice a minor spill, wipe up the toilet seat and surrounding area with toilet paper and throw it away. This saves you the bother of cleaning or storing a filthy scrubbing tool.
 Wipe down all counters, the oven range, and the microwave with a single microfiber cloth dampened with a general cleaner. Dry with a second microfiber cloth or kitchen paper.
 It's not a good idea to use concentrated chemical cleaners in the microwave. Instead, insert a glass bowl full of hot water and two freshly cut lemon halves. Run the microwave for at least three or four minute, then wipe down with a cloth or paper.
 If you're dealing with clutter, keep extra laundry baskets or boxes around to use as storage. Toss objects into "keep," "give away," and "throw away" boxes whenever you pick them off the floor or clear out a closet shelf. Deal with the boxes as soon as they become full.
 If you decide to clean a mess up tomorrow, there's a higher chance you'll forget or procrastinate. Add to that the fact that spills, stains, and encrusted food are much easier to deal with right away, and you have two great reasons not to wait.