 Although it is important to express your anger, it is not helpful to become enraged. Therefore, you should develop some calming strategies to deal with anger. Some good ways to calm yourself down include:Meditating. Meditation is a great way to get focused on the present and tune into your body, which can help to defuse your anger. If you have never meditated before, then you may want to consider taking a class.

Doing deep breathing exercises. Deep breathing is a natural, easy way to calm yourself down. Inhale a slow, deep breath into your abdomen, and then exhale slowly. Repeat this process for about 10 minutes, or until you start to feel calm.
Counting to 10. Try closing your eyes and counting to 10. This should give you a chance to calm down, but you can always count to 10 again or pick a higher number such as 50 or 100 if counting to 10 is not enough., Getting plenty of regular exercise can also help to defuse your anger and improve your overall sense of well-being. Try taking kick-boxing classes, starting a running program, or taking up rock climbing.You might also consider getting a punching bag. Hitting something when you feel angry may help you to feel less angry.
Try yoga. Yoga is a great way to strengthen and tone your body while also quieting your mind. Try taking a yoga class to get some exercise and relaxation at the same time.
 During a divorce, your anger may cause you to feel isolated and you may start to withdraw socially. Instead of allowing your anger to isolate you, try to build some new social connections.Try to find ways to meet people with similar interests. For example, you might take a class at your local community college, join a book club, or get involved with a local charity.
 While it is normal to feel anger from your divorce, it is not appropriate to take your anger out on your loved ones.If you find yourself lashing out at friends and family members due to anger at your spouse, then seek help from a therapist right away. Lashing out at your loved ones can cause permanent damage to these relationships.


To determine if you are taking your anger out on others, start paying closer attention to your behavior and attitudes. If you are mistreating your loved ones and/or feeling justified in doing so, then you may be directing your divorce anger towards your loved ones.

