 Hold the closed Bible with one hand. Rest the spine on a table or counter.


Throughout the entire process, you'll need to use one hand to hold the upright, closed portion of the Bible in place. You'll need to use your other hand to open and crease each section.;
, Keep the pages closed while carefully releasing the front and back covers. Gently ease the covers open until they lie flat on the table.


Instead of letting the covers drop quickly, it would be better to slowly open and lay them down using your free hand.
 Carefully open the first 50 to 100 pages of the Bible. Lay them out flat, then slowly run your fingers up and down the gutter of the top page, pressing into the binding as you move.


This action gently stretches the stitching of the Bible binding, making the pages of the book more flexible, easier to turn, and easier to handle. As a result, the pages of the book are less likely to loosen or fall out when being handled.
 Open the back 50 to 100 pages of the Bible and let them lay flat on table. Gently yet firmly run your fingers up and down the gutter here, as well.


This back section should be just as thick as the front section was.
By alternating between the front and back of the book, you can make sure that the stitches are stretched evenly in both directions.
 Continue opening and creasing sections of the Bible using the same technique. Alternate back and forth between front sections and back sections, repeating as often as necessary until the Bible is completely and evenly split open.Once the entire book lies open on the table, the “breaking in” process is complete.
 If you ordered your Bible and had it shipped to you in cold weather, open the package and let the book sit out at room temperature overnight before handling it further.


Cold temperatures can cause the binding to become stiff and brittle, so it lacks the same sort of flexibility it might otherwise have. Opening and handling the book while it is in this state can weaken the stitches or glue holding it together.
If you purchased your Bible from a store or received it in the mail on a temperate to warm day, this step is not necessary.
 Gently buff the cover of authentic leather Bibles with mink oil or neatsfoot oil. Allow the oil to soak into the cover overnight.


Soak a small patch of a clean rag in the oil, then gently buff the oil over the entire cover using small circular motions.
Coat the cover thoroughly and evenly, using as little oil as necessary to get the job done.
Any excess oil should be removed with a clean cloth.
The cover will feel sticky at first, but after the oil soaks in, that stickiness should fade away.
 If the Bible has a ribbon bookmark, treat the end of the ribbon to prevent it from fraying. You can use either liquid seam sealant or a low flame to accomplish this task.


Seam sealant is the safest and easiest option.

Choose a seam sealant like "Fray Check" or "Fray Block."
Apply a small dab of the sealant onto the end of the ribbon, smoothing it over the raw edge in a thin, even layer.
Let the sealant dry.


If the bookmark is an acetate ribbon and not a silk one, you can use a match or small lighter to prevent the raw edge from fraying.

Hold the raw edge of the ribbon in a low flame for approximately 5 seconds, working carefully to prevent the ribbon from catching on fire.
Remove the ribbon from the flame and pinch the end with your fingers to cool it down and set the end.
 If the Bible has gilded edges, quickly flip through the pages, passing your thumb over each edge in the process. Doing so can help break apart pages that are stuck together.Most modern Bibles are decorated with art-gilt pages. The edges are dyed red, and gold foil is melted over the red dye, creating an orange-gold hue that lasts longer than painted gold gilt. Since the gold foil was melted onto the page edges, though, the pages have a tendency to stick together initially.
Quickly fanning the pages with your thumb should separate most of the pages, but if you do run across stuck pages as you handle your Bible later, you should usually be able to carefully pull them apart by rubbing the two pages in between your thumb and index finger.
 Try not to let the book sit out in direct sunlight or areas of strong heat for prolonged periods of time.


Sunlight can cause the colors of the cover and the page gilding to fade.
Heat can cause leather and faux leather to dry out and become stiff.
 Keep the Bible as dry as possible, especially if the cover is made from authentic leather. Store it in an area of low humidity.


Excessive moisture can cause leather and faux leather covers to dry out.
Humidity or dampness can also cause mold to develop.
Contact with water will cause the pages to ripple and warp.
 If you plan to stand your Bible on a bookshelf, make sure that both sides are supported by other books or bookends.


If you store the book so that it lies flat on its back cover, no extra support should be needed.
 If you plan to highlight sections of the Bible or make notes during your studies, use a pencil, ballpoint pen, or specially designed Bible marking highlighter or pen.Do not use pens, markers, or highlighters with felt tips, gel inks, or roller points. The ink produced by these writing instruments will usually bleed through the pages, causing them to stick together and making your notes difficult to read.
 The best way to keep the cover in good shape is to handle it on a regular basis. The natural oils produced by your hand should keep the leather or faux leather in good condition.


Oil allows leather and faux leather to remain supple and easy to handle. Your skin produces natural oils, though, and they alone should be enough to keep the cover in good shape if you handle it on a fairly consistent basis.
If you do not handle this particular Bible for several months or years, though, you may need to apply supplementary oil.
 You can keep authentic leather covers in even better condition by applying minx oil or neatsfoot oil once every year or two.


This is especially beneficial if you don't handle your Bible regularly.
Apply a small amount of your chosen oil using a clean rag. Buff the oil over the entire cover using small, gentle, circular movements.
Wipe away excess oil with a clean rag and let the book dry overnight.
 If you accidentally get the cover dirty, you can clean the dirt or spill away with a lukewarm water and mild liquid detergent.


Dip a clean, soft rag in lukewarm water. Ring out the excess water, then apply a dab of mild detergent to the wet rag. Rub the detergent into the rag until a mild lather forms.
Wipe the dirt or spill away with this soapy rag.
Wipe away any soap residue with a separate damp rag free of soap.
Thoroughly dry the cover with a clean, soft, dry towel. Do not allow the cover to air dry.

