 Standing up taller can make you look five pounds lighter, so why wouldn't you do it? Stand in such a way that your pelvis is relaxed and downward with the belt line slanting forward and your backside angled back and behind (not under) you. Line your rib cage up with your stomach. Roll your shoulders back and let them drop down gently. Center your head over your spine and elongate the back of the neck by imagining a string tied to and gently lifting the crown of your head.
 There are a lot of ways to put your wardrobe to work for you in the battle against the belly. By choosing the right fabrics and styles, you can create the illusion of a smaller tummy.


Pick fabrics that skim the body. These include woven cotton, silk or rayon blends and lightweight wool blends. Stay away from fabrics that cling such as Lycra and lightweight knits; they tend to emphasize every bulge.
Divert the eye. Look for garments with features that draw the eye away from your mid-section. For example, tops with detailing around the neckline or a ruffle down the center give the eye something else to focus on rather than your stomach. Wrap tops and dresses are also good choices as long as they're not made from the kind of clingy fabric you're looking to avoid.
Add a belt. Use a wide belt in a dark color to cinch your waist, separating the hips and bust and creating a waistline.
Play around with patterns. Geometric and floral patterns can be a good way to disguise a bit of a belly, but you'll have to experiment at bit with the size of the pattern; make sure it's scaled to your body size.
Put color to work for you. Yes, black is the most slimming color, but it's not your only choice. Celebrity stylist Phillip Bloch recommends purple, navy, burgundy, eggplant, charcoal gray and deep emerald for a slim look. You might also want to go monochromatic and dress head-to-toe in just one color--another way to look long and lean.
 Shapewear can give you the more fashionable figure that you're looking for. It comes in many different styles but a high-waisted bike short might be the best for keeping a tummy (as well as hips and thighs) looking slimmer. Choose a control level--light, medium or firm--that gives you the look you want without causing you great discomfort or outright pain.

