 Make sure the user knows where she is going, and that you are transferring her into the lift for this purpose. Describe each step so she knows what you are doing and can help you to the extent of her ability.
 The loops should be facing the front, and the arch of the "u" at the top. The ends of the "u" are going to criss-cross under the legs, so they need to be lowest.
 Pull the sling down between the user's back and the chair with short, tugging motions. Make sure that the end of the fabric makes it down far enough to cover the user's hips.
 The base moves on casters and becomes wider and thinner at the front below the cradle in order to be able to get closer to the user's position.


Open or close the front of the base of the lift apparatus as is appropriate in order to get the cradle directly over the user. Use a foot pedal or shifting lever on the back of the base of the lift apparatus to control the width of the legs.

Always widen the legs as much as possible before lifting.

Always lock the wheels in place before lifting.
 There may be adjustable loops for behind the user's shoulders so you can work with the user to find the most comfortable fit. Hook these loops to the hooks on the swivel bar at the end of the boom.


Cross the leg loops under the user's legs. Make sure the left loop is reaching across to hook to the right hook, while the right loop is reaching across to hook to the left hook, and that the hooks won't interfere with the motion of the boom. This criss-cross helps the user's legs stay together and keeps the user from slipping out of the sling.
Hook the flap for neck support if the user is not able to hold up their head. This flap should be left unhooked for users who cannot.
 Watch to make sure the loops are well secured. Lift until the patient is clear of the chair and check that everything is secure and comfortable before proceeding.
 Unlock the wheels and steer the lift to its new destination. Adjust the width of the wheels if necessary, but only after the boom has been raised to the correct height.


The user should be facing the mast of the lift.
 Position the user carefully so she will be comfortable and secure when you lower her into place.
 Always do this using the pump lever, for manual lifts, or the electronic controls, for powered lifts. Make sure the user is comfortable, with the hips as far back as possible if the transfer is onto another chair.
 Tug gently upwards to slid out the sling if the user is in a chair. If she is lying down, roll her gently to one side, fold the sling, then roll her to her other side to remove the folded sling.

