 Allergies, certain food she hates, and if she has any mental delays or physical differences from a typical 13 month old baby. Ask for emergency numbers because something might happen and you may need to contact the parents immediately.;
, Allow her to become settled with you by holding her until the parents leave. This will comfort both the baby and the parents.
 Change her if required, talk to her, comfort her, most one year olds would enjoy music, trying playing soft music, light beats, pick her up and try light moves, see if she enjoys this. Some babies like to move or dance by themselves, encourage them, but stay close by just in case she loose balance!

, Give her a fun toy to play with like, a stuffed teddy bear, a puzzle but beware she is only a year old and small pieces can become a choking hazard. Try peak-a-boo, with your hands or even a book. Make sure to keep her interested. Let her explore a play area on her own, while you are close by to watch.
 She might be used to eating every 2 or 3 hours. Find out how much and how often from the parents, and don't wait for her to get too hungry as this might end up in tantrums or persistent crying. When she gets hungry, feed her something from the list you made of what she likes. Feed her carefully with a spoon. Don't forget about her formula or milk either.
 This will give you a little break. Make sure it is a fun and educational channel. But do not leave it on for very long. Try toys, simple games and naps instead of television.
 Hunger? Irritation? Lack of attention from your part? Try distracting her with a stroll outside, or even inside the house, try naming different objects, see what catches her attention, try music and dance. If none of this helps and you have absolutely no idea, contact the parents and ask to them about anything they usually do that calms her down.
 Make err sure the room is warm enough. Babies can chill quickly. Undress her and place her carefully in the tub, keep all the bath items ready and within reach, find out if there is a favorite bath toy. Any unwarranted changes may upset her instead of relaxing her

, If she is playful, splash some water, play a little, enjoy, but don't keep her wet for too long.
,, Brush her hair with a soft baby brush.
 Understand and respect if parents don't want her eating something in particular - for example, very sugary foods or processed foods. Again, don't forget her formula.
 This is not the age to give "treats" of staying up late.
 Read her a story book from her room. Give her her pacifier if she wants it. Make sure that you lay her on her back and there are no items in the crib with her (loose blankets, stuffed animal, pillow) for her safety.
 Keep your voice low and soothing at all times.
 Leave the door open a little so you can hear if she wakes up.
 Clean up the kitchen if it's messy. Pick up any toys and books that are scattered about. Make sure the bathroom is clean and the floor isn't covered with puddles. The parents will really appreciate not having to clean up after their babysitter goes home. After all, that's why they hired you.
 Did she have a delayed reaction to a loud noise, or no reaction at all? Was she alert and responsive to you, as she should be? Be sure to tell them how much you enjoyed taking care of their daughter and that you hope they will call on you again.

