 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the pie, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, place a baking sheet on the center rack of the oven and allow it to heat as well.If you need to adjust the oven racks to position one in the center, do it before you preheat the oven so the rack isn’t hot when you move it.;
, Add 3 large eggs to the bowl of a stand mixer with the whisk attachment in place. Mix them on medium until the yolks and whites are fully combined.You can mix the custard for the filling with a handheld electric mixer if you prefer.
You can mix the custard for the filling by hand with a whisk, though it will take more time and effort.
 After you’ve beaten the eggs, add 1 ½ cups (300 g) of sugar to the bowl. Whisk the two together on medium until the sugar is fully incorporated., Once the eggs and sugar are mixed, pour 1 cup (237 ml) of heavy cream into the bowl. Beat the cream into the mixture on medium until it is fully incorporated.You can substitute light cream for the heavy if you prefer, but for the best consistency, don’t use milk.
 After you’ve fully combined the custard base, mix in 1 tablespoon (8 ½ g) of flour, ½ cup (113 g) of butter that’s been melted and cooled, 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of almond extract, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of lemon juice, and the zest from 1 lemon. Blend the ingredients on medium until they are fully incorporated.For the best results, use fresh lemon juice.
 Once all of the other ingredients are mixed, add 1 cup (75 g) of unsweetened, flaked coconut to the bowl. Use a spatula to carefully fold the coconut into the filling mixture until it is fully incorporated.While unsweetened coconut works best in the pie, you can substitute sweetened.
The finished filling mixture should be mostly smooth, with some chunks from the coconut.
 When you’ve finished mixing the pie filling, transfer it to an unbaked, deep-dish 9-inch (23-cm) pie shell. Be careful not to fill the crust all the way to the edge because the custard filling will rise as it bakes.You can use a homemade or store-bought pie crust. Just make sure that it isn’t baked before you fill it.
 After you’ve filled the pie crust, carefully place it on baking sheet on the center rack of the preheated oven. Let the pie bake for 20 minutes., When you reach the 20-minute mark, rotate the pie to ensure that it browns evenly. Allow it to bake for another 20 to 30 minutes or until the pie is lightly brown and the center no longer jiggles.You can insert a toothpick or cake tester into the center of the pie to test for doneness. The test should emerge moist but not coated in custard.
 To ensure that the pie has set enough for cutting, let it cool for at least an hour on a wire rack. When you’re ready to serve, cut it into slices and transfer to plates.Cover any leftover pie with plastic wrap and store in the refrigerator. It should keep for up to 4 days.

