 Popular types of encyclopedias include the Encyclopedia Britannica, the World Book Encyclopedia and the Columbia Encyclopedia. Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia that is often used in place of books in a library.


Published encyclopedias are more likely to be extensively fact-checked than online encyclopedias; however, the volumes must be published recently in order to provide accurate information.
Online encyclopedias, such as Wikipedia, are updated regularly. The reliability of the sources differs greatly from subject to subject.;
, If you are starting with little knowledge of the subject, choose a general term, like “gardening,” “Russia” or “linguistics.”

, For example, if you are researching “Russia,” find the volume for the letter “R.” Go to the section in the library that houses the volumes and move down the volumes in alphabetical order until you find “R.”, Follow the bolded subjects alphabetically until you find the word you are looking for.
 Most encyclopedias can’t be checked out. Return the volume after you have a copy of the information.


If you are using an online encyclopedia, you can print out your selection to take it with you for continued review.
 Annotate by writing important information in the margins of your photocopy.
 Write down one to five names or subjects that will help you continue your research. For example, if you are researching Russia, you may write down “Vladimir Lenin,” “Bolsheviks” or “Kremlin” to look up in the encyclopedia.


If you are using an online encyclopedia, click on the underlined words to follow links to other subjects.
 Take down the letters that correspond with those subjects. For example, to research “Bolsheviks” you will need the letter “B” and to research “Vladimir Lenin,” you will need the letter “L.”


Encyclopedia entries usually correspond with the last name of the person you are researching.
 Replace the volumes.
, Check out those books to learn more on a given subject. For example, if you are researching Vladimir Lenin, you may want to check out his “April Theses” to continue your research after you have read the encyclopedia entries.
, Write down the author, encyclopedia name, city of publication, publisher and year of publication. Also, write down the subjects and pages that you referenced.


Some encyclopedias do not list authors. If any of the above information is not available, you can skip it.
 “Article Title” Encyclopedia Name (in italics). City of publication: Publisher, Year of Publication. Page numbers. Print.”


For example, “Murphy, Karen. “Russia” Encyclopedia Britannica. London: Encyclopedia Britannica, 2009. 504-509. Print.
If there are multiple authors, list the first author with the last name, then first name. List subsequent authors with the first name and then the last name.
 “Article Title” Encyclopedia Name (in italics). City of Publication: Publisher, Year Published. Website Title. Web. Date Month Year Accessed.


For example, Murphy, Karen. “Russia” Encyclopedia Britannica. London: Encyclopedia Britannica, 2009. EncyclopediaBritannica.com. Web. 24 Mar. 2014.
Try to find all the information listed. If it is unavailable, leave it out. Online encyclopedias rarely list authors.
 Encyclopedia Name (in italics), Edition Number. “Article Title.” Publication City: Publisher Name, Year Published.


For example, Murphy, Karen. Encyclopedia Britannica, ed. 208. “Russia.” London: Encyclopedia Britannica, 2009.
 Encyclopedia Name (in italics), Edition Number. “Article Name.” City of Publication: Publisher Name, Year of Publication. URL (accessed Month Day, Year).For example, Murphy, Karen. Encyclopedia Britannica, ed. 208. “Russia.” London: Encyclopedia Britannica, 2009. http://www.encyclopediabritannica.com/russia (accessed March 24, 2014).

