 At the web page, choose from over 120 languages to find the Bible that’s easiest for you to read. In addition to downloading the Bibles used by Jehovah’s Witnesses, you can also read them all online. Additionally, more well-known versions of the Bible -- the American Standard, King James, and Living English versions -- are all available for reading online.The URL for the page is https://www.jw.org/en/publications/bible/


, The free Bible is available in both audio and textual formats. Audio formats can be downloaded as either MP3 or ACC files. Text Bibles can be downloaded as either EPUB, MOBI, or PDF files.If you have an e-book reader, you can use any of the formats, but if you plan on reading your Bible on your computer, it probably most convenient to stick with the PDF format.


The audio versions are similar. Either can be downloaded onto MP3 players or phones. ACC files, however, generally have better sound quality.Choose the edition you want. You can choose to download either the 1984 or 2013 editions of the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures. While the versions are similar, there are several vocabulary changes in the updated 2013 version.The language is more modern and clear, and the text has been adjusted to maximize readability overall. Some previously gendered phrases have been revised so that they are gender-neutral, where appropriate. For instance, the phrase “fatherless boy” has now been rendered as “fatherless child” to better reflect the original meaning of the language.
Only the 1984 edition is available in its entirety as an audio download. Only select books of the 2013 edition are available for audio download.
 Scroll over the page icon below the Bible version of your choice if you want a text version, and scroll over the headphones icon if you want an audio Bible. Next, click the format you want. If you’re downloading the audio version, you’ll have to select the specific books you want to download.


For instance, if you only want to read Exodus, you’ll have to scroll down the pop-up menu to Exodus after clicking on the audio format of your choice. Then, you’ll have to click the download icon to the right of the book’s name (if downloading the ACC version) or below the book’s name (visible after clicking on the drop-down menu if downloading the MP3 version).
If downloading the text version, just click the format you want, then confirm your decision by clicking the download button to the right of the pop-up box.

