 Bourbon is a sweet kind of whiskey produced in America. To duplicate the sweet flavor imparted by bourbon, use 1½ to 2 tsp (7.4 to 10 ml) of vanilla extract. Mix it into your recipe in the same fashion described for adding the bourbon.For recipes that call for less bourbon or that are suited to lighter intensity sweetness, use less vanilla extract. Recipes suited to strong intensity sweetness will benefit from more extract.Bourbon chicken is a recipe where you easily substitute vanilla for bourbon.;
, For every 2 tsp (10 ml) of brandy needed in a recipe, use ½ to 1 tsp (2.5 to 5 ml) of brandy or rum extract. If larger amounts of brandy are required, use water or fruit juice in the same amount.Brandy frequently has a fruit flavor, like plum or apple. When subbing fruit juice, choose one that has a similar taste to the flavor of brandy called for in the recipe., Fruit juices, like grape juice, pineapple juice, and apple juice work well as rum alternatives. Use the same amount of fruit juice as you would rum. You can also round out the flavor profile of your fruit juice by adding ½ to 1 tsp (2.5 to 5 ml) of nonalcoholic rum, vanilla extract, or almond extract to the juice., Vodka in recipes can be replaced with an equal amount of water. However, to achieve the flavor profile imparted by vodka more closely, mix white grape juice or apple cider with a few drops of lime juice.When using grape or apple cider for vodka, the amount of juice should be the same as the amount called for in the recipe., Tequila is made from a desert plant called agave, and by using juice or nectar from other desert plants, especially cactus, you can recreate the taste of tequila in your cooking. Generally, you should use an equivalent amount of cactus juice or nectar for the tequila., Many recipes only call for a small amount of whiskey. In some recipes, you may see this described as adding a “splash” of whiskey. In many of these situations, you can remove the whiskey from the recipe completely to little effect.