 Pack the essentials: undergarments, shoes, a set or two of regular clothes, entertainment, medication and, for longer flights, basic toiletries. Some people fly as if they may never see their luggage again – and that has some merit. Keep in your carry-on the minimum of what you need to survive should you lose your luggage.


Make sure to take all your medication and everything you need to be comfortable. Prescription and non-prescription medication are allowed. It’s easier to get extra liquids through security if they’re medically needed, like with saline solution.






In order to cut down on the amount of clothes to pack, choose items that are interchangeable. Stick to a few items that all go together, rather than completely separate outfits. Use accessories to spice up an outfit. For example, scarves are small and easy to pack, and can be used as a scarf, headband, or even a belt.
Take your swimsuit if you are travelling by air, put it with in your vacation gear, especially if you are a woman. If your bags are lost when travelling by air, most items (such as shorts or T-shirts) can usually be purchased at your destination. However, if your bags are lost, swimsuits for women can be hard to shop for. If you do not have your swimsuit you may miss out on the beach, hot tub, or other vacation fun.





;
, Anything valuable should come with you in your carry-on. On the off-chance your luggage gets lost or damaged, your carry on should not leave your possession. If you'd be heartbroken if you lost it, take it in your carry-on if you take it at all.

Pack large electronics last, so they are easily accessible. You will not need to go digging around when time is of the essence.

The TSA requires electronics to be screened – when they are all in the same place and easy for the agents to see, you won’t be the one holding up the line at security.
 In order to get on the plane, you need identification, such as a passport or driver’s license. Do not forget your ATM card and credit card or AAA card. However, it is probably a good idea NOT to take every piece of plastic you own because you run the risk of losing the cards.


In an easily accessible pocket of your carry-on luggage, store your flight information: the airline, the flight number, your confirmation code, and the flight details. This comes in handy at the self-service check-in kiosks that so many airlines provide now at the airport.
 You may not need to pack much, if any. Your Aunt Maria probably has shampoo, for instance, and Peru will likely have toothpaste. It may take an extra stop at a store on your travels, but by avoiding tons of bottles, lotions, and tubes, you save space for other, more important things.


If you do bring toiletries, in the United States the 3-1-1 TSA regulations still applies. You can fill as many 3 oz bottles of toiletries (100 ml) as you want into ‘’one’’ quart-size plastic ziplock bag (limit one per flyer), but you have to take out the bag at security screening.Go to www.tsa.gov for the full rules and regulations.
 Sometimes flights can cause headaches, so have a pack ready just in case this happens to be that one. A few things you may want to pack:


Painkillers
Bandages
A sedative (if you are a nervous traveler)
Anti-nausea medication
Chewing gum (for air pressure changes)
Tissues
Earplugs (good for travel in general)
Medication for anything you are prone to, such as allergies.
 Remember you are not charged for the clothes you wear traveling, so dress with that in mind. Dress in layers so you can bring more with you. Instead of a T-shirt and jacket, wear a T-shirt under a long sleeved top under a sweatshirt, for example. Wear your hiking shoes and pack your flip-flops, especially when you are travelling for business., You can manage, which err n traveling by air, for a three month work trip, without checking any bags if you really want to. Checking luggage, for some, is a pain in the rear. You have to worry about packing it, dragging it with you, meeting weight requirements, likely paying extra fees that you did not know about, and then hoping the airlines do not lose it. If you are traveling for less than two weeks, consider it. It may be a challenge, but it is doable.


Flight attendants and crew do it all the time. They can go over a week with just a carry on.If they can do it, so can you. You can then use the extra $50, if applicable, for whatever you please.
 In addition to meeting the weight requirements, it’s just easier to pack lighter – fewer things may get lost (via flying or when you leave them in your hotel room), it is a lighter bag to tote around, and you'll have plenty of room for souvenirs and impulse buys. And it'll take less time to repack.


Though you should hold off on bringing too many shoes, you have to bring some. Shoe should be packed in plastic bags to avoid soiling your others goods unless they are brand new. Also, consider packing socks in your shoes rather than waste space.
 Just in case something were to happen to your carry on, you forget to pack your carry-on correctly, or something unfortunate happens on your trip, put copies of important documents in your checked luggage. Scan your passport, visa, and anything else that you may need in the worst of circumstances. If you do it, you won’t need it. But if you don’t, you may.
 If you are bringing toiletries with you, it is likely something will leak. Each item should be wrapped separately and stored in bags to make sure none of it gets on your clothes. Keep these in a separate area in your bag, too.


Take the lid off of each bottle and plastic wrap the top; then put the lid back on. This means that even if the lid opens, you should still be fine., If you are not already rolling your clothes, get on the bandwagon. It prevents awkward square-shaped wrinkles and it saves room, so hop to it. Start with the heavier ones on bottom as lighter ones are generally more moldable to the shape of the top of your bag.


The tighter the roll, the more room you save. Even a little more compression here and there goes a long way.
 Some airports are courteous enough to provide plastic bags for you, but if yours is not one of those, take them yourself. They are always useful, especially if you are traveling in a group – someone always forgets. And this way if your first round bags get soiled, you have a backup.


The zipper kind – the kind that literally has a zipper on it. The resealable ones are better than the non-sealable kind, but the zipper kind are best – the resealable kind can open when force is applied.
High-quality zip-lock bags can also be used to pack your bag tighter. You can sometimes get to 1/3 more room if your clothing is put in zip-lock bags, the air forced out, then sealed. It can also protect clothing from getting soaked in outdoor adventures and keep your dirty underwear away from your clean clothes.
 To get the most out of your bag, you’ve gotta pack it according to shape and size of your items. Start with the biggest, heaviest items on bottom and work your way up to the light items – this will make it easier to close your bag when all is said and done. If something is an odd shape, pack clothes around it – make it a point to never pack air.


In general, it's easier to back long, cylindrical items than odd shaped bottles and containers. In the future, to streamline your packing look for items that are of more basic shapes and sizes. They take up less room overall.
 If you are planning to shop at fashionable Parisian boutiques on your travels, do not stuff your suitcase full of ordinary clothes. Leave room for your purchases in your bags., In some cases, it may be easier to ship your items by mail or by a service like FedEx or UPS. This may be very important if you are going on an extended trip or need special equipment, like winter camping gear., Your trip destination will determine the kinds of things to pack, and the length will determine how much of each item is to be packed. What days do you have special events planned? How can you use the same pieces over and over?


If you can, try to avoid needing a checked bag. More and more airlines are charging for that first checked bag, and a cheap flight can turn into an expensive one in a matter of no time. If flight attendants can live out of a carry-on for over a week at a time, so can you.
 Checking before packing can help pinpoint what you really need. For example, Vermont typically has mild summers, but also has "heat waves" that can make it semi-tropical. Checking the weather will let you know if you really need to pack that tank top or that umbrella.


Take a small amount of multipurpose items to deal with the climate of your vacation destination. For instance, one waterproof windbreaker takes less space than a raincoat and a jacket.
 If you’re going to a different country or overseas, odds are certain things will be different. Will you need an electronics adapter?

, You may not be able to bring your Saudi host a bottle of wine, for example. Or take certain kinds of plant seeds to Australia.