 This is a fundamental that cannot be stressed enough. If you are playing on a brand new, five hundred dollar horn, your tone, in general, will sound thin, your range will be small, and you will have a much harder time playing the instrument than you should. This is unfortunate because most beginning horn players start off, at least, on cheap, school-owned horns. There is no reason to put yourself in this position unless you have no other option. Horn is easiest to play when you are playing on a quality horn. If you are afraid that it really is the instrument that is holding you back from reaching a full, lovely low register, then shop around. Go to pawn shops, in particular, you will be surprised what you can find for a bargain. Used horns have a much more mature and dark sound than new horns, which is why many horns from the 1960s and 1970s sell for a great deal more than their current models do.;
, Again, this is a factor that is completely in your control that doesn't take any time at all to correct. If you can, take your horn in to be professionally cleaned- for less than fifty dollars, your horn can be electronically cleaned from the inside out, and will sound better than it has in years. If possible, do this on a yearly basis, so as to not give dirt time to build up inside the horn. If this is not possible for you, use warm soapy water and a dishcloth to clean it yourself.
 This is a personal thing- what may work for one player won't work for another. Basically try to look for a mouthpiece with a good, deep cup, a decently sized rim. Beyond that, it needs to be a personal thing, but don't expect the mouthpiece that just happened to be in the case with your horn to automatically be the one for you.
 While it doesn't take much time to figure the fingerings out on your own time, it's still important to know the proper, in-tune fingerings. The list below assumes that you are playing on a double horn. If you are playing on a single horn in F, play the fingerings for the notes that do not include T (trigger). You'll notice there is a large gap in the pitches you can hit. Unfortunately, that is the nature of the single horn in this register. Also, since the Bb side is shorter, they will have a quicker response but tend to be sharper. The beginning note for this list is the G below the C below the staff.


G: Open or T,1,3
F#: 2 or T,1,2,3
F: 1 or T,0
E: 1,2 or T,2
Eb: 2,3 or T,1
D: 1,3 or T,1,2
C#: 1,2,3 or T, 2,3
C: Open or T,1,3
B: 2 or T,1,2,3
Bb: 1
A: 1,2
Ab: 2,3
G: 1,3
F#: 1,2,3
F: T
E: T,2
Eb: T,1
D: T,1,2
C#: T,2,3
C: T,1,3
B: T,1,2,3
Bb: 1
A: 1,2
Ab: 2,3
G: 1,3
F#: 1,2

, While maybe not terribly important for actually hitting the low notes, this is important for having the notes that you can/do hit coming out in tune. Hold your right hand as if you were trying to hold a very small amount of water in your palm (forming a small cup) with your fingers all together. Place it inside the bell. Everyone has their own opinion on where, exactly, you hand needs to be in the bell, but, again, it really is a matter of personal preference. Listen to how your horn sounds with your right hand in different places and go with whatever sounds right, makes the horn the most in tune, and is comfortable for you. When it comes to tune individual notes, moving this hand is a lot easier than adjusting the slides.
 Hitting low notes on the horn requires a huge amount of air. If you are stooped or twisted when playing the horn, your lungs will not reach their full capacity and your air flow will be impacted negatively. You need to sit up straight with your back away from the back of your chair. Many people like to play with their legs sprawled apart, others prefer to sit with their feet together- this doesn't impact your air flow or playing ability, so sit however you feel comfortable.
 Ideally, you want about two thirds of the lip in your mouthpiece to be upper lip, while the other third to be your lower lip. This is opposite from what a trumpet player should have, with one third and two thirds, respectively, which often leads to low register problems with horn players who have transferred from trumpet. When you need to hit low notes, you will need to drop your jaw dramatically (this should look akin to dropping your jaw to put a gumball in your mouth), which will, naturally, reduce the amount of bottom lip in the mouthpiece slightly.
 This should be a note you can hit any day of any week- G in the staff or E on the staff, for example. Work down chromatically from this note. Keep in mind that you need to use more air as you work down; take breaks for air frequently, and don't go too quickly. Keep your diaphragm strong but don't tense up your shoulders or throat. Resist the temptation to play quieter as you go lower; this will result in your lips giving out before they would have otherwise. When you reach your breaking point, {i}stop playing{/i}.
 This time, start lower. Rather than G or E in the staff, start off on A or G below the staff. Work down chromatically, paying careful attention to keeping your airstream strong. You should literally feel like you are forcing the air into the horn using your diaphragm. When you reach your breaking point, stop playing.
 Start even lower this time. If you keep this process up for about half an hour every day (because you practice three or four hours a day as you should, right?), you should see marked improvement in your tone and ability to hit low notes on the horn.
 Some useful ones are the Carmine Caruso exercises. Look up other specific low horn Exercises to target range shifts, centering the notes, and tone. This is something you might not have thought of- once you have a basic grasp of low notes on your horn, and can actually hit them more times than not, work these notes into your everyday playing. Your range doesn't include your lowest register unless you can include it in your playing with ease.

