 Since Stud Tail is caused by an accumulation of skin oil, you should be able to feel what appears to be greasy fur toward the cat’s back. If you feel greasy fur, the cat may have Stud Tail.

Greasy fur most often appears toward the back of the cat’s body or on its tail.
Verify there are no other reasons your cat’s fur may appear greasy, like if another caretaker has applied medicine, or the cat is excessively dirty.;
, While all cats can develop Stud Tail, certain populations are much more prone to it. As a result, when you are trying to determine if a cat is afflicted by Stud Tail, you need to seriously consider the age and gender of the cat.

Young, unneutered cats are most susceptible to Stud Tail.
Neutered cats can sometimes develop Stud Tail.
Spayed and intact female cats can, in rare cases, develop Stud Tail., The accumulation of skin oil may result in noticeable hair changes on the affected area. As a result, try to examine your cat’s hair to see if there is any change. Some symptoms might include:

A yellowing of fur on cats that have light-colored fur.
Hair loss on the tail or near the top back of the cat’s torso., The most obvious sign of Stud Tail is changes in the skin of the cat around the tail or near the top back of the cat’s torso. Ultimately, these skin changes are a result of the accumulation of skin oil. They may irritate the cat and cause it to scratch itself around the affected area. Look for:

Reddish bumps around the tail or on it.
Red skin that appears raw or swollen.
Blackheads or other pimple-like growths around or on the tail.
The appearance of pus on or around the tail. This may only occur in the case of an infection., When you bring your cat to the veterinarian, they’ll ask you a variety of questions about your cat’s behavior, symptoms, and more. Make sure to answer these questions in detail.

Be specific. For example, let them know the first date you noticed skin problems on your cat and how quickly the problems progressed. Say, “I noticed what appeared to be some dry skin on Yoda’s tail last month, but early this month Yoda had lost hair and had some larger pimples or growths.”
Don’t hold anything back. While you may think that your cat licking their back or tail a lot over the course of the last month is unimportant, your vet might think it is important., After asking you questions, your vet will physically examine your cat. By observing the affected area, they’ll be better able to arrive at a proper diagnosis.

Your veterinarian may touch the area affected by the Stud Tail to see if it is sensitive.
The veterinarian will look to see if the skin is infected., Once your vet has concluded that the problem is Stud Tail, they may need to take a bacteria culture to determine if your cat has an infection. If so, they’ll be better able to prescribe antibiotics to target the bacteria.

Your vet will collect a skin sample or a sample of pus from the affected area.
They will introduce it to a sterile environment and allow it to grow.
Your vet will examine and identify the sample to determine if there is bacteria present and what kind of bacteria it is. This will allow them to prescribe the most effective antibiotic., After successfully diagnosing a case of Stud Tail, you will need to clean the area. By cleaning the area, you’ll make it easier for the cat’s skin to heal.

Use a vet-prescribed disinfectant or soap to clean the area the first time.
Try to remove dirt, dead skin cells, detached hair, and other debris.
 Your vet will probably recommend that you wash the affected area regularly. This will remove debris, lessen the chance of infection and, depending on the product, moisturize the area.

Your vet may recommend or prescribe an antibacterial wash, like chlorhexidine. Your veterinarian may recommend using it two to three times daily., In cases of severe infection, your veterinarian may prescribe broad-spectrum antibiotics. This is important, as a bad infection could spread from the tail or back of the cat.

Follow your veterinarian’s directions carefully.
Don’t skip any doses, if possible.
Some antibiotics your vet may prescribe include amoxicillin, tetracycline and ampicillin., In addition to cleaning and washing the affected area, you may also need to apply topical medications. These medications are designed to help fight infection and promote healing of the skin. Some medications might include:

Mupirocin
Retinoids, Once you’ve started to see progress in the healing of your cat’s Stud Tail, you should take some steps to prevent future outbreaks. Ultimately, this is fairly easy to do and may be accomplished by washing your cat on a regular basis.

You may prevent future outbreaks by doing light washes of your cat’s tail or hind area. By focusing on the afflicted area, you’ll save your cat the dissatisfaction of a full bath.
You may be able to discontinue regular washes after your cat has aged. Consult your vet about this possibility.
Some cats may benefit from anti-seborrheal shampoo.