 If you want your congressman to know you, you need to make your name politically. People from Congress pay attention to those who are politically active, as they're seeking out likeminded people to help them gain favor in the community. If you want to make an impact, increase your current involvement in politics. If you are already part of an organization, for example, take on a leadership position or plan an event. This could get your congressman's attention.If you're not already part of a political organization, look for advocacy groups in your area that interest you. If you're interested in immigration reform, for example, you could join an immigration advocacy group.
You could also start your own group or lead your own initiative within the community or an existing group. Look to your Facebook and other social networks to find likeminded people who share your political views. Consider getting together with them to do something like start a petition or stage a protest. This could potentially get the attention of a member of Congress.;
, Congressmen and women all have staff members. Usually, you cannot contact someone in Congress directly, but you can get through to staff on occasion. Having a solid relationship with a congressman's staff can help you eventually meet the congressman himself. You can also work on doing things like inviting staff to events or greeting staff members if you see them somewhere like a county fair or political rally.Introduce yourself to staff whenever possible. If a member of your congressman's staff is at an event, go up and talk to them. Say something like, "I'm part of the local Republican party here and I just wanted to introduce myself." If you have any messages to pass along to your congressman, politely request that staff members do so.
Never treat the staff as unimportant or lower than your congressman. It is their job to act as a filter for your congressman, figuring out should be brought to his attention. If you are polite and make a good impression on staff members, your congressman may come to know your name.
 If you have any disposable income, consider making a donation to your congressman's campaign. Congressmen often meet with big donors, or at least send thank-you letters. A sizable donation may help your congressman come to know you.Your congressman may also host events where donations are taken. For example, congressmen may sometimes have dinners where you donate a set amount for a plate. This could be a great way to meet with your congressman in person while making a donation.
If you don't have the money for a big donation, even a small donation with other efforts may get your congressmen's attention.
 If something is concerning you as a voter, try calling your congressman. Call them at their state or district office if you have something you wish to bring to their attention. You're unlikely to get through directly to your congressmen, but if you consistently call to make your voice known in a respectful fashion, your congressmen may eventually come to know you.You can find contact information for your elected officials on the US government's website. You can enter information like your city, state, and zip code to get the proper phone numbers., Handwritten or typed letters are actually more effective than e-mails if you want to get your congressman's attention. A written out letter that you send to your congressmen's office shows you took initiative. If you want to get your congressmen to know you, write them a letter with any concerns you have about current events.Remember to be respectful in the letter. Choose your words wisely and express yourself in a calm fashion, even if you disagree. Comb the letter carefully for typos afterwards so you send out a polished draft.
Your congressman may not respond directly to your letter. However, remember that the point is to gradually establish your voice over time.

