 Many of the problems associated with dental devices will diminish over time as you become more accustomed to wearing the dental device. For instance, some people experience problems with a mandibular repositioning device, such as more saliva in the mouth or dry mouth, jaw pain, headaches, or gum irritation. Most of these symptoms will fade over time.However, if you're having pain during the day after using one of these devices, particularly when you're moving your jaw or eating, then you should talk to your dentist.
Your dentist or doctor may also be able to show you jaw and tongue stretches to help with any pain., Having healthy teeth and gums can also help minimize problems with dental devices, such as gum irritation. Make sure you are visiting your dentist twice a year, as doing so can help keep your teeth healthy. Plus, your dentist can check any problems you may be having with the device.Be sure you are checked out by a dentist before you get fitted for such a device. Doing so will help ensure your teeth are healthy enough to have a dental device for sleep apnea.
Also, be sure to maintain healthy teeth at home by brushing twice a day and flossing every day.
 If your device is causing you pain, you should ask for adjustments or make them yourself if you are able to. You may need a slightly different position for it to be the most comfortable. Talk to your dentist or doctor about what's best for you., You have several options when it comes to dental devices for sleep apnea. If one isn't working out for you, try using another instead. In fact, each type of device has several different styles, so you can even change it up by switching to another style. Mandibular repositioning devices, for example, work by fitting over your teeth and changing the position of your lower jaw, opening up the airway. Tongue retaining devices adjust your tongue by pulling it forward and opening the airway, while other dental devices are combined with a CPAP machine to make it easier to use.
With mandibular repositioning devices, you have the option of the boil and bite style, adjustable style, or hinged style. The boil and bite version has you boil the device, then sink your teeth into it to create a mold of your mouth. The adjustable style has ways of adjusting the device for a more comfortable fit, while the hinged style still allows you to open and close your mouth. Choosing a different style may make it easier to deal with., If you wear dentures, you're probably going to need to find another solution for your sleep apnea, such as a CPAP mask. Most dental devices won't hold properly when the person is wearing dentures, though the mandibular repositioning kind will be particularly difficult.