 The instructions below can teach you the basics, and are useful emergency steps to take if your tank is suddenly full of young fish. However, taking care of young fish, or fry, is a real challenge, and the more you know about the traits of your specific species, the better.


For more detail on a specific species, follow these guides for breeding and raising discus fish, gouramis, bettas, and ].
Ask for advice from the employees at an aquarium store, or on aquarium hobbyist forums online. This is usually more helpful than advice from a general purpose pet store.
 If you have a water filter that sucks in water or creates a current, turn it off and put in a sponge filter from an aquarium store instead. Otherwise, the current could exhaust the young fish or even suck them into the filter and kill them.
 Many fish breeders set up a completely new tank, and move the eggs or the young into it. However, if you aren't an experienced aquarium caretaker, it can be difficult to make a safe, stable water environment on short notice. Instead, you may use a plastic divider net from an aquarium store to separate the fish. Depending on species, the parents can be caretakers or predators, so try to find advice online that matches your fish. If you can't, decide how to separate based on the parental behavior:


If the parents laid eggs in a nest and defended them from other fish, use the net to divide the parents and the eggs on one side, and the other fish on the others.
If the mother had a live birth, or sprayed the eggs in the water, keep all adult fish on one side of the net. The young fish should swim through the net to hide from them.
 You can sometimes purchase a specialized "fry food" product from aquarium stores, but often you'll need to choose from an array of other options. Infusoria, liquid fish food, or rotifers are usually safe. However, as the fish grow, they may need additional food that can vary based on the species and size. Ask an aquarium store employee for advice based on your fish's species.


If you can't get to an aquarium store, feed the young fry hard boiled egg yolk pushed through a cheesecloth.
 Set up another tank in advance if you plan to keep some of the fish. Otherwise, contact local aquarium stores and aquarium hobbyists in advance to arrange how to sell or give away your young fish once they reach a certain age.

