 Most of the Colorado ski resorts are open into mid-April. For even better deals, try an East Coast resort where you can often get late season discount rates., Nothing says spring like the return of baseball. Florida and Arizona both offer warm weather, and you can watch games for a fraction of what a regular season game costs. This makes a great family vacation.
 Beaches aren’t the only place to go for warm weather, water and vibrant nightlife. Vegas offers spectacular hotels with group rates, pools to lounge in the sun, and of course, gambling (for those 21 and over), at a lower cost than most beach resorts.And it's not just for adults. Attractions like theme parks, roller coasters and chocolate factory tours – not too mention the elaborate hotels – will keep kids entertained, too., Grab your family or friends, pile into the car and go. Whether it’s small town America or big city’s you want to see, a road trip is a great way to do it. You can save money by staying in inexpensive motels, or for the truly budget conscious, by camping along the way., Wherever you live, there is likely a great campground within driving distance.For only the cost of a tent, camp stove, food and park pass, you can enjoy a week of camping than you would for a single night out at some beach resorts.Many campground have the added bonus of being located close to popular city’s like New Orleans and Los Angeles.Be sure to reserve your campground reservation in advance to make sure you find a spot.
 Flights to big cities in the US tend to be relatively inexpensive, or better yet, try a bus if the city is nearby. Cheap lodgings can usually be had, too. And while they may not have beaches (for the most part), big cities do offer nightlife, museums and sporting attractions for kids, live theatre and music, and more. New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington, DC, New Orleans, Nashville and Austin are particularly popular destinations., Whether you are building houses for the poor, working in conservation, or providing medical care, volunteering abroad is a great way to do some good and see a few sites. Look for volunteer opportunities for you or your entire family through your school, church or online.