 There are many different styles of shirt that are popular in the hip-hop look for ladies. Bright colored graphic t-shirts are often worn. Colors like orange, bright blue, gold, hot pink and bright purple are very popular.
Bright colored print shirts are also fashionable. Try a word print or animal print in a color that stands out.
Shirt styles that are featured by female hip hop stars include crop tops that bare the midriff, bikini shirts, tank tops, and more fitted t-shirts.
Whatever color you choose, most hip-hop looks for women tend to have matching accessories and pants.
 This look can either be fitted or baggy.Fitted leather jackets are very much in style for female hip-hop stars. These are often featured in gold or white, which are colors that will draw attention.
Denim jackets are also very popular.
Baggy sports jackets and bubble vests are worn by hip-hop women for a more masculine look.
 Hip-hop fashion for women is also more versatile in this area, with many different styles of pants that are fashionable.Tight fitted jeans in the skinny leggings style are the most popular type of denim pants in hip-hop fashion for ladies. These tend to be pre-ripped or torn on the side or in the front.
Harem pants, which are baggy at the hip and fitted at the ankle are also popular. These can be worn in a bright color that matches your top or in a more understated color like black, white, or camouflage.
Athletic wear such as Adidas pants are also fashionable.
Short denim skirts are always a good choice and are featured by many hip-hop stars such as Eve and Nicki Minaj.
 Female hip-hop fashion also features "bling". The most famous hip-hop ladies wear big hoop earrings in gold.
Wear 3-4 necklaces with pendants. These can be very flashy with chrome studs, diamonds or rhinestones.
Even hats and sunglasses can feature some studs or rhinestones. Choose a flat brimmed hat in a bright color that matches your shirt or pants.
Wear designer shades. Stunner shades are popular, but it is important that any kind of sunglasses can stand out. Buy them in a bright color or accented with jewels.
 Hip-hop girls can wear sneakers or boots in similar styles as guys, but high-heeled shoes are also worn by women. In sneakers, go for high-tops. Brands like Jordans and Adidas feature bright colored and crisp looking shoes in this style.
In boots, Timbaland boots are the most popular brand.
For hip-hop girls, very high heels and wedges in chrome or gold, or neon colors are also fashionable.
Choose a hairstyle that stands out. Many different hair colors and styles are featured by hip-hop ladies.
Dye your hair in a bright color like pink, purple, or blue.
Bleached or blond hair also stands out and is preferred by rap artists like Eve, Nicki Minaj, and Nyemiah Supreme.
You can wear your hair straight with bangs or in braids.
 You will especially want your lips and eyes to stand out. Use a matte lipstick in a neon color like bright pink or purple. Bright red is also very popular.
Wear thick mascara or fake lashes. You can experiment with different colored lashes.
Wear a thick eyeliner and eyeshadow in a bright color like neon green, pink, blue, gold or silver.

