 Since there aren't many Indonesians abroad, the language isn't going to be all that useful if you never plan on visiting the country. But it'll come in handy if you plan to visit neighboring countries such as Malaysia, Brunei, Timor-Leste. For those who speak Portuguese, Timor -Leste would be a perfect destination since Portuguese is also an official language.;
, Every language takes a while to learn, whether it's a common or an obscure one. It's a lot like bodybuilding; you need to do it on a regular basis and stick with it. Just because you might not take a class does not mean that you can skip a day or two. Remember that it's a long-term goal instead of a spontaneous decision. A lot of people tend to stop learning a language after a few months or weeks, so try to stay motivated throughout the tough or confusing parts.
 Like Latin and Portuguese, Indonesian language is pronounced the way it is spelled. Every syllable mostly consist of no more than a vowel and one or two consonant(s). The exception to the one vowel rule is diphthong.
 Unlike the English language where vowels are pronounced in different ways, Indonesians have fewer ways of pronouncing them. "A" in Indonesian is spoken like "a" in "father". "E" is spoken like "e" in "check", "I" in Indonesian is spoken like "ee" in "see". "O" is spoken like the typical "o" as in "olive". "U" can be pronounced both long and short as of that in "put" and "boot". The only difference between English and Indonesian pronunciations is "C" which is pronounced as "ch". e.g. Indonesian word "cinta" should be pronounced as "chin-ta"

, This is the easiest and most fun part, because after you learn the "tourist basics", you'll feel much more confident in your knowledge and understanding.
Here's a few basic words and phrases in Indonesian:


Terima kasih (teh-ree-muh kah-see)- Thank you

Maaf (mah-ahf)- Sorry

Apa kabar? (ah-pah kah-bar)- How are you?

Permisi (per-mee-see)- Excuse me

Saya/Aku (sah-yah/ah-koo)- I (formal/informal)

Anda/Kamu (ahn-da/ka-moo )- You (formal/informal)

Saya mau makan (sah-yah ma-oo ma-kahn) I want to eat


, This is going to help you a lot later on, especially on the days when you aren't motivated. There's a lot of things that you can do to make sure that you have the language around you in a fun and convenient way. Sign up for an RSS feed or newsletter of "Indonesian Word of the Day", start watching an Indonesian show/movie with subtitles, discover Indonesian music, listen to Indonesian podcasts, etc.
 If you don't live in Oceania or East/Southeast Asia, it probably won't be easy to find classes. However, you can usually get a tutor or join a language club. You'll find it much easier to stick to your goal once you get yourself into a regular schedule and interact with others who are trying to do the same as you.
 Try to look for an English-Indonesian dictionary in your local library or bookstores and ask if there are any other books that will help. The dictionary will be very useful to learn and to flip through when you encounter an unfamiliar word. Online translators are infamous for their incorrect translations, but you can use those once in a while as well.
 This is usually the part that most people hate, but it doesn't have to be. Copy down useful words that you want to remember. Use highlighters, markers, and even stickers to make them fun and interesting. Since it uses 26 Latin alphabet with no variations, you'd find no difficulty in writing or typing Indonesian language.
 Like all languages, Indonesian has a unique sound and rhythm that you will need to become familiar with. Spoken Indonesian can be quite fast and different from formal Indonesian that you might learn from a textbook, so it is best to begin training your ear to understand it early on in the process.

