 Raven controls her emotions, so her powers don't destroy everything. Now, you most likely don't have telekinetic or empathic abilities, but it affects her demeanor more than anything else. So if you want to be like her you're going to have to control them as much as you can. Although let your emotions out sometimes, on very good occasions, or when you can't contain it let it out in a small smile and a hug.


Meditate. She's very in touch with her spiritual side. So, meditate. Close your eyes, sit in either a lotus or a cross legged position. (She is most seen doing this. If you're having issues doing these poses lay down in a comfortable position, your legs and arms not crossed) Make either a Shuni Mudra with your hands or a Surya Mudra. She's seen doing both. Look up what they both mean on Google. Relax your mind, don't let it wonder off into it's usual "monkey minded" state. Calm yourself. Eventually you'll be able to start visualizing things and doing things.. But for now, just do this. Research meditation, once you have this down and start meditating for at least 20 minutes a day.






Drink herbal teas. She has been seen in the Teen Titans episodes drinking a lot of herbal tea. I don't know if she does in the comic books, but I know for a fact she does this to calm herself in the TV show. In an episode of Teen Titans Go, she mentions that she drinks chamomile tea.






Write in a journal. This will help you solve your problems, and make you more introverted. Raven would never boast about her problems, or ask someone desperately trying to fix a situation because she couldn't handle it on her own. She solves things herself. It'll also help you not talk as much. Raven is extremely introverted and is more of an observer than anything. Dedicate to this and begin writing every day in it.






All these things will help you calm your mind, and control your emotions.

;
,


Most spiritual people are deep within themselves, and know to keep most of their things private. If you're young, your parents will probably think something's wrong. Tell them calmly that everything's okay, you just want to start keeping things more to yourself. Keep your room to yourself. Don't let people in it, unless necessary. Make your room dark, and mysterious. Put white or black candles in sets of three around the room. Have a large bookshelf with books in it as well. Stick to Dark blue, purple, and black colors.



Be loyal to those who are closest to you, and don't trust those that you don't know fully well. Distance yourself from them just a tad, and don't tell them everything. Do this slowly, but try not losing the friendship. Raven cares about her friends and family a lot.
 Sarcasm is your new best friend. Yes! Be sarcastic. Sarcasm usually comes with some degree of wisdom and years of knowledge and experiences. So, be smart about your sarcasm. Don't say things that have nothing to do with the topic.. Also be ironic, make ironic remarks on things that you find.. well... Ironic!

, Read as much as you can. Read spiritual books, books on the ancient religions. Books on symbols. Books on history. Books on math. I don't care. Just read. Be curious about things and build up your knowledge base. It'll help you with sarcasm, but it'll also open you up as a person. Raven would never be seen with a kindle so try reading just plain books. Put black covers on them if possible, and keep what you're reading to yourself. Never close your mind about things, no matter what religion you're in.



Now wearing a cloak and a long sleeved leotard might be a little much. In the comics she wears a long dress with a long piece in the front and back and a cloak. Save this for Halloween or a special spiritual occasion (depending on how much you got into the spiritual aspect of Raven). Sometimes she wears a simple short top with her stomach showing and a pair of nice jeans with a belt. In colder weather, she wears a fur-trimmed cloak, top, and boots in a matching color, with black leggings. She wears symbolic spiritual jewelry as well. Also, it's easier if you just get a nice blue hoodie, and a pair of jeans. It helps you fit in more and it still looks like Raven. When dressing like her and decorating, remember to stick to mostly dark colors. She's been known to say things about her "affinity for a darker color scheme."
Get purple or blue contacts. She's seen with having both eye colors so you have it easy if you have blue eyes. If you want to go purple then that's okay too.
Dye your hair dark if it isn't already, and/or get short purple hair. If you can't decide then you could just simply go with dark hair with some purple stripes.
 Wear sun protectant (won't make you paler, but it won't get you tanner) soak in baths of milk, oatmeal, lemon... etc. Other home remedies to make you paler safely.

