 Using string, a level, and a tape measure, plot out the exact dimensions of your wall, enclosure, structure, etc. Having a solid blueprint in place will help your purchase the correct amount of bricks and help you design guidelines that ensure your bricks are laid level.


When buying bricks, remember to account for the mortar. Add roughly 1/2" to the size of your bricks to make sure you get the right measurement. However, if the bricks you are buying has a "nominal size," this means that the manufacturer has already added room for mortar.Always buy 10-15 more bricks than you'll need -- some will inevitably break while you're working.;
, This must be level and below the grade of the finished ground so that the brick is all you see when your wall is finished. Once it is set, lay a row of bricks out on a "dry run" to ensure that the foundation is the right size.


The foundation should be the exact length and height of your brick structure.
In general, your foundation should be roughly 1 foot deep before you add the concrete.
The concrete needs 2-3 days to set, so you can use this time to set up your guides and round up supplies., This is most important if you are building a wall, but you'll need to create guideposts no matter what you're making to ensure that evenly lay the bricks. To make them, take 2 long wooden boards and drive them into the ground right at the ends of your structure. Starting with the surface of your foundation, mark the height of each brick, as well as the space for the mortar, using a tape measure. Make sure that the two boards are marked equally so that you have a straight line to guide you as you lay the bricks.









The architectural standard for brick is 3⁄8 inch (1.0 cm) mortar joint thickness on all sides. There are exceptions, of course, for queen, old Chicago, and custom brick., Once you have mixed the masonry cement and started laying brick, you have to use all the mortar and strike your joints before quitting. Mortar will harden overnight, so only mix as much as you can manage. Once you're concrete foundation has set and you're ready to begin, you should place the following supplies close by so you can work efficiently:


String and clamps/nails (to create guidelines).
Mortar and a mixing bucket.
Level.
Brick jointer.
Club hammer (to break bricks in half)
Tape Measure., This can be done in a wheelbarrow for small projects, or a mortar box if you don't have access to a mortar mixer or cement mixer. Basically, to mix the mortar, you will use a ratio of three parts masonry sand (builders sand, if it is very clean), to one part masonry cement. Add water to the dry materials and mix to a consistency like pudding. Too dry, and it will be difficult to "set" the brick in the mortar bed, too wet and the brick will sag.
 Place some mixed mortar on plywood so that that it can be reached easily. This will allow you to grab mortar with your trowel as you work, and not have to move around too much. If you've planned correctly, you can also place stacks of bricks at regular intervals so that you can keep working smoothly. However, if you're only working on a small project, you may be fine with one pile of bricks and a bucket of mortar.


Place a few shovels of mortar on each board, splashing the board first with water so the mortar "keeps", or stays wet enough to use.