 Put the right foods into your body each day. Eat foods like fruits, veggies, and grains. Eat foods high in vitamins and nutritious content. Keep the portions small and reasonable.;
, Always drink at least 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of fresh, cold water every day to keep your skin radiant and glowing., If you don't like showers, have a bath. Work out whether the morning or the evening is the best time for your body wash; vary as needed.
 Wash your hair frequently. How often depends on your hair type, but start off with every two to three days. Keep it clean and fresh. Try finding a shampoo and conditioner that is perfect for your hair type but try changing it up once in a while.
 Moisturizing keeps the skin radiant and soft, even if you have an oily skin type. Remember to exfoliate the skin once or twice a week to get rid of dead skin.
 Avoid drinking carbonated drinks as the acid stains your teeth. If your teeth are crooked, talk to your dentist about braces.
 You don't have to go to a salon, you can take care of them in the comfort of your own home. Chipped nails look messy, so make sure to remember to repaint them in time. You can always try clear nail polish for a clean, natural, and glossy look., Try looking in magazines or online to find out about what trends are in style, and combine this with your own look, but remember, the most important thing is to wear what YOU want to and what YOU feel comfortable in, not what anyone else says. ], Never overdo or cake on your makeup. The point of makeup is to emphasise your best bits and minimise your flaws, not cover your entire face. Wear a little bit of concealer to hide blemishes and under eye circles if you need it. Remember, being a girl doesn't mean you have to wear makeup. Unless you need to hide blemishes, you can go without makeup and still look great.  Wear a bit of BB or CC cream if you don't feel comfortable wearing regular makeup, but still want to cover blemishes.
 Always feel confident with every little thing you do, because no matter what, you will always be beautiful. Everyone is beautiful in their own way. If you believe it, others will too.
 Always smile, it shows people that you are a kind, down to earth girl. And try to see more of the positive side of life as you can, it helps to inspire others to feel the same way and keeps you looking for the good things in life.

