 Do not use products that contain sulfates (natural oil-stripping detergents), silicone, alcohols or glycerol (hair drying and damaging chemicals) - this eliminates about 96% of available African hair care products quite apart from the poisons manufactured within Africa.;
, They all severely stress your hair.
 Heat removes moisture and can fry your hair irreparably. It is preferably better to leave hair to dry naturally, rather than blowing heat.
 Shampoo washes away oil which protects your hair. When shampooing, apply it only to the scalp, and lather very gently. After washing hair, just gently squeeze it with a towel. No pulling or roughness.
 African hair needs moisture and deep conditioning, especially when exposed to heat appliances like blow dryers and flat irons. A conditioner is a cream that is applied to the hair to smooth the cuticle, soften the hair, add sheen, and restore moisture. Oils like jojoba oil can help as well. Moisturize everything but the scalp.
 Don't plop it all on top of your head. Rinse and repeat.
 Don't pull out any hair. As you comb, apply conditioner through your hair and massage the scalp (Affirm, Matrix or Motions are suggested). Put a plastic shower cap over your head so ALL of your hair is in it. Leave it on for about 30 minutes and rinse your hair out. Comb it out as you rinse ( using slightly cooler than lukewarm water adds natural shine to the hair).
 Conditioner washing is washing your hair with a lightweight moisturizing conditioner, eliminating the shampoo step which can be very drying, especially to chemically damaged hair. Many with damaged relaxed hair wash daily.
 Apply more to the ends if they are dry. Avoid applying conditioner to the scalp unless it is dry. Rinse out conditioner very well.
 Then comb out your hair (this involves a lot of combing and brushing) and work in a heat protection product. Blow dry it on WARM setting - the hot setting will dry out and damage your hair. As you dry, work in a smoothing serum. Paul Mitchell works - and brush it downwards (root to tip) with a circular brush. When you are done, separate it into four large sections (right front, left front, right back, left back and bangs if you have then).
 Repeat the above process once every week (or two). Get a trim every 3-4 months.

