 In order for the vehicle to have a salvage title, it means it must have been repaired by a certified repair facility and inspected to ensure the car was road-worthy. Contact a local repair facility that you trust and ask them if they would be willing to inspect the vehicle to determine its value and the quality of the repairs.Some repair facilities may specialize in certain work and be unable to assess the entire vehicle.
 In order to accurately assess the vehicle, mechanics will need to be able to go through it fairly thoroughly, which means putting the vehicle on a lift and spending some time with it. The best way to ensure they can get an accurate idea of the quality of the repairs of the value of the vehicle is to bring it to them to inspect.If the vehicle can be legally driven, do so, otherwise you may need to have it towed.
If you are unable to bring the vehicle to the repair facility, you may ask if a mechanic will come with you to inspect it, but they will not be able to be as thorough.
 There are a number of ways a vehicle can be damaged that would result it in being considered “totaled” and then “salvaged.” If you know what the damage was, it will make it far easier for the mechanics to assess the repairs. Water damage, for instance, would require significant interior work and likely a new engine, whereas a serious accident may have resulted in frame damage and repair.Ask the seller to provide you with any information they can about the damage and the repairs conducted.
You can also pay to have the vehicle’s Car Fax report pulled, which will indicate why it was totaled.
 Once the mechanics at the repair facility have gone through the vehicle, they will be able to provide you with a fair estimate of the value of the car, as well as any possible issues you may need to address as a result of the repairs.This estimate will likely be higher than that provided by the insurance company.
The repair facility may also be able to indicate any other potential issues with the vehicle not tied to the title or repairs.

