 Even though you are renting a home you still have a right to privacy from your landlord. While there are some instances when a landlord has the right to enter the property, a tenant also has a reasonable expectation of privacy. In recognition of this privacy right, nearly half of U.S. states have laws that specify when and how a landlord can enter a tenant’s premises. Generally, a landlord can enter a tenant’s premises under the following circumstances:


To deal with an emergency.
To make needed repairs or to ascertain the need for repairs.
To show the property to prospective tenants or purchasers.
When the tenant gives permission for the landlord to enter., One of the first steps to protecting your privacy interests in a rental home is to ask previous tenants about the landlords conduct. If a tenant describes an overly intrusive landlord, you may want to consider renting a different property. Other steps that you can take to protect your privacy rights include:


Review your state laws on tenant privacy. You can easily find these laws online by conducting an internet search for the name of your state and “tenant privacy laws.”
Carefully review your lease and make sure that there are no provisions waiving your right to privacy.
Negotiate the parameters for landlord access to be included in your lease.
Do not go away for an extended period without notifying your landlord., If a landlord is entering a tenant’s apartment under circumstances other than those described above, or is not entering during normal business hours (9 am to 5 pm), or is not giving the tenant advanced warning, the tenant should take action. The first step is to politely request that the landlord not enter the apartment without providing the tenant advanced notice. If the landlord continues to enter the apartment in violation of a tenant’s privacy, the next step is to send a letter reiterating the request for the landlord to stop invading the tenant’s privacy., If the landlord continues the intrusive behavior, a tenant can file a claim in small claims court. Generally, in a case against an overly intrusive landlord, the tenant may allege the following:


Invasion of privacy.
Trespass.
Harassment.
Violation of the tenant's right to enjoy his or her home free from the landlord's unreasonable interference.
Intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress.