 There are genealogical societies for cities, counties, provinces/states and countries. Societies also exist for a wide variety of ethnicities, religious groups and special interest groups (like Internet genealogy). Nearly all of these groups, associations and societies offer newsletters to members with tips on how to effectively conduct genealogical research.;
, Many historical and genealogical societies offer seminars on a variety of genealogy topics. Libraries also sometimes offer courses, especially those that have collections that include resources used by family historians. An increasing number of genealogy classes are offered online. The National Genealogical Society offers a well-respected home study course, and a few colleges and universities now offer certificate programs in genealogical studies.
 Thousands of books are available on both general and specific topics related to genealogical research. Most researchers start their own genealogy libraries by buying a few general guides to family history research, along with books devoted to the specific location or ethnicity of the families they hope to trace. Most public libraries have at least a few books devoted to genealogy.
 Modern genealogical research generally requires that researchers use subscription genealogy sites that offer access to basic records like censuses and city directories. Libraries can direct you to the major sites, and some have free subscriptions available for library patrons. Check the "help" section of the genealogy sites you use; many offer free tutorials on basic genealogical research techniques, and nearly all offer help on how to effectively use their own collections.
 The National Genealogical Society puts on the largest genealogy conference in the United States every year in the spring, and the Who Do You Think You Are conference is a large event in the United Kingdom. Large conferences usually offer lectures on research techniques, case studies and location-specific strategies. State and local genealogical societies also frequently host conferences with similar types of classes, and private organizations and genealogy companies are beginning to hold family history expos as well. Contact the local historical society or local library in your area to find out what conferences are planned there.


Talk directly with instructors and other researchers at conferences. This can be a valuable opportunity to learn how other genealogists have successfully tackled some of the same research problems you face. Most large conferences offer at least one vendor-sponsored luncheon, which offers attendees a chance to sit and talk with other conference-goers.
 Connecting with other researchers who are already working in areas where you want to look more can help you get advice and learn more about a particular location's record groups and unique challenges.


Utilize blogs for genealogy research. Since finding long-lost relatives is frequently an important part of a genealogist's research strategy, many family historians have blogs to help distant relatives find them and their research on the Internet. These blogs also allow researchers to connect with each other to compare notes, discuss research strategies, and learn about new techniques for tracing their family history. You can find blogs relevant to your research by searching the Internet for the surnames and/or locations that relate to the families you're tracing.
Access social media sites to find other family historians. Many social media users have keywords like "genealogy" included in their profiles to make them easier to find.

