 This will depend on the scope of your home improvement project. Most home improvements will involve a general contractor who manages every aspect of the project, including the hiring of subcontractors.In contrast, smaller projects involving one specific type of work might only require a specialty contractor, such as a mason or electrician.


It’s important to know the kind of contractor you’ll need; a specialty contractor might tell you he can handle a more general project, but if they're not qualified for the work you need this can lead to misunderstandings and disputes.;
, Let the people around you know you’re looking to start a home improvement project. Many of them should have had dealings with contractors and can point you to those they trust. They might also know which contractors to avoid.
 After receiving references from those close to you, you’ll want to research a contractor’s reputation. The Better Business Bureau (BBB) provides ratings for local businesses and makes complaints from consumers available to the public. Use this resource to check contractors in your area. You can also use review aggregator sites like Yelp to get insight into the quality of a contractor’s work.


A contractor with low ratings on these sites has either been the subject of several complaints or has questionable business practices.
Any customers that have had disputes with contractors will typically make their voices heard. This will help you avoid difficult contractors.
 Reaching out to more than one contractor gives you a better idea of what price to expect for a specific project. You can compare each contractor’s services, ensuring you get the best deal for your project. Compare the services and timeframe outlined in each bid, as well as examining how each contractor plans to use the available funds. This will prevent unexpected costs that can create disputes.


Unlike a quote, a bid implies that you are seeking prices from multiple contractors; they will be aware that there is competition.Remember that the lowest price is not necessarily the best option. Contractors who underestimate the cost of a project might surprise you with hidden costs later, leading to a possible conflict.
 While not all states require this, it’s important to research a potential contractor’s qualifications while evaluating their bids. This prevents surprises like a contractor not being able to perform some of the work needed or worse, performing work they are not qualified for. You can check your state’s requirements for contractors through your local building department or consumer protection agency., It’s crucial to know as much information as you can before hiring a contractor. When contacting a contractor’s references, ask about the services provided during the project as well as how satisfied the clients were with the work afterward. This is especially relevant if the work done for them is similar to your project.


Be suspicious of a contractor who isn’t able to or refuses to provide references. This may indicate inexperience or disputes with earlier clients.
 These are particularly useful if the contractor doesn’t provide their own contract. They allow you to get an idea of the items that should be included in a contract. If your contractor does provide a contract, you can compare it to online templates to ensure it includes all the necessary requirements.
 Different home improvement projects can require a number of permits. Make sure you and your contractor are in agreement concerning who will be responsible for acquiring the permits and paying for them.Then ensure this is recorded in writing in the contract. This avoids misunderstandings that can lead to disputes.
 Many home improvement disputes revolve around payment, whether it be the amount paid or the timeframe.Ensure the contract specifies all required deposits, payment amounts and deadlines.
 Clear mediation solutions in the contract can help defuse disputes before they start. While legal aid is a clear option, there are inexpensive, less adversarial alternatives: mediation and binding arbitration.Having these outlined in the contract can give you an idea of the relationship you can expect from your contractor.


Mediation involves a neutral party trying to bring both sides of a dispute to a compromise. The decision isn’t binding, and both parties can walk away if the mediation isn’t suitable.
In contrast, a decision reached through binding arbitration is final. Both parties have to accept the arbitrator’s decision and there is no possibility for appeal.Thus, it’s important for your contract to outline which of the two methods will be used to prevent misunderstandings.
 You need to understand the contract thoroughly before you decide to sign it; it’s a legally binding document that will define your home improvement project. Other contract items to pay close attention to are:


Description of the work to be performed, materials and equipment used. This is your best sign that your contractor understands your project exactly.
Start date, end date, and potential delays. This section outlines acceptable delays and ensures you won’t have construction lingering in your home longer than expected.
Extra work stipulations. This ensures that no extra work happens without the contract needing to be altered and signed by you and the contractor.
 A contractor working on your property needs to have accident and liability insurance covering themselves and anyone working with them. This protects you in the unfortunate event of a worker being injured while working on your project. Make sure you get a copy of this certificate.


You can also check with your home insurance company to determine if you’re protected in the case of damage to your property. This can be your backup if the contractor’s insurance doesn’t cover this., If you have any questions regarding the contract or paperwork provided by your contractor, ask questions. It’s important to go into a home improvement project with a clear understanding of what’s involved; you don’t want any surprises down the road.

