 Make sure that the eggs are room temperature. Cold eggs can lead to a tough, over-cooked omelette., You want to break up the yolks until there are no strands or globs left. The mixture should be a little frothy.If you wish, you can add a pinch of salt and a dash of pepper at this point.


Consider adding a few small pieces of cold butter to the beaten eggs. This will result in a richer, fluffier omelette.For a lighter, fluffier omelette, add a little bit of water to the egg mixture. The steam from the heating water will cause the eggs to fluff up when cooked., Turn on your stove and set the heat to medium. Place the skillet on the burner and drop 2 teaspoons of butter or margarine onto the surface. Using the handle, tilt the skillet around until the entire surface is covered with the melting butter. This will prevent the eggs from sticking to the surface of the pan.


If you do not have a skillet, you can use a non-stick frying pan instead.
 Shake and tilt the skillet so that the egg mixture coats the bottom.
 As the top of the omelette begins to set, run your spatula around the edges of the omelette. Lift them up slightly to let the uncooked egg flow under the omelette.
 When the omelette is still runny and shiny on top, sprinkle the cheese down the middle of it. The omelette will continue cooking after you fold it in half. If you wait until the omelette is fully-cooked, the result will be a very dry omelette.Consider adding some other ingredients as well, such as sliced up mushrooms, herbs, or bits of ham. Make sure that any ingredients you add are already cooked (with the exception of cheese and herbs).For more ideas, refer to the section in this article on adding variations to your omelette.
 Slide the spatula under one part of the omelette and lift, flipping the omelette over onto itself., When the underside of the omelette starts to turn golden brown, take the skillet off the burner. Use a spatula to slide the omelette off the skillet and onto a plate.
 You can serve the omelette as it is, or you can garnish it with some herbs, such as chives, basil, oregano, or parsley. You can also serve it with a few slices of fried bacon or toast.


Although omelettes are typically served for breakfast, you can eat yours for lunch or dinner as well!

