 Eating a small piece dry toast or a couple of crackers first thing in the morning can help to relieve nausea by making your stomach feel less empty.Dry crackers or toast have no strong smell or flavor, making them much less likely to trigger feelings of nausea.
Many women find it helpful to keep a packet of crackers beside your bed so you can nibble on a couple straight after waking up, before you get out of bed.;
, When you are constantly vomiting due to morning sickness, there is a high risk of becoming dehydrated. Thus, drinking more water is essential in order to replenish the lost fluid.


Aim to drink at least 8 glasses of water each day. If you find water too boring, try adding slices of lemon and lime or a few mint leaves to make the flavor more appealing.
You can also try drinking sodas, as the bicarbonate levels in soda help to neutralize acidity in the stomach, relieving nausea as a result. Don't drink too many sodas however, as aerated drinks can actually dehydrate you further. Try taking a few small sips throughout the day.
 Try to eat smaller, more frequent meals throughout the day, instead of eating three large meals. Eating too much food in one go will just make you feel sick.Always have a number of snacks easily at hand, so you can take a nibble whenever you feel nauseous. Things like a piece of fruit, a couple of crackers, a yogurt or a handful of nuts are all nutritious, easy-to-carry options.
At mealtimes, try placing your food on a smaller plate, this makes it look like your plate is full and tricks your brain into thinking that you're eating more than you actually are. As a result, you will feel satisfied without overeating or feeling nauseous.
 These food groups will give you and your baby plenty of beneficial nutrients, even if you only consume a small amount of them. Increase your intake of food items like peanut butter, apples, celery, nuts, crackers, cheese, yogurt, fish and white meat.


It's a particularly good idea to eat protein with dinner in the evening, as it releases energy slowly overnight, leaving you less weak and nauseous in the morning. Some additional protein-rich foods include pulses, eggs, soy milk and lean red meat.
 High fat foods and foods with a high salt content are best avoided when suffering from morning sickness, so try to cut them from your diet as much as possible.


Salt is a hydrophilic substance which means that it attracts water from the blood. As a result, consuming high quantities of salt can lead to dehydration and stimulate nausea and vomiting.
High fat foods should be avoided as they are difficult to digest. More acid is needed to break down fat, which leads to increased acidity in the stomach. Increased acidity can lead to heartburn, which may contribute to vomiting during pregnancy., Ginger has been used for thousands of years as a natural remedy for relieving morning sickness. It contains chemicals called as shogaols and gingerols that can relax the intestinal tract and prevent you from throwing up food.Prepare ginger tea. This is the easiest and fastest way to include ginger in your diet. Boil water and pour it into a cup. Add ½ teaspoon of powdered ginger spice. Stir to combine, then cover the cup and let it stand for ten minutes. Strain the powder and sip the tea slowly.
You can drink ginger tea as often as needed to relieve nausea. Instead of using powdered ginger spice, you can also use freshly grated ginger root to make tea, drink ginger ale, or suck on ginger flavored candies.
 Mint is known to suppress the gag reflex, which can help to relieve nausea and vomiting.


Chemically speaking, mint contains a high level of menthol. Menthol has a cooling, relaxing effect on receptors in the nose and tongue, which helps to numb the gag reflex.Every time you feel the urge to get sick, reach for a cup of mint tea. To prepare mint tea, boil a handful of mint leaves in a pot of water for 5 to 10 minutes. Strain the leaves and sip the tea throughout the tea whenever you feel nauseous.
 Bananas are full of potassium and high in natural sugars and calories. This makes them a good snack food for pregnant women, as repeated vomiting can lead to hypokalemia (low potassium levels) and weakness.


Eating a banana a day will help to replenish your body's potassium levels and give you a boost of energy when you're feeling tired.
 Lemons contain high quantities of vitamin C, which helps to counteract high acidity levels in the stomach. This reduces the nausea that causes morning sickness.


Keep in mind that the lemonade must be homemade — store bought lemonade will not be effective. This is due to the fact that vitamin C levels are highest in fresh lemons and will decline the longer the lemonade is stored.
You can make your own homemade lemonade by combining half a tablespoon of sugar, a pinch of salt and the juice from half a lemon in a glass of cold water. You can adjust the sugar and salt levels according to your own personal preference.
 Cloves contain a substance called eugenol which has a strong anti-nausea effect. However, clove has a very strong, pungent flavor, so this remedy is not for everyone.


If you don't mind the taste of cloves, you can pop one in your mouth and suck it for a while until the feelings of nausea subside.You can also chew the clove, if you so wish.
Aside from relieving nausea, clove is used in many dental preparations and is an effective treatment for many stomach ailments.
 Cumin contains a substance called cuminaldehyde which soothes the nausea, flatulence and stomach pains associated with indigestion. Cuminaldehyde activates enzymes that trigger the release of gastric juices that are necessary for digestion.


Ground cumin can be used in cooking, but you can also chew cumin seeds (also known as "jeera") to take advantage of cumin's digestion-related benefits.
For best results, take a pinch of jeera before every meal and eat it. This will aid digestion and help to prevent nausea.
 Sucking on an ice cube cools the tongue and numbs the gag reflex, which can help to prevent nausea and vomiting. It's also a great way to stay hydrated, especially during the hot summer months.


If you find normal ice cubes a little boring, try adding a little citrus or watermelon juice to the water to give it some extra flavor. You could also try making ice cubes from your favorite electrolyte energy drink, to give you an additional burst of energy.
Sucking on a popsicle provides the same benefit as the ice cubes, so always try to keep a stash in the freezer. Stick to naturally colored and flavored popsicles if possible, or make your own.
 Doing yoga everyday is a good way to relieve morning sickness, as it helps to relieve stress and take your mind off feelings of nausea. Some of the best poses for relieving morning sickness include:



Child’s pose: To do child's pose, kneel on the mat and sit back onto your heels. Your toes should point together and your knees should be spread about shoulder-width apart. Lean over so your belly is resting against your thighs, then stretch your arms out in front of you and place your palms on the mat. Rest your forehead against the mat. Hold the pose for 1 to 3 minutes, inhaling deeply throughout.

Seated forward bend: Sit on the mat with your legs extended in front of you and your feet together. Slowly bend forward at the waist, and try to rest your torso against your thighs. Stretch your arms forward, placing the palms of your hands on either side of your feet. Hold the pose for 1 to 3 minutes, inhaling deeply throughout.

Pranayam: Sit on the yoga mat with your legs crossed and your back straight. Rest the back of your hands on your knees and open your palms. Hold this position for 5 to 10 minutes, keeping your eyes closed and focusing on your breathing.
 Pregnant women often feel anxious during pregnancy, especially if it's their first time. Stress can make morning sickness worse and isn't healthy for you or the baby. Daily meditation is a great way to calm both your mind and body.


Meditation doesn't require any special equipment or knowledge, you just need to find a quiet space in your home where you can sit comfortably and clear your mind. Try to eliminate all distractions and simply focus on your breathing. Doing this for just 10 to 15 minutes each day can be hugely beneficial for your overall stress levels.
For more information on a wide variety of meditation techniques, see this article.
 Morning sickness can often be triggered by certain odors, as pregnancy makes you hypersensitive to smells. This hypersensitivity is linked to increased levels of estrogen during pregnancy. You can combat this sensitivity using aromatherapy — using pleasant fragrances to overpower the bad.


Lavender and thyme are two aromatic plants that contain a high level of linalool and linalyl acetate — substances that have a calming effect on the mind and body.As a result lavender and thyme are widely used in aromatherapy. Get your hands on some lavender and thyme essential oils and place a drop or two (mixed with water) into an oil diffuser. This will fill your home with a pleasant, calming fragrance.
Another useful aromatherapy technique is to squeeze some fresh lemon onto a handkerchief. You can then carry the handkerchief around and inhale the refreshing citrus-y aroma whenever you start to feel nauseous.
Keep in mind that smells are highly subjective, and what smells good to one woman may trigger nausea in another. As a result, it is important to identify which scents you like and which you find irritating. Once you know which smells trigger your morning sickness, you can do your best to avoid them. Some pregnant women are irritated by perfume, dirty laundry, raw meat products, alcohol, cigarette smoke, bitter vegetables, caffeinated drinks and others., Exercise is an important part of a healthy daily routine, even during pregnancy. Some women find that exercise helps to reduce the symptoms of morning sickness, while others find that it distracts them from the nausea.


Taking a brisk walk outside helps to balance your metabolism and stimulates a healthy appetite. Walking outdoors is also an excellent way of relieving mental stress. Just make sure to drink plenty of water during and after exercise, to avoid becoming dehydrated.
Another simple exercise involves lying on your back on the floor and raising your feet to a 30 degree angle. This helps to increase blood flow to the abdomen and relieve morning sickness. Keep in mind that this exercise should be done 5 to 10 times and no more, as it exerts pressure over the lower abdomen and uterus.
 Acupressure is a form of traditional therapy which can help to relieve morning sickness in pregnant women. It involves applying pressure to specific energy zones in the body (usually in the hands and feet), in order to release negative energies. Each energy zone is linked to the energy of a specific organ, so applying pressure to the correct zone can help to eliminate morning sickness from the stomach.
It is very important that you see a qualified, professional acupressurist. See your doctor for recommendations.
 The cause of morning sickness is not fully understood, but most experts agree that it is linked to hormonal imbalances in the body during pregnancy.


During pregnancy, the estrogen hormone increases drastically, in some cases by 100% during the first trimester alone. As a result, many experts believe that morning sickness may be the result of your body adjusting to these increased estrogen levels.. This explanation is plausible as women who use hormone replacement therapy or hormonal contraception - which increases the level of estrogen - experience the same symptoms.
Progesterone is another hormone that increases during pregnancy. This is a relaxant hormone that prevents the muscles of uterus from contracting too soon, thus helping to prevent premature childbirth. Though its main effect is on the uterus, it can also relax the stomach and intestine leading to gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), commonly known as heartburn. As the stomach relaxes, its contents may flow back up the esophagus, resulting in morning sickness.
Morning sickness may also be linked to low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia). In pregnant women, the placenta consumes a lot of energy, depleting the body's stores of sugar. Hypoglycaemia can lead to vomiting.
Increased salivation may also lead to nausea and vomiting. When a pregnant woman sleeps, her salivary gland produces excessive bitter-tasting saliva, which may upset her stomach in the mornings.
Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) is released by the placenta and the developing embryo. The HCG doesn't cause the morning sickness itself, but it can stimulates the production of excess estrogen, which can lead to vomiting.
Some experts suggest that pregnant women have increased sensitivity to smell, which overstimulates the nausea receptors of the brain and leads to vomiting.
 It is important to remember that a fetus is most vulnerable during the first trimester. This is because the fetal organs are just starting to develop — they have less resistance to toxins and even a small amount of a harmful chemical can lead to problems with the pregnancy.


As a result, morning sickness may be perceived as a way for women to protect their offspring from harmful substances. Hypersensitivity to smells and increased vomiting are a defense mechanism which prevents the pregnant woman from ingesting food that may potentially harm the baby.Statistics shows that pregnant women who don’t experience morning sickness will have an increased chance of experiencing miscarriage.
 Obviously, the most important factor that predisposes a woman to morning sickness is pregnancy. But beyond that, there are several other factors that can trigger morning sickness.


Morning sickness may be triggered by certain smells. These odors may not necessarily cause nausea or vomiting, but because of the increased nasal sensitivity of a pregnant woman, it may lead to morning sickness.
Travelling over a great distance may lead to motion sickness which can aggravate nausea and vomiting during pregnancy.
If a woman experienced morning sickness during her previous pregnancy, then there is a higher probability that morning sickness will occur again during her next pregnancy.
Being pregnant with twins or more leads to higher levels of progesterone, HCG and estrogen. All these hormones contribute to morning sickness.
If you used a hormonal contraceptive before pregnancy, you have an increased chance of experiencing this illness.

