 In collaborative divorce, you and your spouse will each hire lawyers specially trained in collaborative divorce.You then meet together with your lawyers and try to reach a voluntary agreement on issues such as child custody, child support, alimony, etc. Because collaborative divorce is a special process, you don’t want to hire just any divorce attorney.


To find a collaborative divorce lawyer, you can contact your state’s bar association and ask for a divorce attorney referral. Specifically ask for a lawyer who specializes in collaborative divorce. If the bar association doesn’t have that information, then call up the referred lawyer and ask if he or she has experience using collaborative divorce.If not, ask if they know of any lawyer who specializes in the field.
You can also look at websites like collaborativedivorce.net, which has a list of attorneys around the nation., After you hire your own attorney, you should meet to discuss what you hope to get out of the divorce. Be sure to discuss the following:Your ultimate goal. Do you want $1000 a month in alimony? Do you ideally want $1200 a month in child support? You need to set goals for your lawyer to work toward.
How much you will settle for. In collaborative divorce, there is give and take. You probably won’t end up getting everything you want. Accordingly, you should discuss with your lawyer the absolute minimum you are willing to settle for.
If your spouse is unwilling to meet your minimums, then you can walk away. Collaborative divorce is a voluntary process. You can break off collaborations at any time. You will then have to file for divorce in court.
 With this agreement, your attorneys agree to withdraw from the case if they can’t settle everything collaboratively outside of court.You should have your lawyer sign. Also have your spouse’s lawyer sign.


This agreement provides protection. Because the lawyer’s will withdraw if negotiations break down, you can rest assured that your lawyer is doing everything possible to come to a divorce settlement outside of court.
You must also sign the agreement. You, too, have to agree to certain things, such as acting in your children’s best interest and doing everything possible to minimize harm to them., You may need the help of experts during your negotiations. These experts should be “neutral,” that is, not advocates for either you or your spouse. Your lawyers should be able to find the following experts, though you will have to pay for them:Mental health professionals and therapists. These people can help you and your spouse work through communication difficulties and address emotions that interfere with your ability to collaborate.
A financial professional. This person can help you predict your financial needs after the divorce by studying how much money it costs you to live. The financial professional can also help you understand whether you need to pay taxes on child support or alimony.
A child specialist. You might need someone to meet and observe your children. This person can help everyone understand what parenting arrangement might be in the child’s best interest. A child specialist can also help you and your spouse work on parenting skills that would benefit your children.
An appraiser. You may need property valued before deciding how to divide it. Your collaborative law team could hire an appraiser who can value your property.
 At the meeting, you and your spouse will work with your attorneys to come to agreement on issues related to your divorce, such as a parenting plan, child support payments, and a division of property. Neutral experts may also meet with you to provide feedback or insight.You will probably meet at the office of one of the lawyer’s. It should take several meetings to address all issues, even when both you and your spouse are engaged and cooperative.
If you feel that you are not making any headway, then you should talk to your lawyer alone. Collaborative divorce will not work for everybody. If you find that you can’t agree with your spouse, then you will need to pursue a “contested divorce” in court. A contested divorce is a divorce where a judge must decide child support, child custody, alimony, and the division of property.
 If you reach an agreement, then your lawyers should draft a settlement agreement. You should read the whole agreement before signing.


You can then file for an “uncontested divorce.” Because you and your spouse have an agreement, you can file for what is called an uncontested divorce. The divorce should not be complicated because you and your spouse agree on the key issues.Stop into your courthouse and get the forms for an uncontested divorce. The court clerk should have “fill in the blank” forms to use. You can then attach the settlement agreement to the papers and file them with the court.

