 Let's start with Halo 3's:;
, So basically, win 50 games in a gametype. Easy!

, You must get 7 EXP on the 7th of any month. Just reach it and you get it.
 In this achievement you and 3 other players must complete the mission 'Halo' on the Legendary Difficulty, and with Iron skull, and everybody using Ghosts. This will take you about 2 hours, so be ready for a long fight. There are many MANY strategies to unlocking this achievement, you are advised to just take your time. Remember, Iron Skull makes sure that if one of you dies you go right back to the last checkpoint, or restart the mission if you ALL die. Check out Halopedia for cool strategies.
 It requires you find 6 skulls, all hidden in each of the Mythic maps, just fly around in Forge and find em'. If you have not bought any map packs yet, DON'T! They are all in Halo 3: ODST multiplayer disk so you will just waste money buying them.
 This requires you complete any mission on Legendary Difficulty, signed into Xbox Live, without firing any bullets or throwing any grenades. Best map to do so would be 'Uplift Reserve' as it has many vehicles. Just keep driving and don't look back. Firing in vehicles, charging a laser, or any other weapons will cause you to fail the challenge. Simply don't touch your Right Trigger at all for this one.
 You must complete the mission 'Coastal Highway' on Legendary, with Iron Skull on, and without using the Warthog or the Scorpion Tank. About 1-2 hours for this, use the mongooses to keep up with Dare, and kill all resistance whilst covered behind her. Once again there are brilliant strategies on Halopedia.
 Get this and you will finally unlock Recon Armour! In this, you must have a 4-Player Xbox Live Heroic match on Firefight, and make it past the 4th set. It is easier than it sounds. Alpha Site is a MUST to do this, you only have to cover two entrances so that means 2 either side. Again, 1-2 hours.
 Well...almost...you need to log in to Bungie.net

,', click it and head back to your Armour List. NOW YOU HAVE IT! CONGRATULATIONS!

