 Feet should be about shoulder-width apart. Get below the bar, bending your knees slightly. The height of the bar must be adjusted for your personal body height. It is important to keep the weight on your heels but keeping your full feet on the ground. Refrain from distributing the weight to your toes or ball of the foot, as this is bad for your knees.


Feet too straight ahead tends to cave knees inward, so angling them out toward about 10 and 2-o'clock is useful (with "pigeon toed" or "toeing-out" feet, do your best to be stable, and do not use much weight). But, do not toe out more than that angle.
Do not stand with your feet further than shoulder width apart (too wide stance). That would bring your adductors (inner thighs) into the movement, which would cause stress to the medial collateral ligament (MCL), abnormal loading of stress on knee cartilage, and improper patellar tracking. Likewise, do not keep your feet in a close stance (too close together), as that can cause you to distribute the weight through your toes, which is bad for your feet and knees.
 Place your shoulders below the bar for it to be across the trapezius muscles. These are the muscles along your upper back between your shoulders. You will want the bar to be positioned over your trapezius muscles, not on your neck. Grasp the bar with your hands at a spot that you find comfortable, usually about six inches (15cm) outward from your shoulders. If this is your first time squatting, do this with no weight on the bar to learn the movement first.









Raise and dismount the barbell from the rack. Then take a step forward or backward, or the rack would interfere in the motion.

You should always have a spotter when squatting! This is especially important when "racking" (taking weights on and off the rack).
 Look straight ahead, keeping your back straight and chin up throughout the movement. Keeping your spine aligned, bend at your knees as if you were lowering toward sitting down in a chair. Keep your heels on the floor.









Do not rock your knees forward at the ankles.
Do not curve or bow your back either forward or backward.
Keep your head up and your shoulders solid.
Only go as far as you can comfortably go toward chair seat level. You'll get nearer there as you get stronger.
 Pull in your abs, and keep your lower back in a nearly neutral position. To keep your abs braced and contracted, keep your back as straight as possible in a neutral alignment. For most people, this means that there may be a slight curve in the lower back. Make sure that you get your quads no lower than parallel to the ground (hips to knee level), for the full range of motion.








Really focus on tightening your abs throughout the movement. Let your body assist you in managing the weight.
Keep the weight distributed over your heels with your shins vertical.
Avoid moving your hips forward through the motion. This will cause your pelvis to tilt and reduce the action of the glutes.
 From lower position, push up off your heels and lift the weight while maintaining good, proper and safe form. Use almost every part of your body while straightening your legs, and slowly, evenly move up.









Your back should stay straight. Do not let your spine curve throughout any part of the exercise.
Focus on using your glutes (butt muscles) to push up without using your back.
Try to make this movement smooth, moving in one fluid motion to prevent injury.

