 Purchase a terrarium with a ventilated top from a pet store. Or, make your own habitat with a lidded container made of glass or plastic. Poke several small holes through the lid with a thin nail or similar tool (no thicker than the tip of a pencil) so air gets in, but the worm doesn’t get out. Line the bottom with about an inch of dirt or wood shavings.Inchworms aren’t that strong, so you can use aluminum foil, plastic wrap, or something similar as a lid so poking holes is easier.
Pick a spot for it on a windowsill or near a window so your inchworm gets plenty of sunlight.;
, Be aware that inchworms have pretty short lifespans. Expect them to cocoon and turn into moths toward the end of summer. So, to spend as much time with them as possible, look for them soon after they first hatch from their eggs in spring.Eggs typically hatch when the weather rises to 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius).When they first hatch, they’re very, very small, which means they’re harder to find.
They usually take about three months to grow full-sized (about an inch long, or 2.5 cm)., There are thousands of different types of inchworms, and each one eats different foods.So when you find one for your habitat, also trim some of the leaves and pieces of the stem from the tree or plant that you find them on. Add these to the habitat so your inchworm has something to eat.Remember which tree or plant you found them on, or at least what type it is.
This way you can collect more leaves if needed to keep your inchworm fed.
 Check the leaves and stem pieces that you added to make sure it has enough food. Once they look like they’re beginning to rot, clean out the habitat and collect more leaves, stems, and dirt from outside. Spray a mist of water inside every so often so they stay hydrated. Also, keep fresh air circulating in the room by keeping the window open.If it’s too cold or hot outside to keep your window, at least crack it open a few times throughout the day.
Eventually they will cocoon themselves and then turn into moths. Keep their area moist and with sufficient light; they will turn into moths in about a few weeks. When that happens, you need to let the moths go outside. Simply unseal the container in the area that you originally found the inchworm.

