 Your spouse should submit Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative to USCIS. Your spouse will need to submit proof of the marriage, such as a marriage certificate.


If you’re already living in the U.S. after entering legally, then you can adjust your status at the same time. Complete and submit Form I-485, Application to Register Permanent Residency or Adjust Status. Your spouse can submit this form along with Form I-130.
If you’re currently living outside the U.S., then you’ll need to wait for your visa to be approved. You’ll attend an interview at the nearest embassy or consulate.Once admitted into the U.S., you can adjust your status by filing Form I-485.
 The U.S. government is worried about sham marriages, so you can expect to attend an interview where an official will ask personal questions. Common questions include the following:Where did you meet your spouse?
How many people attended your wedding?
Who does the cooking and who pays the bills?
What did you do for your spouse’s birthday?
What forms of birth control do you use?

, You can’t immediately apply for naturalization after receiving your green card. Instead, you must meet the following residency requirements:You must have been a green card holder for the three years immediately before you apply for naturalization.
You must have been a continuous resident for the three years before you apply and have been physically present in the U.S. for at least 18 months.
You must have lived in a marriage with your U.S. citizen spouse during the three years. Your spouse must have been a citizen during the entire time.
You must have lived within the state or USCIS district for at least three months before you file your application.
 In addition to residency, you need to show that you have other personal characteristics to be eligible. Check that you satisfy the following:You must be 18 or older.
You must be able to write, read, and speak English.
You need to be a person of good moral character. Generally, this means you haven’t broken a serious law and that you meet your legal obligations, such as paying taxes and child support.You must have entered the country legally. For example, you can’t be in the U.S. illegally and get citizenship simply because you married a citizen.
 Once you have satisfied the residency requirement, you can submit Form 400, Application for Naturalization. Download and read the instructions before completing the application, available here: https://www.uscis.gov/n-400. When you are ready to file, call 1-800-375-5283 to find out the address.


Read the instructions to find out what documents you must submit along with your application.
Make payment to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” As of June 2017, the filing fee is $640 and the biometric fee is $85. You can pay using money order or check.
 USCIS will send you a notice telling you where to give your fingerprints and when.USCIS needs your fingerprints so that the FBI can run a background check.
 You’ll need to meet with immigration officials to go over your application. USCIS is looking to confirm that your application is legitimate and that nothing has changed since you submitted it. You’ll receive a checklist of documents to take with you to the interview, so gather everything ahead of time.
 You must pass exams in civics and English. You will take them at your interview, and you should prepare as much as possible. For example, look to see if a preparation class is offered near you for either test. You can find the nearest classes at this website: https://my.uscis.gov/findaclass. Enter your zip code.


Several practice civics tests are available here: https://my.uscis.gov/prep/test/civics.
 The final step is to swear the Oath of Allegiance at your naturalization ceremony. Form 455 will tell you when and where the ceremony will take place. At the end of the ceremony, you’ll receive your certificate of naturalization.