 The first step in avoiding a deadbeat man is building a healthy sense of self-esteem. Recognizing all your unique qualities and celebrating your achievements will help you build self-esteem, maintain a positive self-image, and understand you deserve more than a deadbeat man.Make a list of what you like about yourself. Write down professional accomplishments like finishing nursing school alongside social strengths such as being a great friend. Hang the list in a place where you will see it daily.
 Deadbeat men seldom give their partners these important things, often redirecting their partner’s energy to meet their own selfish needs. Pay as much or more attention to your own well-being and happiness as you do that of others.Create a daily mantra to be spoken aloud or silently. Try saying to yourself each morning, “I deserve love and respect from my romantic and sexual partners.” Repeat daily!
Sit down with a notebook for 15 minutes. Write about what love, respect, and admiration mean to you and how that would look in a relationship.
 We all have that little voice inside our heads that tells us we’re a failure, we’re no good, and we don’t deserve better. It turns out this voice is usually wrong! Stop negative self-talk in its tracks and replace this nonsense with self-affirming thoughts.If you hear yourself saying, “I’m such a loser. No wonder why I always end up with the wrong men,” stop yourself as soon as you recognize the negative self-talk.
Tell yourself instead, “I am deserving of love and respect despite the fact I ended up with a deadbeat man the last time around.”

, Taking the time to wear an outfit that makes you feel fabulous, put on a shade of lipstick that offsets your eyes, or dabbing on a little cologne can do wonders for your self-esteem. If you feel fabulous, you’re more likely to begin believing it!, Many of us put the feelings, wants, and needs of others before our own. To avoid deadbeat men you must begin treating yourself the way you would a dear friend or family member. Prioritize your feelings, wants, and needs over those of others.For example, if you need time each day to go for a run, fulfill this need before tending to your boyfriend’s dirty laundry.
If cooking healthy food is a priority for you, prioritize your grocery shopping and dinner-making over helping your husband revise his resume.

