 Do so from any browser, including computers running Windows or Chromebooks.
 Do so in the sign-in dialog box., The iCloud web apps allow you to access or work with any of the data you've stored or synced with iCloud. For example, click on Pages to create, view or edit documents that you've created and saved on or synced with iCloud.

Only data and files that you sync or store on iCloud will be available on iCloud.
iCloud backups of your iPad, iPhone, or desktop to iCloud are not accessible. Rather, they are only used to restore your settings and data to your device.
 Doing so allows you to view, download, or delete the photos shared across your iCloud devices., This opens your iCloud Drive interface, which is used to upload and download documents and files.

Click and drag any documents you wish to save onto the Drive screen. Now your documents will be available from any synced device, including an iPhone or iPad.
 These are the contacts that you've synced from your devices. Any additions or changes you make in the iCloud app will be reflected across your synced devices., Events and appointments that you add to your Calendar app on a synced device will appear here. If you add or edit an event on the iCloud app, the changes will be made across all your synced devices, as well., When you've turned on "Find My..." on your Apple device, it uses iCloud to track its location. You can use this iCloud app to locate your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and even AirPods, if you've turned on the "Find My..." service., It's an app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.
 It's the section at the top of the menu that contains your name and image, if you've added one.

If you are not signed in, tap Sign in to (Your Device), enter your Apple ID and password, then tap Sign In.
If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu., Do so by sliding the buttons next to the apps listed under "Apps Using iCloud" to the "On" (green) or "Off" (white) position.

Scroll down to see the complete list of apps that may access iCloud.
 It's near the top of the "Apps Using iCloud" section.Turn on iCloud Photo Library to automatically upload and store your camera roll to iCloud. When enabled, your entire photo and video library will be accessible from any mobile or desktop platform.
Turn on My Photo Stream to automatically upload new photos to iCloud whenever you're connected to Wi-Fi.
Turn on iCloud Photo Sharing if you'd like to create photo albums that friends can access over the web or on their Apple device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section., It will turn green. Doing so makes stored passwords and payment information available on any device that you've logged into with your Apple ID.

Apple does not have access to this encrypted information.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section., Doing so allows you to locate your device by logging into iCloud on a computer or mobile platform and clicking on Find My iPhone.

Turn on Send Last Location to enable your device to send its location information to Apple when the battery is critically low.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's near the bottom of the "Apps Using iCloud" section., Do this to automatically save all of your files, settings, app data, pictures, and music to iCloud whenever your device is plugged in, locked, and connected to Wi-Fi. iCloud Backup enables you to restore your data from iCloud if you replace or erase your device., Doing so will allow apps to access and store data on your iCloud Drive.

Use the iCloud Drive app to add, view, or access documents or files in iCloud Drive on your iPhone or iPad.
Any app listed below iCloud Drive will be able to access its storage if the button next to it is in the "On" (green) position.
Now you're able to access iCloud through any of the apps that you've turned "On", such as iCloud Drive, Photos, Calendars, or Pages.
 It's the  icon in the upper-left corner of your screen., It's in the second section of the drop-down menu.#Click on iCloud. It's on the left side of the window.

If you're not automatically logged in, enter your Apple ID and password., It's at the top of the right pane. Now you can access and edit files and documents on iCloud.

Do so by choosing "iCloud Drive" in any "Save" dialog box or dragging files to iCloud Drive in the left pane of a Finder window.
Select which apps have permission to access iCloud Drive by clicking on the Options button next to "iCloud Drive" in the dialog box.
 Do so by checking the boxes below "iCloud Drive". For example, check "Photos" if you want to back up and access your Photos on iCloud. Now, your selected data will be stored and available on iCloud.

You may need to scroll down to see all the selections.
Now any time you use a synced app, like Photos, Calendars, or Pages, on your Mac, you will be accessing and syncing with iCloud.
 iCloud is designed to connect Apple devices, and you'll need to have signed in at least once somewhere else (iOS or Mac) before signing in on your Windows PC., You'll need to install a special program from Apple in order to access your iCloud data. You can download iCloud for Windows for free at support.apple.com/en-us/HT204283. iCloud for Windows requires Windows 7 or later.
 When you launch iCloud for Windows for the first time, you'll be prompted for your Apple ID. Use the same Apple ID that you used to log into iCloud on your other devices.
 The iCloud data that you can sync with Windows is limited compared to Apple devices, but you can still get a lot of the important data. Check the box next to each service you want to enable. Bookmarks will be added to your current default browser, and your Mail, Contacts, and Calendars will be added to your mail client (usually Outlook).


iCloud Photos and iCloud Drive will be visible in special folders added to your Explorer window. You'll find them on the left side of the window.

