 Where you place your vase will impact your Betta's health and longevity.Ideally you want a location away from noise and heat and has only a little natural light. Too much noise can cause stress and fin rot. Heat sources can cause dramatic fluctuations in water temperature. Excessive natural light can promote algae growth.;
, If you have decided that a vase with a live plant is the preferred setup for your fish, then the first step is to decide which vase will work best. In general, the bigger the vase, the better. The larger the vase, the more room your Betta has to swim around, which makes for a healthier, happier fish. Your vase should be no less than one gallon., Once you have the vase and location you want to decide what to put in your vase beyond your Betta. Most people include a plant, a tray, and gravel.


The most commonly used plant is a Peace Lily, a type of Spathiphyllum. Spathiphyllums are used because they are tropical plants that do not require a lot of sunlight or water to survive.
Bettas are jumpers. You need a tray that will sit above the surface of the water to keep your Betta from jumping out of the vase. Bettas will come to the surface and gulp air so keep the tray above the actual surface of the water.
Any type of gravel or rocks should be fine provided they are clean and free of any chemical traces. Glass beads or marbles do just fine.
 Put your gravel in first on the bottom of the vase. Use filtered drinking water to fill your vase.Avoid distilled water as the distillation process removes natural minerals needed for your Betta. Tap water will need to be dechlorinated. You will also need items and equipment for proper care. You will need fish food and may need a small water heater. Once you have everything together, let the tank sit for 24 hours before introducing your Betta to it.


Feed your Betta dailywith freeze dried blood worms, brine shrimp, or an appropriate Betta food. They are omnivores and require meat to survive.They cannot live off plant roots. Feed your fish once daily up to 5-6 days per week.Bettas are tropical fish and thrive in temperatures of 76-80 degrees Fahrenheit (24.4-26.6 degrees Celsius).Never let the tank drop below 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius).If your room temperature is regularly in these ranges, you will be ok. If your room temperature is below these ranges, a small heater will be necessary.
 Once you have setup your vase its time to introduce your Betta to it. Remove anything restricting access to the water surface. If you Betta is not already in a clear plastic bag, transfer it to one using the same water they are in already. Set the bag on top of the water for 20 minutes. Then use water from the tank to double the water in the bag. Allow to sit another 20 minutes. This allows the water temperatures to equalize. Finally, flip the bag over and release the fish into the water.


If you are cautious about mixing store water with your own water, use a net to transfer your Betta after the last 20 minute rest.
 Your Betta needs to be fed properly, just like any other animal. Feed your Betta a small amount of food once a day. Specific Betta food can be purchased at your local pet store. Bettas are omnivores and require protein in their diet. They cannot live off the roots of the plant in your vase.The best types of food are: worms (live or frozen); brine shrimp (live or frozen); fruit flies; or pellets made specifically for Bettas.


Do not overfeed your Betta. To avoid overfeeding, feed your Betta on a regular schedule (i.e. the same time and amount everyday). Also, observe your Betta while you feed it. If it leaves some of the food uneaten, then you know you have feed it too much. You should only feed your Betta what it can eat in 3 minutes. Allow one to two days a week to be fasting days where you do not feed your fish at all., The water in the vase needs to be changed frequently. Because the vase is unfiltered, waste and other by-products from the fish and plant build up in the water. To change the water, you will need to temporarily relocate your fish to another, clean container. You can use water in the tank to fill the container. Empty the vase of all water and fill with filtered tap water or bottled drinking water. Allow the tank to reach room temperature before returning your Betta to it using a net.


Water changes vary by volume of water.Change your water every 3 days for a 1 gallon vase. If your vase is as much as 2.5 gallons, change your water every 5 days. If your tank is 5 gallons, you can change it once per week. Since the vase is unfiltered, these water changes eliminate ammonium, nitrates, and other harmful chemicals caused by the fish's own bodily waste.
 You should clean your vase during every water change. Once the vase is empty, wipe the entire inside of the vase down with a clean cloth or paper towel. Any scum or algae should be removed. Remember to rinse the accessories as well. Additionally, you should “clean” the plant by trimming off dead parts.


Avoid soap in the cleaning process. Soap or other cleaning materials could be harmful to the fish. Residue from the cleaning products can mix with the water and ingested by your Betta.
 One of the tell-tale signs your Betta is unhappy or in danger is changes to their color, behavior, or fins. When any change occurs, you should assess the situation quickly. You don't want your Betta to become ill when a small change could save their life. Visit a local pet store for specific advice on how to treat your Betta's condition.
 Even when you are doing weekly water changes you may find your water becomes unexpectedly cloudy or fluctuates temperatures. This may mean your vase has too much direct sunlight (algae is forming and the sunlight is heating the vase). Your heater or room temperature may not be in the proper range either. You need to ensure a temperature between 76-80 degrees Fahrenheit (24.4-26.6 degrees Celsius)., Betta's typically want a larger space than provided in a vase. Something in the range of 3-5 gallons is a good startbut larger is better.The goal is to give them plenty of room to swim and interact with the environment. While Bettas may be sold in tiny containers, this is more to facilitate shipping than anything else.
 There are many considerations when setting up a Betta tank. Presuming you understand how to setup a Betta vase, a Betta tank is only slightly more complicated. You will want to add a filtration system to the tank as well as more gravel and water than before. Plants and decorations are also a good addition. A lid to keep the Betta jumping out is important. A larger heater may also be required.Once you have setup the inside and added water, let the tank sit until the water is clear and heated to the proper temperature.


Avoid filtration systems that create a lot of current in the water. Bettas like to "sit" in one place and a current will stress them out.
Heaters should be appropriately sized to keep up with the quantity of water in your tank.The micro-heater used in your vase will likely not be sufficient for a 5 gallon tank. Be sure to get a heater designed for your tank's exact size.
Avoid plastic plants and abrasive decorations. Use silk or live plants from your local pet store's aquarium department. The same is true for decorations. These are designed to work well with your Betta tank's unique requirements.
 If you want to move your plant and Betta you will need to find a vase for your plant. Simply moving it from your Betta vase to a water-only vase should be sufficient. Wait until your tank is ready to move your Betta. Then transfer your Betta to a plastic bag by filling the bag half full of vase water and use a net to put your Betta inside.
 Once your Betta tank is all setup you can start transferring your Betta from their temporary plastic bag to their new home. Float the plastic bag on top of the water of the new tank. Wait 20 minutes and then fill the rest of the bag with tank water. After another 20 minutes you can flip the bag over to release the Betta.
 Live plants are generally more safe for Bettas as they tend to be soft and move freely in the water. Since you have more space additional fish may be added but you must be careful which fish., Tank maintenance can be more involved but less frequent than vase cleaning.With a tank, you can avoid frequent water changes and may only change a little at a time. You will need to change your filters regularly as well (check the filter box for regular changing intervals).If you have live plants you also must regularly remove any dead leaves.