 When it comes to birth announcements, certain rules should be followed. Know what information is customary to include before designing your announcements.


Include names. You should include the full names of both the baby's parents, any siblings, and the new baby itself.
The baby's height and weight are commonly included, although you do not have to share this if you do not feel comfortable.
Most birth announcements include the location of the birth.
The names of grandparents are also usually included in birth announcements.;
, If you're not a designer yourself, certain websites and softwares can help you design birth announcements. You'll be walked through templates and designs and allowed to cater existing announcements to your liking.


Certain websites, like Shutterfly and FedEx, allow you to create media using their online system. However, the downside is you have to print announcements through these companies if you use the software they provide to create media. Make sure the rates are within your budget.
There are a variety of software packets you can purchase for a fee that allow you to design things like birth announcements. You can find these softwares by asking other parents for recommendations, browsing catalogues online, and going to a local electronics stores and asking a clerk. Always read reviews of any products you purchase to make sure they're reputable and user friendly.
 If you have a background in graphic design or are simply skilled at DIY projects, consider designing the cards yourself. You can use software like Photoshop to create and customize your own designs. You can also make handmade announcements and use a color copying machine to upload them to a computer and subsequently print copies.]

, Birth announcements should be a fun expression of yourself and your new family member. Play with text, formatting, design, and photos. Have fun.


You'll need a picture of the newborn for the announcements. Some parents aren't comfortable sending out pictures to a lot of casual acquaintances and might feel more comfortable with a photo of the baby's face alone. Make a decision based on what you're most comfortable with.
Choose a font that's attractive, but readable. An overly stylistic font might be annoying for recipients to read. Try to pick something classy, but legible. Play around with font selection on your computer to find something that suits you.
Consider adding graphics in a creative manner. If your family's last name is, say, woods a faded backdrop of trees cute be a cute choice. If your baby has a nature name, incorporate that into the card. Baby Rose's birth announcement could be adorned with images of roses in the corners., You should choose a type of paper that's durable and won't cause colors or designs to blur. Take the following into consideration when selecting paper:


Consider the thickness and weight of the paper. Thicker, heavier papers tend to be pricey but they also may be less susceptible to damage during delivery.
The overall quality of the paper is important as well. You should select something higher quality than standard notepad paper, but something manuscript quality is likely overkill. Ask at a local print shop or do research online to see what quality papers are typically used for the color schemes and designs you chose.
Consider the color of the paper. If you have a lot of graphics and colors on your existing design, plain white is probably the best choice. However, if you have a less decorative announcement a cream or yellowish shade might be a nice touch., Figure out about how many cards you plan to send and get an estimate from a local print shop. While calling, explain the size of the cards, the type of paper you wish to use, the number you intend to print, and any other special considerations regarding your announcements. See how the estimate fits into your budget.
 If a print shop is too costly, consider getting the cards printed online and delivered to you. Companies like Shutterfly and FedEx allow you to design announcements and then order printed copies. You might also find local companies who allow you to do work online. It may be cheaper and quicker to print cards online, depending on the rates. It's not a bad idea to shop around and see what price is best for you.
 Electronic announcements are very convenient. They can also allow you to save money. However, there's etiquette involved when it comes to announcing a birth online.


Electronic announcements are easy to send in that you can do so through one mass email. You can include the same information as well as a similar design in an e-card as you would a regular card.You can also do a little of both. You can send one e-card after the baby's birth and then send individualized birth announcements to close family members and friends.