 Extract the smoky richness from the bacon by baking it in the oven until crisp.

Preheat the oven to 400ºF/200ºC.



 


Lay the bacon on an ungreased baking sheet (consider using a baking sheet that has turned up edges, which will prevent the bacon from sliding off the sheet and into the oven).






Coat the raw bacon with the light brown sugar. Only coat one side to avoid the sugar making contact with the baking sheet and scorching.






Bake for 10-12 minutes––turn after baking for approximately six to eight minutes. Consider dragging the bacon through any run off brown sugar (which will most likely have become a syrup) as you turn it.






Cool bacon on a wire rack and break into small pieces once fully cooled.





;
, Stir to combine.



Use a hand mixer or a standalone mixer for best results.






Mix at low speed or use a whisk to combine until the sugars are dissolved into the milk.
 Pour the cream and vanilla into the mixture slowly to combine completely.
 A homemade ice cream maker can be created using a few plastic bags and ice, as follows:


Pour the cooled ice cream mixture into a freezer-grade plastic bag with a seal. Go for a good quality, strong bag since you’ll be shaking this bag to create your ice cream.
Place the plastic bag containing the ice cream into a larger similar bag, filled halfway with ice and one cup of salt (or rock salt).
Seal the larger bag and wrap it in a towel. Shake the bags vigorously and then knead the ice cream mix inside the bag for approximately 10 minutes.
Allow the ice cream to sit on the ice for about five minutes after it’s well kneaded. The longer the ice cream sits on the ice, the harder its consistency.
 No matter which method you choose (homemade maker or professional), sprinkle bacon crumbles during the last minute of churning or kneading in order to fully integrate the ice cream, without dissolving the bacon.
 This ice cream is rich enough to be dessert or a treat on its own but if you like syrup, a dash of maple syrup over the top is delicious.

