 While many email marketing applications have built-in analytics, you may consider getting a third party system to help you process the data or statistics on your campaigns. Some software can give you a more comprehensive or visual representation of your analytics, while others may track something that your current content management system does not. The size and scope of your e-blast campaign will dictate which kind of software you require.


Popular analytics software includes Google Analytics, Klipfolio, DOMO, Tibco and Tableau Software., Click-through rate or CTR is how often customers click on links contained in your email. There is also a conversion rate, which tracks how many people took action after clicking your link, as well as a rate for how many people opened and read your email. Many email blast software will have these metrics built in. Do not make things in the email blast confusing or complicated as it can prevent people from taking action or even reading the blast.


To calculate your CTR, divide the number of clicks by the number of emails that you've sent.If your click rate is fairly low, try to come up with new methods to attract people to your links.
Conversion rates track things like how many people RSVPed to an event, purchased a product, or signed a petition.
Adding images to an email may also help improve your click through rate.
Average click rate for an email blast is 5.6%, though it will vary depending on the type of business you have., By tracking the statistics on each of your emails, you'll be able to develop concise reports about what works and what doesn't for your target audience. Take note of the specific days and times for your highest open and conversion rates. Test different tones and subject lines and see what causes your audience to read the blast. Stick to the things that your consumer tends to favor or enjoy and avoid repeating aspects of emails that do poorly according to the stats.


Take external factors, like fashion trends, into account when you are analyzing the metrics. It's not always how you are crafting the blasts, but what's happening in society that may make it more successful than others.
 Is your email list growing or shrinking? If more people are unsubscribing than are registering to your list, it's a good sign that you need an entire strategic overhaul on your email policies. If there are a lot of people unsubscribing it could be because your content is not relevant to the people that you're sending it to. In this case, try to segment your list differently or change the type of content that's being delivered through your email blasts.


For example, if you see that 10% of your list unsubscribed because of your last email blast, try to identify what consumers didn't like about the email.
Do not inundate customers with useless emails. Always ensure there is a plan to action or a promotion within the email.

