 Has your organization recently had an event? Reached a fundraising goal? Launched a new campaign? Won an award? These are all potential story ideas for a reporter.;
, You will send this to media outlets and individual reporters to let them know about your message. Check out the templates in the links below; they will have specific tips and samples to help you write the best press release or media advisory possible. Be sure to include photos.
 Look through local and national papers to see which reporters have covered similar stories in the past. Write down the reporters’ names, outlets and contact information. (You can usually find an email address in the reporter’s byline, and try to find a phone number as well). Ask the communications staffer at your organization for help; they may have contacts within newspapers that you can use. Pay special attention to neighborhood and community newspapers. They are usually very receptive to stories about local people and organizations and might be easier to contact than bigger papers. Also, make a list of local television and radio stations that you can send your press release to, especially those that regularly highlight nonprofits on air.
 Open your email with a paragraph introducing yourself and your organization. Also include a phone number and email address where the reporter can contact you. Copy and paste the press release below the introductory paragraph. Make sure that your email is professional and grammatically correct; have someone else edit it if necessary. Some media outlets will have a submissions page on their website – send your press release there too!

, If you’re sending an email, introduce yourself again in the first paragraph and then state that you are resending a press release for their consideration. Don’t forget to copy and paste the press release into the body of the email! As always, be polite and professional. If you’re making a phone call, the procedure is the same; introduce yourself, say that you had sent a press release to them earlier, and ask if they have any questions or would like for you to send it again.
 They may ask you for photos, quotes, or more information than what you provided in the press release. Be prompt and thorough in your responses so they can write the best piece possible.

