 You should make healthy choices a priority in your family. You should teach your child about making healthy food choices and getting enough physical activity. Include your child in the process of choosing foods and activities. This helps your child feel part of the family and gain confidence in their own choices.


For example, take your child shopping with you and let them help you choose vegetables, fruits, and healthy grains. Let your child choose which healthy snacks they would like to eat.
Encourage your child to choose activities for the family to participate in. Your child may decide that the family should go hiking, bicycling, or to the park to play a game of baseball.
 Your children learn from you. This means you should always think about what you are teaching them. This is especially important with body image. The way you view and talk about your own body will filter down to your child. Speak about yourself in positive terms to set a good example.For example, refrain from saying things like, “I look so fat today” or “This dress makes me look huge.” You should also avoid saying things like, “She looks like she’s gained weight” or “Wow, that man is fat.”

, If you or someone in your family needs to lose weight, think about the way you present that to your child. Focus on making healthy eating choices and getting physical activity instead of dieting or losing weight. Be careful not to participate in excessive or obsessive workout routines, which could send the wrong message to your child. Tell your child you are choosing to live a healthier lifestyle.Emphasizing the importance of a healthy lifestyle can help your child adopt good habits and have a better self-image than focusing so much on weight or the number on the scale.
 Another way you can help develop a healthy self-image for your child is to avoid using certain words. When you talk about body image, you may want to stay away from words like “fat” or “skinny.” You may not want to talk about weight and numbers, and avoid the word “diet.”Labelling people based on their size can be damaging to a child’s body image. Focusing on the number on the scale and learning that dieting is a solution that will make their body more acceptable can lead to eating disorders and unhealthy behaviors.

