 Firstly you have to be a property owner, tenant, architect or an engineer who intends to carry out energy efficient improvements to a property or has already done so.;
, You can find exceptional companies on the internet subject to a few verifications and cross checks. You will need to subject your choice to the usual verification process that is required for online companies. Check the date the company was established. This must help you in finding the company with the most to offer in terms of experience. After that, hunt for customer testimonials on the company site and elsewhere on the internet. You will also need to make inquiries with the better business bureau on the reputation of the company. The last thing you must not forget to do is to check if 179d is listed as one of their specialties.
 This needs to be done before any work has commenced on the new building or improvements. You will also need to establish whether your intended improvements qualify for acceptable energy efficient improvements.
 One of the general rules from the IRS requires that a third party do an energy tax study of the building.
 This is the general advice that is given to property owners or tenants seeking to make some qualifying developments on an already existing property. This is due to the fact that a building envelope improvement will give you $60 for each square foot. This is a benefit which you can claim on a backdated basis from January 2006 and does not require any alterations to your tax return.
 Some of the qualifying developments that you can make include the installation of energy efficient windows, sealant and insulation systems, green roof, energy efficient lighting among others.
 You must avoid the temptation to do it yourself, use in-house accountants or a company which does not provide specialist tax services. A lot of companies have lost large amount of money that could have been available in the form of tax credits due to erroneous classification, calculations or filing. Apart from failing to get a generous tax credit, your tax bill will remain inflated and the whole project will prove a colossal drain to your finances. Apart from soliciting a tax credit, energy efficient construction will ensure that you make huge savings in the long run through affordable heating and lighting expenses. Your federal tax deduction is arrived at by making a comparison of the energy efficiency of your building as compared to the 2001 ASHRAE benchmark 90. 1 – 2001. Buildings that qualify are those used for commercial purposes, residential four plus storied buildings that are inclusive of dormitories inhabited by multiple families, unconditioned detached or attached garage spaces among others.

