 The pot should be 2 inches deeper and wider than its original nursery pot, as the plant will need room to grow.
 Porosity, how much air and moisture can escape from your pot’s material, is key to plant growth. Glazed terra-cotta, plastic and metal hold in moisture while unglazed terra-cotta, wood and paper pulp allow the plant to breathe. Become familiar with your plant’s specific watering needs in order to decide which pot material is best. Material also affects the overall style of your garden. Choose a material that fits with your personal style as well as the location.
 Accessibility should be taken into account. For example, if you will need to move the pot around, chose a lightweight metal or composite instead of thick ceramic.
 Without holes in the bottom of the pot, water will sit in your plants soil, flooding the roots and subsequently rotting them.


If you can’t find a pot with holes, you can drill them yourself, as long as the pot isn’t too fragile.
 This barrier will reduce soil leakage through the bottom holes. Buy a saucer in a complementary color to keep the excess water from leaking onto your furniture or deck.


You can also purchase pot feet or a stand if you want the water to drain directly onto an outdoor surface.
 If this is your first time potting a plant, try planting small plants or seedlings. Consult your local gardening center about what plants do best in your climate.


Ask if any of the species you are buying are invasive. Plants like mint should be planted with their original small pot intact to keep them from spreading out and killing other plants over time.
Non-invasive annuals can be planted three to five to a pot.
Invasive annuals should have their own pot or be contained within a smaller pot.
Choose plants that don’t have dense root balls. They will become easily parched and they will be more likely to die.
Choose plants that need the same type of soil and sun.
 You will need the plants, the pots, potting mix and a trowel.


If the site requires you to bend over in order to plant, you might try elevating the pots on a bench or table in order to save yourself from unnecessary back pain.
 Then, do a dry run. Place the plants inside the container and judge where they should sit to keep their soil at the same level as in their original containers.


Use a potting mix, instead of garden soil. Choose one with slow release fertilizer granules, so the plant is taken care of over a long period of time, or purchase your own granules to mix in.
To make your own batch of potting soil, combine five parts of compost, one part vermiculite, one part builder’s sand and one-quarter part dry organic fertilizer.
 Start with the center plant then move on to surrounding plants. Sprinkle more soil with every plant you add to the arrangement. They should be covered to the same level as they were in their original containers.
 Follow watering instructions specific to your plants found on their packaging.


Right after plants are moved to a new environment they need special care so they take to their new home. Water whenever two to three inches of soil is dry.
 Add more soil if the soil compacts in a few months and tend to your plants as indicated on the package. 