 If the cut is actively bleeding, the first step is to stop that bleeding. Do this by applying pressure to the area, using a clean cloth or medical gauze. Do not remove the cloth until the bleeding has stopped completely.Facial injuries often bleed worse than other parts of the body, so the injury may look worse than it is.Crying makes bleeding worse, so try to remain calm and stop crying.;
, If the cut is very deep, particularly if it is a puncture wound, you may need to go to the hospital immediately. Large gaping wounds or deep wounds will likely need stitches and professional cleaning. More superficial wounds can be cared for at home.
 Before you touch the open wound in any way, be sure to clean your hands thoroughly with soap and hot water. Wash both hands, between all of your fingers, and your wrists thoroughly, rinse with hot water, and dry with a clean towel.Hand-washing is a very important method of avoiding the chance of any infection in the wound.
 Clean the wound very gently with water and soap. Be sure to rinse the soap out of the wound completely with water. Be sure to remove any visible debris or dirt from the wounded area.


Use cool or slightly warm water. Water that is too hot may cause the wound to start bleeding again. Be patient and slow with this step. If there is debris in the wound, try using a soft cloth to aid in removing it.
If necessary, sterilize tweezers with rubbing alcohol and use them to aid in removing pieces of debris from the wound. Avoid using hydrogen peroxide or iodine, which can irritate or damage tissue., An antibiotic ointment such as Neosporin or Polysporin is the best option, but if none is available, simple petroleum jelly such as Vaseline can help. Expensive creams or treatments that claim to reduce scarring are generally not as helpful as they claim to be., Place a sterile bandage over the wounded area. This may be a bit cumbersome on your face, but it is important to keep the area free from potential infections.Place a bandage over the cut and use medical tape above and below the bandage to keep it in place.
If the wound is still bleeding, try to secure the bandage tightly over the area. If it is not, a looser covering is adequate.
 A wide open cut needs to be pinched together to aid in healing and reduce scarring. Butterfly tape can help pull the skin together and enable it to heal. If this does not work, you will likely need stitches and you should go to the hospital.
 If the wound area is swollen (for example, if the cut is the result of a forceful blow), it is important to get the swelling in the area down as well. This can be done by putting ice on the area for 20 minutes at a time.
 If your wound is wide enough that the skin will not close together on its own, you may need to have stitches. Closing the wound tightly together soon after the injury is essential to reducing scarring and facilitating healing., If you have received a hard blow to the face, be sure that you do not have any breaks or fractures under the skin. This is especially important if a cut is due to a car accident or any very forceful hit., If the wound begins to swell, becomes filled with pus, feels hot to the touch, or becomes more painful or if you develop a fever, seek medical treatment.An infected wound will take longer to heal, and serious infections can occur., For extreme scarring, you may want to consult a plastic surgeon about the scar area. In some cases, a laser treatment or surgery can be done to reduce the effects of serious scarring.It is particularly important to seek help if a scar that had faded turns red, or if the tightness of the scarred area restricts normal facial movement.
 If you have not had a tetanus shot recently, you may need to go get one, depending on the depth of the wound, the object that caused the wound, or your environmental circumstances. , Try to keep your head above the rest of your body at all times. This may mean using additional pillows at night to prop up the top half of your body. Keeping your head elevated will reduce swelling and pain in the area., Excessive shaking or movement will disturb the wound and can delay healing, which may increase scarring. Try to maintain a neutral facial expression and avoid excessive motion., Keeping an ointment or petroleum jelly applied to the cut will aid in healing and will keep the cut from itching. It is important to refrain from scratching an itchy cut because picking at scabbed areas will intensify scarring.
 If you are using bandages to cover the cut, be sure to replace them once every day, or whenever they get dirty or wet.Be sure to use clean, sterile bandages.
 After the wound is no longer “open,” it is better to remove the bandage. Exposure to air will aid in quicker healing., Staying internally hydrated with water will help your body function well and will help keep your wound moist and healing from the inside. Avoid drinking alcohol, particularly when the wound first happens, as it causes expansion and can make bleeding and swelling worse., Certain foods are thought to help with the body’s healing. Getting an adequate amount of healing foods, as well as avoiding foods that are high in sugar and unhealthy fats, can help your body heal more quickly.Be sure to eat plenty of the following:Protein (lean meats, dairy, eggs, yogurt)
Healthy Fats (whole milk, yogurt, cheese, olive oil, coconut oil)
Vitamin A (red fruit, eggs, dark green vegetables, fish)
Healthy Carbohydrates (rice, whole-wheat pasta, whole-wheat bread)
Vitamin C (leafy green vegetables, citrus fruit)
Zinc (meat protein, fortified cereal)

, The best way to avoid a scar is to prevent infection. Proper care in the first two weeks of the wound is the best approach to reduce scarring., It can be very tempting to pick at scabs as they heal. They are often itchy and unsightly. However, it is much better to cover them with ointment and keep them moist. Picking at scabs will make scarring much worse., Direct sunlight on a sensitive healing area can cause the area to darken and may make scarring worse. If the wound is completely closed, you can apply sunscreen to the area. Before it has completely closed, you may need to avoid sunlight in other ways, like wearing a hat, covering the area, or staying inside., Silicone gel sheets are thin, clear sheets that you apply directly over the cut. These will help keep the wound moist and clean, and encourage quick and healthy healing. You can find them at most medical supply stores. 