 Start trying to address these behavioral challenges as soon as you notice them. It is possible to even work with a puppy to overcome their fears. In many cases, it is enough to create a positive association with storms, using treats and so on, early on in a dog’s life. Also, watch the progression of your dog’s fears to help prevent a minor fear from becoming a major phobia.The best way to trace the degree of fear is watch your dog’s body language. Do their eyes look increasingly agitated? Are their movements more and more jerky and uncontrolled?

, This method involves providing controlled exposure to the sounds and noises associated with storms. Get a CD with the sounds of thunderstorms on it, including the loud cracks of thunder. Play it around the house for just a few minutes and then gradually build up to longer intervals. The hope is that your dog will eventually see these noises as normal and pay little attention to them.You can also make a point to play this tape while you are feeding your dog, so that it associates storms with something positive., As soon as you notice that your dog is suffering, go ahead and make an appointment to meet with your vet. They will be able to examine your dog and rule out any physical causes for these anxieties. They can also suggest additional behavior modification strategies that may work well for your particular breed of dog. You can also discuss the option of medicating your dog.Your vet may also give you a referral to see a vet behaviorist.
 If your dog’s fear gets to the point which they are a threat to themselves or others, you may need to look into medication as an option. Some vets offer acepromazine to owners, but it is simply a tranquilizer without an anti-anxiety component. It is better to go with a canine noise aversion drug, such as Sileo.Melatonin is a gentler option when compared with prescribed medications. You can get it over-the-counter and it is a hormone. It works by calming your dog down and reducing the effect of outside stimuli, such as thunder. Consult with your vet regarding the specific dosage requirements for your dog., Curbing your dog’s fearful reactions and behaviors may take a good amount of time. If you get frustrated, just remember that their fear is really out of your dog’s control. Focus on what you love about your pet and keep moving forward to try to get them help.