 A 1 year-old’s shoes will be very different from the adult shoes you’re used to dealing with. They should be made to bend easily with breathable fabric uppers and provide a form fitting design. A child’s feet need to be as active and comfortable as possible while safe and well-protected, so make sure the shoes reflect all of these concerns.


For proper foot development, it’s best for a toddler to wear no shoes at all. This is known as the “barefoot principle.” When you leave the house, however, shoes are necessary for safety and health reasons. If you do have to put shoes on your child, make sure to keep in mind the barefoot principle of child development when choosing your child’s footwear and choose shoes that most closely resemble being barefoot.;
, Preferably, have a professional measure your child’s feet as it’s a sign of being more mature that your child will take pride in. Not only that, you’ll most likely get a far more accurate measurement than if you try by yourself.


Trying to put shoes of the wrong size on your toddler may cause your little one to scream or resist during future dressings.
Ideally, you should have your baby’s feet measured every six months.
For a one year-old, purchase shoes in the store and not on the Internet. It’s important that you feel the shoe, its flexibility, materials, and see how well it conforms to your child’s feet., Your child will invariably pick the shoes that are the worst for their little feet. If you check with the store first, you can narrow the list to the healthiest options so that when your little one comes with you, the options are already set and can be presented to your toddler so they have a very limited selection.


There are shoes that light up, that are covered with cartoon characters, that have pretty bows or cool superheroes. You want to eliminate all that are not good for your child’s feet. If you know where these shoes are located in the store, you and your little one can whisk right past these shoes and on to the choices you have already picked out.
If there are quality shoes that also happen to have some of these exciting options, you’re gold. This can turn the chore of putting on your toddler’s shoes into a favorite time of day.
 Since you’ve hopefully already zeroed in on the best shoes for your little one’s feet, you can go straight to those you have selected and let your toddler choose. This will help immensely in getting the shoes on later.


Children are really no different than adults in this regard: if children pick out shoes they like, they are more apt to be in a happier frame of mind when they have to put them on.
 Establishing routines positively affects your child in a myriad of ways. Children like the familiarity and it builds trust and a feeling of safety. It also gives little ones the opportunity to learn to start processes on their own, which builds self-confidence and self-esteem while also reducing the time needed to put shoes on your one year old if you are ever in a hurry to get out the door.If you keep shoes near the door, for instance, your child will know that upon approaching the door it is time to sit on the steps (or floor) for “shoe time.” You can even explain why we need shoes as you put the shoes on you toddler.
You can repeat a mantra, such as: first we put on the socks, then we put on the shoes, then we go play and have fun!

, Some children prefer to sit or stand while their shoes are put on while others prefer to be held. Depending on the preferences of your child, you should select a position that is both convenient for you and comfortable for your little one.


If you prefer to hold your child, sit with your child facing away from you on your lap.
 Being so near the door may be too exciting for your toddler to sit still. If that is the case, try another neutral area that doesn’t contain their toys or other highly desired items that can cause angst.
 This can eliminate the headache of a toddler on the loose. The child is already strapped in. As a routine it also helps positively build your child’s emotional well-being while bringing you closer together.It can also be easier because your toddler will learn that to get out and having shoes on is a necessary first step.
 It can be a silly song, one of their favorite songs, or even just a song that you love that you sing quietly. Singing attracts your child’s attention and gets it away from the shoes that are going on the little one’s feet., I’ve-got-your-nose is a great one to get your toddler laughing and engaged on you rather than the shoes going on your child’s feet. You can have your toddler check behind his/her ears because you see something. Your child, of course, finds nothing and will be astounded when you find a penny back there.
 Sit near a window and play “I Spy”. Talk to their toes and have the toes count off as you put the sock on. See who can make the funniest face or noise. Try to make the most animal noises you can., This can feel like a slippery slope because it can be hard to have that many stories up your sleeve. The good news is, kids love hearing stories repeated. A one year-old can even repeat words or phrases from a favorite story after a while. Don’t be afraid or intimidated by not having enough because what you have will be plenty.When telling a familiar story you can ask your child, “Do you remember what happened next?”
You can make up a fictional character and tell stories about him/her. You can make these stories up entirely or use events in your own life to make it easier to remember the details.
 This may be the last resort, the Defcon 1 of attention deception. Kids love the games on your phone so make sure you have a couple your child likes. If shoe time is that bad, make those few minutes game time on the phone.

