 If you want to enable Photo magic, you can turn it on in your Messenger settings. Photo Magic will scan the photos you take with your phone (even if you aren't using Messenger or Facebook to take them) and send you a notification to share the photos with friends it has recognized in them., You can find this on the right end of the navigation menu.
 This will open your photo sharing options.
 This will turn on the Photo Magic feature, which will scan new pictures that you take., Photo Magic can scan all of the photos you take with your device, even if you're not using the Messenger camera.


Messenger does not have to be open or running in order for this to work, Photo Magic just needs to have been enabled.
 If Photo Magic can detect Facebook friends in the picture you took, you'll receive a notification from Messenger asking if you want to send it to your friends. Tapping the notification will open a preview of the photo in Messenger.


Photo Magic can only detect your friends if they have enabled tag suggestions for their Facebook profile. See the next section for a guide on enabling this for your own account.
 The photo will be added to this conversation, allowing the other people to save it to their devices if they'd like.This will not post the photo to Facebook, it will only send it to a private Messenger conversation with the other people tagged in the photo. If you want to post the photo to Facebook, tap it in the Messenger conversation to open it, tap the ⋮ button, and select "Share to Facebook" to create a new post (Android only). If you're using an iPhone, you'll need to save the photo and then upload it to Facebook. See Upload Pictures to Facebook for details.
 In order for you to appear as a suggested tag in the photos your friends take, you'll need to have tag suggestions enabled for your Facebook account. You can do this from the website or the mobile app.
 The process for this is a little different depending on how you're accessing Facebook:


Facebook website - Click the down arrow on the right side of the Facebook menu bar and select "Settings."
iOS app - Tap the "More" button in the lower-right corner, tap "Settings," and then "Account Settings."
Android app - Tap the ☰ button in the upper-right corner, scroll down, and tap "Account Settings."

, You'll find this underneath the "Privacy" option.
 You'll find this at the bottom of the list of options.
 This will enable Photo Magic on your friends' devices to detect and tag you in photos they take.

