 Start by laying all of the parts from the trampoline box on the ground.;
, Take two curved poles and join them together. Join all of the other curved poles together, so they are in pairs on the ground.
 Take a W shaped pole and insert a leg pole onto one end. Press the button in to join. Now put the other leg pole in the same way. Repeat this step with all of the remaining leg poles and W shaped poles.
 Take one W shaped section and insert it into curved section. Make sure the buttons on the straight poles are on the same side as the holes on the curved poles. Now do the same for the other four sections.
 Once the frame is connected, turn over the completed frame sections so that they are the correct way up. Place them roughly where they would be in the completed frame. Lift two of the frame sections up, holding one in each hand, and join them together as tight as possible to hold them in place. Continue to join the frame sections in this way until they are all joined together.
 Unfold the mat and place it roughly into position. Align the logo of the mat to be parallel to one of the W shaped poles of the frame.
 Take the springs, and using the end with the longer hook, place all the springs into the holes. Connect the shorter end of the spring to the mat using the spring tool to hold the mat in place. Count out around eight (8) to ten (10) buckles from where you put the first spring in. Keep attaching springs to the frame and the mat until there are eight (8) springs connected and evenly spaced around the trampoline frame. Nb. When using the spring tool, first remove the spring and connect it to the mat. Then use the spring to pull the spring away from the mat to and to the frame.
 Lay out the net out on the trampoline and find the seam to the left of the doorway. Align the hole at the base of the seam with the first spring to the left of the joint.
 Push the hole in the net over the buckle on the mat and attach the spring into place. Continue to move your way around the trampoline, pushing the net over the buckles and leaving a net hole for each spring that is already attached. Now attach all the springs in an even manner until they are all fixed onto the frame. Continue your way around the trampoline so that the mat is pulled evenly. Remember to fix the net onto the mat where you attached the first springs.
 Use the screwdriver to pry out the plastic plugs that are pressed into the frame joints. Do this for all the plugs.
 Place the pads on the trampoline with the pads facing the same direction as the logo on the mat. Turn the pads around until the holes in the pads align with the joints in the curved section on the frame. To fix the pads to the frame, unhook the nearest spring at the loop in the pads, and push the spring through the loop, then reattach the spring to the frame. Continue moving around the frame until the springs are all attached.
 Take one of the long net poles, and insert a hook bolt into the middle of the pole. Screw a nut onto the end of the bolt, and use the spanner to tighten. Make sure the nut is screwed on straight to avoid damaging the thread.
 Slide all three (3) of the covers over the foam covering the poles.
 Take one of the shorter net poles and slot the end with the smaller diameter inside the top of the lower pole. Turn the poles around until the holes are aligned. Make sure the elastic end of the hook is on the same side as the pole as the one previously installed. Fix the third hook bolt through the top of the shorter net pole, ensuring that the elastic is on the same side as the other net bolts. Attach all of the hooks into the remaining poles.
 Slot one completed net pole into the frame by guiding it through the safety padding, then into the hole in the joint. Turn the pole until the screw hole can be seen. Use the screwdriver to insert a screw into the joint and continue the same process for all of the poles.
 Starting with the plastic buckles at the top of the net, attach them to the hooks on the top of the poles. Do this for all the remaining buckles, and continue your way around until they are all attached.
 You have finished installing your Vuly trampoline with net.

