 In order to be a binding contract, the commercial lease must include all parts of your agreement, in writing. If you and the landlord discuss something that you believe is an important part of the deal, then write it into the lease., In case there is any dispute in the future, your lease must be a document that can be read and understood by someone unrelated to your deal. It must include the following clear identifications:The names of the parties. Both you and the landlord must be named. If either of you is operating as a corporation, you will need to list it by its name and officers. Otherwise you will probably use your own name.
The address and description of the property.
 Be precise. Most commercial leases tend to run longer than a single year. If there is to be an opportunity to renew the lease, explain the terms of that renewal. Provide the dates that the lease begins and ends, so there can be no confusion., Specify how much is to be paid, and how often. If payment is expected in any particular form (certified check, etc.), be sure to say so.Note any rent increases that can be expected (called escalations) and whether the tenant will have the option to renew the lease at the end of the term.
 Sometimes a letter of credit from your financial institution can be substituted. If so, state that in the lease. Explain the purpose of the security deposit, when it will be returned, and what circumstances might lead to losing the security deposit., These might include electricity, water, telephone lines and trash removal. If you are making payments to the landlord for utilities, consider including a note about how often the landlord can ask for increases in utility payments., Some commercial tenants will want to make changes to the property before moving in. The lease should identify the work that is to be done, should state who pays for those costs, and should address your recourse if the work is not done satisfactorily or on time., These costs are often shared by landlords and tenants. Be specific about out how those costs will be calculated so there is no confusion for either the landlord or the tenant. Discuss how you will handle increases in the future., Particularly with a startup business, you may in the future find the need to subdivide the space and take on a tenant of your own. Or you may wish to enlist a partner and have that partner take on some of the responsibilities as a subtenant. Discuss these possibilities ahead of time with the landlord and list any conditions., Most commercial storefronts and office buildings have signs identifying who they are. Your landlord might provide those signs, and if so, this should be mentioned in the commercial lease., If the landlord or the tenant has a dispute, there should be a process that each party agrees to follow. At the outset of your business, you probably hope that everything will be wonderful. However, you must anticipate problems and include procedures. Some terms to consider including:What form of notice are you required to provide each other?
How much notice is either party required to give in order to correct a problem?
Is mediation required before either party goes to court?
Is there a limit to the damages that can be claimed? If so, what is the limit and how is it to be calculated?

, A commercial lease is a binding legal agreement, and you cannot expect to get out of it very easily. However, especially if you are operating a new or start-up business, your future may be speculative. Although you hope to be in business for a long time, you may not be able to keep the lease for the full term. When you are drafting the lease, anticipate this possibility and include provisions that would make it permissible to end the lease early.Note any financial penalties or consequences that will be incurred if the landlord or the tenant breaks the lease improperly.
 Although every commercial lease needs to be tailored to your own specific needs and your particular agreement, you can get a good start by using a template. This is a form that includes many of the terms that are required to make a contract binding. A good template can also provide an outline for you and the other party to use in negotiating the terms of your deal. As you review the template and work on filling in the spaces, if you find any that you have not addressed, you may need to have another discussion about your agreement.


The Internet Legal Research Group, at ILRG.com, provides an online source of commercial lease templates for each of the fifty states.SCORE is a volunteer agency that exists to assist small business owners and entrepreneurs. They provide a commercial lease template as well that you can download., There are a variety of online services that can help you write your lease. If you are doing this on your own, you might be able to use one of these services. You will need to collect all the information for the contract (names, address, terms of the contract, etc.) and enter them into the online program. At the end, you will be able to print out a fully typed lease agreement that incorporates your personalized terms., Whether you use a template that you get from a lawyer, from a book, or from an online service, it is essential that you read the complete contract very carefully. You will want to make sure that the form does not contain language that you and the other party to your agreement did not intend to include. If you do find provisions that you did not expect, consider whether you wish to keep them or strike them out.


Make sure that the landlord is in agreement with whatever revisions you are making.
 When you have the lease in its final form, and both you and the other party have reviewed it and agree that it says what you want it to, then you both need to sign it. There is generally no requirement that a lease be notarized, but doing so is a low cost and could be helpful down the line in case there is ever a dispute about the validity of the signatures.


It is a good practice to print a copy of the lease for each party, so that each party will have original signatures.
File your signed lease in a safe place, so you can refer to it in the future.
 Before you agree to lease commercial property, ask your attorney to look at the paperwork. You should sit together, read through each section, and explain your intentions. An attorney can make sure that what you wrote down will serve the purposes that you intend.
 A commercial lease is like a business partnership. Your landlord wants your business to succeed, so that he continues receiving his rent money. If you are having problems of any kind, or if your needs change, communicate those needs to your landlord. The two of you should work together to resolve any conflict early., You don’t want to find yourself in an emergency situation where suddenly your business site is insufficient. Try to predict your company’s needs in advance by reviewing data, income, expenses, employee needs, customer needs, etc. If you foresee something that was not included in your lease, you may need to make changes to the lease., A commercial lease is a legally binding document, but it is not completely unforgiving. If you and your landlord discuss some situation and reach an agreement that you had not originally anticipated in the commercial lease, you can amend the lease.The amendment should make specific reference to paragraphs or sections of the original lease that are being affected.
The amendment should include the revised or added language.
The amendment needs to be dated and signed in the same way as the original lease.
 When you are in business, you are expected to perform at a higher level. Private residential tenants are not expected to have certain business or negotiating skills, so there are more consumer protection laws in place to protect residential tenants. As a business owner, you will be expected to negotiate many of these protections for yourself or hire an attorney.For example, a residential tenant has certain privacy rights that a commercial business tenant will not usually expect.
 Residential leases often exist in standard forms, with certain provisions that will be common to all residences within a geographical area. There are no recognized standard forms for commercial leases. Although there are templates that can help you, each commercial lease is different. You need to review the lease terms carefully and make sure they match your own needs., A commercial lease tends to be for a longer term and is legally binding. While a typical residential lease may be as short as a month or, more typically, a year, businesses tend to remain in place longer, so the lease terms will be longer. You need to know as you enter the deal that you are making a serious commitment.If a residential tenant needs to break a lease early, he or she may lose a month's security deposit, but that is often the extent of the loss. A commercial tenant may face larger consequences depending on how the individual lease is written.
 Commercial leases tend to be open to more negotiability than residential leases. When you are renting a house or apartment, there are often limitations to the work you can expect. But with a commercial space, you may be able to negotiate significant renovations or special features that your business might need. Consider this when you are negotiating the agreement., Before you ever get to the state of drafting a commercial lease, you need to be sure you are fully aware of your needs. Think about your business and its future. Consider the following questions:Is your business likely to grow? Will you need more room in the future than you have now?
How much visibility will you rely on? Is your business the kind that depends on public foot traffic in order to survive, such as a cafe or bookstore? Or are you content with very limited visibility and the clients will come find you, such as a dental office or private law firm?
How accessible do you want to be? Do you want to be right in the downtown area of a city, or can you save money and take a more suburban location?
What special features will your business space need? Do you just need basic office lighting, or are you opening, for example, a laser tag and video game establishment that will need special electrical wiring?
Is the space you want to rent zoned for the kind of business you want to operate? It is not the landlord’s obligation to make sure that you can operate your business. This is a detail you should investigate before entering into a deal.
 If you are operating a business, one of the usual costs of doing business is legal work. It may seem expensive if you are just starting out, but the cost of consulting with an attorney in the beginning may be much cheaper than getting a commercial lease that does not really fit your needs and then facing a legal dispute later on.
 Just as you would consult with a realtor to rent or buy a house, you can do the same for your business. A realtor may also be able to help you with negotiating the terms of your agreement and drafting a lease.
 When you find a suitable location, talk with the landlord and discuss the terms of your agreement. A commercial lease usually has much more to discuss than a residential lease. Some things to think about are:length of the lease
rental price
renovations that you would like before you take possession
utility payments
property maintenance
signage requirements
early termination possibilities

