 Manipulate a wire clothes hanger into an evergreen shape. First, bend the free end of the hook on top in towards its base, so that it closes into a loop, which will reduce the chance of your wreath falling from where you hang it. Then, along the bottom, mark a spot roughly two inches (5 cm) inside from each corner. Now:Create two new corners by bending the outside two inches in toward the center of the hanger.
Smooth out the original two corners so that you now have a taller triangle with a narrower bottom.;
, First, select about a half dozen short, healthy branches to attach to your wire frame. Make sure that each is long enough for the needles to cover half of the frame’s bottom, plus one of its sides, as well as the hook on top. Clip the stems from the tree a few inches from where the first needles sprout along the branch.You’re going to be bending these at multiple points, so you want thin, flexible branches, with stems no thicker than a pencil.
If you don’t have live trees to clip branches from, artificial branches are totally fine, as long as they’re flexible.
 Use green floral wire to secure your branches, which will blend in with the needles. Arrange your branches so that their stems line up. Clip a length of wire long enough to wrap around them and twist or tie a knot. Then bunch the stems together and wrap the wire around them, about halfway down from the first needles. Twist the wire tightly or tie a knot to keep them bunched together.


The bare stems will represent the tree’s trunk. If you like, you can tie their bottoms together to replicate a cut tree, or leave the bottom free so they spread out and resemble roots.
 Place your bundled branches face down on your work surface, with the wire’s knot or twist facing up. Keep this side as the wreath’s back, so the knot or twist is out of view. Now clip another length of wire to tie the top of the stems together, just below the first needles.From this point on, make sure all your knots or twists are on the same side of the branches for a more uniform look.
 Lay your hanger across the branches, top to top and bottom to bottom. Line the center of the hanger’s bottom up with the top of the bunched stems. Use another length of wire to secure the two together.From here, you will be bending half the branches one way, and the other half the other way. Because of this, applying hot glue here for a stronger bond is a good idea. You can do the same with later ties if you like.
 First, bunch the three leftmost branches together and bend them to the left, being careful not to break them. Secure them with wire where they meet the bottom left corner of your hanger. Bend them again so they follow the hanger’s left side up toward the hook at its top. Tie them to the frame halfway up and then again at the base of the hook. Then do the same with the three rightmost branches along the frame’s right side.Once you’re done with each side, go back and tie them to the frame again about midway between each previous tie.
This will keep them more secure in case any one tie starts to loosen.
It will also ensure that the wire frame remains hidden throughout the wreath.
 Create a festive look with more elements straight from nature. Adorn your wreath with pine cones, cinnamon sticks and holly leaves (or any other type of leaf that strikes your fancy). Hot glue the backs of each to the front of your wreath wherever you please., To liven your wreath up while sticking to the nature-theme, use small fruits with rinds, like kumquats, to punch it up with color instead. Since these are too heavy for hot glue, loop craft wire over and under each side of your wreath to create a diagonal pattern around the whole frame. Draw the wire tight after each pass, then twist each end tightly around the wreath a few times so it doesn’t loosen. Use straight pins to pierce through the fruit’s rind and hook it behind the craft wire along the front of the wreath.Accent the kumquats by adding a line of cranberry garland along each row’s top or bottom with more straight pins.
Hot gluing the craft wire to your wreath’s frame will add extra support for the fruits’ weight.
 Instead of using natural decorations, go with the Christmas-tree theme instead and hang small man-made ornaments. Hang them from the floral wire that you used to bunch the branches together. Then add more wire as you like so you can hang even more ornaments.


For a rainbow effect, hang warm, primary colors like red and gold on one side. Hang cooler colors, like blue and silver, on the other. Blend the two together where they meet with blended colors, like purple and green.If you’re hanging this outside, be sure to bend your ornaments’ hooks as you hang them so they’re less likely to fall off in windy weather.
 Wrap a short strand of battery-operated Christmas lights along each side of the wreath to complete the Christmas tree effect. Use the wires to hang ornaments. Then hide the wires by wrapping your favorite garland around them.


You can use removable velcro hanging strips to attach the lights’ power pack to the wall or door where the wreath will hide it.

