 This means they often take things literally and as such you need to be careful how you speak to them. Before you can discipline your child, you must understand why your child is acting out. If you don’t understand the cause, you may discipline them in a way that, to them, actually reinforces the bad behavior.


For example, if your child is acting out at bedtime and you are not sure why, you may choose to put her in time out. However, a “time out” could in fact be rewarding the child if her goal is to put off going to bed for as long as possible. Through discipline without understanding the cause, you are actually showing her that if she misbehaves at bedtime, she will get to stay up later.
Sometimes children act out because of an external stressor that they don't know how to handle (e.g. screaming and crying because of loud music that hurts their ears). In these cases, it's best to remove the stressor, discuss coping and communication strategies, and forego punishment.
 When an autistic child displays a bad behavior, that behavior is actually serving a purpose. By understanding your child’s purpose, you can figure out how to prevent the unwanted behaviour and work towards replacing it with more appropriate actions.


For example, your child may want to avoid something or a situation so they may “act out” to avoid the situation. Or, they may be trying to get attention or gain something else. Sometimes it can be hard to tell which is your child’s end goal--you will have to observe your child to fully understand.
Sometimes children act out without any particular goal; they simply don't understand how to handle their stress. Sensory issues, hunger, sleepiness, not enough down time, etc. may be the cause of this.
 One key clue to figure out which your child is doing (avoiding a situation or seeking attention) is if your child consistently “misbehaves” given a particular scenario. If the child is behaving ‘unusually’ for an activity they typically enjoy, then this could be indicative they they’re seeking more attention.For instance, your child may “act out” when it is time for a bath. If she does this right before or during bath time, you can conclude that she is acting badly because she does not want to take a bath.

