 Add the butter to a large saucepan and set it over medium-low heat. Allow the butter to completely melt.


Cutting the butter into smaller chunks can help it melt faster.
Occasionally turn the saucepan as the butter melts. Doing so should spread the butter over the bottom of the pan more evenly.
 Add the chopped onion to the melted butter. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 12 to 15 minutes or until the onions are lightly browned.If you're in a hurry, you can increase the heat to medium and shorten the cook time to about 5 to 8 minutes. You should not increase the heat beyond that, however, since doing so may burn the onions.
Adding onions to the gravy base will add more flavor, which is especially important when you aren't working with pan drippings.
 Sprinkle the flour over the onions and butter. Quickly and completely whisk it into the contents of the pan.


After the flour has absorbed the remaining butter, continue cooking for another 1 to 2 minutes so that the heat can remove the raw flour taste.
 Gradually pour the broth into the saucepan, whisking continuously to combine. Cook for another 4 to 5 minutes, or until the gravy bubbles and thickens.If you haven't done so already, increase the heat to medium.
Note that you can use any broth for this recipe. You can even combine broths to create a more complex flavor. For instance, using two parts beef broth and one part chicken broth can create an appetizing brown gravy suitable for potatoes and other side dishes.
 If you want to further deepen the flavor profile of the gravy, add the brandy. Stir well to combine and cook for another 2 or 3 minutes.


The heat should break down the alcohol while you cook it, leaving only the flavor behind.
 Remove the gravy from the heat and pour in the cream or milk. Whisk well to combine.


It's best to use room temperature or slightly warmed dairy to prevent it from curdling once it touches the hot gravy.
Continue whisking until the gravy takes on an even coloration.
 Sprinkle the gravy with ground black pepper, to taste, then stir to combine.


Since most broths are already quite salty, you probably won't need to add any salt, but you may still do so if you prefer gravies with stronger, saltier tastes.
 You can serve the gravy as it is, but if you don't want chunks of onion in it, strain out the onions by pouring the gravy through a strainer.


Choose a strainer with medium holes. Fine mesh strainers will also work, but you may need to force the thick liquid gravy through these tiny holes using a spatula.
 Enjoy the gravy while it's still hot.


If you need to keep it warm, set the saucepan back on the stove over very low heat and whisk it occasionally until you're ready to use it.
You can refrigerate leftovers in an airtight container, but you'll need to heat them on the stove again prior to use.

