 Although suppositories can be purchased over-the-counter, it is always a good idea to consult your doctor before using any new medications.This is especially important if you have experienced constipation for an extended period of time and have tried to treat it at home with suppositories. You should not use laxatives for a long period of time.
Also consult your doctor before using a suppository if you are pregnant, breastfeeding, taking other medications, or using it for a child.
Also mention if you have severe abdominal pain or feel sick or if you have had an allergic reaction to a laxative in the past.;
, Germs and other bacteria are capable of invading the immune system through the rectum if given the chance. For this reason, it's recommended to wash your hands, even if you'll be wearing gloves during the procedure.


If your nails are long, you might want to cut them to avoid scratching or injuring the rectal lining.
 There are several laxative products available that differ in the way they are applied or on the dosage needed. The strength of the laxative determines how much or many suppositories you need to use.


Follow the product label and never exceed the recommended dose.
If you are using a prescription laxative, follow the instructions you received from your doctor.
If you don’t need to take a full dose, cut the suppository in half lengthwise. A lengthwise cut makes insertion much easier than a sideways cut.
 If you prefer, you can use latex gloves to protect your hands during the application. This is not necessary but you may feel more comfortable inserting the suppository with gloves on, especially if you have long nails.
 If the suppository is too soft, it might be painful to insert it. For this reason, it's recommended that you harden it before insertion. There are several to do this, before removing the wrapper:Place it in the refrigerator or freezer for up to 30 minutes.
Hold it under cool running water for several minutes.
 You may want to lubricate the surrounding skin to ease the application. Use petroleum jelly or other cream or lotion recommended by your doctor.