 When meeting someone for the first time, a casual handshake is appropriate. However, if you're meeting a closer friend or relative, French people usually offer a small peck on the cheek as a form of greeting. Follow these rules when greeting people in France.If you're trying to give off a French vibe at home, try greeting friends and family members with a kiss like they do in France. Stick to people you're close with, however, as people from non-French cultures may be startled by a cheek kiss.
 In France, conversation usually revolves around art, culture, and politics. Read local magazines, local news, as well as international news. This way, you'll have something to talk about that makes you seem more French.To make it easier to keep up with the news, download an app on your phone that lets you read the headlines during downtime during the day.
Don't hesitate to bring up your favorite books and works of art. This will make you seem considerably more French.
Avoid topics like gossip, especially celebrity gossip, as it's seen as largely uninteresting in France.
 Small talk is not a huge part of French culture, but it's occasionally considered appropriate. If someone is making eye contact with you while you're eating alone, don't hesitate to strike up a conversation. During train delays, it's not uncommon for French people to commiserate with one another by casually complaining about the train., Personal space is a pretty big issue in France. Avoid touching or bumping into people unnecessarily and try to keep your hands to yourself as much as possible when riding crowded trains. This rule is especially important if you're actually in France as opposed to trying to look French at home., A simple "au revoir" is an easy way to say goodbye. Most people, even outside of France, are familiar with the term. However, there are a few other terms you can use to say goodbye.A more informal goodbye is "salut." You can use this with closer friends.
If it's later in the evening, try saying, "Bonne nuit." This means "good night" and is typically used when people are going to sleep or going home for the evening.
If you're saying goodbye to someone at work for the weekend, try saying, "Bonne nuit." This means, "See you Monday."

