 Department stores usually have a large selection of swimsuits or you could visit a store that specializes in swimwear. In speciality stores that concentrate on bathing suits, you'll probably find a greater variety and the retailers will be fairly knowledgeable about the size and fit of swimsuits.

In a good quality store, staff can give recommendations, so if you are stuck on what to get, this can be a big help.
Do not despair if one store does not offer a good fit for you. Swimsuit designers may fit one body type perfectly, while another simply is not comfortable, unflattering, or otherwise not quite right.



 

;
, One-piece bathing suits are usually the best option when it comes to minimizing your stomach shape, as these will conceal your tummy beneath fabric. Also, the elasticity of the swimsuit will tend to pull in the stomach areas. Another option are two-piece swimsuits that have drapery that cover the midsection--this is often a good choice for women who have a longer torso.
 This is important because this area serves as the "eye catcher" to be focused upon, using it as the focal point instead of the tummy. It is easy to get so caught up in minimizing your stomach area, that you completely forget to show off your great legs. For example, if everybody's eyes are looking at your legs, they won't notice your tummy if you wear a colorful, flashy leg wrap. Or, if you show off your chest by wearing ruffles around the top of the swimsuit, that's where people will look!

, Although there is nothing wrong with a well-made solid suit, patterns can make a big difference in where the eye is drawn. Wear lines that go straight down from the top of your body to the bottom. These give the illusion that your torso is longer. On the other hand, horizontal lines or large blocked lines will make you appear heavier.

There are the odd exceptions, however. Sometimes what "shouldn't" work does, and what should work does not. Always try on the suit.
Small patterns tend to work better than larger ones.
 Wear dark-colored swimsuits rather than light. These darker colored swimsuits will give the illusion of smallness and can cover up blemishes more easily. Dark colored swimsuits will help to conceal any extra tummy that you don't want to be shown. This does not necessarily mean black, just not white or pastel-colored suits.
 Some swimsuits are designed specifically to conceal tummies. Look on the tag of the swimsuit to figure out if it is a tummy concealer or not, or simply ask the retailer for help in finding suitable swimsuits. These bathing suits use different shapes, patterns, etc. to create the illusion of a small waist and a small tummy.

