 If you want a girl to notice you, start by noticing her first. Whether you are in class or at a bar, eye contact is a key part of getting a girl’s attention. Glance at her, but when she sees you looking, look away. Repeat this and then hold eye contact for a moment and throw in a smile if you feel like its the right time to do so, then look away again. Doing this will arouse her interest, and will also hint to her that you are interested. If she is interested too, she will keep glancing at you to see if you’re still glancing at her. It's a cycle that will clue her in to the fact that you are interested.If she doesn’t hold eye contact with you, or if she chooses not to glance back at you, she is either very shy, or not interested. You will have to use other methods listed in this article to determine which one it is.
When you talk with girls, try as hard as possible to keep consistent eye contact with her. This tells her that you're really confident, and that you're paying really close attention to her.
 Girls tend to have a different humor and perspective than guys, so being aware of and sensitive to these differences is important when it comes to getting (and keeping) a girl’s attention.


Do common things that are gentlemanly, like opening the door for a girl, letting her cut you in line, and saying "excuse me." Doing the small things is really easy, and girls pay attention to them much more than guys do.
Don't make really sexual jokes or comments. Girls already think that guys are obsessed with sex, so don't make it worse by being obsessed with sex. Be mature and respectful about sexual matters, at least when you're around girls, and you'll definitely get a girl's attention.
 It sounds basic, but a lot of guys assume women may not notice, or care, when men treat them like they are lower than men. This is completely wrong, and it won't make you very many friends among females. Think before you speak negatively about girls as a whole. As a rule of thumb, pretend that your grandparents are in front of you whenever you say something about girls--it will keep you from saying anything too inappropriate.
 Even if you are all jittery on the inside, keeping a cool and calm demeanor around girls will give them the impression that you are a confident, easy-to-hang-out-with guy. When you are tense or nervous, you're more prone to feeling embarrassed if you make some minor mistakes. This is a turn-off for most girls. Staying calm allows you to fully enjoy a girl's company, stay confident, and show her the real you.


Staying confident is hard, but try to imagine that the girl you're trying to impress is just a friend. You wouldn't be nervous around a friend, so why be nervous around her? If you're confident and manage to look cool and calm, you'll scream popular. Her attention will be yours in no time.
 A smile is the universal sign of happiness. If you show people in general, and her specifically, that you're a happy guy, she'll want to be closer to you. Girls love guys who have a good sense of humor and can smile easily. Smile often, be lighthearted and unabashedly yourself.
 It could be her, or it could be someone else in the room. Helping others says that you are humble, and that you're a genuinely nice person. Be a kind and generous person. Not only will it get her attention, but it will also make you feel good about yourself. Girls are attracted to guys that have empathy for others--be the guy that helps her carry a heavy box and she won’t forget it.


Is she carrying something heavy? Say "Let me help you with that" and carry it for her. Hold the door for her when she is carrying a lot of stuff. Give her your jacket when she is cold or offer to share your umbrella with her when it is raining.
Is someone short on cash? Lend them a few dollars so they can eat lunch.
Don't be fake and do nice things only when she's around. Help people all the time, in a wide variety of ways. She'll notice, and so will the people she knows, and on the occasions that you come up in a conversation, people will say "He's such a great person!" and this girl will start thinking "Yeah...he is, isn't he?"
One thing that holds many guys back is being scared that she'll misinterpret you. For example, you might not want to help her carry something because you're worried she'll think you're a macho guy, and you're implying that she can't carry it herself. But push the fear aside and think about what you're really doing. You're just helping her because you genuinely want to, and what could possibly be wrong with that? If you're not trying to question her ability in any way, then she's not a very nice girl for assuming that you are, is she? If what you're doing comes from the heart, a decent girl will see that.
 For example, you could say she has beautiful eyes or a beautiful smile. But, only say things like that if you want it to be obvious that you intend on moving beyond flirting. Select something good that is reserved for her only; it will make her feel wonderfully special, admired, and beautiful.
 When you're doing something and it's only guys, be brave and include the girls you want included. You don't have to do this all the time (sometimes it's important to have time with your guy friends), but don't be afraid to add some girls to the mix.


If boys call you out, you know they're jealous that they didn't have the courage to invite the girls. There's no reasons why girls can't be a part of your group.
 Physical contact can be a great way to create sparks between you and that special girl. However, don’t make it obvious that you are going out of your way to be near her--that might creep her out if she doesn’t know you are into her. Do subtle things, like touching her arm when she says something that makes you laugh.


If she has an eyelash or a fuzzy on her face (or even if she doesn’t) lean in, make eye contact, and slowly brush it from her cheek (but be gentle!)

