 Being around positive people breeds positivity within you. What’s more, no matter what you go through in life, a strong support group can help keep you grounded and hopeful. When you are around people who have a healthy outlook, this increases your chances of being happy and successful.Seek out the positive influencers in your life. These are the people who practice gratitude and actively seek out joy in everyday life.
Discontinue relationships or distance yourself from negative influencers. These are the people who dwell on problems or burdens. They often don’t laugh or smile and their sour moods may be contagious.
 If you believe there is a reason for your life, a higher purpose, then getting in touch with your spiritual side may offer protective factors against hard times.


Individuals who describe themselves as spiritual or religious often make healthier lifestyle choices in terms of diet, avoiding risk behaviors like driving without a seat belt, and refraining from smoking, drinking, or using drugs. What’s more, spirituality also provides us with a social support system that encourages us and helps relieve stress.Spirituality doesn't have to be related to organized religion or philosophy; it can mean whatever you want it to mean. Develop your spirituality by practicing forgiveness, engaging in self-reflection, using nature and art to get in touch with a higher power, and practicing self-compassion., Connecting with others can produce positive outcomes on both sides when connections are forged through charity. Helping others can improve our satisfaction with life, give us a sense of purpose, enhance feelings of self-efficacy, reduce stress, and lift our moods.Not sure how you can help out? Here are some ideas: Babysit for your neighbors who don’t go on dates much. Teach your young cousin how to play an instrument. Volunteer at the local soup kitchen. Donate toys to needy kids over the holidays.
 Getting through life becomes less difficult when you know when and how to ask for help when you need it. Asking others for help can strengthen bonds and also help friends or family members feel more competent.We often mistakenly assume that asking for help makes us look weak, or underestimate others’ desire to help.Think about a few tasks with which you could use assistance.
Recount offers for help you have received in the past.
Match your specific needs to the abilities or interests of those who have offered help. For example, if you have a friend who loves baking, and you could use help planning a party, she would probably be thrilled to help.
Finally, be direct. Requests for help often go unmet when they are ambiguous. For instance, you are much more likely to get help if you ask “Could you help me getting the kids to their games every Saturday morning?” rather than “Could you help me with the kids games sometimes?”

