 If you have recurrent thoughts of harming yourself, you need to receive therapy or other psychological treatment. Therapists are typically trained to deal with suicidal thoughts, and can serve as a crucial support to you.


If you do not currently have a therapist, contact your health insurance provider for a list of approved clinicians or conduct a local search for low-cost, sliding scale, or free mental health clinics.
 Social support is crucial to coping with suicidal thoughts.This is because not having social support can result in depression and increased thoughts of suicide.If you have family or other loved ones you can turn to, do so. If you don't feel like you have anyone, your therapist can be that support system while she helps you build a support network for yourself.


Talk about your thoughts to whoever you find comfortable talking about it with. If you don't feel like you have anyone, call your therapist or a service such as the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK).
Tell others about your safety plan so they can be involved and ready to help you if you need assistance.Healthy relationships should not include being repeatedly insulted, berated, picked on, or injured. If you have a relationship that is abusive, get help now.
A healthy support system includes a variety of people you can turn to for support and help, including friends, family, teachers, counselors, doctors, mental health professionals, and hotlines., Medication, especially antidepressants, can be used to treat the depressive symptoms that often coincide with thoughts of suicide. However, be aware that taking some antidepressants and other medications may actually increase your risk of suicidal thoughts and actions. Always discuss side effects and risks with your doctor before taking any medication, prescribed or otherwise.


Ask your mental health professional about antidepressants, or other medications to treat suicidal thoughts and behaviors.
If you do not have a doctor or psychiatrist, contact your health insurance provider or go to a low-cost health clinic in your area.

