 Before using any herbal remedies, it is a good idea to check with your doctor. Herbal medicines can interact with certain medications and some should also be avoided before surgery. Check with your doctor to be sure that herbal remedies are safe for you to use for a cold.
 Garlic has antibacterial and antiviral properties and is believed to reduce the severity of colds by boosting your immune system. Try garlic when you cook. Add one to two cloves of garlic to your chicken soup. Make sure to clean and chop the garlic and let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes to release the allicins in garlic.Garlic is believed best used early and often to help treat a cold. Though you can take a supplement, fresh garlic is most effective., Echinacea is an herb that helps with early cold symptoms. It is also thought to reduce symptoms and shorten the duration of colds. Put one to two grams of dried root or 15 to 23 drops of the pure extract in your tea, and take up to three times a day.


If you ingest echinacea, you need 300 mg, three times a day.
It rarely causes any adverse effects, such as nausea and headaches, with rare allergic reactions., Elderberry is an herb that helps boost your immune system. It also has antiviral properties. Steep three to five grams of the dried herb in one cup of boiling water for 10 to 15 minutes. Strain and drink three times a day.Elderberry has been clinically tested for influenza and has been shown to be effective. The products tested are commercially available and include Sambucol and Nature’s Way.
 Ginger is a root that has antiviral and antibacterial properties. It also can help reduce the production of mucus. You can add it to recipes, put it in tea, or take it as a supplement. However, make sure you get no more than four grams of ginger per day from all different sources.


It is safe for pregnant women and children, though pregnant women should have no more than one gram per day. Doses for children vary, so ask your pediatrician., Sage is an herb that is used for sore throats. It makes a good in a tea and can also be used in recipes. Add 1 teaspoon of dried sage for every cup of water.


You can sip the sage tea or use it as a gargle for sore throats., Eucalyptus is a great herbal remedy that is found in many different cold medicines, such as lozenges, cough syrups, and rubs. You can use the liquid extract, dried leaves, or fresh leaves. Eucalyptus oil can be used topically to help relieve congestion, loosen phlegm, and relieve sinus issues. Dried leaves can also be used in teas.


Do not ingest eucalyptus oil unless you are advised to by your doctor. Too much of this concentrated form of eucalyptus can cause toxicity., Peppermint and its main active ingredient, menthol, are great for treating colds. They help loosen phlegm and soothe throat irritation. They can be found in cold medicines and ointments as well as in teas. You can buy bagged peppermint tea or use a loose variety of the dried herb to make tea.


You can also sniff peppermint essential oils or use them in steam treatments., Ginseng helps reduce the severity of cold symptoms and also helps prevent further sickness. You should take no more than 400 mg per day.


Pregnant or breastfeeding women should not take ginseng.
Ginseng has many drug interactions, so talk to your doctor before taking ginseng., Hot liquids can help loosen the mucus. Green tea contains antioxidants. You can also buy herbal teas that have specific formulas that are geared towards helping treat colds. Look at the list of ingredients for helpful herbs like the ones listed to find them in any tea blend you try.