 You can use your cat's current water dish, or you can buy a new one. You can use a small dish from the cat section of a pet store, or you can use another small glass or ceramic dish instead.;
, It needs to be wider than your cat's water dish and a little bit taller. It also needs to be tall enough that your cat can still reach into it while drinking water. Keep in mind that most cats like to crouch low to the ground while drinking water.


It is highly recommended that you use a planter with a drainage hole at the bottom. If your planter does not have a drainage hole, your plants have increased chances of getting root rot and dying.
 Cat grass is an excellent choice. It is easy to take care of and many cats like to munch on it. Catnip is another great choice, but mind your cat's behavior around the plant! Every cat reacts to catnip differently. If your cat tends to roll around in catnip, you might want to stick with cat grass, or you might end up with soil and water all over your floor!


If you choose catnip, your planter will need to have a drainage hole. Catnip requires well-draining soil.Even though there are things you can do to help a solid-bottomed planter to have more drainage, it is not enough for catnip.
 It would be easier to buy young plants than to start them from seeds. Your kitty also won't have to wait as long! How many plants you get depends on how much space you have between the two bowls. Place the water dish into the planter and move it so that the edges touch. Note how much space you have left in the crescent shape between the two bowls.


You can buy catnip and cat grass in pet stores and nurseries.
 If your planter has a drainage hole at the bottom, place a coffee filter, a piece of broken pottery, or a scrap of fine, mesh screening over it. This will help trap the dirt and keep it from falling out while allowing the water to drain.If your planter does not have a drainage hole, do the following:


Spread a layer of pebbles, stones or pumice across the bottom. The excess water will drain into this layer and help prevent root rot.Consider adding some activated charcoal as well. Activated charcoal has antimicrobial properties and will help keep rot at bay.Add a thin layer of mesh screen or landscaping cloth on top. This will keep the soil from falling into the pebbles., You want the soil to be damp and spongy, but not soaking. If it starts to look like mud, you used too much water. Let the excess water drain out, then press down on it to drain the excess out.


If your planter does not have a drainage hole, prepare the soil in a separate contain that does have a drainage hole.
 You want some of the water dish to be sticking out over the top of the soil. This will prevent dirt from falling into the water. Try to get the water dish close to the edge of the planter so that you have a crescent shape in the dirt.
 Carefully pull the plants out of their containers. Set them down on the soil around the water dish. Once you are happy with the arrangement, use a spoon or small trowel to dig holes into the soil.If you decided to start the plants from seeds, dig holes in the soil at the depth specified on the seed packet.
 Place the plants into the holes, then gently pat the soil around them. If you planted your catnip from seeds, expect the seedlings to show up after 7 to 10 days.If you planted cat grass from seeds, expect the seedlings to sprout after 3 to 7 days., Even though the water dish was partially sticking out of the soil, there's a good chance that some soil still got into it. Take the dish out of the soil now, and wash it.
 Remember to empty and refill the water dish each day. Cats can be very picky animals, and they will not drink water that is old, dirty, or not fresh., Spread a thin layer of colorful stones across the soil. Not only will this hide the soil and add a hint of color, but it will also help keep the surrounding area clean., This won't do much for your cat's enjoyment of his or her new water dish planter, but it can make the whole arrangement look more charming. Consider using a small fairy garden figurine that has a spike in the bottom. This will keep your cat from knocking it over.Your cat may not appreciate this figurine. If you notice that your cat keeps trying to pull it out, simply take it away and put it in another flower pot.

