 Generally, a good rule to follow is that you want your hair to be in opposition to the shape of your face. For instance, if you have a square face, you should balance your sharp angles with soft layers or waves.


Knowing your face shape can help you make confident and informed decisions about which hairstyle to choose. To figure it out, pull or comb your hair completely away from your face. Stand in front of a mirror so that you can see your face straight-on, and not at an angle. Use a washable marker, tube of lipstick, the corner of a cube of cold butter or anything else that's easily washable, and trace around the edges of your face in the mirror.;
, Round faces are characterized by smoothly curved lines and a round chin. The forehead and chin are both a bit wide, with slightly wider cheekbones.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Long, layered bobs that fall just below your chin, edgy layered bobs, fringe bangs, and layered hair that falls to your shoulders.Styles that will flatter your features: Curls or waves created with a curling iron, classic updos with thick side bangs, and long exaggerated bangs.
Avoid one length, blunt cuts like the classic bob.
 Square faces feature a wide, angular jaw, wide cheekbones, and a broad forehead.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Long, sleek cuts with graduated layers that begin at your jawline, angled bobs with longer hair in the front, asymmetrical and textured layers, and bangs that skim past your eyes.Styles that will flatter your features: Experiment with curls. For updos, try pulling your hair back from your face into a sleek ponytail or bun (this will show off your great jawline).
Steer clear of blunt-cut bangs and one-length bob hairstyles which highlight your angular jaw rather than downplay it.
 Oval faces are similar in proportion to round faces, but more elongated. The chin and the forehead are about the same width, with slightly wider cheekbones and smooth lines going down to the chin.


Cuts that will flatter your features: An oval face shape can usually sustain any sort of haircut. Find your best feature and highlight it with your hairstyle. Great bone structure? Consider an angular bob that complements your chin. Gorgeous eyes? Blunt or side-swept bangs will draw attention there.
Styles that will flatter your features: Updo styles like the French twist.
 Heart-shaped faces are defined primarily by a point-y, narrow chin and a wide forehead. The cheekbones can be about the same width as the forehead or slightly wider.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Draw attention away from the chin with side swept bangs or brow-skimming bangs. A short fast cut is also a good choice. Avoid choppy layers that hit at the chin.
Styles that will flatter your features: Try a swept-back updo that adds some volume to the top section of your hair.
Try to avoid a slicked back look that takes away from the volume of your hair.
 Triangular faces are the exact opposite of heart-shaped faces. This means that they feature a broad, angular jaw that narrows down to a small forehead.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Get a cut that involves big side-swept bangs that taper down to your jawline. Short haircuts with a lot of volume are ideal for triangular faces. You can also choose a long cut, as long as it hits at your collarbone or lower.
Styles that will flatter your features: Try a loose ponytail that will allow your hair to play around your face.
Try to avoid slicked back updos that pull your hair away from from your face.
 Diamond faces feature broad cheekbones, set off by a narrow chin and forehead.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Try some full, straight bangs and a cut that adds width to your chin area, such as a chin-length bob.
Styles that will flatter your features: Give a high ponytail or bun a try if you have bangs.
Watch out for styles where you part your hair down the middle or add extra height to the top of your head.
 Long faces maintain the same proportion throughout the face. This means that your forehead, cheekbones and chin share about the same narrow width.


Cuts that will flatter your features: Brow-skimming, side swept bangs or chin-length bobs are ideal for creating the illusion of width. Keep haircuts short, never long because they tend to drag down the face.
Styles that will flatter your features: Curls and waves work well when adding width.
Pass up extreme styles and cuts that are longer than the collarbone.

