 Most likely you have a pair of boots that go at least as high as your ankles. Make sure that you get boot laces that are long enough for your pair of boots.


Ask a sales clerk for advice or read the packaging to determine the right boot lace length.
If you are getting new laces, measure the laces that came with your boots.
You can determine the length you will need by the amount of hole pairs in your boots. 5 or 6 holes requires 36 inches; 6 or 7 holes requires 40-45 inches; 8 holes requires 54 inches; 9 holes requires 63 inches; 10 or 11 holes requires 72 inches.;
, The standard way for lacing your boots is to lace up your boot in a criss-cross fashion. Starting at the bottom, string the laces through each of the bottom eyelets. Pull the laces up vertically as far as possible and ensure both tips are even.Your laces should now be on the outside of your eyelets.
For a standard criss-cross lacing method, string your laces through the eyelets, not over the top.
 Insert the lace into the second eyelet from the bottom. feed the lace through the eyelet and over.


Once you have strung one lace through the next eyelet, repeat with the other.
Your laces should now be on the outside of your boot.
 Make sure to always insert one side before the other to keep the pattern uniform until the top of the boot is reached.


If you crossed from left to right for the first eyelet, keep this pattern consistent.
If you want your boots to have a symmetrical look, do the opposite for the other boot. If you starting by crossing left over right on one boot, go right over left on the other.
Staying consistent not only gives your boots a nice, clean look, but it makes tightening the laces easier.
 If you want a bit more room and extra length in the laces, you can leave the last pair of eyelets empty. At the top, either tie the laces in a bow, or tie off the ends and tuck in.


Depending on how much extra lace you have, you can also wrap your laces around your boots before tying your knot.

