 Even if you've seen girls with short hair, it's harder to convince someone you're a girl without the stereotypical traits. A medium to long wig in a color close to your natural hair would work best.;
, Look up tutorials for applying all these things on other wikiHows.


Fake lashes. You can get them at any drugstore, and they should come with instructions. If you know any girls that have used them before, ask them for help. If you don't want to go for fake lashes, try mascara instead. It's not safe to share eye makeup, so you'll have to buy it. Avoid "spider lashes" by sticking to mascara colors closer to your own lash color and being conservative with the mascara.






Lipstick. Again, most drugstores sell lipstick. Be careful not to get a color that is too outrageous if you are trying to be realistic. If you are fair-haired, aim for lighter colors, and if you are dark-haired, aim for muted berry colors.
Concealer, possibly foundation. You can buy both at the same place you buy lipstick and fake lashes. The concealer can help cover up blemishes (or some stubble!), and the foundation gives an overall smoother, more even complexion.
Tweezers. It might look weird if you have big man eyebrows. Ask a girl to help you pluck them, or look up tutorials. But it's really optional.
 You can use virtually anything from hairbands, to handbags, but the most basic ones are:


Earrings. If you don't have your ears pierced, you can buy or borrow someone's clip-ons. Just get simple little, but obvious earrings. Don't get enormous fluorescent hoop earrings.
Necklace or a bracelet. You could use both but, don't pile it on. Keep it natural and simple. Try to coordinate it with the earrings.
 This is important if you're older than 13.


Squeeze the skin on your chest together to make it look like the line in between two breasts. Then tape all around them so that they stay in place. This is only necessary if you are using a low-cut shirt.
Put on a bra that you should buy or borrow, and stuff it with socks. If you can get a padded bra, it will help round out the lumpy shape from the socks.
 If you do, you should definitively shave. But for a guy your best option is skinny jeans. White or colored skinny jeans work best. Black is to gender-neutral, and we want to make sure you stay far away from boys clothes. If you have a rounded rear-end, you can go for boot-cut jeans instead, as these can help give you a curvy look. Boot-cut means that it has a slight flare.
 But at the same time it shouldn't be to tight and it should cover your manly arms. Try shirts that have fluttery sleeves so that they won't cling.
 If not, just go for flats or sandals. Strappy shoes look girlier. If you have very boney or hairy feet, aim for flats that cover more of the foot.

