 Wintertime brings dormancy for perennials and provides a perfect opportunity to divide them. Division will benefit your garden from production of new plants and the flowers that will be produced in spring and summer will be healthier and more prolific.


Dig up the entire clump of the perennial plant. Use a sharp spade to do this.
Ease the plants apart gently using your hands. Deep-rooted perennials will probably require the use of two forks to separate them.
Remove dead foliage and withered parts by cutting with garden shears or clean scissors.






Replant the healthiest and most robust of the newly divided plants. Plant with the crown at soil level (avoid planting too deeply).;
, There are many trees and shrubs that will benefit from being pruned during winter. The prunings can be replanted to create new plants too.


Replant hardwood cuttings (hardened stem that turns woody when the weather cools).
Select hardwood cutting pieces that are about as thick as a pencil. Cut into pieces 15–20 centimeter (7.9 in) long, ending the cut just below a bud.
Strike in pots or in the garden. When you have a few cuttings, they can be placed into pots for growth. For a large amount of cuttings, dig a trench in the garden to about 15 centimeter (5.9 in) in depth and place coarse sand in the base to 2.5 centimeter (1.0 in) depth.
Dip each cutting into hormone powder and insert into the potting soil or sand, inserting two-thirds of the cutting into the soil.
 Either hand pick or use specific chemical treatments to attack the dormant weeds during winter for a better appearing lawn during the summer period. Always prefer non-toxic, people and environmentally-friendly treatments over harsh chemical treatments.
 Camellias flower during winter and can flower prolifically under the right conditions. While beautiful to behold, if there are too many buds on the branches, the flowers won't open properly because of crowding. Take the opportunity to give your camellia flowers a better chance by removing the majority of buds per cluster, and leaving 1–4 only. Disbudding will ensure that the final display is brilliant.

