 Some dogs may be persuaded to come into the house for a toy. Take the toy and stand at the door with it. Call your dog while waving the toy. Many dogs will be interested in the toy and want to play. If the dog comes towards you, step into the house or toss the toy inside to get your dog to go after it.Make sure to continue playing with the dog when they get inside so as not to make them think it’s a trick. Instead, show them that coming inside is fun and rewarding for them.
You may want to try a toy that makes noise, like a squeaky toy.
Try playing tug-of-war with the dog until you herd the dog inside.;
, You can try to get your dog to come inside by giving them a treat. Choose their favorite treat and stand at the door. Call them to you while holding the treat. As soon as they come towards you, step inside the house and make them come to you for the treat.Don’t immediately shut the door. This could scare the dog or make them feel trapped. Instead, put a couple of treats on the floor and walk further into the house. You may want to give them an additional treat when they come seek you out.
After the dog comes inside for the treat, praise them and pet them. Grab a toy and play with them. Help them realize that being inside is a good experience and they won’t be punished.
 You can bring your dog inside by going to them and placing them on a leash. This puts you in control of your dog by giving you a way to coerce them into the house. Walk out to where your dog is, clip the leash to the collar, and walk them inside. Give them a treat or praise for coming in with you instead of being angry. Don’t make them think they are being punished by coming with you.This method requires you to go out into the yard after your dog. Though it will get your dog into the house, it won’t train your dog to come when you call.
 If your dog isn’t coming inside, you may want to take them for a walk. Dogs need exercise and mental stimulation, so by taking the dog for a walk, you can tire them out and keep them stimulated. After the walk, you will have them on the leash so you can just take the dog directly into your house and give them a treat. This also shows them that they will be rewarded through positive reinforcement by coming into the house.

