 You can also use a different type of cleaning solution, but make sure to follow the recommended proportions on the label. Here are some guidelines as to how much Keurig Cleaning Solution and water you should use:For the K10 Mini Plus and K130 Brewer, use one third of a bottle (4.6 ounces/136 milliliters) of cleaning solution liquid. Fill the tank the rest of the way with clean water.
For all other Keurig K-Cup Home series, the K145, K155 Brewers, Vue Brewers (V500, V600, V700), and Rivo Brewers, use the entire bottle of cleaning solution. Fill the empty bottle with clean water, and pour that into the water tank as well.
 Make sure that the brew size matches the cup size so that you do not get any spills.
 Lift the handle, wait 5 seconds, then lower the handle. Press the "brew" button and wait until the cup fills. Dump the hot water into the sink and replace the mug.
 Keep brewing cups of hot water and pouring the water out of the mug until there is no more water. When the "Add Water" warning comes on, stop and wait 30 minutes. Make sure that the machine stays on during this time. The cleaning fluid will work on dissolving any build-up inside the machine during this time.


If you have a K10 Mini Plus or a K130 Brewer, start to brew another cup, then turn the Keurig off just as the water starts to come out. Wait 30 minutes, then turn the Keurig on and finish brewing the last cup. You may have to lift the handle and press back down on it get it to start brewing.
If you have one of the Rivo Brewers, there is no need to wait 30 minutes. Simply proceed to the next step.
 Once the reservoir has no more cleaning solution in it, pull it out and rinse it. Refill it using cool water. There will still be some cleaner inside your machine, so you will need to clear it out using fresh water.
 You will need to repeat this step several times until there is no cleaner left inside your Keurig. If you don't do this, you will get a bad taste the next time you use your machine. Here are some guidelines as to how many brews you should do:For the K10 Mini Plus and K130 Brewer, you will need to do about three brews.
For all other Keurig K-Cup Home series, the K145, K155 Brewers, Vue Brewers (V500, V600, V700), and Rivo Brewers you will need to do about 12 brews.

