 Popular software used by professionals, such as Adobe Flash, Photoshop, and Toon Boom Studios, cost hundreds of dollars.Save your money for now and start with a simple app like Animation Creator HD or Animation Desk Cloud, which are easy to use and only cost a few bucks. Familiarize yourself with its functions and features. Learn how to duplicate frames and manipulate the number of frames seen per second.
 Decide on a rate of frames that will be seen per second. Then perform each action that your characters enact and time yourself with a stopwatch to determine how many seconds it takes.. For each action performed, multiply the number of seconds it takes to complete by the number of frames seen per second to determine how many frames you’ll need to draw for each action.


Also determine how many frames each line of recorded dialogue will require to animate. If the dialogue is spoken at a normal speed from start to finish, simply check the timeline for each line. If one word or more is stretched out, however, check how long each syllable is prolonged. For example, imagine an announcer shouting, “Goooaaal!” at a soccer match; the shape of the announcer’s mouth will form the vowel sound for much longer than it will with the consonants.
 Use a rigid material to prepare your background, like cardboard, wood, or preferably pinboard; whichever you use, be sure that it will fit on the rostrum for your camera. Make cutouts for each element in your background. Glue elements that remain static throughout your shot to the background. Use blue tack to fix any that move, such as clouds.For elements with moving parts, create separate cutouts for those parts that move. For example, with a flagpole, the pole itself will remain static while the flag may flap or be raised or lowered. Glue the pole’s cutout to your background and use blue tack to fix the flag., Determine how mobile your character will be. Decide how many joints each limb will have; for example, will the arm be jointed at both the shoulder and elbow, or only the shoulder? Make separate cutouts for each moving part, leaving a small tab at the end of each limb to be secured to the main body with either blue tack or butterfly clips., Arrange your characters on your background, along with any additional cutouts you’ve made for the foreground. Use blue tack to secure each to the background. Mount a digital camera to your rostrum directly above your scene and photograph it.Take a test shot or two to make sure your camera is distanced far enough to capture the whole image., Rearrange each element that moves from your first frame to the next. Photograph your frame and repeat this step until you’ve finished your shot.


For each new frame, prepare a checklist of all elements to be rearranged so none are missed.
 Once a shot is complete, transfer your photos from your camera to your device. Create a new folder for each shot in your photo library and label each image numerically, in sequence, for easy reference (for example: “Scene 1; Frame 1,” “Scene 1: Frame 2,” etc.).
 For each shot, open a new file in your animation app. Import the first image from your photo library into the first frame. Add a second frame, import the second image, and repeat. Once you’re finished, export the file to your video library.
 Create a new movie in a video-editing program like iMovie. Import each shot and arrange in sequence. Import audio files for dialogue, music, and/or sound effects, and sync each to the video.

