 In storage, marijuana can sometimes leave a strong odor. In order to combat this odor, try storing your marijuana in an airtight, sealable container. A mason jar, a Tupperware container, or a vacuum-packed bag would work well. This will minimizes the odor present in the room where your marijuana is being stored., If you do not have a sealable, airtight container, consider storing your marijuana in a Ziplock bag. A simple sandwich bag can help mask odor caused by marijuana.If you use any device to smoke, such as a pipe, sealing it in a Ziploc bag afterwards can also help mask the odor. Make sure the pipe is cool before storing it in a Ziploc bag to avoid a potential fire hazard., If you're growing marijuana inside your home, the smell can become quite strong. You can purchase a device called a carbon filter to help remove odor from your home.


You can purchase a carbon filter online or at a local greenhouse. For most homegrown marijuana, you'll need a filter with a 6 inch exhaust filter. You can purchase the carbon filter and install it in your closet or in the room where you're growing your plants.You'll need a fan to accompany your filter. When choosing a fan, make sure your fan has a slightly lower "CFM" rating than your carbon filter. The CFM rating is a rating that measures airflow, and a fan will not work properly in conjunction with a filter if it has a higher CFM rating. For example, if your filter's box says it has a CFM of 300, make sure your fan has a CFM of 300 or slightly lower.Make sure you are legally allowed to grow marijuana on your property before doing so. In some states, it's legal to grow marijuana for personal use. In other states, you can grow marijuana for yourself or another person to use medicinally. Review your state's regulations before attempting to grow marijuana.
 Alongside other methods, it's not a bad idea to place some air fresheners around where you store your marijuana. A few plug-in or gel-based air fresheners can aid in removing the unwanted scent of pot lingering in the air. As always, go for air fresheners that have a natural scent to avoid suspicion.