 The major online marketplaces, like eBay, Amazon, and Craigslist, are probably already familiar to you, but there are also sites that specialize in selling shoes and clothing.One of these specialized sites might be even better than one of the major marketplaces.To find the best site for your shoes, you'll have to do some research. To make your investigations easier on yourself, write down a list of prospective marketplaces.;
, Some sites may require membership fees, others may take a percentage of your profits, while still others might only require you to create a free user account. Each site will be different, so you'll have to read each site's terms and conditions to determine fees, if any.


When you find out this information, note it down on your list of marketplaces next to its corresponding entry. This way, at a glance, you can tell which site requires what., Take these with a grain of salt. Some companies hire individuals to write positive reviews about a service to make it sound better than it is. However, if you find a lot of negative reviews about a certain marketplace, this is a good indication that site isn't a good choice.Another good resource for evaluating the ethics of a company is the Better Business Bureau (BBB). Companies with a low BBB ranking should probably be avoided.
 Now that you've figured out any associated fees for sites on your list, it's time to pick one from the bunch. Keep your list even after you've chosen a site to sell your shoes to.


If you have a bad experience with the marketplace you have selected, you can try again with the next best one on your list.
 Pricing can be difficult, especially if your shoes have sentimental value. Search for shoes of similar make and condition on other marketplaces, like eBay, Amazon, and Craigslist, to get a general idea of how much your shoes are selling for.The price you set for your shoes doesn't have to be spot on. If you find that you've priced an item too high, in most cases, you can lower the price.
 Highlight the key features that set your shoes apart from the rest. As these are used shoes, you might want to add information about their comfort, or point out the characteristics that attracted you in the first place.


If you have difficulty thinking of a good description, you could look up the original product description of the shoe online for inspiration.
 You don't need a professional camera to take pictures of your shoes. In many cases, your cell phone camera should work just fine. Your photograph should capture as much of the shoes as possible. Take photos from many angles, and choose the best ones to upload.


If the condition of the bottom of your shoe is good, take a photo of this as well. Some buyers evaluate wear and tear by the condition of the shoe's sole.If you don't have a cable attachment to port your pictures from your phone to your computer, consider emailing the photos to yourself instead., Again, depending on the site you've chosen, the method of sale can vary. Some sites operate on a bidding scheme, where buyers will bid at or above your asking price. Others may only sell products at their specific asking price.


Sometimes it can take a while after posting your shoes to the marketplace before they are sold. Be patient.
After a considerable time has passed, if your shoes still have not sold, you may want to lower the price.