 If he isn't planning to, try to convince him. If he is, that's awesome, but don't force him to go to the dance if he doesn't want to; if you force him to go, he won't ask you to dance anyway, since he'll be afraid of you. If he isn't going, that's okay. There will be other dances.;
, Even if your crush isn't going to the dance, you never know who you might run into, so you still need to dress to impress. Remember to dress appropriately for the dance. Since you're in middle school, most of the dances will be casual/semi-formal. If the dance is casual, wear a pretty top with some plain skinny jeans. Make sure that your outfit is age-appropriate. You don't have to dress like a stripper to get a guy to notice you. If the dance is semi-formal, pick out the prettiest dress you have in your wardrobe. Your dress should be something whimsical, festive, and comfortable. Don't choose a poofy Cinderella ballgown, because you'll end up looking silly. Add a touch of makeup to complete your look. Don't go over the top with the makeup. You're in middle school, so keep it natural, otherwise you'll look like a clown. Wear some light colored lip gloss and some blush that matches your skin tone to keep it natural. If your parents won't let you wear makeup, that's okay. You look beautiful without it. If you normally wear glasses, wear contacts for the dance, just for something different. But don't if you don't want to.
 Some girls think that it's best to sit in the corner and look like a loner, but usually, that doesn't attract guys. Guys like girls that are whimsical and ready to stand out. They don't want to dance with a loser sitting alone in the corner! Have fun! It's a dance, after all. Look confident and dance with your friends. Don't go over-the-top crazy, but look like you're having fun. However, make sure that you're within eyesight of 'pretty boy'. He'll never be able to notice you if you don't stay in his sight. Throughout the dance, sneak a few peeks at him to see if he's noticed you too. If he moves around a lot, follow him secretly. Make sure that you don't look like a stalker, however! If he doesn't move around, stick close to him so that he'll notice you. If he catches you looking at him or vice versa, smile at him. Look cute, friendly, and approachable. If he approaches you at any time during the dance, don't freak out and make a fool of yourself. Smile and introduce yourself if you don't already know him. If you do know him, say hi.
 Stay close to him so that if he wants to dance with you, he can find you easily. If he's dancing with another girl, wait through the song. If he's not dancing with anybody, that's even better. Wait out the song to see if he'll ask you to dance. If he doesn't, don't get upset. The night is still young. If he asks you to dance, that's GREAT! If everyone else is doing the simple version of slow dancing (the guy's hands are around the girl's waist; the girl's hands are on the guy's shoulders) put your hands around the guy's shoulders and sway slowly to the music. If everyone is ballroom dancing (this doesn't really happen in middle school), take his hand and let him whisk you across the dance floor. Don't dance silently! Talk to him a little bit!

, If he's dancing with a girl, look to see if it's the same girl that he was dancing with last time. If it is, that's most likely his girlfriend, so he probably won't dance with you. If it isn't the same girl, you're in luck! He doesn't have a girlfriend, and is therefore a good person to dance with. If he's alone again, stay within his view and see if he'll ask you to dance. If he doesn't, that's okay. Wait for the next slow song. If he offers to dance with you again, EVEN BETTER! You're one step closer to getting your kiss, because he's obviously into you! Dance with him again.
 If he's dancing with different girls, you need to make your move. The guy doesn't always have to ask the girl to dance! This is the 21st Century! Walk up to him and casually ask him if he wants to dance. He'll most likely say 'yes'. If he does, great! If he says 'no', that's okay. Find another guy to dance with. If he's still not dancing with anybody, ask him to dance, just like we said above. If he asks you to dance again, you're golden.
 You're the girl he'll remember the most if you dance with him last.
 If he just says goodbye or nods and walks away, it means that he doesn't really like you that much (not enough to kiss you, anyway). That's okay. There will be other dances and other boys, and he could just be shy! If he smiles and says something back, like "I had a nice time too", things are going well. If you're walking home after the dance, ask him if he wants to walk home with you (since you're in middle school, neither of you will able to drive on your own, so he can't really drive you home). If he says that he already has a ride, smile and say 'see you later' or whatever you want, then catch a ride home with your friends. If he says that he'll walk with you, you're doing great! Leave with him and start a conversation with him if he doesn't talk for the first minute or so. Talk about whatever; sports, teachers, homework, pets, family, friends, the dance...just keep the conversation flowing. If you're really lucky, he'll hold your hand on the way home. This basically guarantees a kiss. If he doesn't hold your hand, that's okay too. There's still a big chance of getting that kiss. You've come this far, after all!

, Before knocking on the door/ringing the doorbell, tell him that he's a really nice guy, or that you had a great time with him, or that it was nice meeting him, etc. Finally, say "Thanks for walking me home." Be daring and give him a kiss on the cheek. You both will probably blush a bit here! Now, stand back, look into his eyes, and smile at him. If he wants to kiss you, he'll do it now. If he does, enjoy it. If he doesn't, don't start making out with him. He might not be ready for a kiss, and he may still be fazed by the kiss on the cheek (for many middle school boys, this is potentially their first kiss). Just smile, say goodbye, and go into your house, leaving him wanting more. This will make for a great school dance the next time one rolls around. :-)

, After the kiss, blush a little bit. It's okay. Look cute and say goodbye. Don't look like you've made a mistake, because then he'll feel like you don't like him. Look like you enjoyed it, because hopefully you did!

, If he kissed you, the guy will most likely ask you out, which means that you've really attracted him. But if he doesn't, try to be friends with him. A friendship is a good start of a relationship, because once you two are friends, you'll feel more comfortable around each other, and more ready to take your relationship to the next level (maybe in time for the next school dance!).
 When you are near him, try not to talk about your super romantic kiss. Talk about other interesting things. Look like you're having fun so he'll think you're a fun person!

