 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees, or let your grill heat up for 10 to 15 minutes. Adjust your oven rack so that it is positioned in the center of your oven. For grilling, let your grill heat up a bit and then use a grill brush to clean the rack before cooking. Use the center or lower grill rack and adjust your heat to medium.
 In a small bowl, combine any seasonings you prefer. Here comes the fun part. What kind of flavor are you craving? You can easily season your fish with any of the recommendations below, or create your own seasoning. Don't worry about basting the fish perfectly, just glob your seasoning on!


A few dashes of coconut milk, cloves, a clove of diced garlic, fresh or dried basil, cilantro, sliced chives, and lemon juice.
Lemon or limejuice, sliced green onion, garlic, salt, and pepper.
A pinch of ground cumin, a clove of diced garlic, sliced sweet onion, cilantro, salt, and pepper.
A splash of soy sauce, a splash of sesame oil, grated ginger, a dash of rice wine, and sesame seeds.
 If you are using the oven, line a sturdy baking sheet with enough aluminum foil to wrap loosely around the fish. Or, line your grill with foil large enough to fold over the fish.


You can also wrap your fish in banana or Ti leaves.
 Position your fish in the center of the foil. Drizzle your seasoning mixture over the fish. You can also add lemon or lime slices if you prefer.
 Loosely fold the sides of the foil forming a well-sealed packet. Bake in the oven or on the grill for 15 minutes for fillets or 25 minutes for a whole fish. Make sure to check the fish to be sure it is cooked completely and add additional time if necessary.


Fish is done when it flakes easily and is no longer translucent.
After cooking time has elapsed, check every couple minutes until done.
If steaming your fish on the grill, make sure to close the grill lid when cooking.
 Be careful when opening the fish packets. Hot steam will come out once you create an opening and it can easily burn you. Use metal tongs or two forks to open it. Using a metal spatula, gently lift your fish onto a platter and pour on the remaining seasoning. Serve immediately.

