 Herbicide costs 34,000 dungeoneering tokens, and it must be repaired, so this is an expensive method. Herbicide crushes unwanted herbs and gives you the experience you would have gained from cleaning them. This can turn those unwanted herbs you get from killing monsters such as grimy guam and tarromin into free exp without having to pick them up.
 This is a slow method, but very profitable. Nearly every herb, with the exception of guam, marrentill and wergali. In most cases, you can make over 200 each per herb you clean, meaning you can make massive amounts of money, and get some experience while doing it. Higher level herbs give up to 18 exp per clean, meaning 504 per inventory. It's not much, but unlike every other method shown, it will actually make you money., Complete the Druidic Ritual quest. This quest is required before you start training herblore, as you will not be able to train without completing it. It is about a 5 minute quest, and very easy to get done., The easiest way to get this is to complete the Jungle potion quest. It is very easy and, if you know what you are doing, takes about 10 minutes. It is required for quite a few other quests, giving it all the more reason to get it done now.

Alternatively, clean grimy guam until level 9.
 Complete the quest "Recruitment Drive". Again, another easy quest that with a guide, can be done in 15 minutes. It gives you some experience in other skills as well, but if you are a pure that might not be good.

If you are a pure and don't want to combat experience, for don't want to complete the quest, you can start making attack potions with guam and eye of newt.
 Complete the Digsite quest. This quest is a little tedious, but gives you great experience. It also gives you thieving and agility experience, however it requires 25 thieving and 19 agility.

If you do not want to do the quest, you can start the next step at level 13.
 Make strength potions. Strength potions require tarromin and limpwurt roots. The roots cost 1k each, so if you want to kill hill giants to get them and train your account, you could do that. You could also collect them in the Hill Giant resource dungeon at level 20 dungeoneering., Make prayer potions. You require a grimy ranarr and snape grass to make these. These are used in killing bosses and keeping prayer points up, so your demand should be high.

Starting at 45, you can make super attack potions using irit and eye of newt. These cost more to make, but give you 15.5 more experience per potion.
 Make super energy potions. These require mort myre fungus and avantoe to create. If you completed the nature spirit quest, you can collect the fungus yourself by casting bloom on flogs in the Mort Myre swamp. If you kept your prayer potions from before, you can use them to restore your prayer after doing this., Make Super restores. To do this, you are going to need snapdragon and red spiders' eggs. You can collect the red spiders' eggs yourself in the Edgeville dungeon., Make super ranging potions. These require dwarf weed and wines of zamorak. The wine can be obtained from killing greater or black demons, or you could telegrab it from the temple northwest of Falador, however it is heavily botted most of the time., Make Saradomin brews. You need toadflax and crushed nests for this. There is no real way to get crushed nests in bulk, the best way would to be killing the Giant Mole, exchanging it's skin and claws for bird's nests from Wyden and then crushing the nests., Make adrenaline potions. These require super restores and papaya to make. Note this is the cheapest way to get 99 from this point on, as the rest of the of the method require more gold. If you are trying to save money, this is the way to go, but if you are after the fastest way possible, continue reading., Make extreme attacks. You are going to need super strength and a dwarf weed. No magic ways to get these ingredients, just have to buy them., These require super magic potions and ground mud runes. Mud runes are hard to buy in bulk, and the main things that drop them are Living Rock Creatures.