 The dirt and grime that builds up on your tires can be especially difficult to remove. Spray all surfaces of the tire with a high pressure stream of water with a power washer or hose.


A power washer is preferred for tire cleaning to more easily remove buildup, though a hose with a spray attachment should work in a pinch.
If you are also planning on washing your car, be sure to do so after cleaning your tires. Cleaning tires after washing your car may spread dirtiness to already cleaned parts of the car., Add a suitable tire cleaner, like Simple Green or Wolfgang Tire and Wheel Cleaner, to a bucket. Each cleaner will be different; always follow the label instructions. Fill your second bucket with cool water.If you are unsure what cleaner is best for your tires, check your car’s manual for more detailed care instructions.
If you don’t have a special tire cleaner, use a moderate amount of dish soap in a bucket of cool water. Mix the solution to distribute the soap before applying it to the tire.
Severely dirty tires may need an extra strong cleaning agent, like Bleche-Wite Tire Cleaner or Pinnacle Advanced Wheel Cleaner Concentrate., Dip a stiff bristle brush into the cleaning solution. Clean tires with soap one at a time. Scrub a tire firmly to remove buildup and dirtiness. Rinse the brush in the bucket filled with water when it becomes saturated with dirtiness.Prevent cleaning agents from drying on the rubber of your tire. Doing so can cause tires to deteriorate more quickly., Use your power washer or hose to remove any remaining soap or loosened dirtiness from the tire. Be thorough when rinsing your tire so that the soap is completely rinsed away.
 A microfiber drying cloth will work best, but you can also use an old terry cloth towel. Do not use tire drying cloths on other parts of your car. Dirt, dust, and small stones in the fabric of the drying cloth may scratch the paint job of your car.


Forgetting to dry the tire after cleaning them could result in water spots or missed dirtiness. Carefully dry the entire tire and wheel., These can be bought at your local auto store or in the automotive section of most general retailers. Choose a product with UV protection and be sure it doesn’t have any solvent based silicone. Follow the label instructions on your protectant to achieve the best results.


Generally, protectant is applied directly to tires with an applicator, cloth, or sponge. Protectant may contain harsh chemicals and require gloves for safe use.
Applying protectant to your tires will maintain their condition for longer and protect them from getting dirty again.
In most cases, protectants that are milky in color are water based and most suitable for tires. Protectants that are slick and clear likely contain harmful solvent based silicone., Now that the first tire has been sprayed, scrubbed, rinsed, and dried, you can move on to the next tire. Clean each tire and wheel in the fashion described until all tires are clean.


If you plan on washing your car immediately after cleaning your tires, keep the tires wet after cleaning until the entire care is clean. Dry tires and the body of your care with separate cloths.

