 First - you have to choose the right provider for your area, because not all providers will be available in the area you're living in. You can start by simply comparing all top providers in the United States and call only the ones you like and order their services, which include installation services too.;
, Once you choose the provider - you have to call them and order your package (place order). You can do this online with most providers or call their hotline and order over phone.


You can also ask any questions that you have about the package and make sure, that you're ordering exactly what you need. So before you call and place your order - we suggest to browser for reviews of each network and learn bit more about their services, packages, pricing policy, contracts etc. You can do this by visiting a dedicated review website, where all major internet providers are being reviewed and all basic information is provider for the user.
 After you place an order - the provider will setup a date, when qualified engineers will come to your house or office and install the hardware (equipment) so you can start using your satellite internet the same day.
 Since the satellites that transmit your Internet are positioned directly over the Earth's equator, you should not have any obstructions that prevent you from having an optimal connection.


Have your satellite dish installed in an open area away from trees and similar obstructions. For example, if you live in North America, have the satellite dish installed on the southernmost tip of your roof or south of any tall trees, so it can point toward the equator.
 After your satellite dish has been installed, you can use your Internet at any time, given that the coaxial cables that connect your satellite dish to your modems stay plugged in at all times.


Check to make sure that your coaxial cables are plugged into the appropriate places on your equipment if you have issues connecting to the Internet; especially after heavy storms.
 With some providers, you may be limited to a certain amount of Internet activity within your billing cycle, which, if exceeded, can lead to temporary suspension of your Internet service or other penalties.


Consult with your satellite Internet service provider to determine how often you can use your Internet and how to keep track of your data usage.
 Since your Internet data and activity travels up to the satellites and back to your device, certain activities you perform may experience a lag time, or delay.


Refrain from streaming videos, playing time-sensitive online games, and from using voice-over internet protocol (VoIP) services, all of which will most likely be affected by latency.

