 Tires come in many shapes and sizes, and depending on the application, the type and depth of the tread can vary. Most tires now come with tread wear lines that cross the tire perpendicular to the grooves of the tread. Once the tread wears down to the point that the tread wear lines are even with the tread, your tires need to be replaced.Another common method to check tread wear is to press an upside down penny into the groove between treads. If you can see all of Abraham Lincoln’s head, the tread is too worn down.
Driving on tires with treads that are too worn can result in blowing out a tire or losing traction in the rain.;
, Your tires were designed to operate with a specific amount of air pressure inside them. Driving on tires that are underinflated can do damage to the sidewalls of the tires, causing them to rupture and deflate. Look on the side of the tire on your vehicle for the maximum pressure rating for the tire, then fill it to match. Place a tire gauge on the tire’s valve stem to see if the tires require air, then use an air compressor to inflate your tires if need be.Under inflated tires can also dramatically reduce your gas mileage, as the vehicle works harder to propel you on soft tires.
Over inflated tires can also be more prone to blow outs and will reduce the life span of your tire.
 Your engine powers its accessories like the power steering pump, air conditioning and alternator using belts driven by the crank pulley. These belts can wear out or become damaged if a pulley goes bad or they rub on something in the engine bay. Visually inspect these belts for signs of cracking, rubbing or other damage. If the belt appears to be damaged, it must be replaced.If your vehicle is equipped with a timing belt, it could cause significant damage to your engine if it breaks.
If you notice signs of rubbing, you will need to move what was rubbing it when you replace the belt to ensure it doesn’t occur again.
 To check your oil, locate the dipstick in your vehicle. The top of a dipstick is often bright yellow and easily identified, but if you have trouble finding it, refer to the owner’s manual for your vehicle. Pull the dipstick out and wipe off the oil on it. Look at the clean dipstick so you can easily identify the full line, then slide it back into the engine. Remove it once more and look at the level the oil reaches on the stick.If your dipstick has multiple lines, the top one indicates “full” and each line below it represents a quart of oil that needs to be added.
If your oil levels are low, it may be because of an oil leak. Fill it back up and check it frequently to determine if there is an issue with oil leaking or burning in your vehicle.
 Under the hood you will find both a coolant and a brake fluid reservoir. These plastic containers will have lines in them that represent how much fluid should be in each. If they are below the full line, you should top them off to ensure your vehicle never runs without either. Refer to your owner’s manual to help you identify the reservoirs and choose the proper fluid to replace them with, per the manufacturer’s recommendations.Coolant travels through your engine to help regulate engine temperatures.
Your vehicle uses brake fluid to engage the brakes when you press on the pedal. Low brake fluid could cause your vehicle to brake erratically or fail to brake at all.
 Your headlights are essential to seeing at night and your tail lights and turn signals help ensure other drivers see you and understand your intentions. It’s important that all of these lights are functioning properly at all times. Have a friend stand outside of your car as you test each light to ensure they are working.Replace any lights that blow out as soon as possible.
If one of your turn signals begins to flash faster than normal, it is likely because the coinciding turn signal on the other end of the vehicle has blown out.
 Most vehicles come equipped with a number of warning lights that can let you know if there is an issue that needs to be addressed. These symbols are fairly universal regardless of auto maker and can warn you about things like low tire pressure, excessive engine temperature or an issue with your anti-lock brake system. Refer to your vehicle’s owner’s manual to see each symbol and what it represents so you can take the proper action when a light comes on.If a light comes on that you are unsure of, pull over and turn off the vehicle until you are able to identify the issue.
If you do not have an owner’s manual, try referring to the auto maker’s website or a site like http://dashboardsymbols.com/the-symbols


, Most modern automotive batteries require very little maintenance, but you can prolong the life of your battery with a few simple steps. Make sure the terminals of the battery are clean and free from corrosion and check to ensure the strap securing the battery is tight. Some batteries may require that you check the fluid levels in the battery and add to it if need be.The vibrations caused by an unsecured battery can reduce the lifespan of the battery.
Make sure the terminals are free of corrosion to ensure a proper connection.

