 There are many healthy foods that are available for purchase at a low cost and can be used in a variety of meals or as snacks. Familiarize yourself with healthy, affordable options.


As far as produce, grapefruit, carrots, spinach, and sweet potato usually go for no more than $1-$4 at most supermarkets. Grapefruits can serve as a good addition to breakfast, apples and carrots can be used as snacks, spinach can be added to sandwiches or salads, and sweet potatoes can be fried, grilled, or baked as a side dish to many meals.Eggs are an excellent low cost option when it comes to saving money on food. A dozen eggs is usually less than $5. Eggs are a great source of lean protein and contain vitamin B12. They can be prepared a variety of ways, providing you with a diversity of meals at a low cost.Canned tuna sells for less than a dollar at most supermarkets. Tuna, like eggs, is a good source of lean protein and can be added to casseroles, salads, and sandwiches.Beans, whether canned or bagged, are a healthy legume that contain fiber and many vitamins and minerals. If you're vegetarian or vegan, beans are a good source of protein. Beans can be used in salads, stews, or burritos. You can also eat beans as a side dish or a meal., Food studies scholar Leanne Brown discovered when getting her master's from New York University that many people on government assistance eat too many processed foods. To combat this trend, she wrote a cookbook, Good and Cheap, that is available for free online.



Good and Cheap outlines how to stock your pantries with cheap staples that can be used to create a variety of meals.Brown also encourages flexibility in terms of meals, offering a variety of alternative ingredients for each recipe. She encourages experimentation, especially with produce as costs of fruits and veggies fluctuate by season.Brown also suggests ways to use leftovers to make new meals and how to liven up snacks with the addition of spices., If you are struggling to pay for food due to a low income or unemployment, food banks and food pantries are available nationwide to provide free food.


FreeFood.org is a great website for locating food banks and pantries in your area. You simply enter your zip code and a variety of options will display on the screen.Food banks usually provide cooked meals to the homeless or very low income families. Food banks tend to be found at churches or community centers, but are also sometimes run out of a truck or cart.
Some colleges and universities also run food banks. Campus Kitchen is a program that repurposes food that is about to expire to cook and deliver to low income families. You can check for Campus Kitchen locations in your area using their website.Food pantries usually provided donated food, such as canned goods and breads, for free or cheap to low income families or the homeless.
Remember, these options are not merely for people trying to cut back on spending. Food banks and pantries are designed to help people with legitimate financial struggles due to unemployment or low wages or people who are between homes. If you're simply trying to save money, go for a different option.
 Coupons can be a great resource when it comes to finding cheap food. Be on the lookout for coupons, especially those specific to your dietary needs and preferences.


When using coupons, try to use them on sale items unless the coupon specifically says it can only be used on full priced items. Use your $1.00 tuna coupon to buy tuna that's already 2 for 1, for example.Do not be picky about brands when using coupons. Try to always select the brand that is on sale or has the best coupon deal. Even if you love Skippy Peanut Butter, you can live with Jif if you have a 50% off coupon.To maximize the savings on coupons, only clip or print coupons for food items you know you'll buy and use. Go to the store with a specific list and do not deviate. Oftentimes, people get dazzled by new deals advertised in stores but oftentimes the savings aren't that big. This can result in you getting tricked into buying a name brand food item that's more expensive than the store brand even with the sales price.Some stores, such as Publix, allow you to stack manufacturer and store coupons, so if you have two $1.00 off coupons you can use both on the same item. Some stores also accept competitor store coupons. Ask about their policies at the register.
 Consider starting up a potluck in your community, in which everyone can bring a small dish.


Even if you can't afford to make a big meal, a simple casserole made from cheap ingredients can serve well as a side dish.
Collaborate with other friends or community members you know are also on a budget. They might be interested in doing regular potluck nights a few times a week so everyone saves money.
Families with small children might be particularly interested in a regular community potluck as this saves them the time and money of cooking for the night.
 If you can find a discount grocery store in your area, try to shop there. Discount stores buy things like dented cans, overstocked foods, and other items regular retailers might not shelve and sell them for a reduced rate.


Be careful with dented cans. Know the protocol about when it is and is not safe to buy a dented can. A can with a dent in the seam, a dent where the sides and ends of a can meet, a sharp dent, or a dent that causes bulging of swelling means the can is probably not safe for consumption.Dents at the top of a can are also a bad sign. This means the seal could have broken, allowing harmful bacteria to get inside the can.