 While you may have disagreements about political views, don't fight fire with fire. Attacking someone's views in a vicious and hateful way will be unproductive and lead to conflict. Be mindful that your actions and words could also have negative consequences in the workplace or at school.Consider that some people may take your political views personally and equate your words or actions with a personal attack on them.
Use language about a political candidate or party that shows maturity and thoughtfulness rather than unbridled hate.
 The topic of politics is generally not one for young children. Avoid putting up with, or reducing your behaviors, to the actions of children. Name-calling has no place in mature, productive political conversation. If you see someone doing this, or find yourself doing this, take action.Even if you think that a co-worker or family member may have racist or misogynistic views, avoid calling them an ignorant racist or a blatant woman-hater. This will likely lead to further arguments and conflict.
If you are determined to call them out on their views, do so with delicacy and focus on the topic rather than the personal flaws.
 Remember that few people are likely to change their core beliefs about the world and politics. Trying to convince them that they're wrong is likely to lead to unnecessary and ongoing conflict. Be willing to accept that political conversations don't have winners and losers.While you may be avid sports fan with a competitive mindset, understand that the topic of politics can be even more contentious. For politically active people, it can be about their everyday lives that deeply affect them and their family on a personal level.
Understand that the way you conduct yourself can have as much impact on people's views as the arguments you're making.
 If you feel like the conversation is likely going nowhere, and just causing more stress for you and others, understand that it is okay to walk away, end the conversation, or change the subject. You don't have just tolerate other people's mindless political rants.Try changing the subject and redirecting someone's political conversations to a neutral or more general topic. Ask them about something else that interests them, such as movies, sports, TV, fitness, food, or art.
You can say something like, "Let's not talk politics right now. Have you seen any good movies recently?"
If you are being bullied or belittled for your opposing views, understand that this conversation is not productive, and is only tied to strong, negative emotions. Walk away and avoid engaging or getting defensive.
Consider politely ending the conversation. For example, say, "I can see this is important to you. Sorry but I am late to my next appointment."
You can also allow the person to vent if you care about them and think they just want to blow off some steam and you are willing to give them the space to do that (remember you are not required to do this, you can walk away if you need to). Let them express themselves, then say something like, "It sounds like you're really frustrated, and I'm glad you were able to get that off your chest. I would really prefer to not talk about politics anymore, though."

