 Rent space at your local swap meet or flea market. If you’re lucky, you will be sold out by the end of the weekend and the stuff taking up space in your house will translate to cash in your pocket.


Offering a smorgasbord of stuff from your attic can also give you a good idea or what sells and what does not at your particular swap meet.
Almost everyone has used books lying around or boxed up, and remember that these are often among the most popular sellers at swap meets. The same goes for seasonal clothing in good condition., You will find clothing, hand tools, toys, books, furniture, and knick knacks. These can all sell at swap meets. Be mindful of your swap meet research, though. You don't want to pay too much for the items or pay for something that will never sell.


One of the best things you can do is browse your swap meet and jot down the prevailing prices for common items. Then go to local garage sales and snatch up sellable items that are priced at well below swap meet value.
Most people having a garage sale just want to get rid of the stuff, so make a low offer on a large supply of items you know you can sell at the swap meet. (This is another great way to acquire used books.) Go near the end of the posted time for the sale for the best deals (but also the most limited selection)., Thrift stores often have sale days when everything is half price. That translates into a profit for you when you resell the items at the swap meet.


The secrets to finding these bargains are frequent visits, learning their inventory, and knowing when they have sales. This information will help you schedule your time, know when to purchase, and decide how to keep the price right.
Thrift stores are often the best place to acquire used clothing in decent condition. When you see a real bargain, strike quickly and buy in bulk. These items can form a cornerstone of your swap meet inventory., There are many types of auctions available to you and all of them offer items for resale. You can snag great bargains that can be turned into nice profits at the swap meet.


Jewelry, which often sells well at swap meets, is a common item found at auctions. The trick is to know what you’re buying and to never overpay.Auction houses take goods on consignment and sell to the highest bidders. They frequently advertise in the newspaper and have websites where they announce upcoming auctions and list goods that are ready for auction.
At police auctions, items seized from criminals are put up for bid and can often be had for pennies on the dollar. Check local news sources for information on police auctions in your area. These can be another place to acquire jewelry, among other things.
Storage warehouse auctions, as made popular by reality TV shows, are another option to find items to resell You are allowed only to look into the unit and not go through items. You will never know if there is any real value in the unit unless you buy the lot, so this can be a risky venture.
Estate auctions are mostly held at the homes of people who have recently died, been moved to an assisted-living facility, or are just downsizing. Think of this auction as a garage sale on steroids, with the price driven by other buyers and the chant of the auctioneer. There are also just regular estate sales, without the auction element.
Online auction sites can also be a good choice for acquiring bulk merchandise to sell at the swap meet. The inventory selection is endless, and if you know what to look for and how much to pay, you can do quite well for yourself.
 Not everything for sale at a swap meet is old or used. Maybe you want to offer new tools, clothing or sunglasses for sale at your booth. You will need to find a wholesaler from which to buy these items.There are suppliers who sell bulk goods at a significantly lower price to flea marketers. Research wholesalers in your area, and ask other vendors at the swap meet.
Pay special attention to the profit margin you seek and the price you can expect to sell your items for. If you can’t get a great wholesale price, don’t buy.
Unless you are offering handcrafted items for sale, remember that volume and value are the keys to making money at swap meets, whether the items are new or used.