 You don't need drama, fighting, and headaches. Get rid of negative people in your life. Find people who make you happy, have goals, and that you have a lot in common with.;
, It's easier said than done. But it goes a long way. Even if you are depressed and sad, happy or excited. Just smile. It's the prettiest thing anybody can wear.
 Healthy body, healthy mind. Exercise relieves stress and helps you stay in shape. Eating right, keeps your body healthy and happy. And clears your mind and makes you more positive.
 Express your feelings. Write them down, blog about them, scream them. Let it out of your system. Clear your mind and get it out. Talk to a close friend or family, or even your pet. Just let your feelings out.
 If you are organized, you know what you're doing, so you're not all mumble-jumbled and mixed up. It helps reduce some stress and keeps you on the right track.
 Blast it! have fun, go crazy, dance like no-one is watching! Be sure to play it at a safe level though! Get up, be active, and move your body!

, It helps you clear your mind and is great for your body!

, You can do a sport, paint, draw, sing, dance, blog. Anything to keep your mind off things and express your feelings. Maybe even write a novel about your life or experiences.
 Yoga clears the mind, and is great for your body. Do it in the morning before school, after dinner before bed. In the afternoon. Anytime.
 If you have tons of homework, do some. Then take a break. Then do more, then take a break. That way you get things done and you aren't to worked over.
 Take deep breaths. Leave the world for a couple minutes. Enter peace and quiet and explore your mind and let it relax. Shut the computer, TV, phone off and everything and just take a deep breath. Or a bubble bath. Whatever takes you to your happy place.
 You have people that love you, care for you, and want the best for you. Just reach out to them when you are in need of help.
 No one wants a copy, everybody wants an original. If you aren't the perfect size, weight, or look, WHO CARES? You are beautiful. Who has the right to tell you otherwise? NO ONE. Look at yourself in the mirror, and instead of pointing out your flaws, point out all the good things about you, like maybe your eyes, and from then on, flaunt them!

, There is a lot of drama and b.s. there that you don't need in your life.
 NOT a bully. Be careful what you say, and treat others how you would like to be treated.
 Have you guys gone out lately? Had any deep conversations? WELL GET TO IT THEN. There's no place like home, and no-one like family.
 Make a bunch! Make a bucket list! Make anything!

, You DON'T live there anymore. Live in the moment, and cherish every memory and everything. Be thankful for what you have and stay calm.
 There's nothing like fresh air and beautiful views. Winter or Spring, Summer or Fall. We all have an inner child, so unleash it!

, Studies show sleep helps: it makes you feel better in the morning, reduces stress, and extends life-span.
 RELAX! It is NOT the end of the world. There will be other parties and just find something else to do. Like late night movies, perhaps, or cuddling up with your dog.
 Live life, do well in school. Make good decisions. And be happy..laugh for no reason! Smile at any occasion. Just live.

