 In Blackjack, each card has a value that remains constant throughout the game. The goal is to beat the dealer and also not bust with a 22 or more. Here are their values:










Number cards: The number is the value of the card.

Face cards: The value of face cards is 10.

Ace: Either 1 or 11. It is counted as 11 (...generally) unless it would put you over 21, in which case it counts as 1.

Therefore, an ace and a ten card are 21 in two cards, which is Blackjack/Natural.
A hand containing an ace is called "soft" hand.
 You are able to hit until you go over 21.

Stand: Keep your current cards and do nothing. You do not receive more cards.
There are also a few extra possibilities you can use for certain hands:


Taking insurance: This is only available when the dealer is showing an ace. You place a new bet that will then pay at 2-1 if the dealer does indeed have a blackjack. You lose your other bet (which would pay 1-1) but win the insurance, resulting in breaking even.

Double Down: You double your bet, and get only one more card. This is generally only used when your initial two cards equal 8-11 or soft 12 to soft 19.

Split: Make two hands from one hand, if both cards are the same value. Tens, Jacks, Queens, and Kings are usually counted as 10 each. If both of your hands win, you get double the amount of money. If only one wins, you break even. If both hands lose, you lose double the money. Split the hands by separating the cards and placing a duplicate bet.

Surrender: In many casinos, you can (before playing and after determining if the dealer has a blackjack) choose to give up half of your bet without playing. Surrender is only desirable when the dealer is showing a 9-A, and the player has a 5-7 or 12-16.

When the dealer has an ace, he or she automatically checks to see if a blackjack is had. Early surrender is when you opt out of half your bet before the dealer checks for a blackjack on his/her behalf.
 In order to win, the player has to be closer to 21 than the dealer, without going over. If the player goes over, he has "busted." If it's a tie, it's a "push" -- neither the player nor the house wins. A blackjack is when your starting hand is an ace and 10, or face card.









The dealer will go around the players until each one decides to stand. He then plays his own hand, which determines the outcome of the game. Obviously, each hand is different. Generally, players using copy the dealer hit on 16 or less. This is a bad strategy. The never bust strategy is a little better, but it is still a bad strategy.The casino's greatest advantage (the "house edge") is that the player has to act first. If a player "busts" (goes over 21), the casino immediately takes the player's money. If the casino then "busts" on the same hand, the player still loses. The dealer is the last one to play the hand.

