 If possible, meet where you won't be recognized. You don't want your parents, your relatives, community leaders, or your parents' friends to see you while you're out with your boyfriend. Meet when your parents think you're somewhere else, you could pretend to have a club meeting, or to be hanging out with a friend. You might even sneak out of the house at night.


If you live in a city, you could meet almost anywhere: a big city park, a free museum, a scenic hill, or a little cafe in your favorite neighborhood. The same goes for the suburbs, although it might be harder to get around if you and your boyfriend don't have your own cars.
If you live in a rural area, you might need to meet up outdoors. Don't hang out with your boyfriend in the park across the street from your house, or the local supermarket, or anywhere that your parents or their friends might run into you.
 When you go out with your boyfriend, your parents will probably want to know where you are. It may be best to bring a friend or two with you when you go out. That way, when they call you, you can just say "Oh, I'm with Amy," and then put Amy on the phone with them to verify that indeed, you are with her and not your boyfriend!

, This is a classic move, but you'll need to be very careful about your story to pull off. The basic idea: if you want to meet up with your boyfriend after hours or even stay over at his house, tell your parents that you are sleeping over at a friend's house. If your parents insist on meeting your friends, then you should use a good friend (who your parents have met) to corroborate your story.


Tell your friend about your plan. If possible if you are completely certain that you can trust your friend's parents have your friend's parents agree to pretend that you're sleeping over. It helps if you name a friend whose house you've slept over at many times before.
If your parents are suspicious, they might call your friend's parents to check out your story. Consider whether this is likely to happen. If so, then you may not want to risk it.
 Understand the risks: if you bring your boyfriend into your parents' space, then you are giving them a huge opportunity to find out about him. Wait for a time when they aren't home, a whole weekend is even better.If you sneak your boyfriend into your house while your parents are home, make sure that he has a secret way to enter and escape. Try to bring him in once your parents are asleep, and be extremely quiet so that they don't suspect anything.
Keep the noise level down so you can listen for your parents voices or footsteps in case they're walking toward your room. Be prepared to hide him under the bed or in a closet at a moment's notice, or have him leave through the window if possible!
Don't leave any evidence that your boyfriend was there. Your parents will get suspicious if they see a men's comb or a men's jacket. If he gives you a gift (a note, a photo, a bouquet of flowers) don't leave it out in the open!

