 Speak can be a fun command to teach any dog. If you want your Manchester Terrier to learn to speak, begin by finding something that causes your dog to bark. This may be a toy, a treat, or a particular noise. During training sessions, wave the object around or make the noise until your dog barks. Praise your dog for barking and give your dog a treat.Once your dog consistently barks in response to a certain stimuli, begin incorporating a command or hand gesture. For example, snap your fingers to get your dog to speak.
Keep training each day, offering rewards each time your dog completes the behavior. Gradually phase out the object or noise you use and use only your command or gesture. Eventually, your Manchester Terrier should learn to speak on command.
 Roll over is taught in increments. To teach roll over, start by commanding your dog to lie down. Then, kneel down beside your dog and hold a treat near its nose. Gently press your dog's shoulder to get it to lie on its side. Use the treat to hold your dog's attention. Praise and reward your dog each time it moves on its side.From there, move your hand from your dog's shoulder to its backbone. While you do this, move the treat over slightly. Your dog should roll on its back to get closer to the treat. Keep moving the treat until the dog has completely rolled over. Say the command "Roll over" and reward your dog.
Keep up this routine every day in brief sessions. Eventually, your dog should start going through the motions on its own. You will be able to reduce touching your dog during the trick and will not have to use a treat as lure.
 To teach shake, start by holding your hand in front of your dog while its sitting with your palm up. If you hold out your hand long enough, your dog may eventually sniff or lick your hand on its own. This can lead to pawing Once your dog paws your hand, say "Shake" and reward your dog with a treat and praise. Repeat this process until your dog lifts its hand naturally. If you do short training sessions like this each day, your dog will eventually learn to shake on command.Some dogs will not paw at their owners hands naturally. If your dog does not paw on its own, gently tap your dog's paw until it places its paw in your hand.
 To begin, command your dog to "sit." From there, hold a treat over your dog's head to get it to stand. Say "Beg" or "Sit up" while your dog does this. If your dog jumps to grab the treat, say "No," and then have your dog return to the sitting position.Repeat training sessions each day. Give your dog a treat as soon as it's standing on its hind legs. Say your command while your dog is standing.
With daily training sessions, your dog will eventually learn to beg on cue.

