 Buddhists have been practicing meditation for more than 2,500 years. Now roughly 10% of Americans meditate as well. Several studies have been conducted showing that meditation can significantly improve perception. Participants in one study were able to detect small visual variations. They had abnormally long attention spans as well.Another demonstrated that the regions in the brain associated with a) sensitivity to body signals and b) sensory processing have increased grey matter when a person regularly meditates.Grey matter is a type of tissue in the Central Nervous System that processes information and triggers a sensory response to it.It is believed that meditating creates more neural connections in the prefrontal cortex of the brain. This region processes sensory information, handles rational decision-making and regulates the amygdala.
Teaching yourself to relax, to tune things out, and to be receptive – rather than reactive – to the moment enhances your ability to receive cues around you., Meditation is an umbrella term for the ways you can achieve a relaxed state of being. Different types of meditation have different meditative processes. Here are some of the most widely practiced types of meditation.


Guided meditation is led by a teacher, therapist or guide who talks you through visualizing images of people, places, things and experiences that you find relaxing.
Mantra meditation involves repeating a calming word, thought or phrase to prevent distracting thoughts from entering your mind.
Mindfulness meditation asks that you focus on the present moment and your breathing. Observe your thoughts and emotions without judging them harshly.
Qi gong combines meditation, physical movement, breathing exercises and relaxation to restore balance in your thinking.
Tai chi is a form of the Chinese martial arts, but movements and postures are slow. You need to also focus on deep breathing.
Transcendental meditation involves silently repeating a personal mantra – a word, sound or phrase – to get your body into a state of deep relaxation. Here your mind can strive for inner peace.
Yoga is the practice of performing a series of postures and breathing exercises to create a more flexible body and a calm mind. Going from one pose to another requires concentration and balance. Therefore, the emphasis is on thinking only of the present moment., You can practice meditation on your own at any point in the day. You don't need a formal class. The length of time you meditate is not as important as doing it regularly, and to the point of relaxation.


Breathe deeply and slowly through your nose. Concentrate on feeling and listening as you inhale and exhale. When your mind wanders, focus back on your breathing.
Scan your body and become aware of any sensations you feel. Focus your attention on different parts of your body. Combine this with breathing exercises to relax each part of your body.
Create your own mantra and repeat it throughout the day.
Walk slowly, anywhere, and focus on the movement of your legs and feet. Repeat action words in your mind, such as “lifting” or “moving," as you place one foot in front of another.
Pray in spoken or written form using your own words or those written by others.
Read poetry or books that are sacred to you, and then reflect on the meaning of what you read. You can also listen to music or spoken words that are inspiring or relaxing. Afterward, write down your reflections or discuss them with another, if you choose.
Focus on a sacred object or being and think loving, compassionate and grateful thoughts. You can also close your eyes and visualize the object or being.