 Don't let yourself run out of sanitary towels or tampons. If you are mature enough to live away from your parents and with 'guys' you should be able to maintain a supply of appropriate products.
 Get a lot of toilet paper and fold it neatly into a similar shape to what a pad looks like, the longer and thicker, the better. Place it as you would use a regular pad and wrap the end of the big piece or even another piece around everything a few times to keep it all in place, make sure you do this before going to bed or you're definitely going to have menstrual fluid all over your panties in the morning.


Try to change these every 1-2 hours depending on what day you're on in the cycle.;
, Fold it to the size of a regular pad, then stick it in your underwear. Make sure you have extras on hand, since you may have to change once every hour or two.
 Is there someone you can go to in a hurry to beg for a pad or two from? Always give back a fresh new package of pads if you resort to this.
 This can help you cope with the potential embarrassment of having to ask one of the guys for some.
 If you can't get out to get sanitary gear for yourself, ask the most switched-on guy in the household to get out there and buy some pads or tampons for you. It's probably best to target the guy who has sisters; it won't be odd to him. It will be odd if you wince, grimace or make a song and dance about it though; talk about it as natural (after all, it is) and keep the request simple. Don't apologize for having your period, although it's okay to apologize for not being organized enough.


If you're comfortable and casual about the fact of having a period ("Hey.. would you mind getting me some pads on your run to the drugstore?"), then the guys are more likely to be comfortable too.
If asking a guy to buy you pads or tampons, be specific. He probably doesn't know which brands are best or what you like, so make sure to tell him exactly what you need- write it down for him to make it easy.
You might want to just tell the oldest guy, or the guy you're most comfortable with, about your period and tell him that you need some help.
 When you're alone at home, wash them with cold water and then put them in the washer and dryer.
, They can't be 100 percent foolproof but you're more likely to overcome leakage problems with quality sanitary ware that tries to prevent this.
 You'll notice that the more you exercise, the less menstrual fluid and pain there is. Be sure to keep your own limit in mind, if you think you are too tired/painful, you need to stop. Sports can help a lot, but with some people, the 'damage' you cause to your muscles, takes longer to heal when you're on your period. Do not risk any injuries and stop when you need to stop. You're feeling unwell and it's not a shame to just lay in bed for three days, if you feel like you have to.
 You might be able to fake a headache and get some other painkiller, but in case you don't then try these things: doing something you enjoy a lot, watching a funny or scary movie, again with the exercising thing, you'll even find that you might be able to sit a certain way that stretches you stomach and helps with the pain.

