 Your chances of having summer reading projects might increase in each grade you advance in. Make sure to read your summer books. You might be tested on them!;
, Chances are, for the people that complete them, you'll have extra points on their grade starting out.
 It might seem boring, but studying can help you stay head of the game, and refresh your mind on subjects.
 That's the main reason of summer break! Relax and recharge. Summer will go by faster than you think!

, You won't have to wake up at the crack of dawn to catch the bus, so make up a couple of much needed hours of sleep.
 Go on and get your summer reading over with. You won't be cramming the week before, if you do it now.
 The days are longer now, so you have more sunlight to do more outdoor things.
 Go on and get into the pattern, so you won't be as slouchy, Monday morning.
 If you didn't study now, you probably should, at this point. You're about halfway through your summer break and it's time to look towards school.
 You should have completed this by now. If not, finish it up.
 If you wait until the week before, everybody will be out there and take most of the items.
 If they have the same classes as you, you might be able to walk together.
 If your school is far away, take the bus or get your parents to drive you. If it's close, walk to school, or take your bike, if your school allows it.
 Your teachers will have expected you to have studied over the summer.
 That's where you can figure out bus routes, meet your new teachers, and see the layout of the school. Take advantage of it.
 You want to make a great first impression on your teachers.
 Go to bed on time to get your body prepared on sleeping early again.
,,, You don't want to walk by yourself!

, Don't be too worried about summer ending. Just think about the good times you had, and you will surely relax., The things you do on the first day determine what everybody thinks about you for the rest of the year.
 Figure out the nearest bathrooms and water fountains. See what your locker is near, and that can be your landmark. Remember how long it takes in between class changes.

