 Before embarking on a new exercise routine, it is important to figure out what exercises are best for you given your interests, size/strength, and history of injuries (if any). Consult a medical doctor or personal trainer to evaluate your fitness level.


This person can also help you determine what exercises could be safe and fun for you, and which can help provide motivation for getting started.
 Exercise helps to elevate mood and prevent relapse. In randomized control trials, exercise has been shown to be nearly as effective as medication. Experts think that exercise increases the body’s release of neurotransmitters and hormones and also helps to regulate sleep.A positive part of exercise as a treatment for depression is that activities like running do not cost a lot of money.
 Set goals according to SMART, which stands for Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Timely. These guidelines will help you experience the reward and reinforcement associated with reaching exercise goals.


Start with the “A” in SMART in setting your goals. Set an easy goal at first, since attaining it gives you the experience of success early. It will also give you confidence to set your next goal. If you don’t think you can push yourself to do more (such as walking for 10 minutes), then push yourself to do more often (such as walking for 10 minutes every day for a week, then a month, then the whole year). See how long you can keep your streak going.
 Consider every time you exercise as a treatment for your mood and a positive reflection of your will to improve.Even just walking for five minutes at a medium pace is better than no exercise. By taking pride in every accomplishment, no matter how small, you can still feel like you're moving forward and healing yourself.
 This type of exercise, such as swimming, running or cycling, is an ideal core exercise for treating depression. Choose cardio exercise that's easy on your joints, such as swimming laps or cycling, if you possibly can.
 Talk to a friend or family member about exercising with you. They may be able to help motivate you to getting outside or going to the gym to exercise. Explain that it won't be easy to motivate you, but that any help they can give will be sincerely appreciated.

