 You need to pinpoint when you're aiming to leave, how you're leaving, and where you're going to go. Sneaking out successfully is not a spur of the moment thing. Sit down and map out (in your head, not on paper) your tactic for the mission.


When do your parents go to sleep? What time will be the absolute earliest you can escape without being noticed? Better yet, what time must you be back by?
What exit will you use? What obstacles are in your path?
Are you meeting a friend? Where will they be? How will you get to them? How will you get back?;
, This is entirely based on your situation. There may be a number of possibilities, but only one means of likely escape to freedom. Consider the following:


If you are climbing out your window, take note of the surrounding terrain. For a first-story window, this is not an issue. But for sneaking out of a second-story window, be careful -- being found on the ground with a broken leg in the middle of the night is not the start of a memorable evening you had in mind. Is there a tree or a terrace you could climb?

If the get-away is in the daytime, this will probably your only option (as done from your room). You will need to lock the door, turn on some light music or the television, and get your defenestration on.


If you are climbing out a window that is not your own, make sure it is far away from your parents' location. Choose a window that's on the opposite side of the house. Make sure it isn't noisy to open.
Check the screen of your chosen window beforehand. Some screens are very difficult to work with and you may have to nix this possibility if it means damaging the window. Does it come out easily and can you put it back intact?
If you are going out the door, can you unlock it at an earlier time? Can you leave the screen ajar with a doorstop? How much noise does it make upon opening and closing?

, If your parents go to bed at 10:30 PM like clockwork Sunday - Thursday, this may be less of an issue. But if there's any possibility at all that they'll stay up late to watch Conan or they have extra paperwork to do, be ready.


If it's normal for you to ask about their day, do so. They may casually mention their workload or their post-dinner plans. However, if you are the go-directly-to-my-room-and-draw-skulls-on-my-notebook-all-night-long type, don't bother. They'll wonder what's going on and it'll just rouse their suspicions.
 If you are unfortunate enough to have to climb up or down stairs on your path to liberation, do the work beforehand. Where do they creak? How should you tread to make the least amount of noise? Generally, using the sides and leaning on the banister are your best bets, but every flight is different.


Experiment with different types of footwear. Maybe socks make the least amount of noise or maybe your tennis shoes/slippers do a good job diffusing the sound. The night of, don whatever is the most silent.

