 Nonfiction writing is literature based on fact. Nonfiction writers can focus on topics like biography, business, cooking, health and fitness, pets, crafts, home decorating, travel, religions, art, history, etc. The list of possible subjects for nonfiction writing could be anything and everything.Unlike fiction, which is literature created from imagination, nonfiction is structured around real events, moments, practices, and approaches to a subject.
Memoir is a type of nonfiction that acts as a record of events based on intimate knowledge and personal observation.So if you are writing memoir, you will likely need to do some research around your memories of a particular event or moment. But most memoirists do less research than other nonfiction writers, as the basis for their story is personal memory.;
, Many well written and engaging non-fiction books end up on Best of the Year lists and the best seller’s list. Several topics, such as the war in the Middle East, the scientific developments of the 21st century, and institutional racism in the American justice system have all been popular non-fiction topics. Of course, food writing, home décor, and travel writing are topics of interest too. Take a look at nonfiction books such as:The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History by Elizabeth Kolbert. Kolbert, who writes about science for other well respected publications, looks at the history of life on earth and concludes we’re experiencing the sixth mass die-off, thanks to the changes imposed on the planet by humans. A gripping non-fiction look at the influence of humanity on nature and science.Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption by Bryan Stevenson. Stevenson’s book focuses on the trial of a black man convicted of murdering a white woman in Monroeville, Alabama. With an informative but unsentimental tone, Stevenson presents a new way of thinking about the death penalty and examines the prejudices of capital punishment in America.Sous-Chef: 24 Hours on the Line by Gibney. The restaurant kitchen has been the setting of many popular nonfiction writing. Gibney’s book looks at the egotistical, empowered head chefs and the young wild ones who serve under them, the sous-chefs. Gibney uses sharp prose and solid technical detail to give the reader the sights, smells, tastes, and clashes of a shift in the kitchen.Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Coast Trail by Cheryl Strayed. Strayed’s nonfiction tale about her journey through heartbreak, addiction, and loneliness on the Pacific Coast Trail is a great example of combining a personal story or memoir style writing with factual detail and scenes.DIY Ideas: Projects and Tips for Every Room by Kathy Barnes. This nonfiction book on home décor from Better Homes and Gardens focuses on “Do It Yourself” projects. It contains over 200+ fun, approachable home improvement projects with clear directions and beautiful photographs., Once you’ve read several nonfiction books, think about how the writer uses factual evidence in the book and approaches the topic in an interesting way. Ask questions such as:


What makes the writer’s approach to their topic unique or engaging?
How does the writer use factual information in their narrative?
How does the writer organize the information in the book? Do they use section breaks? Parts? A table of contents?
How does the writer cite their sources in the narrative?
As a reader, what was the most affecting scene in the book? What scene was the least effective for you?

, Maybe you already have a topic in mind, or maybe you aren’t sure how to narrow down your broad range of interests. But it’s important to home in on your topic and the angle you are going to take on the topic. Ask yourself these questions:


What am I passionate about or interested in? Writing a book about a subject you are interested in will make your research more vigorous and your dedication to telling the story much stronger.What is a story only I can tell? Or what makes my view on a subject unique? For example, you may have an interest in pastry making or same-sex marriages. But you need to determine what your unique take will be on these topics. Perhaps for pastry making, you’ll focus on the development of a particular technique or a particular pastry, like the croissant. Or for a current topic like same-sex marriages, maybe you will focus on a particular section of America, like the Bible belt, to see how this subject is affecting these communities.
Who would read this book? It’s important to identify the audience for your book and the market for your book. You want to have a large enough audience for the book to justify writing the book. For example, a nonfiction book about the evolution of the croissant might be of interest to other pastry makers, food critics, and readers with an interest in baking. It may also appeal to historical buffs who enjoy looking at the history of food from a unique angle.
 Take some time to get your creative juices flowing. Take out a blank sheet of paper and a pen, or open a new document on your computer.There are many ways you can brainstorm, such as a mind map, with boxes around the main idea and then lines out to other words or phrases that relate to the main idea.
You can also create a list of possible unique angles on the main idea. For example, a food history of the croissant? the political implications of the croissant? the different types of croissants in Europe?

, One of the easiest ways to organize your thoughts is to create a content outline or a table of contents for your book. A more detailed outline will also help you focus your research on certain aspects of your topic or subject.Make a bulleted list, with the main topic and then sub topics or headings underneath the main topic. For example, for a book about the croissant, the main topic might be The Croissant and the sub topics could be: Origin/History, Development, Establishment of the basic croissant, and Current variations of the croissant.
You can also make a chart with the topics and subtopics, and then add sub sub topic under the sub topics. Try to expand on the idea as much as possible and write down anything (even if it feels a little out in left field) that you feel may be a possible sub topic of the main topic.
 Good nonfiction is based on months, if not years, of research. Besides online research, you may need to use libraries, archives and record offices, newspapers, and even microfilm.You will also need to find experts on your subjects and “witnesses to events”. This means individuals who can share first person accounts of an event. You will then need to follow up on leads, interview people, transcribe interviews, and read a lot of material.For each topic and subtopic in your table of contents, brainstorm possible research you may need. For example, for the origin or history of the croissant, you may want to talk to historians who specialize in research on french food or french food culture.
Ask yourself: What do I not know about this topic? Who is the best person to talk to about this topic? What kind of documentation can I look up about this topic?

, Look over your content plan or detailed table of contents. Take all the research items you listed and put them on a numbered to-do list.Make a list of URLS, books, and articles you will need to look for and read.
Make a list of locations you may need to visit, like a French bakery.
Make a list of experts or witnesses you will need to interview.
 This is a good tactic if you’re working under a deadline and don’t have the luxury of years of research. Order your research to-do list from more important to nice to have.
 Do this first to give your interviewees time to respond to your request for an interview. Be responsive when setting up an interview and be specific about possible times for the interview.If you have difficulty getting possible interview subjects to get back to you about an interview time, don't be afraid to be persistent. You may need to contact them again with a reminder email, especially if they have busy schedules or get a lot of emails every day.
You may also think about talking to subjects that are easier to access, like a family friend who could give you an expert opinion or a person who works in a lower position who can still give you relevant information. Often, establishing a relationship with someone who works with someone you are trying to interview can also help you get in touch with the interview subject.
 Exercise good listening skills during the interview. You are doing the interview to learn more from the person or to get information from the person. So don’t interrupt the person speaking or try to show how much you know.Come prepared with a list of questions for the interviewee. However, don’t feel obligated to stick to your list of questions. The person may give you information you weren’t prepared for or looking for, so be open to moments when the interview goes in a different direction.
If you don’t understand a point made by the interviewee, ask for clarification. And if the person does start to go off on a tangent, carefully bring the focus back to the subject you are researching.
If you are interviewing someone in person, use a digital recorder with background noise cancellation. If you are going to be doing extensive interviews with a person, you may want to hire a transcription service to transcribe the interviews and save you some time.
If you are interviewing someone online via Skype, you can download recording apps that will record your Skype conversation for you. You can then re watch the video and transcribe it, or send it to a transcription service.
 Make the research librarian at your local library your new best friend. Before computers, librarians acted as walking databases and in many ways, they still are.Most librarians can point you to a specific shelf that applies to your topic or to a particular research book that may be useful. Ninety percent of research is done through libraries’ full-text databases, so take advantage of this free information source.
 Most universities have a large, central library and several special-collection libraries. Though you may need to pay a fee to access certain books or online databases, university libraries are a great resource for academic and scientific topics., Public government records and documents can be great research sources. Many of these documents are free to access and can provide key factual information for a particular subject., One of the best ways to conduct internet researchis to use search engines effectively.Type several keywords into search engines to find useful sources of information online. Search engines like Google and Yahoo are a good place to start. You can also try metasearch engines like Dogpile and MetaCrawler, which tend to search lesser known and specialized websites. Keep in mind the downsides of metasearch engines, as they usually only allow you to search keywords and can pull from paid for content, full of advertisements.
Try to look past the first page of your search. Some of the better sources may actually be on page 5 of your search.
You will then need to confirm the sources are reputable by looking at the “About Us” section of the website and checking that the URL of the website ends in “.edu” “.gov” or “.org”.
 Use an online folder on Google Drive to keep all your research documents in one, easy to find place. Or start a running Word file with your notes.You can also use post it notes on paper documents to notate important information. You should keep a physical folder or several folders to store other important documents, like photographs, newspaper clippings, and handwritten notes.
 Take some time to look through your notes, your interview transcripts, and any other documentation you have collected. Determine if your angle on your topic is supported by your research, or if your research sheds a different light on your original angle.


For example, you may have thought a book about the evolution of the croissant was a unique idea, but in the course of your research, you come across books on pastry making, including croissants. Think about how your book will differ from what is currently available. So, your book about the evolution of the croissant could be unique because it looks at how crescent shaped breads from the Middle Ages then developed into the French and Austrian croissant we enjoy today.
 This will help you determine how long it is going to take you to write a draft of the book. If you are working under a deadline, you may make your schedule more tight than if you have the luxury of more time to write.If you are writing a nonfiction book from a memoir perspective you will likely have less research to integrate into the book. Instead, you will spend a lot of time writing about a process you created, your own life story, or your area of expertise.
A research based nonfiction book will take longer to write, as you have to study, evaluate, and summarize your documentation. You also have to draw on information from interviews with experts and witnesses.
Try to organize your schedule around word count or page count. So, if you normally write about 750 words an hour, factor this in on your schedule. Or if you feel you may actually write two pages an hour, use this as an estimate in your schedule.
Determine how long it will take you on average to compose a set number of words, or number of pages, per a day. If you are working towards a final word count goal, like 50,000 words or 200 pages, focus on how many hours per week it will take you to reach this goal.Allow more hours than you think you may need for “unforeseen circumstances.” You may have slow days, or research you didn’t realize you needed to look closer at or an interviewee you need to follow up with on a certain detail.
Set weekly deadlines. It could be a word count, a page count, or a completion of a certain section. But set weekly deadlines and stick to them.
 Though you are writing non fiction, following the principles of plot development can help give your book form and shape. It can also make it easier for you to organize your research materials in a way that is engaging and interesting for your reader. A story’s plot is what happens in the story and the order it happens in. For there to be a story, something has to move or change. Something or someone goes from point A to point B due to a physical event, a decision, a change in a relationship, or a change in a character or person. Your plot outline should include:A story goal: The plot of any story is a sequence of events that revolve around an attempt to solve a problem or attain a goal. The story goal is what your protagonist (this could be you if you are writing memoir) wants to achieve or the problem she wants to resolve.
The consequence(s): Ask yourself, What disaster will happen if the goal is not achieved? What is my protagonist afraid will happen if she doesn’t achieve the goal or solve the problem? The consequence is the negative situation or event that will result if the goal is not achieved. The combination of goal and consequence creates the main dramatic tension in your plot. This is what makes the plot meaningful.
The requirements: These are what must be accomplished to achieve the goal. Think of it as a checklist of one or more events. As the requirements are met in the course of the novel, the reader will feel the characters (or if you writing a memoir, the first person narrator) are getting closer to attaining the goal. Requirements create a sense of anticipation in the reader’s mind, as he looks forward to the protagonist’s success.
 Armed with your research, your writing schedule and your plot outline, you can now start to write. Find a quiet, secluded spot in your home or in a studio. Limit your distractions by turning off your internet, putting your phone away, and telling everyone to leave you alone.Some writers avoid revising the manuscript as they write to prevent getting stuck on a certain section or part and deviating away from their writing schedule. However, every writer will have their own process of writing and re-writing.
If you do find yourself in a moment of writer’s block, look through your research. You can use this time not writing to follow up on a research idea or to look over a section of your research that may be useful later in your book., When you use the passive voice, your writing will end feeling long winded and dull. Look for signs of the passive voice by circling all the “is” “was” and other passive verbs like “begin” “have” “seems” and “appears” in the manuscript.


Use your grammar check (or an app like Hemingway app) to count the number of passive sentences in your manuscript. Aim for 2-4% maximum.
 Instead of “utilize” you can just put “use”. Focus on simple language, with one or two syllable words. The only time you should be using higher level language is if you are using scientific terms or describing a technical process. Even then, you should be writing for the average reader.


It may help to identify the reading level of the ideal reader of your book. You can determine the reading level based on the grade level of your ideal reader. If you account for ESL readers, you should aim for a grade 6 or 7 reading level. If you are writing for a higher education audience, you may write at a grade 8 or 9 level. You can use the Hemingway app to determine the reading level of your draft, or other online reading level tools., Unless you are writing memoir, your audience will respond more to the process, event, or topic you are trying to describe if it is in the third person. So try to remove as many “I” sentences as possible., Engage your reader by showing them a specific process or scene, rather than narrate directly to them. For example, a scene that shows the process of how to make a croissant, with details on how the baker prepares and rolls the dough on the table, will be more engaging than telling the reader: "This is how you prepare the dough."You should also steer clear of adverbs in your writing, as it usually weakens the sentence. For example, a sentence like: "When the baker saw the dough was rising too fast, he yanked open the oven door", shows the urgency of the scene without having to use adverbs like "suddenly" or "quickly".
 Find a few sympathetic ears (friends, colleagues, a writing group) and read sections of the manuscript out loud. Good writing should engage readers as listeners, with details and description that create visceral images and a strong narrative.Don't try to impress your listeners or put on a "reading voice". Just read a natural, slow way. Ask for a reaction from your listeners after you finish reading. Note if there were sections that felt confusing or unclear to your listeners.
 Before you send out your book to publishers, you need to edit the manuscript. You may want to hire a professional proof reader to give the book a good once over for common errors or mistakes.Don't be afraid to cut at least 20% of the material. You can likely get rid of certain sections that go on for a bit too long and cause the reader to tune out. Don't be shy about cutting chapter sections or pages that may be deadweight.
Note if each scene in your book uses the power of the senses. Are you engaging at least one of the reader's senses in each scene? The power of enhancement through the senses (taste, touch, smell, sight, and hearing) is a trick both nonfiction and fiction writers can use to keep the reader interested.
Check the timeline of the book. Do you explain the complete process or procedure of your topic? Do you explore your angle to the fullest extent? For example, a book about croissants should explain the process of making a croissant from beginning to end.
The sentence level. Check for the transitions between paragraphs, are they smooth or jumpy? Look for any overused adverbs or terms and replace them so the sentences don't start to feel redundant.

