 Unless you plan on hosting the reunion events outside the school, you should consider joining the current committee so there isn't contradicting material being sent to alumni.;
, If you want to lead a reunion or mini-reunion, they may offer class lists, online registration, mailing services and campus assistance.
 Form your own committee of people who will volunteer their time. You may want to appoint a different person for every event you plan to hold.
 Plan the main details 1 year to 9 months in advance. The following are main issues to discuss:


Decide how you will raise money for the reunion events. You can ask for donations, a fee for all events or you can hold fundraisers.
Pick a date or dates. Check this with the school to ensure your dates don't clash with any events. You may want to hold it during homecoming week or the summer, 2 popular times for reunion events.
Pick a venue or venues. The Alumni Association can help you to book campus venues. You can also host events at your home, restaurants or parks.
 Do this 3 to 4 months prior to the actual event, so that you give people plenty of time to schedule. Ask the Alumni Association if they can help setting up a reunion page or school sponsored Save the Date emails.
 Social media is a popular way for college friends to stay in touch. You can create a Facebook group or fan page.
 Set dates, times, food, drinks and activities. Assign a reunion committee member to each event to carry out all the program details.
 You should confirm the details of your event once you start receiving RSVPs. If you have a large response, you may need to get a bigger venue or increase your food order.
 Send out a program of events with the invitation so that alumni can choose what and when to attend. Set a date for class members to RSVP by email, phone or through online registration.


Ask for payment at this time. Services, such as catering, entertainment and venues may require deposits. Help your reunion to stay solvent by asking for payment in advance.
 Buy decorations and refreshments in the days leading up to the events. Ask for alumni who attend to help with set up.

