 The speed you walk at can have a significant impact on how you look to the people around you. If you are walking too quickly, you will appear to be uneasy and will be more noticeable as a potential target. You want to walk at a speed that shows you know where you are and where you are going. Take even, confident strides. If you seem to be walking too slowly, it may appear that you feel out of place and this will be noticed. Walking with a purpose will often deter people from bothering you because it shows you know what you are doing.
 This is similar to keeping your head up, but carries the behavior a bit farther. When trying to look scary, or tough, it is important to continually look around you in all directions. If you keep your head straight forward and concentrate on one thing in the distance, you’ll seem like you are scared of what is around you. Make a point of looking at specific things off to your right and left, lingering your gaze for long enough to take in the details, but not so long that you are staring.The main point of this behavior is to show anyone who may be watching you that you are fully aware of your surroundings and are not zoned out. If you look like you are spaced out, you’ll be more likely to look like an easy target.
You want to make sure to control the speed you are looking around. Twitching your head quickly in every direction will make you look paranoid rather than in control.
 This is the type of behavior that takes a little bit of extra finesse, but it can be a useful tactic. Think of the person that you see standing on the street corner yelling at no one in particular. This can actually be a useful way to seem a little bit off and keep people from bothering you. Yell “no” loudly every so often, or turn to your side and yell at an object like a tree or a bench.If you seem a little unstable, you have a better chance of being left alone. Be creative with the behavior that you exhibit and what you say, but make sure it is not directed at anyone.
 It’s not an uncommon practice in many cities for people to go to bars, drink until they can barely stand and then wander home. If you have ever been around someone who is so drunk they are stumbling, this is far from intimidating behavior. If anything, this person appears like someone you could easily take advantage of. Staying sober will help you stay alert, which is much scarier than stumbling around confused.