 Family fun runs are a great way to get the whole family running while introducing your kids to competitive races without overwhelming them. Most family fun runs have a variety of course distances you can choose from, which make them a great option if your kids are different ages.These runs usually take place in the spring or fall, depending on where you live. You can get more information about family fun runs in your area from community newsletters, magazines, and some cities' official websites.
 Mud runs are part competitive race, part obstacle course, and many adult mud runs have a kid version that happens on the same day. Mud runs give your kids an excuse to get dirty while they run, which is a great way to get them interested in running.Make sure you check out what the obstacle course for the kids’ mud run looks like. You don’t want to sign your kids up for a mud run that is beyond their abilities. This can actually turn them off from running, rather than making them more interested.
Make sure the clothes your kids wear for a mud run are expendable - the stains might not come out.
 The Color Run is a 5K run that happens across the country on various dates. Runners dress in white and are showered in colored powders as they run (or walk) the race route. The Color Run has a fun, family-friendly vibe and can be a great way to get kids to love running.www.thecolorrun.com has all of the dates and locations of upcoming Color Runs.
 Around Halloween, some community centers – like local YMCAs or YWCAs – sponsor character or Halloween themed runs. These runs encourage kids to race while dressed up in their Halloween costumes. Some versions of the run include trick-or-treating along the way or promise tasty treats like apple cider or hot chocolate at the end.If your kid is participating in this type of run, make sure they can run in their costume – you don’t want anyone tripping over a cape or a skirt.
 Mermaid runs are exclusively for women and girls, and they often offer multiple race courses of varying distances and difficulties. Mermaid runs can help get girls interested in running because girls can run without making gendered comparisons to boys who might be faster than they are.This is a great option for a multi-generational run – mermaid run organizers encourage runners of all ages and abilities to participate.
 The Spartan run is one of the toughest obstacle course races in the country, but they also offer a kid version of the race. Not only will kids have to run, but they will also have the chance to jump, climb, and get muddy.As with other mud runs, make sure your kids are up to tackling the obstacles that are part of a Spartan run.
 Inflatable fun runs are kids-only obstacle course races. Instead of climbing up nets or crawling through mud, however, they’ll have to tackle a variety of inflatable obstacles. Inflatable fun runs are a great option for kids who want to run an obstacle race but aren’t quite ready for some of the other races out there.