 Improving your balance can help you prevent falls. Working on this can help you be more stable when you stand or walk.Remember, too, that balance goes beyond just leg work — your core (stomach, back, hips, and pelvis) is essential to stability and reducing your risk of falling.


Start slowly with balance exercises. Always hold on to something until your balance improves. You want to keep yourself safe from injury while doing exercises.
 This simple exercise is easy and can be done just about anywhere. Make sure to have something sturdy to hold on to, like a chair.This exercise helps you find your center of gravity while strengthening hips and ankles. Adding arm movements challenges your balance while increasing the mobility of your arms and shoulders.Stand with a sturdy chair at your side, holding the back with one arm. Raise your outside foot away from the chair while placing all your weight on your inside foot. Lift the arm not holding the chair either out in front of your or out to the side. Next, hold it right above your head.
Remain on one foot for 10 to 15 seconds. Switch to the other foot.
Repeat this several times each day, increasing the length of time on each foot as your balance improves.
Try relying less and less on your hand to keep you balanced. Move to using one finger to balance yourself, then try removing your hand completely. Remember, only remove your hand when you are confident you will not fall.
Only lift your leg or arm as far as it is comfortable. Work on strengthening your body to get better mobility.
 One reason people fall is because they are looking at something and lose balance. This happens when there’s a delay between your brain and your body. By working on strengthening your balance as you do things, you can help reduce the risk for this happening.Start by walking in a straight line. Turn your head from side to side. Once you get used to that, put a piece of paper or other object in your hand to look at as you walk and turn your head. If you master that, you can move on to reading the paper while you are walking and turning your head. Try holding the paper in both hands for an added challenge.
Start by holding onto a counter or friend if your balance is weak. Remember, you want to improve your balance and prevent injury, not injure yourself.
If you get dizzy, take a break and start again after a few moments.
 This exercise challenges your balance by reducing the base of support.Hold on to something for balance, such as the backs of chairs set up in a line, a counter, or a friend. If you have the balance and mobility, you can walk without support.
Walk forward, making sure each step lands so that your heel is pressed against the toe of your other foot.
Continue doing this for twenty steps, or until you run out of room. Turn around and walk the other way. Do this several times.
Look straight ahead of you instead of down at your feet.
You can place a piece of tape on the floor to give yourself a straight line to walk.
 You should work on your side to side balance in addition to your front and back balance. This can be achieved by sidestepping, which works your body in a lateral motion.Start with your feet together, then step your right foot out side. Then step with your left foot, bringing your feet together before stepping out again. Do this across the room.
You can also step back and forth. Step to the right, bring your feet together, then step to the left, returning to your original position.
If you need to, use a chair to keep yourself steady until you can perform the exercise alone.
 Developing the muscles in your back, abdomen, and hips can help with coordination and balance.Exercises like Pilates and yoga can help strengthen these muscles.

Try the bridge. Start flat on your back on an exercise mat, knees bent with your feet flat on the ground. You may wish to put a towel or small pillow under your head for support and comfort. Keeping your back straight, lift your hips and buttocks off the ground, making sure to contract the abdominal muscles to keep the back as straight as possible. Hold for one to three seconds, then slowly lower back down. Repeat five times.Strengthen your lower abdomen and pelvis with leg lifts. Lie flat on your back, legs stretched out and relaxed. Use your abdominal muscles to lift one leg about five inches off the floor, keeping the leg straight. (If you have osteoporosis, keep one leg bent with the foot flat on the floor while you lift your other leg.) Hold for one to three seconds, then lower and lift the opposite leg. Repeat five times per leg.