


Measure the length and height of each wall you wish to cover in wallpaper. Subtract doorways and large windows from the total length. You can round the length measurement up to the nearest half foot or foot (or meter) to make it easier to calculate.
Multiply the length and width of each wall to get the area in square feet.
Add up the area of each wall to get your total area.
Increase the total area by 15 percent to account for waste.;
, You won't be able to estimate the amount of wallpaper needed until you know whether it has a straight match or drop pattern.


A straight pattern has either white paper or a continuous stripe of color along the edge, so that there's no pattern to match up to the next piece when you hang it. This type of pattern will require the least amount of wallpaper.
When the pattern is different along the right and left edge, you have to take the pattern into account when hanging the wallpaper. This requires cutting a piece off the top at times, so you can shift it up and match it to the pattern on the piece you just hung. This drop pattern requires ordering more wallpaper because the part you cut off the top is often wasted.
 Measure it yourself just to be sure it's correct.
 In the U.S., a standard single roll covers 36 square feet (3.35 square meters). European standard rolls cover 29 square feet (2.7 square meters).
 (If the wallpaper has a straight match, all 36 square feet are usable.) Use the following guideline to determine how much wallpaper is usable on a single roll:


A drop pattern of 0 to 6 inches (0.0 to 15.2 cm) has 25 square feet (2.3 square meters) of usable wallpaper.
A drop pattern of 7 to 12 inches (17.8 to 30.5 cm) has 22 square feet (2 square meters) of usable wallpaper.
A drop pattern of 13 to 18 inches (33.0 to 45.7 cm) has 20 square feet (1.8 square meters) of usable wallpaper.
A drop pattern of 19 to 23 inches (48.3 to 58.4 cm) leaves only half a single roll as usable.
 Divide your estimated total square footage by the number of usable square feet on a roll to get the number of single rolls needed for the project.
 Although wallpaper is priced as a single roll, most manufacturers sell it as a double or triple roll. If the wallpaper is sold as a double roll, divide the number of single rolls by 2. If the wallpaper is sold as a triple roll, divide by 3.

