 One thing you might be asked to do in counseling is to make a list of things you don’t like about yourself. Include things you are uncomfortable with or ways you feel about your body.Include any body parts or specific things that you have a problem with. Think about things about your body you try to hide or disguise.
If you are unable to come up with any body image issues, ask friends or family members for help. They may be able to help provide you with negative body image talk you have expressed in conversations with them.;
, After making a list of things you don't like about yourself, you will then start to identify your body image issues. Your counselor will help you be honest with yourself about what you don't like about your body. To work through these issues, you will need to confront them.The first step is learning to identify what issues you have.
You probably already know what issues you have. Your counselor may help you be more specific about them, or uncover any other issues you may have but aren't aware of.
 Body image issues come in very different forms. Your counselor can help determine the type of body image issue that you have. Some people may just assume body image issues are feeling fat or ugly, but that is only one kind of body image condition. Your counselor can help you figure out your issue, which can determine your treatment.Holding yourself up to unattainable standards is another way body image issues affects people. In this case, people compare themselves to others because they consider them the standard. For example, men may think they have to have large muscles because men on television do. Women may believe they need to have wrinkle free skin or be an unhealthy weight to be accepted.
Gender-related concerns may cause body image issues. If you identify as a different gender, you may have body issues as you make the transition. If you decide to undergo gender reassignment surgery, you may face body image issues as you confront the stereotypes connected to your preferred gender.
Culture may also lead to body image issues. This might stem from trying to live up to difficult to attain cultural standards, or trying to fit into a different cultural ideal of beauty while looking different.

