 No matter how you decide to clean your garage floor, you will need a warm and soapy cleaning solution. You can buy degreasing solutions from a hardware store, auto store, or sometimes even a grocery store. Follow the instructions on the label to mix the proper amount of cleaning solution with warm water in a bucket.

You can also use powdered laundry detergent. Mix 1/3 cup of detergent with every gallon of warm water that you use., For lightly soiled floors, you can clean them using a deck brush or a push broom with stiff bristles. Pour the cleaning solution on the floor. Let it sit for about ten or fifteen minutes so that it can absorb the dirt and oil. Once the time is up, use your brush to scrub the floor, moving across the entire floor. Once you have finished scrubbing, rinse the floor using a hose. Let the floor dry.Keep the garage door open as you clean. You can use a broom to push the water out of the door outside. This will help it dry.
You may want to start far away from the door and move towards it as you clean. When you finish scrubbing, you will be next to the door. This will prevent you from having to walk across the slippery and clean floor.
 If your garage floor is really dirty or if it has not been cleaned in a long time, you should try a power washer. You can rent these from a hardware store. Cover the floor with the cleaning solution, and wait fifteen minutes. Turn on the power washer, and spray down the floor, moving the nozzle in broad strokes across your floor as you do so. Keep moving the spray across the floor; do not let it linger too long on one spot or else it can scratch your floor.
Keep your garage doors open when using a power washer so that the water can drain out.
 You can rent a floor buffer from a hardware store. This will scrub the floor of your garage in a more powerful way than you can do by hand. Apply the soapy cleaning solution to the floor. Turn on the buffer, and guide it over the floor. Rinse with a high-pressure hose. Let the floor dry afterwards.It might be easier if you break up the floor into sections. Do one section of floor at a time.
Rent a buffer with a nylon scrub head. These are best suited for concrete floors.

