 To do block printing, it is important that you start with fabric that is very flat and has no creases or marks. Iron the fabric you are using for the resist printing. You may use cotton or muslin fabric for this project.Avoid using thick fabrics like wool and acrylic as well as slick fabrics like nylon and silk. Block prints do not usually show up well on these types of fabrics.
Pick white fabric or fabric in a light color so the block prints show up better. If you are using lighter coloured dyes, you may be fine to use a darker coloured fabric.
 When doing block printing on fabric, it is very important that you secure the fabric on a flat surface. This way, the fabric will not move around or shift while you are printing. You can use a wooden table to stretch the fabric over and secure it with tape or staples. Make sure the fabric is taut over the table and does not move around.For more support under the fabric, you can layer carpet or foam over the table and then place the fabric over these layers. Secure the fabric well with tape, staples, or pins.
 Squeeze the fabric paint or dye into a bowl. Then, soak the sponge in it so the dye covers one side of the sponge. Make sure one side of the sponge is covered with the paint or dye.If you are using natural dyes that can stain your fingers, wear gloves to prevent this.
Another option is to take a paint brush and paint the dye over the sponge to cover it.
 Make sure the color covers the entire printing block. Press the sponge onto the block as many times as needed to get dye on the printing block.You can buy printing blocks online or in craft stores. Look for printing blocks made of wood or rubber.
 Hold the printing block with your fingertips and press it firmly onto the fabric. Use your palm or your fingers to apply even pressure. Hold the block on the fabric for a few seconds and then carefully remove it.Sponge dye onto the same printing block and press it on a new spot on the fabric to create a pattern. Or use a different colored dye on the same printing block. Make sure you wash the printing block between colors so the dyes do not mix.
You can also apply different print blocks on the same piece of fabric. Get creative and make up your own patterns or designs.
 Once you have done as many print blocks as you’d like, let the fabric dry overnight. Put it in a safe flat area where it will not be touched., If you used textile paints to do the block printing, iron the fabric on the reverse side to set the print. If you used natural dyes for the block printing, iron on the reverse side and rinse the fabric in warm and then cold water with detergent.