 Go to the website of your local court and look for a searchable warrant database. Enter your first and last name and search for existing warrants. Some sites allow you to narrow your search by date of birth, nickname, or other attributes.Alternatively, try entering a phrase such as "arrest warrant" in the search bar on the website's home page, or do a search engine search, such as "Orange County arrest warrant search."
If your county court's website does not offer a publicly-available warrant database, visit the website of your local sheriff or police department.;
, If your county does not have a public database of warrant information, or if you are trying to find information about a warrant issued by a federal court, you should phone the court clerk directly. You may need to give the clerk your name, case number (if known), birth date, and Social Security number.For juvenile delinquency, domestic violence, and family law cases, the court clerk may be unable to give you detailed information about the underlying case, because that information may be restricted to protect the privacy of the other parties. The clerk should still be able to inform you of an outstanding arrest warrant, even if he or she cannot give you more detailed information about the underlying action.
If you call the court from your personal telephone, the police may be able to find and arrest you by tracking your location or other identifying information from the call. If you are nervous about calling the court yourself, ask someone else to call on your behalf., The NCIC maintains an index of information, including active arrest warrants, used by all law enforcement agencies. You can call NCIC at (304) 625-2000 between 9:00 am and 5:00 pm, Eastern Standard Time.Ask the operator to search for your name in the warrant database.
 Some private, non-government websites offer to do a warrant search for you. Some of theses sites are free to use, such as http://www.gotwarrants.org/, while others charge a fee.These services may not give you complete and accurate information. Treat these these services as a last resort., If you suspect you have a warrant out for your arrest and are prepared to be taken into custody, simply ask a police officer about the warrant. A police officer can access warrant databases and search for an outstanding warrant., Even if police are not actively searching for you, you could be placed under arrest during a routine traffic stop.Being proactive about your warrant avoids the possibility of being unexpectedly arrested in public, and will stop fees from accruing.
 If your warrant was issued because of a serious crime (as opposed to, for example, unpaid parking tickets), you should strongly consider contacting a criminal defense attorney. An attorney can explain the charges against you and can contact the court on your behalf to schedule a new hearing.


Ask friends or family for referrals for a trusted defense attorney. Or you can ask an attorney who does not practice criminal defense but knows a trusted colleague who does. You can also access referral services through your state and local bar associations, or search online or in the phone book.
If you cannot afford a lawyer, contact the public defender's office of the county where your warrant was issued. Ask to speak with the duty attorney and explain that you have a warrant out for your arrest that you would like to resolve., Go to your local police station and explain that you have a warrant out for your arrest and would like to turn yourself in.Minor infractions and some misdemeanors can be taken care of without a hearing. If a hearing is required and you cannot afford your own defense attorney, a court-appointed attorney will be provided to you.


If you can pay your fine or bail amount, you may be able to avoid being taken into custody.If this is the case, you will remain free and merely required to return for your new court date. Bring money with you to pay your bail, or bring a friend who can post a bond for you.You may be put directly in jail until your appointed time in court. Try to avoid turning yourself in on a Friday or the day before a holiday. If a hearing cannot be scheduled immediately, you may be held in jail over the weekend.

