 The waxy texture of honey will moisten your tonsils, which reduces your throat irritation (and your desire to cough.) Good honey may be just as effective as a cough medicine!Rose petal-infused water is also an excellent alternative to honey. The rose essence breaks up mucus well.
 Essential oils are strong, powerful oils that can be used from home to remedy a wide variety of ailments. Several essential oils may be useful in reducing a persistent cough.Eucalyptus, peppermint, rosemary, sage, tea tree, sandalwood, cedarwood, frankincense, and hyssop are the best essential oils to clear congestion.

To aid with congestion, add 1-2 drops of essential oils to your hands, rub then together, cup them over your nose, and take 4-6 deep, cleansing breaths. You can also add 2-4 drops to a cotton ball, seal in a ziplock bag, and take them with you.,

To use essential oils as a throat soother, add 1-2 drops into a half a glass of lukewarm water and gargle for a few minutes, then spit. Be sure that you do not swallow the essential oil blend.
 There are many different kinds of homemade cough syrup that can be much more effective than store-bought cough syrups.Make an herbal cough syrup. Mix two ounces of herb mixture to one quart of water. Herbs such as fennel, licorice, slippery elm bark, cinnamon, ginger root, and orange peel work particularly well. Simmer the herbs and water until the mixture is reduced by half (roughly one pint). Strain the herbs out and add one cup of honey to the remaining liquid. Stir until the honey is thoroughly mixed in.Make an onion-based cough syrup. Onion has properties that break up phlegm that can cause a cough. Finely chop and onion and extract its juice. Mix equal parts onion juice and honey. Let the mixture sit for four to five hours. When the mixture has settled, you will have a cough syrup that can be taken two times a day.

Make an elderberry syrup. Elderberry syrup is great because it calms a cough but is gentle on the stomach. If you have a sensitive stomach, try this syrup. Combine one quart of elderberry juice with two cups of honey and two cinnamon sticks in a pot. Boil the mixture for 10 minutes. This process makes three pints of syrup.If you wish to make your own elderberry juice for the syrup, you can boil dried or fresh elderberries in one quart of water for about 45 minutes, then strain the berries out and follow the recipe above.
 The steam from the soup will help open the upper respiratory membranes while the warmth will soothe your throatand keep you from getting weak because chicken soup is full of protein. Plus, what’s more comforting than a bowl of warm soup?

, Get lozenges that have menthol in them. Menthol numbs the back of your throat, relieving you of your cough. Menthol is a compound from the peppermint plant which contains a numbing sensation that soothes a sore throat. Lozenges are great if you have to go out in public, such as to a movie or a class, but you don’t want to disturb others with your cough.


If you don’t have lozenges, suck on a piece of hard candy.Simply sucking on a piece or hard candy or a lollipop increases saliva production and soothes your dry cough. Chewing gum also works as a temporary fix. Peppermint candies are great because they have a similar numbing property to menthol.

