 SR22 is really nothing more than a system that has been set up through your state to ensure you are maintaining car insurance. You purchase the insurance through an agent and they file documents with your state's Department of Motor Vehicles to inform them you are properly covered. Usually these documents are electronically filed and contain information about how you are meeting the minimum coverage requirements.;
, You will be notified by the Department of Motor Vehicles that your license is suspended. In order to drive again you will need to obtain an SR22 form from an insurer. This certifies that you are covered by the minimum amount in your auto insurance policy.It will be your responsibility to submit the SR22 Form to the Department of Motor Vehicles., If you cancel your policy at any time, or let it lapse, the insurance company is obligated to inform the state of that. Since most people are required to have this type of policy for as long as three years, anytime during that period that you cancel or change insurance companies, the state will be notified. This process helps the state keep track of who has proper coverage.
 This type of policy is for a probationary period. This is the state's way to make sure you keep current on having car insurance. Many states require them and many insurance companies are ready to accommodate your need for it. Keep in mind that if you receive a requirement to have this type of policy and then you move to another state, you will have to continue paying for it until the probationary period ends, even if you move to a state that does not require them.


There are a few states that do no not require this type of insurance, such as Kentucky, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York and North Carolina., An insurance company might reject your application for SR22 auto insurance. Go to the Department of Motor Vehicles and get a list of insurance companies who offer “assigned risk” programs. Companies such as Geico, Progressive and SafeAuto will provide you with SR22 auto insurance., To get an SR22 policy, gather some quotes from several insurance providers. The good news is that having this type of policy is usually temporary and affordable rates are available if you do your research first.
 Your insurance company will give you the SR22 Form. Fill it out and then mail it to the Department of Motor Vehicles that originally issued your suspension. It could take up to 30 days to get your license back., You are now considered to be a high-risk driver so insurance quotes will be higher than for other drivers. Even if you have a newer car, to save money don't buy comprehensive coverage and collision coverage. Rather, purchase the minimum liability coverage for your auto insurance.A lender with a lien on the car might require comprehensive and collision as a condition of the loan.
 This is the amount you pay out of pocket if you are involved in an accident and are filing a claim. If you currently have a $1000 deductible consider raising it to $2000. Also lowering the amount of your property damage and bodily injury liabilities will help save a lot of money., Many insurance companies offer discounts if you complete a six-hour class on better driving habits. Consult your local adult education catalogue or contact the American Automobile Association to find out where classes are held in your area., It goes without saying that if you get in another accident you might be required to obtain SR22 insurance for a longer period of time and your rates will go up. Never drink and drive and never use your cell phone while driving. If you are in an accident that is not your fault, try to obtain the names and addresses of witnesses that will testify on your behalf.

