 While acne is often associated with adolescence, more and more adults are also suffering from it. While there are lots of great medications out there, this condition is often so irritating that it requires a multi-pronged attack, starting with some tweaks to your daily routine.


Always wash your face at night. Between makeup, sweat, city grime, and who knows what else, your skin is begging to be cleaned by the end of the day. This is especially important for acne sufferers. If you find that you’re too exhausted to do this on a regular basis, keep a pack of makeup-removing face wipes next to your bed.Change your pillowcases frequently. Products and oils from your hair will transfer to your pillowcase at night. The longer these build up, the likelier they are to cause acne.Put makeup on after you have heat-styled your hair. Hair dryers, curling irons, and straightening irons can melt your makeup, leading it to seep into your pores and make breakouts likelier.Choose makeups labeled as non-comedogenic, which should not clog your pores. Products like glycerin and hyaluronic acid will help hold moisture in your skin. You may also be able to find products containing salicylic acid in it, which helps treat acne.Keep oil-blotting sheets with you at all times. Many acne sufferers are also affected by greasy skin. Oil-blotting sheets are a super effective way of dealing with this and won’t take up a lot of room in your bag. They also won’t disturb any makeup you are already wearing or cause any cakiness the way applying more powder might.
 Eczema’s classic itching, dryness, and rashes come from a weakness in your skin’s barrier. It can’t be cured, but you can take steps to control it. Many of these are strategies to avoid irritating the skin further.


Avoid hot water, which dries out and irritates your skin. Rinse dishes in lukewarm water, and turn the heat down in the shower. You also might want to consider showering only every other day to cut down on dryness and irritation.Avoid potentially irritating fabrics and styles. Cotton is cool and lets skin breathe, making it a good bet, especially in the form of loose, flowing garments. Some companies even make clothing like this specifically designed for eczema sufferers. Wool and synthetic fabrics, by contrast, can be itchy and cause overheating.You’ll also want to make sure that you wash your clothes with unscented detergent before wearing them.Sleep with a humidifier. You might find that your condition worsens in the winter, when heaters pump hot, dry air into indoor spaces. Sleeping with a humidifier in your room can lessen the dryness, itching, and flaking you might face., Like eczema, psoriasis can be characterized by itchiness, dryness, and irritation. Unlike eczema, it is caused by a buildup of excess cells that form scales on your skin. To treat it, you need to come up with a way to prevent these cells from accumulating.Avoid triggers. Certain factors can cause or worsen psoriasis. These include stress, smoking, alcohol, medications like lithium and beta blockers. Some of these are easy to eliminate, but reducing or getting off any prescription medication requires a discussion with your doctor.
Shower daily. Since water can help with cell buildup and irritation, psoriasis is the opposite of eczema this way. You should still avoid hot water and harsh soaps, though. For an extra-soothing experience, take a bath with bath oil colloidal oatmeal, or Epsom salts.Topical treatments for psoriasis include corticosteroid, vitamin D analogues, calcineurin inhibitors, anthralin, and topical retinoids.Phototherapy from natural sunlight is also therapy for psoriasis. Brief daily encounters with sunlight may help psoriasis, but you can overdo it and extended exposure can cause it to worsen., Brown spots are the discolored splotches of skin that most commonly appear on your face, chest, and hands—the places that tend to get the most sun exposure.If you’re worried about breakouts, look for products with labels like “oil-free,” “non-comedogenic,” “won’t clog pores,” or “breakout-free.”
Sunscreen should be broad-spectrum SPF 30 or higher.

