 Motivation is one of the secrets to being a good hero.Without motivation to be your own hero, you wouldn't be reading this right now. Motivation is what keeps us productive and focused on achieving our unique goals and aspirations. Heroes must stay motivated in order to have the strength and perseverance to continue on.


Start by identifying your core values.What is important to you in life? Do you value family, friends, your job, the government? These values can help motivate you toward positive change. Focus on making a difference in each component of your life such as increasing your connection with your family and friends.
Motivate yourself through positive affirmations. For example, when you are feeling unmotivated you can tell yourself or think, "I can do this. I am capable of achieving anything I put my mind to. I have done it before and I can do it again. I rock!"
Another good way to motivate yourself is to give yourself rewards when you accomplish something.Reward increase positive behaviors. You can give yourself candy, your favorite meal, or time to play a game. Make sure it is something you really want and can look forward to.
Expect success. Those who expect to succeed and trust in their own abilities are more motivated to press on when things get tough.Think positive thoughts such as, "I know I can do this. It may be tough but I will keep going and focus on achieving my goal. It will be worth it in the end."

, Know what you can control and what you can’t.People that believe they have control over the outcomes of their lives are more resilient in the face of challenges.Heroes need to be able to bounce back from adversity. Know that you have the power to change yourself and your life.


For example, you may not be able to control how tall you are, but you can control how you think and feel about your height (positively). Turn these negatives into positives by focusing on how unique and special you are.
Practice being your own hero. To begin with, simply consider the qualities of the hero you want to be and act some out in private. Get into the hero mindset by assuming a confident posture (shoulders back, stand up tall), and striding in a strong manner.
Use visualization and your imagination. Visualization (like playing a video in your head), or guided imagery, can help people make positive changes including increasing positive mood and health, while decreasing stress.Close your eyes and envision yourself as the hero or person you wish to be. What does it feel like? What sounds do you hear? What surrounds you? What needed to happen for you to get there?

, Identify your superpower; do you want to be super intelligent, super strong, or help others? What do you want to be? Ask yourself, what do I want to accomplish in life?


Make a list of goals you want to accomplish in 1 month, 6 months, and 1 year. Make sure you identify why you want to accomplish each goal. Ask yourself, “Who or what am I doing this for? How will it help?”This helps create purpose and meaning in life, which enhances your motivation.
You can create a specific plan and timeline for each goal. What do you need to focus on to achieve each goal? For example, perhaps you want to help others get on their feet when they are struggling and you are giving yourself 6 months to complete this goal; this would be your overarching goal. In order to complete this goal your first steps might be to: research organizations that help the needy, look for companies that are looking for volunteers or employees, call organizations to inquire about programs, prepare a resume, apply to positions that seem like a good fit, prepare for interviews, and interview at organizations.
 Heroes are busy people, they are focused on changing themselves and the world! Focus on ways you can constantly grow and improve yourself; this can increase your sense of well-being and assist you in becoming the best hero you can be.Change things about yourself that you think reduce your ability to be your own hero. For example, your vision of a hero might be someone who is in top physical shape. If this is the case, try a powerful exercise such a martial arts (Taekwondo, Karate, Muay Thai Kickboxing).
Make a list of personal self-improvement goals. Include things like: lose 10 lbs, exercise 3 times per week, eat healthy 5 days per week, read a book 3 days per week, meditate 3 times per week, and spend time in nature 1 time per week.
Some additional positive characteristics to strive toward include: compassion, cooperation, ambition, dependability, competency, loyalty, and wisdom.
 Life as a hero is full of obstacles, so in order to reach your heroic goals you have to never give up! Give your full 100% effort.


Using your problem-solving skills can help you persevere.If there is an issue, or something is overwhelming, try to come up with a solution; it may be to take a break, or to reanalyze your goals or values.
If you feel like quitting, remind yourself of your values, and your overarching goals this year.
Remember that heroes never give up, they keep fighting until the end. You can tell yourself, “I will never give up. This is so difficult, but I know I can do this!”

