 This method is also meant for vehicles with vertical manual locks that are just inside the window and which you must pull up in order to unlock the vehicle. Start by getting a long, thin piece of paracord or even a long shoelace.If you use a shoelace, then it will likely have to come off a pair of boots because it will need to be at least approximately three feet in length depending on your car doors.
 For this method, you will work the cord inside the vehicle and tighten the slipknot over the manual lock to pull it up, so you will need to make the slipknot in the cord before feeding it into the vehicle.








If you do not know how to tie a slipknot, visit How to Make a Slip Knot to learn how.
You want to leave roughly two-to-three inches in the slipknot in order to make it easier for the loop to fit over the lock before you tighten it.
 Start at the top corner of the door and pull at it to make a bit of space between the door and the rubber seal, and then push the slipknot portion of the cord between the door and the frame., You will probably find it easiest to get the slipknot down to the lock by using a sort of sawing motion to work the cord down. Tease one end of the cord down toward where the door handle and tease the other end of the cord toward the side mirror, and then work them back and forth to pull the knot lower.You may need to use something with a little bit of a wedge to it such as a door stop to hold the corner while you push the cord between the door and the frame.
Make sure you only actually pull on one end of the cord at a time. If you pull on both, you’ll just tighten the knot prematurely.
 After you’ve worked the cord down far enough, you will need to position it above the lock and with the loop facing the correct direction. Since the door will force the cord slightly deeper into the car than the position of the lock, you can twist the cord once it’s above the lock to swing the loop over it., Once you have the slipknot in place over the manual lock, you can tighten the slipknot. Pull both ends of the cord to tighten the knot, but make sure to pull slowly so that the loop doesn’t redirect off the lock as it tightens., Once you have the knot nice and tight over the lock, you can simply pull up on the cord to pull the lock up and unlock the door. This is especially easy for vehicles with manual locks that have a concave shape. If your lock has a smoother shape, you will have to pull up at an angle rather than directly up in order to keep the knot from slipping off the lock.
 If you cannot seem to get the cord past the doorjamb and none of the other methods will work for your vehicle, you can always call a locksmith.

