 All brushes will give a different effect when paired with a blow dryer. Make sure you have the right tools to prevent wavy, frizzy, or out of control hair styles.


Using a vented brush allows for hair of all types to be dried from all directions while still being controlled. A vented brush will reduce drying time and excess damage, while being a valuable asset to any hair type.
A round, ceramic brush will help remove big curls and keep frizz down. This type of brush can be particularly helpful for smoothing and straightening the upper portions of your hair while giving the bottoms a soft bounce.
Paddle brushes will need the most gentle stroking to prevent hair breakage, but are great for quick-blow drys with no styling necessary. These may be a better option if you have relatively straight hair.
Opt for a brush with natural bristles. Natural bristles are thicker and smooth, allowing them to grip the hair while providing a shorter drying time.;
, Find your natural part and section each side of your hair into two parts. Keep each section of hair tied gently. The tie will prevent your hair from becoming tangled and knotted while you dry the rest of your hair.


Use pull-free hair bands or toothless-barrettes to keep your hair out of the way. Barrettes with no teeth allow for smooth removal from hair, while pull-free bands have no metal pieces to catch and tangle your hair.
 Try starting on a low heat setting before cranking up the heat. While lifting layers of your hair, quickly dry your roots. Drying your roots will allow the rest of your hair to dry fast because there will be no moisture dripping down. Keep the dryer facing away from your roots and towards the tips of your hair.


After your roots are over 50% dry, massage a penny sized amount of smoothing oil between your hands. Pull it through the ends of your hair and gently pull the oil through. The oil coats the hair shaft, helping it keep smooth and reducing overall frizziness. This works particularly well on curly hair.
 Using the brush, turn your hand outwards, away from your head, and in the downwards direction. Again, keep the blow dryer facing towards the ends of your hair and follow the brush as you move downwards. When arriving to the tips of your hair, round the brush downwards and slightly towards you. The inwards turn will keep any split ends hidden from your mane.


Blow drying towards your roots will cause unruly and uncontrollable hair. Always keep the dryer facing away from the roots.
If you're using a rounded brush, slowly roll the brush while keeping the blow dryer steady. This will help remove wave from your hair.
To add volume, flip your head upside down and continue to blow dry. The action of gravity will keep your roots pumped and give your hair extra body.
The styling effects of a blow dryer are best seen on damp hair because the moisture allows the hair to take shape and be styled effortlessly, without having the excess drying time of soaking wet hair. If your hair is freshly washed, try squeezing out some of the moisture with a soft towel. Contrastingly, if your hair is already dried, try misting with water in a spray bottle.
 Proper blow drying is a skill accumulated over time and it does have a learning curve. Hair types vary between each individual and it may take a trial and error process to figure out what works for you.


As a finishing touch, seal in your styling with the cool setting on your blow dryer. Continue styling with a cool temperature to settle any remaining frizziness.
When frizziness is unbearable, invest in a ceramic or ionic blow dryer. These high quality blow dryers encourage even heat distribution, shortened drying time, and smoothness. Your hair may need the extra attention to ensure less damage.