 He dressed as a bohemian man with a long scarf and a large personality. Look at his unique dress style and decide what season costume you want.
 For his first season, you'll need a red blazer or red Levi denim jacket. Either one works well. You'll also need elbow patches (preferably black or brown). For his second season (season 13), you'll need either a brown duffel coat or a replica from hellocosplay.com. It's the exact same thing for seasons 14 and 15. In seasons 16 and 17, you'll need a long brown wool trench coat . For season 18, you'll need a burgundy trench coat that goes to your ankles.
 Tom Baker also wore vests, pullovers, and waistcoats in his 7 year run. For season 12 he wore an argyle v-neck cardigan in brown and red, with white diamonds on it. In seasons 13-16 he wore a yellow tartan waistcoat with a little bit of red or brown in places. In season 17 he did wear a waistcoat but it was unbuttoned, so if you are going for this look you could easily go without one. In season 18, he wore a burgundy coloured waistcoat with a paisley pattern.
 For seasons 12-17 he wore a pair of baggy grey tweed trousers. An accurate substitute would be a pair of dark gray open-bottomed track pants (make sure there is no logo on it, or you take it off somehow). Alternatively, a pair of grey jeans will work nicely. In season 18, he wore burgundy coloured pants (I'd recommend some sort of dress trousers, or chinos). In seasons 12-17, he held his pants up with black braces, and in season 18, the pants fit well around his waist. However, he still held them up with black clip on braces with an x shaped back.
 He also sometimes wore a pair of riding boots instead., The Fourth Doctor also wore three different hats. He mostly wore a brown wide-brimmed fedora (like the ones in those 1930s detective movies). Sometimes, he wore a green/brown fedora with a wide brim and a dark brown band. In season 18, he wore a burgundy colored wide-brimmed fedora.In the story 'The Terror of The Zygons' he wears a balmoral (a certain type of Scottish hat) instead of his usual fedora (in this story, he also wore a tartan scarf, which was equally as long as his regular one)

, In season 12, he wore a green, white and blacked stripe necktie (which was not tucked into his cardigan), seasons 13 and 14 he wore a cravat usually in orange, blue or burgundy. In season 15 he wore a conventional necktie for the first time in burgundy, with dark blue polka dots. Season 16 he wore a white cravat tucked into his shirt, and in seasons 17 and 18 he went open neck with no tie or cravat., This accessory, along with the coat and pants will either make or break your costume. For an accurate scarf, find the pattern for your scarf and begin knitting. Each season had a different length for the scarf. In seasons 12 and 13, the scarf was 12 feet (3.7 m) long. In season 14, his scarf was 13 feet (4.0 m) long. In season15, the scarf was about 15 feet (4.6 m) long. In seasons 16 and 17, the scarf was over 19 feet (5.8 m) long. By season 18, the scarf had grown to about 24 feet (7.3 m) long! Take this into account when you knit your scarf. If you just want an affordable scarf, try the scarf from the Elope costume company.
 You'll need a sonic screwdriver and a white paper bag full of Jelly Babies (or a suitable substitute). Optional accessories include a small telescope, a solid blue yo-yo, and some poker cards.
 For the hair, you'll need a brown afro. However, if you wear the hat the whole time, this won't be necessary.
 Now go have fun, because "There's no point in being grown-up if you can't be childish some times." - Tom Baker (Robot, 1974)

