 Shotguns are also long guns, which look much similar to rifles, but feature a lot more recoil and fire a different type of ammunition. While rifles shoot bullets, shotguns shoot plastic shells that are loaded with shot, tiny pellets that expel from the shell in scattered pattern. Shotguns are used for hunting birds, particularly duck, pheasant, and geese, as well as for shooting skeet and other types of sport shooting and home defense.
 Like the caliber, the gauge of the shotgun refers to the diameter of the shell that will be used. You must only use ammunition of the corresponding gauge in a shotgun. The lower the number in the gauge, the more powerful the shot.


12 gauge shotguns are the most common variety of shotgun, but are somewhat more powerful than what most people might need or want out of a gun. A 20 gauge might be considered a medium-gauge, while a 410 is a light gauge common for young hunters and beginners who're more interesting in shooting for sport or varmint control.
There are lots of other considerations when it comes to choosing shotgun shells, including the length of the shell and the "shot count" per shell. Shotguns offer a lot of versatility with each style of gun.
 Shotguns come in a wide variety of styles, single-barrel shotguns, double-barrel shotguns, oriented either side-by-side or over-and-under. The biggest difference in how you'll actually use a shotgun, however, has to do with the action. Like a rifle must be reloaded in a number of ways, so must a shotgun. Most shotguns are either pump-action or break-action.


Pump-action shotguns are iconic on account of the barrel-mounted slide, which advances a shell into the chamber and expels the spent shell when racked by sliding it backward and then forward. Common in movies, these shotguns are reliable and extremely popular. Pump action shotguns can hold between two and twelve shells in the gun at once, depending on the model.
Break-action shotguns are reloaded by releasing a spring-mounted hinge that allows the barrel to partially separate from the stock and eject the spent shells. To reload, the shooter simply places a new shell in manually. Most double-barrel shotguns will be break-action.
Semi-automatic shotguns reload in the same way that a rifle does, automatically expelling the spent shell and chambering the new. The difference between a semi-auto and a straight-automatic is that the semi-auto requires you to pull the trigger every time you want to shoot, while an automatic would continually fire if you held it down.
 Choke tubes are roughly four inches long, but can make a world of difference when it comes to the efficacy of your shotgun. Chokes come in a variety of sizes, some more "open" and some more "tight." The choke affects the spread of the shot pellets when each shell is fired, meaning that some chokes can allow you to keep a tighter and correspondingly more powerful configuration of shot, while others will allow it to spread out to a wider area, meaning you'll be more likely to hit your target.

