 The company that issued the card can ultimately set the rules and stipulations concerning refunds. However, most prepaid credit cards—including those issued by Visa and MasterCard (meaning nearly all of them)—are treated just like regular credit cards.This means that you can receive a refund by returning the item as you would when you paid with cash or a debit card.


You can check the website of the company that issued the card, or you can also call their customer service line if you’d prefer to speak to someone in person.
The card's policy for refunds may be in the information that came with the card as well (if you still have it).;
, Much like the company that issued the credit card can determine its own refund policies, the store from which you bought the item or service can determine its own return/refund policies. For instance, if you purchased something “as is” or you’ve waited longer than the posted refund period for a service, the store can lawfully refuse your refund. Contact the store before going in to ensure that you can receive a refund for the item or service.


Check your receipt. The return or refund period for the purchase (and other conditions for a refund) is often listed at the bottom of a receipt.
If you’re outside of the refund window, you can often speak to a supervisor or manager to try to receive an exception. For tangible items, the manager may still have the authority to accept the return if it’s in good condition. For services, the manager may still issue a refund if you can demonstrate why you were dissatisfied.
Take notes while talking to the manager if he or she has offered to make an exception in your case. Include the manager’s name, the date, etc. as documentation in case he or she isn’t there when you return for the actual refund.
 After you verify that you can receive a refund, you’ll need to collect several things before returning to the business where you made the purchase. If applicable, place the item in its original packaging (if you opened it at all). You’ll also need to bring the prepaid credit card (so the store can run it for the refund), the receipt (so they know you actually made the purchase there), and a photo identification (so the store employee can confirm that the prepaid card is yours).If you no longer have the receipt, you can also try requesting a report of the card’s activity from the issuing company to show the store manager that you did indeed make the purchase at the location on the specified date. Without any proof that you made a purchase at the respective store, they may refuse the refund, or they may only refund for store credit depending on their return policy.
If you want a refund for a service, then bring any other supporting documentation to show why you were dissatisfied. If a lawn care provider poorly pruned a tree, then take pictures, for instance.
 Take everything you need with you down to the store and ask for the refund. Most refunds for actual items are processed through a customer service desk near the store entrance rather than through one of the checkout stations. Provide everything to the customer service representative and ask for the refund.


The employee may also ask for your phone number or a signature on a return receipt.
Make sure to retain a copy of the original receipt if there are other purchases on it that you have not returned.
 The refund can take several days to clear. The company that issued the prepaid credit card will have either a website or a phone number that you can use to verify the balance on the card.Check the balance often to ensure that you receive the refund within seven business days., If you don’t receive the refund within seven business days, call the customer service department for the company where you were supposed to receive the refund. This department can usually verify whether or not the refund has cleared. If it has, but you haven’t received the funds, then contact the company that issued the card.


Keep a record of each of these interactions, including the names of the people to whom you spoke.

