 All but the most mundane mixtapes will benefit from having a name. At the very least, a descriptive name will help the recipient keep track of what's on the tape (for example, “2010s folk music”).


If it's special, make it sound special. For more tightly themed mixtapes, there is an art to coming up with the perfect name.
Using the name of the person who will receive the mixtape can be very flattering to them. A name can also be used as part of a statement addressed directly to the recipient.
Using a favorite lyric from one of the songs on the tape is a good way to center every song on the tape around that lyric, and encourage the recipient to think about the tape in that context.
A name that succinctly reflects the theme can help make sense of the song order you choose for the tape. A mixtape named “dawn to dusk,” for instance, suggests a very specific arc of music.
 This doesn't necessarily mean a tiny painting or a sketch (although those are fine), it means any kind of cassette decoration you can put some effort into to create a finished product that's unique and unmistakable.


Color it in. Colored markers are a time-honored tool of the cassette decorator's trade. They can brightly decorate any paper surface with minimal trouble. Try an abstract pattern or oversized, multicolored lettering. Even a plain black marker can cloak a cassette case insert in zebra stripes or dense spirals.
 Sequins and glitter add flash with just a bit of thin glue and a paintbrush. Be careful not to get anything on the actual tape inside the cassette, and avoid putting anything that isn't flat (like a rhinestone) on the cassette or CD itself, or the recipient may have trouble getting it to play. Save such decorations for the outside of the case.
 With a bit of planning and some care, the cassette or CD case insert and even the tape label itself can be custom-made from scratch


Use cloth-top medical tape for a nice wide label that takes marker very well.
Carefully cut out a photograph or part of a magazine article and firmly glue it onto the tape (with proper holes cut out of it for the tape reels) to make a completely new label.
Use the case insert as a backing board for a collage.
 If you're an experienced and confident mixtape creator, take your tape to the next level by filling in every possible gap between the songs to create a continuous sonic experience.
 This takes some finesse, and causes sound quality to suffer a bit, but the result is worth the trouble.


Get a long recording of something that isn't quite music, such as a poetry recital, a comedy routine, or a soundtrack of old TV commercials, and record it onto both sides of your tape first.
Carefully plan your songs out – you won't get any second chances to re-record them without messing up the tape.
Record your mixtape over the previous recording, leaving gaps of a few seconds each between songs. The gaps in your mixtape will be filled with the previous recording for an interesting and attention-grabbing effect.
Paint a sonic landscape with filler tracks. Scrape together all the short songs (less than a minute) you can find, and use them to fill in the gaps at the end of each side of the tape. They'll serve as bookends, framing the rest of the mix in a different light.
For an even more ambitious project, include any sound bites you can find in larger songs that are only a couple of seconds long, and manually record one of them between each of your regular songs as you make the tape.

