 Use a coarse brush or toothbrush to flake off the dried excess paint. For smaller stains, you may be able to pick off dried chunks with your fingernail. Removing the dried top layer will allow you greater access to the set-in stain underneath. It will also be a more efficient, quicker way of removing the larger part of the stain.
 Hold the shoe over a bowl or tub to catch the excess paint thinner. Pour a thin stream of paint thinner directly over the stain.









Make sure to use the appropriate type of paint thinner based on which kind of paint the shoes are stained with. Also be sure to read the directions on the paint thinner packaging for details about use.
 Use a dull knife to scrape off the now soft paint. The paint should rub right off the shoe. There will still be a light layer of paint set into the fabric below. However, the large majority of the paint should now be gone.
 A few paper towels or an old dishtowel that you no longer use near food or dishes will work fine. Place the towel on a flat surface and then lay the shoe on top, with the stained area facing down agains the towel.
 Apply the turpentine to an old sponge or rag, and rub it on the inside of the shoe. Make sure you are holding the shoe with one hand as you apply pressure to the inside of the stain. The paint will begin to come off onto the dry towel you placed on the outside of the shoe.









Make sure to be wearing a pair of rubber gloves when handling turpentine.
Continue to replace the dry cloth outside the shoe as it gets wet from the turpentine. The paint will also begin to transfer to the cloth.
Repeat until the stain has disappeared. Continue to apply turpentine to the sponge, and apply pressure to the area until the turpentine starts to take effect.
 Apply the detergent to a dry paper towel or old rag. Rub the outside of the shoe with the dry cloth on the affected area. This will help remove any leftover paint that remains set in the fabric.
 Use a bucket or laundry sink. Fill with hot water and submerge the shoes completely. Soak them for at least six hours.


Rub the stain with your thumbs every once in awhile to help remove dislodged paint while it soaks.
 Let them air dry, outside if possible. The stain should now be completely gone.









After being washed and dried, the canvas of the shoe may be a little tighter on your foot. However, the fabric will stretch out through continued wear.

