


Decide carefully. Independent students often receive more advantageous aid packages, but are expected to handle all fees by themselves and must reside alone.
If you are a dependent and your parents are separated or divorced, use the parent who provides the primary residence and support; the other parent's information is not relevant.;
,

You will need documentation of things like your parents' household income, education level and profession, house value and any investments, along with personal income and assets. If possible, have all income taxes completed by the time application season rolls around; this will provide a much more accurate and up-to-date aid evaluation.
,, Log in to http://www.fafsa.gov to get the process started. If you are unable to complete the FAFSA online, it is available as a paper form you can mail or as a PDF you can submit by email in both English and Spanish.
Completing the FAFSA online requires a PIN, or personal identification number. This number takes a few days to be deployed, so don't put off applying until the last minute. , Be as accurate and honest as possible with regard to the facts and figures, as these will be checked before payment is disbursed.
 Up to 10 colleges can be included in the initial FAFSA application, and more can be added for a small fee. , If filing a paper version, sign and mail in the signature page.
 This document, in addition to the individual colleges' responses, will provide a comprehensive overview of the financial aid situation to be had at each. ,


Note that while the CSS PROFILE can be completed early, in the fall prior to the year for which aid is being requested, it requires a submission fee of between $5 and $18 per school.
The CSS PROFILE evaluates students for non-federal financial aid, so it can be very useful for discovering scholarship programs if your parents are over the income brackets where federal programs offer need-based aid. ,


Possible things that can convey scholarship eligibility are athletic endeavors, public service or charitable activities, racial or ethnic background, aptitude for a specific subject, or personal hobbies.
Make sure applications and essays for these scholarships are submitted well in advance of the due date, as the competition can be fierce.



Colleges will often be flexible with students on a case by case basis, particularly individuals that have a sincere desire to attend the institution but can't quite meet tuition.
The professionals at the bursar's office are there to help you. Make your case clearly and succinctly, but don't beg.

