 Business cards are a great thing to have when you are meeting people on the go. They can act as a stand-in for your resume when you meet people in the industry and have all of your vital contact information so that they can contact you if need be.Make sure that your business card has your name, phone number, email address, and a brief statement or title, such as “Software Engineer” or “Copywriter.”

, Informational interviews are meetings where you talk to someone in a company or position that interests you, and ask them questions. Instead of interviewing for a specific position, you hold a conversation in a more casual environment and can ask whatever questions you may have.


Not only are informational interviews great for learning about a field or position, they are also great networking opportunities.
Make sure to tell the person you meet to let you know if they hear of any new positions opening up.
Always write a follow up note. Make sure that after your informational interview, you write a thank you note that thanks them for taking the time to meet with you.
 If you know of anyone in the field or industry, call or email them. Set up a time to have a chat, either on the phone or in person. Just as with an informational interview, ask them any questions you may have. Even if your contacts do not live in the same city as you, it can still be useful to get their advice and knowledge.Ask your contact about their career path, particularly about how they ended up in the position that they’re in now.You could say something like, "I'd love to hear how you got to be working at this company."
Ask them if there is any advice they have for you in your search.
You also could ask, "I was wondering if there are any positions that you know of that you feel I would be qualified for and interested in."

, Ask your contacts if they know of anyone who would be helpful to you, either because they have specialized knowledge of a field that would interest you, or because they may know of a job opportunity.You can ask them something like, "Do you happen to know anyone who works in web design? It would be great to learn more about that area specifically."
The more people you know, the more useful your network will be.
 Find networking events in your area through the Internet or through your contacts. The more specific the networking event is to your area of interest, the better. However, there is still value in going to more generalized networking events.Bring your business cards, and give them to those you talk to.
 Go to any events in your area that have to do with your field of interest. For instance, if you are interested in the hospitality industry, go to any trade shows, opening events or conferences in your area. These are great ways to meet people in the industry and expand your network. They also are opportunities to learn more about the field.