 If you purchased the handgun somewhere else, you'll need to re-register to carry it in the State of New Jersey. This is not true of long guns (shotguns, rifles, etc.).New Jersey is one of the most difficult states to acquire a conceal carry pistol permit in the US., You must contact the police branch that covers the area you live in. If you nearest police office is a branch of the State Police, call ahead of time to make sure they cover your municipality.


While you have them, ask specifically what forms and payment you'll need to bring with you. While most of them are identical, different police departments may have slightly different procedures. It is best to ask in advance.
 If you do not already possess these documents, you must go through the process of applying, as outlined above.


You should purchase the handgun you intend to carry with these forms ahead of time. You will need to provide the serial number, make, and model of your handgun on your application., Each state's laws about handguns, especially those concealed in public places, is different. You need to know the laws and protections set out by the state before applying to ensure that you fill out everything correctly.


You need 3 reputable character witnesses, who have known you for at least 3 years and are willing to testify that you have "sound moral character."
You need "justifiable evidence" that you need to carry a handgun for your own personal safety. This is either because of living conditions or your line of work.
You need evidence (courses, training, demonstrable knowledge) that you know how to own and operate a pistol safely., You can pick these up at State Police offices or at you local police outfit. You'll need to make a copy as well, as you should turn in two identical permits applications.


.
 You should always call your local police station ahead of time to see what sorts of tests will be accepted. There are several ways to prove that you are comfortable and familiar with handguns, including:


Evidence of courses taken at a firing range, through an NRA-certified instructor, or self-defense classes taken through a local police unit.
Scores from a qualified Handgun Qualification Test, administered by the New Jersey Police Force.
Completion of any other test or course certified by the Police Training Commission.<reF.http://smartgunlaws.org/concealed-weapons-permitting-in-new-jersey/#identifier_10_5381</reF>

, This is perhaps the biggest hurdle to getting a handgun permit. You should write, in detail, your reasons for needing a handgun on your person. You need to prove that you need a gun for personal safety, and that your life is in danger without one. While what is acceptable and what isn't is generally up to whoever reads your application, common reasons include:


Working in security or transport of valuable goods that have the potential to be stolen.
Urgent necessity for personal protection, as shown by life-threatening incidents., These three people need to sign the statements on the second page of your Permit to Carry a Handgun. All it requires is their name, signature, and basic contact information. These three people must:


Be older than 18.
Have known you for three years or more.
Willing to talk to the police in the case of an inquiry., You can take these yourself, but make sure they are well lit with a plain background. You'll need to capture your shoulders and your whole head, which should be large and centered in the photo. They should be at least 2-inches by 2-inches.


You can also have passport photos taken at your local post office., On the application, you'll need to write down the exact information of the gun you plan to carry.
 Make sure you have copies of everything that are clear and legible. Include copies of your justifiable need statement and evidence of handgun literacy as well, and keep a copy of everything in your records.
 This is the fee required to process your account. You will likely need more money if you still need to be fingerprinted.
 You will be fingerprinted if you are not doing this in concert with your Firearms Purchaser ID card application, which means an additional $60 fingerprinting charge.