 Use a sterile, sharp cutting tool to trim only the damaged portions.


Do not cut off any portions of a leaf that are undamaged.
Leave undamaged leaves intact, no matter how many other leaves have been damaged.
Orchid leaves will blacked due to a range of causes, including bacterial disease, fungal disease, over fertilization, over watering, and exposure to hard water.
You can also remove whole leaves that have yellowed and withered, but only if the leaves have weakened so much that you can remove them by lightly pulling on them with your fingers.
 When you remove the orchid from its current pot, examine the roots. Look for any unhealthy roots and carefully cut them away with sterile, sharp scissors or clippers.


Unhealthy roots will look brown and feel mushy.
Make sure that you only cut away unhealthy roots that are dead and dying. Work carefully to avoid accidentally pruning off healthy roots.
To verify that a root is dead, cut off a small piece first. Examine it more closely. If it still looks fresh and white, do not cut any more of that root, since it is still alive. If it looks brown, shriveled, or rotted, continue cutting the rest of that root away.
 No matter which portion of the orchid you are pruning—spike, leaf, or root—you should only cut away unproductive or visibly dying portions of the plant. Removing healthy growth can hurt your orchid.


The sole purpose of orchid pruning is to remove unproductive parts of the plant so that the rest of the plant can get a higher concentration of nutrients. Pruning healthy parts of the plant will not improve the way the orchid grows in later seasons.
Orchids utilize a process called "trans-location." During this process, dying parts continue feeding healthy parts by moving nutrients. As such, you should avoid pruning any part of the plant until it shows visible signs of death.
 Usually, an orchid enters its rest state during the late fall.


An orchid pruned during its growth cycle can go into shock and suffer permanent damage.

