 The Dunmer are going to be a choice option for Dragon Knights, especially the damage dealers, whose powers focus on fire magic.This is because Dunmer get a bonus to fire damage, making them extra deadly. Their weapons skill is with dual-wield, though, so you can't rely quite as much on their weapons damage. Dunmer are available to those in the Ebonheart Pact.;
, Nords are a natural choice for Dragon Knights, as their race-based abilities are all about dealing damage and taking damage. They also get a boost to two-handed, which is the main weapon for this class. Nords are available to those in the Ebonheart Pact.
 Orcs are another natural choice for Dragon Knights, as their race abilities are focused on maintaining stamina in battle and dealing damage. They get a boost to heavy armor, making them good tanks or damage dealers. Orcs are available to those in the Daggerfall Covenant.
 Redguards are born fighters, having bonuses to power and sword and shield, which makes them great damage dealers. They also make decent tanks. Redguards are available to those in the Daggerfall Covenant.
 While not the ideal tank, Khajit are decent as damage dealers, having good melee skills. They also have a bonus to medium armor, which will help to protect them in battle. Khajit may not be the most ideal choice for this class, but are the best available to those in the Aldmeri Dominion.
 This skill set is all about bringing the hurt. Several are AOE attacks, and all are very deadly. Yay, fire! , These skills have a focus on healing yourself, with a secondary focus on dealing damage. Some also provide blocking abilities. , These skills mainly focus on buffing the group and protecting yourself, making it much more of a defensive skillset than an offensive one., The exact role that a Dragon Knight plays in a group is somewhat dependent on your choice in play style. How you want to play, what role you want to fulfill, will determine what skills and abilities you choose, so consider it carefully and then commit as best you can in order to be effective.


Damage dealers dole out the pain but dodge or block attacks when possible. They don't necessarily want the enemy's attention, but they do want to deal the killing blow. Two-handed weapons and a healthy stamina pool are good for damage dealers. Damage dealers should make use of the Ardent Flame skill tree.
Tanks are meant to draw the enemy's attention and then take a beating, allowing other group members to deal the damage. Tanks are a crucial part of any MMO group, so take your role seriously. Sword and shield may be better for tanks, as it allows for better blocking. The most important factor for a tank, however, will be a serious amount of health. Tanks should make use of the Draconic Power skill tree.
Supports focus on defending the party, by not only dealing damage but also by providing protection. A support will use the group buff abilities under the Earthen Heart skill tree, mixed with the tactical defense of the other players, in order to help the whole group be successful.
 You'll want weapons that dole out the hurt, inflicting serious damage on your enemies. The best weapon for this class is a two-handed weapon (and there are great two-handed weapon skills to match), but a sword and shield can also do the trick.
 Heavy armor and the skill bonuses that come with it will go a long way towards providing you the protection you need to be your party's tank or damage dealer. Choose heavy armor and wear as much of it as you can. The more you wear, the greater the bonuses and the faster it will level.
 Health is the most important trait for a Dragon Knight, so focus on increasing, buffing, and maintaining it. Some magicka for special attacks is nice, health and stamina (which governs your weapons attacks) should be your main focus.


Note that using a majority of class skills require magicka, while using weapon-related skills require stamina. It's typical that a DPS oriented Dragonknight will stick to putting attributes into increasing their magic ability for class skill abuse, while a Dragonknight centered on blocking and using weapon skills will go for the stamina route.

