 If you’re trying to make the most of Christmas Eve, you should definitely decorate your tree. You can use Christmas ornaments, string lights, strands of popcorn, tinsel, and anything else that looks festive. However you choose to decorate your house for Christmas, save some decorating for Christmas Eve so that you have something to do.;
, Making Christmas cookies is a classic Christmas tradition. You can eat them yourself or leave them out for Santa when he visits your house to bring presents. You can make sugar cookies or gingerbread cookies with Christmas cookie cutters and decorate them to be festive for Christmas. Try making these Christmas tree shaped cookies! You could even make gingerbread houses, if you have lots of icing and candy for decorations., There are lots of Christmas books and movies that you could spend your time enjoying on Christmas Eve. From “The Night Before Christmas” to the movie “Elf,” you should be able to find something on TV or at your house that is focused on Christmas., Find a Christmas CD around your house. You can also turn on the radio, which will have lots of Christmas music on Christmas Eve. If it’s easier, you could go online to a website such as Spotify or Pandora and listen to a playlist full of Christmas music there. Listening to Christmas music and relaxing will help you get in the spirit of Christmas but also pass time.


You could also go Christmas caroling with your family! Find a group to carol with through your school, neighborhood, church, friends, or community center, and enjoy a night of serenading your neighbors., Help your family get ready to celebrate the holiday. You might be able to help with early cooking for Christmas dinner, or you might be in charge of putting Christmas cards in envelopes. You could also wrap any presents that you got for your family and put them under the tree., Hang up your stockings somewhere in your house, and, in the morning, they will be filled with small gifts! The traditional place to hang up your stocking is above your fireplace, but you can be more creative if you don’t have a fireplace. You could put them in front of your tree, hanging on your tree, or anywhere in your house that you think seems festive.