 Sunlight is one trigger that can make rosacea worse. If you must be out in the sun, be sure to use a high-SPF sunblock, one built for sensitive skin, to help protect your face.Choose a sunscreen that is at or above 30 SPF. Also, look for the words "broad spectrum," which means it protects against different types of rays.Water-resistant sunblock can help protect you if you are going to be swimming or getting wet or think you might sweat while you are outside.;
, It's not just the sun that can trigger rosacea flareups; other types of weather can be harmful, too. For instance, if it's hot and humid, it's best to stay inside with air conditioner where it's cool and dry. In the winter, cover your face and nose with a scarf to protect yourself against the cold wind and apply a gentle moisturizer to your face daily to help with dry skin., Hot water, whether in the tub or shower, can also make you flush worse than normal with your rosacea. Also, it's important to be gentle when scrubbing your face, as you can aggravate your condition., A gentle facial cleanser won't trigger flareups, and it is fine to use even when you are having a flareup. Pick ones that say they are made for sensitive skin. For instance, cleansers made by Dove or Cetaphil are often made for those with sensitive skin.Clean your face twice a day, as it helps remove dirt, makeup, and oil that can aggravate your condition.For facial hair, it's best to use an electric blade rather than a razor, as it's less harsh.Dry thoroughly. That is, you should give your face time to dry out before trying to apply anything to it and then give the medication time to dry., Stress can trigger flareups for many people, so reducing stress or learning how to deal with it can help decrease your problems with rosacea.In fact, many people found that using techniques such as meditation helped them control their flareups.For instance, you can use deep breathing to calm yourself down when you feel yourself getting stressed. Close your eyes, and focus on your breathing. Count to 10 as you breathe in through your nose, letting your belly (not your chest) rise. Then count to 10 as you breathe out through your mouth. This will stimulate your parasympathetic nervous system and relax you. Keep this process going until you feel yourself calm down., Anything can trigger a flareup for a person with rosacea, including any product you put on your face. Skip ones that don't say they are for sensitive skin, and don't use ones that have alcohol in them., High-intensity exercise that makes you sweat heavily for a long time can contribute to rosacea. Of course, you don't want to stop exercising altogether, as it helps you stay healthy, but you should take some steps to protect yourself.Break it up. Go for shorter routines, say about 15 minutes, rather than hour-long workouts.Try to stay cool. Part of the problem is the heat, so exercise at cooler times and in cooler areas. Swimming may be a good option for you to stay cool while you exercise.