 Swamp Hibiscus is a tall perennial that favors a sunny spot with lots of water. Unlike many plants, it prefers a boggy spot where water collects. If you have a marshy patch in your garden that gets plenty of sun, consider planting your swamp hibiscus there. Swamp Hibiscus prefers a mildly acidic soil but this isn’t critical. The main thing is to provide the plant with plenty of boggy soil.In hotter areas this plant will tolerate partial shade for some of the day but generally favors sunny spots.
This plant will also do well next to a pond or stream.;
, Incorporate some well-rotted manure or other organic matter such as compost into the ground ahead of planting. Mix up the soil and organic matter to provide the plant with the nutrient it will need to grow.


Swamp Hibiscus can grow up to nine feet in height, so long as the soil is rich.
 Dig a hole twice the size of the pot that the hibiscus came in. Put the plant in the hole and fill the hole with soil. Water the plant and soil around the hole to help settle the soil and remove air bubbles.


Continue to water the plant so that the soil remains soggy.
 Swamp Hibiscus can be grown from seed if you do not want to purchase a potted plant to put in your garden. If you are harvesting seed yourself, do so in the late spring when the pods are hard and dry. You’ll need to break them open to collect the seed. Seeds need to be scraped with sandpaper or a nail file to get them to germinate.


Alternately, try making a tiny cut with a sharp knife or prick with a pin. Soak the seeds in warm water for an hour, then dry them on a paper towel. Plant them as soon as the last frosts are over.
 You can plant the seeds directly into the ground, or you can start their growth in a pot. Plant the seeds a quarter of an inch down in the soil and cover them up. Mist the surface with water.


If you are using a pot, cover the pot with a clear plastic bag or plastic wrap and put it in a sunny place such as a south-facing windowsill. Germination, or when the sprouts begin to show, takes about two weeks. Keep the soil moist until germination and continue to water it every day for a few months until it is established. Because swamp hibiscus is a rapid growing plant, your will generally get blooms within the first year.
 To take a cutting, select a healthy stem about a quarter inch wide and cut off the top 6 inches (15.2 cm). Remove the lower leaves and dip the cut end into rooting hormone. Fill a pot with a good cutting compost. Make a hole that is at least two inches deep and plant the cut in the hole. Keep the soil moist and put the plant in an area that is bright but does not get direct sunlight.


You can also use a sand and compost mix.
Roots should set after a few months, at which point the new plant can be planted outside.

