 The paperwork you receive notifying you of eviction proceedings contains important information about your landlord's case against you.


Your summons will tell you the name and location of the court in which your eviction hearing will be held, as well as the date and time of the hearing.It also will let you know what you need to do next and how long you have to respond to the lawsuit – typically only a few weeks. If it's not clear from your summons when your answer is due, contact the clerk of the court where the eviction lawsuit was filed and find out how long you have.The complaint will include your landlord's reasons for having you evicted. These should be the same reasons that were listed on any prior notice you received.;
, You typically can find information about tenants' rights by searching online or visiting the public law library in your local courthouse.


You may have received some summary information with the paperwork notifying you of the eviction, or a list of websites or locations with further information.
Eviction proceedings have very strict notice and other requirements that landlords must follow precisely. If your landlord has failed to meet any of these requirements, you can use that failure to defend yourself – but you have to know the legal requirements before you can determine if your landlord violated them.Laws in all states prohibit landlords from taking certain self-help measures, such as cutting off your water or electricity, to get you out of the unit. If your landlord has done any of these things, the eviction is illegal., Most courts have fill-in-the-blank forms you can use to respond to an eviction lawsuit.


Some courts will include an answer or response form along with the other paperwork notifying you of the eviction proceedings. Otherwise you'll need to contact the clerk of the court hearing your eviction to find out if forms or templates are available.If the forms include instructions for filling them out, make sure you read them carefully before you start entering your information.
 Take care to respond to each allegation your landlord has set forth regarding the reasons for the eviction.


Typically you will either admit or deny each of the landlord's allegations. Keep in mind that your landlord has the burden of proof. If you deny an allegation, this forces the landlord to meet his or her burden of proof and show the court that it is true. If you admit the allegation, your landlord doesn't have to prove it.
For example, if your landlord states you violated a condition of the lease and you did not, you want to compile all the evidence you have – such as documents or witnesses – that will show you didn't violate your lease. However, it remains your landlord's responsibility to prove that you did., If you have doubt as to whether a defense applies to your situation, go ahead and include it in your answer to preserve your ability to argue it.


Defenses are reasons you shouldn't be evicted, and they will vary depending on your situation and the laws in your state.
For example, in many states you have a defense if the landlord provided you with improper notice or their wasn't enough time between the notice and the start of eviction proceedings.If you are being evicted for failure to pay rent, and you paid or offered to pay the rent owed and the landlord refused your payment, this typically constitutes an illegal eviction.Although you should include every defense that might possibly apply, you want to avoid including defenses that don't relate to your situation at all.
Bad housing conditions that violate your state or local housing code may be a defense to an eviction. However, if you are being evicted because you violated the lease for some reason other than nonpayment of rent, such as for noise violations or destruction of property, this defense may not be available to you.Some states have laws that prohibit retaliatory evictions, in which your landlord evicts you because you participated in activities – such as reporting your landlord to a health inspector or joining a tenants' rights organization – that are protected under the law. Typically, if the landlord files an eviction proceeding within six months of your participation, he or she is presumed to have evicted you in retaliation and must prove otherwise., If you have any claim against your landlord that is related to the eviction or to the landlord-tenant relationship, it should be included in your response.


If your landlord owes you money for any reason – for example, if you spent money to make repairs on your unit that your landlord should have made – you can include these amounts in a counterclaim in your response.If the judge finds for you on your counterclaims, the amount will offset whatever amount your landlord is claiming you owe. If your counterclaim is greater than the landlord's claim, he or she cannot evict you., Look over your answer to make sure it's complete and free of typos before you print it and sign it.


If you've hand-written your answers, make sure you've used blue or black ink and that your handwriting is legible. You may consider writing in pencil first so you can correct mistakes, and then go over it in pen.
Once you've signed and dated your answer, you'll need to make at least two copies – one for your own records and one for your landlord. The original will become part of the court record in the case., To preserve your right to defend yourself, you must file your answer with the clerk of the court that will hear the eviction proceeding.


Take your copies and the original to the clerk, and have him or her stamp "filed" with the date on all of them. The clerk will give you the copies back and keep the originals.Typically you will be responsible for having your answer served on your landlord. You can do this by getting a sheriff's deputy to deliver it. You also may be able to serve it using certified mail with returned receipt requested., If you have a written lease, it dictates the terms of your agreement with your landlord.


Look at your state's law and make sure the lease itself is legal and there aren't any prohibited terms or conditions.
If your landlord argues that you violated a condition of your lease, look up the provision and determine whether you actually violated it. Even if you did, you may have a defense if it was a technical or minor violation that didn't substantially harm your landlord or the property.Additionally, you have a defense if you can show that the landlord was violating the lease or broke any other law related to tenancy in your city or state., Especially if you're arguing you are being evicted for discriminatory reasons, or that your unit is uninhabitable, witnesses to the landlord's behavior can back up your claims.


If your primary communication with your landlord was face to face rather than in writing, anyone who overheard those conversations can back up your claims about them.If you're arguing your unit was uninhabitable, keep in mind you generally must prove that your landlord knew about the condition of your unit and did nothing to fix it. Absent written evidence such as a letter you wrote to your landlord requesting a repair, witnesses can testify that your landlord was aware of the situation., Many cities have tenants' rights organizations that can assist you in eviction proceedings.The paperwork you received notifying you of the eviction proceedings may include summary information or names and phone numbers of groups that can help you.
Many law schools have landlord-tenant clinics that provide free assistance to tenants facing eviction.
You also might check with your local legal services office to find out what help is available to you. In addition to legal services, many cities and states have other non-profit organizations that provide legal assistance to tenants., Written communication with your landlord is essential evidence in an illegal conviction lawsuit.


In general, any communication with your landlord regarding the lease or repairs needed in your unit should be in writing. This provides you with proof that your landlord knew about the situation.If you don't have written correspondence such as emails, you can testify regarding your conversations with your landlord – but be warned that this might devolve into a useless "he said, she said" situation of competing testimony, because your landlord can simply deny that the conversation took place., If your claims are based on the uninhabitability of your unit or the failure of your landlord to make necessary repairs, photos of your unit will support your defense.


You also can draw a diagram of your unit and mark the location of any problems.If you rent from an apartment complex that has floor plans available online, print one of those to use.
Keep in mind that the judge has not lived in your unit, and won't be visiting it. To defend yourself, it's up to you to show the judge the conditions of your place and how they affected you., If one of your defenses relates to the bad condition of your unit, you can get a state or local health and safety inspector to evaluate your unit and submit a report.Typically these reports are certified, signed under penalty of perjury, and provide evidence that the condition of your unit does not meet state or local housing code standards.A certified inspection report is your best evidence that your unit was not in livable condition., Some states allow for discovery in eviction proceedings, a process which allows you and your landlord to exchange information and evidence relevant to the case.If discovery is allowed, it typically is restricted to written discovery, which involves three types of documents: interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admissions.Interrogatories are questions that must be answered in writing under oath. You can ask your landlord any question that is relevant to the eviction or to your tenancy.Requests for production ask for copies of certain documents, such as your lease or rent receipts. Requests for admission ask the landlord to admit certain statements, such as knowledge of your unit's unsafe or unsanitary condition.When you get responses back from your landlord, analyze the information that supports his or her case and look for ways to counter it.For example, suppose your landlord is arguing that you violated your lease by keeping a pet, but she knew you had a cat when you moved in and agreed to let you keep it. If you have any evidence of that conversation, it can be used as a defense. This defense is particularly strong if your lease states no pets are allowed except with permission of the landlord.
 Before your scheduled court date, you should organize all your documents and evidence and outline what you plan to say to the judge.


Make at least two copies of any documents you want to enter as evidence, so you, your landlord, and the judge can all look at the document as you're talking about it.
Prepare a list of questions that you want to ask your landlord in court. If you plan to call witnesses to testify on your behalf, you'll want to prepare questions for them as well.Meet with your witnesses at least once before your hearing to practice the questions, so you'll know what their answers will be. You also might want to brainstorm possible questions your landlord might ask on cross-examination.Especially if you've never been to court before, it may be helpful for you to observe some eviction proceedings before your own hearing, so you understand a little more about the process and what will be expected of you in court., In the mediation process, a neutral third-party facilitates a discussion between you and your landlord in an attempt to resolve the dispute amicably.In many cases, the mediator will be connected to the court. Some courts even require parties to attempt mediation before taking their case before a judge. If mediation is court-ordered, there typically is no charge.If you are able to come to an agreement with your landlord, read over the written settlement agreement – which typically will be prepared by the mediator – and make sure you understand its terms and that it reflects what you agreed to.Keep in mind that if you don't reach a settlement through mediation, you still have the right to go to court. Don't feel pressured to settle if you don't believe the settlement is in your best interests or that your concerns are not being adequately addressed., If you want to defend yourself, you must be in court at the date and time your hearing is scheduled.


If you know in advance that you won't be able to go to court on that day – for example, if you're going to be out of town or have a doctor's appointment – you should contact your landlord as soon as possible and see if he or she will agree to reschedule the hearing for another date.If your landlord doesn't agree to change the date, you may have to request a continuance from court.You should, however, make every effort to appear on the scheduled date.
If you appear and your landlord does not, the judge should dismiss the case against you. However, if you don't show up, the judge typically will rule for the landlord – even if you had a valid defense or the eviction is illegal.Try to show up at the courthouse at least 30 minutes early, so you have time to go through security and find the right courtroom. When you get there, take a seat in the gallery. The judge typically will be hearing several cases that day, so you'll need to wait until you are called.When your name is called, stand and approach the front of the courtroom. If you're unsure about where to go, the court officer will direct you., Typically the judge will allow your landlord to speak first and explain why he or she wants to evict you.The landlord can testify, call witnesses, or even call you to the stand and ask you questions. If the landlord calls witnesses, you will have the right to cross-examine them by asking your own questions.Avoid interrupting or disrupting the landlord or any witnesses, even if you disagree with their statements or believe they are lying. Make sure you have blank paper and a pen so you can take notes, and write down anything you want to question or bring up in your own presentation., After your landlord has presented his or her case, you will have the opportunity to defend yourself.


Be organized and present your points in a logical and consistent manner. Stick to the facts and don't rush.Speak clearly and loudly so the judge and your landlord can hear and understand what you're saying.
The more documents you have to back up your claims, the stronger your defense will be. Think in terms of having an item of proof (either a document or witness testimony) for every point or factual statement you make., As you proceed through the points of your defense, use witness testimony to supplement your statements and support your facts.


Keep in mind that if you call witnesses, your landlord will have the right to cross-examine them, just as you had the opportunity to cross-examine your landlord's witnesses., The judge may want further information about the statements you make or evidence you introduce.


When the judge asks you a question, you should stop speaking immediately and answer. If you don't understand the question, feel free to ask for clarification, but avoid interrupting the judge.The judge may answer questions regarding court procedures, or provide information to you on what to do next, but don't expect the judge to be your advocate or to help you with your defense., The judge typically will let you know of his or her decision at the conclusion of the proceeding.


In some cases the judge may decide to take the case under advisement, which means he or she wants to look over the paperwork and evidence again before entering an order. If this happens, find out if the final order will be mailed to you or if you will be notified when it is entered.When you have a written order, read over it carefully and make sure you understand it. If you previously received assistance from legal aid or a clinic, you may be able to take the order there and get help if there's something you find confusing.If the judge rules against you, typically you have the right to appeal, but you must file notice of your appeal quickly – often within a week to 10 days of the date the order is entered.Consult an attorney regarding your options if you want to continue to fight after an adverse ruling.

