 You don't want to roast someone who will be seriously offended by what you have to say. Think back: have you ever poked fun at the person? If they reacted badly, they may not be a good candidate. You could even ask the person if they'd be comfortable with being roasted, as long as it's not supposed to be surprise.While people who can’t take a joke are often the ones you feel are most deserving of a roast, they’re also usually the worst ones to actually roast. Stick with people who can laugh at themselves., Whenever you roast someone, you'll find there's a line you don't want to cross. If you cross that line, you could seriously offend the person. The problem is, that line is in a different place for every person, so it can be hard to gauge.Use your own experience with the person to decide which categories are fair game, and which are off limits.
For instance, bringing up the eating habits of someone you know has struggled with an eating disorder or body image issues is not a good idea. On the other hand, bringing up eating habits for another person may be perfectly fine, but they may have an issue if you talk about the way they dress.
 If you have jokes that you think may go too far, try running them by someone in the social group first. For instance, if you're roasting a co-worker, ask another co-worker what they think. If it's a family member, ask someone else in the family. Usually, someone can tell you if you've gone too far.Pick someone who will be discreet about the material you're testing. If it does go too far, you don't want it to get back around to the person.
 You should be able to tell if you're going too far by the person's body language. If they're laughing along with everyone else, you're probably doing okay. However, if the person looks uncomfortable, you may want to move on to another topic.For instance, the person may have a fake smile plastered on. They may even look upset.
They may have their arms or legs crossed, leaning away from you, which is an unhappy position. They may also get restless and move around in their seat a lot.
 Past relationships are often a touchy subject for people, particularly if the relationship isn't that far into the past. It's probably a good idea to skip jokes about particular relationships, especially. Also, think about who the person will be with when you're roasting them. If they're in a different relationship, you could end up causing trouble without meaning to by bringing up the past.That said, some people can handle these jokes just fine — maybe even if you were the one in the past relationship with them!

, That is, you may want to use “better safe than sorry” in deciding to leave some topics off limits. For instance, you probably shouldn't joke about someone's dead mother. Similarly, poking fun at political beliefs or religion is likely to ostracize people, including the person you're roasting.But again, there’s no hard and fast rule here. You have to know your target and your audience.
 It's hard to know exactly when a joke crosses the line into being nasty or mean, but you'll usually get a feeling. If one of the jokes you're thinking about making has you feeling uncomfortable, it's likely best to just skip it. Roasting is supposed to be fun, not truly mean.If you can’t enjoy yourself while telling the jokes, then why bother doing it at all?

