 Tags are a great place to find direction for how to clean and maintain your furniture, but if these don't provide you with what you're looking for, your owner's guide might have the information you seek. Take note of solutions you can use and recommended techniques. Some common abbreviations for upholstery are:


W: Use water-based detergent.
S: Clean with water-free products, for example, dry cleaning solvent.
WS: Either water-based cleaner or water-free cleaner is OK.
X: Professionally cleaning only, though vacuuming is acceptable., A steam upholstery cleaner is specifically intended to deep clean the fabric of your furniture and is available to rent at most local hardware stores. If you use a steam cleaner, allow your furniture extra time to dry, as the cushions take on a considerable amount of moisture through this process., If you lack this tool, you can also use a clean broom, but you'll first need to take your couch cushions outside and place them clean surface. To prevent stains from grass or outside dirt, you may want to lay down a towel or drop cloth before setting your cushions outside.
 Using your carpet beater or a broom, firmly whack all your cushions on both the front and back. This process can sometimes kick up considerable dust, so you may want to consider wearing a dust mask while doing this.
 If you notice discoloration after rinsing, you should not hand or machine wash. Take the cover to the dry cleaner instead.
 Add equal parts mild dish detergent to cool water and agitate the solution until the soap and water mix completely to a whipped consistency. Now you can dip your sponge into the solution, wring out the excess moisture, and begin sponge cleaning the cushion.
 For most fabrics, long strokes will serve you best. Sponge the cushion from one end to the other, working against the nap to bring up stains and remove any deeply buried dirt.








After your first round of sponging, you should repeat the process, only this time applying your sponge with the nap.
 Clean your sponge of any detergent it may have and moisten it with clean water. Repeat the sponging process, cleaning once with and once against the nap to remove all detergent and optimally clean the fabric of your cushion., Though shock-heating treatment can cause your fabric to shrink, using a normal fan to blow dry air over your cushion will help speed the drying process. Sponge cleaning can leave your fabric considerably wet; you should allow the cushion plenty of time to dry all the way through.








