 The ABC's of respect stands for awareness, balance, and choices. Remembering the ABC's can help you make sure your relationship remains respectful over time.Awareness means staying aware of yourself and your feelings. Always consider how a behavior makes you feel and take note of any gestures, behaviors, or language that makes you feel less than respected.

Balance means respect should be mutual. You want to make sure you're giving your boyfriend or guyfriend respect in return. Encourage him to open up to you and let him know he can always tell you if you do something that rubs him the wrong way.

Choices means being conscious about the decisions you make. Make choices with a sense of self-respect in mind. Do not agree to do anything in a relationships that violates your comfort, ethics, or moral code.;
, One major way to get respect is to be your own person. If you rely on your boyfriend or guyfriend to make decisions for you, you may leave yourself vulnerable for disrespect. Do not hesitate to be yourself in a relationship and do not let a male friend or boyfriend dictate your taste, hobbies, friendships, and other aspects of your life.Continue to pursue your own interests outside of the relationship. If you're in school, for example, keep up with your course work and make learning and grades a priority.
A respectful partner will want someone who is independent and not reliant on them. If you want your boyfriend or guyfriend to respect you, make it clear you're capable of going your own way and making your own decisions.
 In a relationship, you have to make your needs known. If your boyfriend or guyfriend is getting in the way of your needs, this is an issue to discuss. However, you must first know what your needs are. What do you need to feel emotionally stable and happy? How can your boyfriend or guyfriend help you meet these needs?It may be helpful to sit down and write on this subject for awhile. Allow your thoughts to flow (don't worry about spelling or grammar) as you write about when you feel most fulfilled and happy.
Ask yourself what makes you feel fulfilled. Do you need a lot of time to focus on a passion? Do you need to spend time with others to feel fulfilled? How can your boyfriend or guyfriend help you feel fulfilled? Maybe you need space from him in some areas of your life.
Think about activities, events, and behaviors you say "yes" to when you don't really want to. You do not have to do anything you do not want to do, even in a relationship.
Think about what you need to do in regards to self-care and how your boyfriend can support that. For example, maybe you need to be physically fit to feel like you're caring for yourself. You may want your boyfriend to allow you time to go to the gym each day.
Consider whether it is your boyfriend or guyfriend who gets in the way, or if you are getting in your own way.
 Remember, you have a right to feel respected at all times. If your boyfriend or guyfriend violates a boundary or need, speak up right away. The sooner you address the issue, the better.It is healthy to talk things over if someone is bothering or disrespecting you. This is better than keeping your anger to yourself, which could lead to a blow up down the road.
If you feel your boyfriend has disrespected you, say so calmly. For example, "I really don't like it when you tease me in front of your friends. It makes me feel disrespected."
If you have a hard time speaking up, consider working with a therapist or counselor to help you become more assertive.

