 Tap the App Store icon on your iPad to launch it.;
, Type in “HP All-in-One Printer Remote” on the search field.
 Once you’ve located the correct app, download it, and tap the “Install” button beside the app.


Downloading is free.
 Locate the app on your iPad. Its icon has an HP logo on it with a printer and a tablet. Tap on it to launch it.
 Use the HP ePrint-capable printer to scan your documents and photos using the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app. Scanned documents and images will be stored under the Local Files section of the app.


Refer to this article for more details.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the files icon for Files on the left panel toolbar.


Under the Cloud Files section, tap “Add Account” and select from the list of available cloud services (Dropbox, Box, Google Drive, Evernote) the one you’d like to add and link to the app.
Follow the on-screen instructions in integrating the cloud service.
You will need your respective accounts to be authorized.
 On the HP All-in-One Printer Remote app, tap the files icon for Files on the left panel toolbar. A Files panel will appear from the left listing the possible sources of your files.
 From the Files panel, tap “Documents” then “Images.” The list of available local images will be listed. Tap the one you’d like to share and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 From the Files panel, tap “Documents” then “Documents.” The list of available local documents will be listed. Tap the one you’d like to share and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 From the Files panel, under the Cloud Files section, tap a cloud storage service, e.g., Dropbox. Navigate through your cloud folders by tapping on them. Tap the file you’d like to share and its preview will be shown on the screen.
 Review the selected file on the screen to make sure this is the correct one to be shared. If the file has several pages, scroll through it by swiping up or down.
 On the upper-right side of the preview screen is an “Actions” button. Tap the box icon with an arrow pointing out to bring up the Actions menu. This menu lists the possible options for sharing the file.


Tap “Email” and the iPad’s default email client will be opened with a New Message window.
The file you’ve chosen to share will already be attached. Complete your email and then send it as you normally do any other email.
 On the upper-right side of the preview screen is an “Actions” button. Tap the box icon with an arrow pointing out to bring up the Actions menu. This menu lists the possible options for sharing the file.


Tap “Cloud Storage” and select the cloud storage service you’d like to send a copy of this file to.
The HP All-in-One Printer Remote app needs to be configured and integrated with the selected cloud service for this to work.
 On the upper-right side of the preview screen is an “Actions” button. Tap the box icon with an arrow pointing out to bring up the Actions menu. This menu lists the possible options for sharing the file.


Tap “Save as Document” and the file will immediately be copied and saved under the Local Files of the app.
