 Schools often have rules against bullying, but there is a subtle, sneaky form of bullying called relational aggression that may go unnoticed. It’s important for you to be able to identify it so that you can know when it’s happening to you and protect yourself.


Relational aggression is more under-the-radar, less clear form of bullying that may involve being excluded from parties or playdates, teasing or calling girls names, giving the “silent treatment,” spreading rumors, not saving a seat for a friend, or using social media or cell phones to say mean things about another girl.Although it is more subtle, you can still talk to your parents, teachers, and other adults about helping you take action against a mean girl who is using relational aggression. Find out how your school handles bullies so that you can handle the situation appropriately.
 In addition to standing up for yourself in the midst of bullying, you also need to make it clear that you find the behavior unacceptable coming from a friend. Have the courage to say goodbye to friends who make you feel bad about yourself or make fun of you in front of others.


You can walk away from the friendship by saying something like, “The way you have been treating me hurts my feeling. That is not the way I expect to be treated by friends, so we’re not friends anymore.”, Just as you should know how to identify and walk away from a toxic friendship with mean girl, you also need to know what to look for in a positive friendship. Think about the people in your life who make you feel good about yourself and who seem to value your presence. Write down a few characteristics that you think define these people and use these as your standard for making new friends in the future.


For example, a good friend uses kind words, offers help when it is needed, shares, stands up for you, cares about your feelings and opinions, and is there for you. Believe that you are worthy of positive friendships and seek out people who can offer you these types of relationships.