 One thing that can help you get better sleep is to be more relaxed when you go to bed. If you can't achieve this on your own, there is a deep breathing technique you can try to help you sleep. Start flat on your back with pillows under your neck and knees in a comfortable arrangement. Place your hands, palms down, right below your rib cage on your stomach area with your fingers touching. Take a large, slow, and deep breath in through your belly using your diaphragm, which pulls more air into your lungs. Your fingers will separate if you are doing it correctly. Do 10 to 12 repetitions.


If you aren't breathing through your diaphragm, keep trying until you do. Many people breath into their chest normally, which causes your shoulders to move up instead.
You may experience some dizziness at first, but this is common. The increase in oxygen can make you lightheaded. If you feel like you are going to pass out or are uncomfortable, stop and rest a moment before you repeat the exercise again.
If you want to make your diaphragm stronger, try a humming breath. This variation follows deep breathing, but adds a humming noise with your mouth as you exhale. , If deep breathing doesn't relax you, try Chinese breathing exercises. Start in a comfortable seated position. Then take one short breath in through your nose, exhaling as you lift your arms in front of you at shoulder level. Take another short breath through your nose, moving your arms to the side while remaining at shoulder level. On your third short breath through your nose, lift your arms over your head. Repeat the cycle 10 to 12 times.


If you feel lightheaded or dizzy, stop this exercise immediately. Return your breathing to normal and let the feelings subside before trying again., Aside from breathing exercises, there are muscle relaxation techniques that can help you get a good night's sleep. Focus on your feet and toes, tensing the muscles in your feet for five seconds, then relax them for 30 seconds. Move up to your ankles and legs, following the same five-30 pattern of tensing and relaxing. Follow this trend up your whole body, including your face, until every muscle in your body is relaxed.


Consciously relaxing your muscles like this helps your body calm down enough for sleep. The addition of the tensing step helps you distinguish between a tense and relaxed muscle in order to increase your comfort., Mental relaxation can be just as important to a good night's sleep as physical relaxation. Positive visualization helps drive away negative thoughts in order to help you relax. For this exercise, think about your favorite place, which doesn't have to be a real place. You can also relive a good or happy memory. Try to recall the smells, sounds, and feelings of the place, or make them up if your place is imagined.


For example, if your visualization take place at a snowy cabin, you may want to recreate the sounds of a serene, snowy natural expanse, smell the fire burning in the fireplace, or stand outside and hold a handful of snow.
After some practice, you will be able to get yourself there without so much work, but the early visualization of these small details can be helpful.