 When you’re with other people, split up and mingle. Try your best to stay engaged in the conversation. If you find yourself zoning out and looking around for your crush, the potential for love is there. If you catch them stealing a glance at you, the feeling might be mutual.
 Consider involuntary responses when you’re around your crush. Look out for rapid heart rate, hot flashes, shaky hands, and sweaty palms. Notice whether you suddenly clam up out of fear of what to say. Reactions like these signal lust and infatuation, not love., Consider how often you share your possessions with this person (or how prepared you are to do so). Imagine they want to borrow that rare vinyl album you just bought at auction. If you share or are willing to share, it could be love., This doesn’t mean giving up your career plans or letting your crush take advantage of you. It does mean giving a little to brighten their day. Think about the last time this person was sick. If you canceled your weekend binge-watching to take care of them, you could be in love. On the other hand, if your first reaction was to complain, it’s infatuation at best., Love makes you feel comfortable. In relaxed situations, you’re likely to imitate the other person’s actions, even if you’re not aware of it. Make a mental note if you catch yourself taking a sip of coffee almost at the exact same time they do. It’s not a surefire sign of love, but it increases the likelihood., This is especially important when your crush succeeds at something you’ve failed at. For example, they were awarded the promotion you were vying for. If your first reaction is to throw a party, you’re likely in love. On the other hand, if you mumble a disappointed “That’s nice” and avoid them the rest of the day, it’s just infatuation., Think about the number of friends and family members you’ve introduced this person to (or want to introduce them to). Ask yourself how important it is that they like this person. If you’ve introduced them to your best friend(s) and closest family members, and if you really want them to like this person, you could be in love.