 Whether you want to use the pavers for pathways, stepping stones, walkways or edges, visualize how they will look on your property to get an idea of what you will be shopping for.;
, Most pavers are made from natural stone, brick or concrete. Manufactured pavers are also available, and each piece can interlock with the others.


Choose stone pavers for a more decorative look. These decorative pavers are often more expensive. They are typically used in gardens, and as stepping stones on pathways.
Choose brick pavers for driveways, pathways or edging along a patio. They are versatile and uniform in size and shape.
 Pavers are colored during the manufacturing process.


Keep a natural look with earth tones such as terracotta or chocolate brown shades. Pavers also come in rust colors, sandy gold shades and different tones of white.
Consider the colors that will surround the pavers. Blend different colors if you want, such as reds and greens.



Choose something versatile, such as herringbone, which is a zigzag pattern, or a basket-weave pattern, which pairs the pavers in horizontal and vertical directions.
Consider more complex patterns, such as circular designs or a fan pattern, which includes arches and looks good on a walkway or driveway.
 Talk to sales associates and customer service representatives about instructions on laying your pavers.
 Most pavers can be easily maintained. Ask a sales professional or garden design expert what you need to do to keep your pavers looking good for a long period of time.
 Measure the space that you will install the pavers so you are sure to buy enough.


Buy an extra supply of patio pavers in case you need to replace 1 or 2 that may become damaged or worn.
 Take a look at the supply of patio pavers available, and compare the different materials and colors.
 Searching the Internet might provide you with additional options.
 Your patio pavers will need to withstand traffic from people and animals, as well as your patio furniture. Make sure you can return them if you change your mind.

