 Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Experian is required to give you a copy of your report if you request it.


You may request one free copy once a year. Additional copies will cost a fee which under federal law may not be more than $12.You also may request a free copy if you received a notice that you were denied credit.You can order a copy of your Experian report by calling 1-866-200-6020 or by mailing a written request to P.O. Box 2002, Allen, Texas, 75013. You will receive your report by mail.;
, Double-check each entry on your credit report against your own records and make sure it's correct. If it's not, write down why. You will need this information when you file your dispute.
 Experian provides a web-based system where you can report disputes using the information directly from your credit report.


You must order a credit report to use Experian's online dispute system. When ordering a credit report online Experian requires you to pay a $1 fee with your credit card. It's important that you call the toll free number afterwards and cancel your subscription or they will continue to charge your credit card. If you have a paper copy, you can access the system using the report number located near your name on the report, if you do not have a credit report you can use your personal information. If you want to dispute without a credit report, you can still submit your dispute online at experian.com/upload., Experian's system shows you one section of your report at a time. When you find the item you believe to be inaccurate, click it to display more detail. If you want to dispute it, click the dispute button., Experian provides an information section titled "Tell me more about dispute reasons" that explains what each of the reasons means and provides tips on how to dispute credit report information.


Once you're satisfied you've selected the most accurate reason, you can add any further explanation, such as additional facts or details, before clicking the "Add to Cart" button.
You will need to repeat this action for each item you wish to dispute, if there is more than one inaccuracy on your report., After you've successfully entered all your dispute requests, use the navigation bar at the top of the page to go to your cart. Review everything you've entered, then click the "Submit" button.


Enter your email address when you submit and Experian will send you an email notification when the results of the investigation are ready for you to see., Experian sends notice to the company that provided the disputed information as soon as your dispute is received. The source company then has 30 days to verify the information. When you receive your email notification, you can log back into your Experian user account to see the results.