 Before completing your adoption dossier, you'll have already compiled a variety of documents for other parts of the adoption process. Most of these documents will go into your dossier. However, these documents cannot simply be thrown in an adoption dossier. They all need to be notarized, certified, apostilled, and authenticated.


To get a document notarized and then certified, you need a Notary Public. Notary Publics are officials appointed by the state to serve as impartial witnesses to a variety of acts in order to prevent fraud. You can contact a Notary Public through the state department and have them notarize your documents and certify they are not fraudulent. Make sure you know when their term expires. You need someone whose term lasts at least a year.You will then need your documents reviewed by the governmental body that registered the Notary. An apostille is a seal said government body puts on a document to confirm that your Notary's signature and license are valid.Once a government official has looked at the Notary's signature and the apostille seal, they will attach a piece of paper to your document with their authorization and signature. This means your documents are notarized, certified, apostilled, and authenticated. They are ready to go into your dossier., Dossier requirements vary from agency to agency and state to sate. However, most dossiers should include the following:


Health information about the adoptive parents
Financial information
Adoption petition and post placement agreement from your adoption agency
Copies of birth certificates and marriage licenses (single parents only need their birth certificates)
Any forms related to confirming your citizenship
Employment verification
Certificates regarding a completed home study
Criminal background check results
Copy of your most recent Federal Tax Return
Copies of your passport
Photographs of your family, friends, pets, and house, Compiling an adoption dossier is a stressful process. Small mistakes can result in the delay of an adoption, and many parents would prefer to hire a professional.


Hiring someone to complete a dossier for you can cost $800 to $1,000. Many companies specialize in compiling dossiers for prospective adoptive parents. Your adoption agency should be able to recommend a company for you.While you can compile a dossier yourself, many parents feel overwhelmed by the prospect of assuring they have proper documentation and authorization. Easily overlooked mistakes can translate to major issues in regards to successfully completing the adoption process. However, if you feel confident in your organizational skills you might want to save your money as adoption fees are already expensive.