 People who have this disorder often seem very shy, inhibited, or tense. They may spend most of their time alone and seem to have few friends, although they may wish for close relationships. Avoidant personality disorder can lead to social isolation and loneliness.Avoidant personality disorder is not the same thing as simply being shy. Some shyness is normal and doesn’t usually have a negative effect on a person’s life, but avoidant personality disorder can damage a person’s relationships, self-esteem, and ability to work or go to school.
For example, people with avoidant personality disorder feel an innate sense of inadequacy. No matter how much you might try to lift up your loved one, they will likely never feel "good enough."
People with avoidant personality disorder might be adverse to the work environment. This might be because they are fearful of criticism, disapproval, or rejection. Further, they may be unwilling to get involved with people unless they are certain they are going to be liked.
 Avoidant personality disorder is a complex condition that affects a person’s thoughts and behaviors in all aspects of their life. The deep-seated habits and thought patterns of avoidant personality disorder are caused by multiple genetic, environmental, and social factors.Because avoidant personality disorder is so central to the way a person thinks and acts, it is difficult to get rid of the condition entirely; however, cognitive behavioral therapy can help people with this disorder learn coping strategies for a more fulfilling life.
Learning the resistant nature of personality disorders may influence how you choose to move forward with the relationship. If it's a significant other, you may decide that you can't handle their insecure behavior and want to move on. If it's a best friend, you may feel that this person's tendency to isolate keeps you from making other friends. Knowing more about the disorder can help guide your decisions about the future of your relationship with this person.
 Talking with other people whose lives have been affected by avoidant personality disorder can provide a sense of community and understanding. People who understand what you’re going through can help you understand avoidant personality disorder better and find strategies for helping someone with the condition.Attending a support group can also be helpful for those who have avoidant personality disorder, but many people with this condition prefer not to meet others face-to-face. For a low-pressure alternative, help your loved one find an online support group.

