 This isn't really necessary, but with bigger dens you can fit more rooms in. If you can afford it, the princess castle is a great choice for girls, or just the normal castle for boys. These two dens are best if you want more than one kid. If a non member, a small den will work just the same if you have bamboo walls to separate the rooms.;
, It's obvious what colors/outfit you have to wear, something nice and under 1000 gems. For members, wear a tutu in any color, a flower to match and a necklace. Non Member's could d wear a plain flower, a dog color and maybe a friendship bracelet.
 Go to a full server. Go to the pillow room, check quickly if there's any kids saying anything cute, (e.g: "Cuddles with bunny plushie". "Plays with necklace saying, (enter fake name here)"). If the pillow room is empty or you need another look, click options, change to a different server. Repeat the step until you find a kid that you like!

, Crystal Sands and Mt.Shiveer are great places to go!. Go to options, change to an empty server, tell your child to follow you to Jamaa township/coral canyons to pretend your going to the airport (you'll more than likely to be send to either of the worlds), Then ask them to follow you to which ever world you are going to stay in. The best part about this is, is that you don't have to go home right away to sleep, use the huts and pretend there hotels!. This also works with the cruise ship party.
 This is something great you can do when the dinner party is on. A little like the last step, except consider you instead go to a full server.
 Pets are great for kids, especially for their birthday. Usually its the same as the third step, pick any pet that matches your kid's personality. Warning about this step: Dogs and Cats do run away to be wild, usually with adult pets/female dogs or cats with kittens. I'm not saying adopting an adult dog is a bad thing, but it might be if your child and pet have a bond. I suggest adopting puppies and kittens, as they're more innocent and less likely to run away.
 Probably the most important step. I know its hard to think of stuff to do with your kids when your not outside, but imagine if you were babysitting in real life, you would have to change their diaper, feed them food, put them to sleep, etc. Now, dialog should be easy if you're being realistic, (e.g: For bedtime, "(Change them into pyjamas). "(Turns off den music)". "(Turns off TV/turns on night light)".)

, Usually its less likely someone will be advertising their school in jamaa township, but that's okay. Let them go to different classes in each different world. (e.g: medical centre is health class, Brady's Lab in temple of zios is science, etc)

, While their in school, try pick any job. Maybe be a doctor in the medical centre, or a store owner in any store in jamaa. Maybe even own you're own business (restaurant, beauty salon, etc.)

