

You could also say “Estoy bien,” meaning, “I am well.” Estoy—pronounced ehs-toy—is the first person singular or “I” conjugation of the “to be” verb “estar.”
To be polite, follow your response with the word "gracias," pronounced grah-see-us. This interjection means “thanks,” and suggests to the other individual that you are happy or grateful that he or she asked how you were.
If you feel really great, say "muy bien.” Muy, pronounced moo-ee, is an adverb meaning “very.”

, This word translates into “bad” or “poorly.”


Pronounce the word as mahl.

As with bien, you can also answer “Estoy mal” to mean “I am doing poorly” or “Muy mal” to mean “Very bad.” You would not generally follow the statement with “gracias,” however.
 This phrase is generally regarded to mean “so-so” or “okay.”


Translated more directly, the phrase actually means “more or less.” Más means “more,” o means “or,” and menos means “less.”
The pronunciation for this phrase is mahs oh meh-nohs.

Pronounce the phrase as may see-en-toh.
 This translates literally into “a little tired.”



Poco means “little.”

Cansado means “tired” or “sleepy.”
The -o or -a ending depends on your gender. If you are male, say “un poco cansado.” If you are female, say “un poco cansada.
Pronounce “un poco cansado” as oon po-ko kahn-sah-doh.

Pronounce “un poco cansada” as oon po-ko kahn-sah-dah.
 This phrase literally means, “I am sick” or “I am ill.”



Estoy is the “I” conjugation of the verb “estoy,” meaning “to be.”

Enfermo is an adjective meaning “sick” or “ill.” The ending will change from -o to -a depending on your gender. If you are male, use “enfermo.” If you are female, use “enferma.”
Pronounce “estoy enfermo” as ehs-toy en-fer-moh. Say en-fer-mah for “enferma.”

, This question literally translates into, “and you?”


Use this question after someone has asked you how you are and you have given your response. By doing so, you are returning the question and asking the other person how he or she is.

Y means “and.”

Tú is the familiar way of saying “you.” Note that if you are speaking with someone you are not familiar with, you should use the formal “you” translation, “usted.”
The right pronunciation of “¿y tú?” is ee too. For “¿y usted?,” the pronunciation would be ee oos-tehd.


