 In many parts of the world, the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of TB is a challenge due to health care policy, financial/resource constraints, or overpopulation. This allows TB to go undetected and untreated, causing it to spread. Traveling on an airplane to and from these areas can also harbor the bacteria due to isolated ventilation.


Sub-Saharan Africa
India
China
Russia
Pakistan
Southeast Asia
South America;
, A bad situation can be made even worse if the people around you have poor health background checks or screenings. Conditions to be wary of include:


Prisons
Immigration offices
Retirement/nursing homes
Hospitals/clinics
Refugee camps
Shelters

, If your immune system can't function properly, you're vulnerable to all sorts of infections, including TB. Such conditions include:


HIV/AIDS
Diabetes
End-stage kidney disease
Cancers
Malnutrition
Age (the very young lack developed immune systems, and the aged may have less than optimal immune health)

, While some cancers put you at higher risk for TB, so too does the chemotherapy treatment for cancer. Long-term use of steroids, as well as drugs to prevent the rejection of transplanted organs can also affect immune function. So too can drugs used to treat autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's and Ulcerative Colitis), and psoriasis.
 Our body's natural response is to remove the irritant by coughing. Figure out how long you've been coughing; TB usually lasts for more than 3 weeks and may include such worrisome signs as bloody sputum.


Consider how long you've taken over the counter cold/flu medications or antibiotics for a respiratory infection with no relief. TB needs very specific antibacterial drugs, and to start therapy requires screening and confirming TB.
 If it smells and is dark, it can be any type of bacterial infection. If it's clear and odorless, it can be a viral infection. Take notice if there's been any blood when coughing into your hands or tissues. When TB cavities and nodules form, nearby blood vessels may get destroyed, leading to hemoptysis — coughing up blood.


You should always seek expert medical advice when you cough up blood. He or she will be able to advise you on how to proceed., If you feel a sharp pain, it can you point to a specific, localized area. Note particularly if it hurts when you apply pressure to that area, or if it hurts when you breath in and out or when you cough.


TB forms hard cavities and nodules against the lungs/chest wall. When we breath, these hard masses cause damage to the area, leading to inflammation at the site. Pain tends to be sharp, localized to a specific area, and reproducible when we put pressure on it.
 The body has a complex response to the Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria that results in poor nutrient absorption and altered protein metabolism.These changes might persist for months without your noticing them.


Look in the mirror and note any changes to your body. If you can see the outline of your bones, this indicates you don't have enough muscle mass due to lack of protein and fat.
Measure your weight on a scale. Use a previous but recent weight from when you were feeling healthy as a comparison. Weight changes vary, but you should address any drastic changes with your healthcare provider.
Note whether your clothes feel looser
Keep track of how often you've been eating and compare it to when you last felt healthy.
 Bacteria usually reproduce at around normal body temperature (98.6 F). The brain and immune system respond by raising the body's temperature to stop the bug from reproducing. The rest of the body detects this change, then attempts to adjust to this new temperature by contracting muscles (shivers), making you feel chills. TB also causes specific inflammatory proteins that aid in fever production to be produced., A latent TB infection is dormant and not infectious. The bacteria simply resides in body with no harm. Reactivation can occur in those with reduced immunity, as listed above. It can also occur with increased age due to weakening of the immune system. Reactivation sometimes also occurs for other, unknown reasons., You don't want to wait out a simple cold virus only to find out that you have something more serious on your hands. To differentiate between TB and other conditions, ask yourself the following questions:


Is there clear mucus liquid dripping from my nose? A cold will cause congestion/inflammation of the nose and lungs that leads to mucus dripping or running out from the nose. TB will not present with a runny nose.
What is being produced by my coughing? Viral infections and the flu tend to have a dry cough or produce a white mucus. Bacterial infections found in the lower respiratory tract produce brownish sputum. TB, though, typically produces a cough over 3 weeks and can produce a hallmark bloody sputum.
Am I sneezing? TB does not cause sneezing. This is usually a sign of the cold or flu.
Do I have a fever? TB can cause a fever of all levels, but those who have the flu typically have fevers of more than 100.4°.
Do my eyes appear watery/itchy? The cold typically presents with these symptoms, but not TB.
Do I have a headache? The flu typically presents with headaches.
Do I have joint and/or body aches? The cold and flu can cause this but it is more severe with the flu.
Do I have a sore throat?Look inside your throat and see if it appears red, swollen and painful when swallowing. This is seen mainly with cold but can appear with the flu as well.
 Even if these TB symptoms don't result in a TB diagnosis, they might point to other severe illness. Many conditions, both harmless and dangerous, can cause chest pain, but you should always report it and allow a doctor to perform an EKG exam.


Consistent weight loss might indicate malnutrition or cancer.
When combined with bloody cough, weight loss can more specifically suggest lung cancer.
High fever and chills can also be caused by an underlying blood infection or sepsis, though this usually causes a drop in blood pressure, dizziness, delirium and high heart rate.If left untreated, it can be potentially deadly, or lead to severe dysfunction.
The doctors will order IV antibiotics and blood work looking at the white blood cells (immune cells that fight infection).
 Those starting work in a healthcare environment require a test followed by yearly screening. If you're traveling to or returning from at-risk countries, have decreased immunity, or work or live in crowded, poorly ventilated conditions, you should also get screened. Simply make an appointment with your primary care doctor to get tested for TB.


A latent TB infection will not cause any symptoms or sickness, and cannot be spread to other people. However, five to ten percent of people with a latent TB infection will eventually develop TB., The doctor will clean the area with a cotton swab and water, then inject you with a purified protein derivative (PPD) near the top of your skin. A small bump will appear from the liquid injection. Do not cover the location with a bandage as this may alter the liquid in place. Instead, give the liquid a few hours to be absorbed.


If you have antibodies to TB, it will react to the PPD and form an "induration" (thickening or swelling around the area).
Note that it is not the redness that gets measured but the size of the induration. After 48 to 72 hours you will return to the doctor for measurement of the induration.
 However, any induration over that size indicates that the patient has TB. If you have no risk factors for TB, an induration of up to 15mm (0.59 inches) is considered a negative result. However, if you have any of the risk factors listed earlier in this article, an induration of up to 10 mm (0.39 inches) is considered negative for screening. If any of the following describes you, an induration of up to 5 mm is considered a negative result:


Immunosuppressive drugs like chemotherapy
Chronic steroid use
HIV infection
Close contact with a TB-positive individual
Organ transplant patients
Those who show fibrotic changes on a chest x-ray

, However, it does cost more to perform. If your doctor opts for this test, he will take a sample of your blood and send it to a lab for analysis. Your results should be ready within 24 hours, and a subsequent appointment will be made to go over test results. A high level of interferon (determined by a preset normal range by the lab) is a positive result that indicates you have TB.
 To determine whether you have active TB, your healthcare provider will order a chest x-ray. A patient with a normal chest x-ray will be diagnosed with a latent TB infection and given preventive treatment. An abnormal chest x-ray on top of a positive skin or blood test indicates active TB.


The doctor will also order a sputum culture. A negative result indicates latent TB infection, and a positive result indicates TB.
Note that sputum can be difficult to collect from infants and young children, and diagnosis is often made without it for children., If the x-ray and sputum cultures confirm active tuberculosis, your doctor will prescribe a multi-drug regimen.However, if the x-ray is negative, patients are considered to have latent TB. Follow your doctor's treatment directions carefully to prevent latent TV from becoming active. TB is an infection that is reported to the CDC, and treatment may include Directly Observed Therapy (DOT), which consists of a healthcare worker observing a patient take each dose.
 The BCG vaccine may decrease the risk of infection, but does not eliminate it. BCG vaccination causes a false-positive PPD test, so individuals who have been vaccinated should be screened for TB with the IGRA blood test.


The BCG vaccine is not recommended in the US, which has a low incidence of TB, because of its interference with PPD screening. However, individuals from other, less developed countries are commonly vaccinated.

