 Don’t limit your breeder search to only local facilities. You should expect to travel a bit to investigate facilities and look at potential puppies. Good breeders will allow you to visit at least once (often multiple times) with your family in tow. Anticipate these travel costs when you consider purchasing a purebred puppy.You can also use these visits as an opportunity for the breeder to teach your children about the correct treatment of puppies. Most breeders are more than happy to help children understand the basics of puppy ownership., Make sure to inspect the entire breeding facility in person. Walk around the grounds by yourself or with an escort. Check to see if the dogs have plenty of room for exercise and general comfort. Look to see if they are protected from the weather. Don’t forget to look at the indoor boarding areas as well., A little dirt here and there is normal, but you are looking for overall sanitary conditions. Pay particular attention to the food and water areas. Do the bowls look clean and fresh? Locate the toilet area. Are the feces picked up or just left to rot? The kennel area, in general, should be odor free., Check to see that the dog’s appear clean and lively. Their faces should be free of sores or mucus. No runny eyes or noses. The puppies, in particular, should be a bit plump. Protruding ribs can be a sign of malnutrition or disease.Pay attention to the mental needs of the animals as well. Do they have opportunities to socialize? Do you see toys present? Do they have an area in which to exercise?Watch how the dogs respond and react to the breeder. Are they excited or do they seem wary? This can give you an idea about how they are treated when visitors are not around.
 You should, at a minimum, spend some quality time with the puppy’s mother (also called a dam). Observe the mom’s behavior to see how your future puppy might behave. See if she is friendly and well-socialized. If you get a chance to interact with the father as well it is even better.Be aware that some breeders try to pass off any female dog as the dam. Look for enlarged mammary glands on the mother to get a bit more reassurance., Spend some time with the puppy in a group setting and alone. When your puppy is amongst its littermates, see how it treats the other puppies and how it is treated as well. You want a puppy that is neither a bully nor shy. Watch how your puppy reacts to interesting objects or smells. It should be inquisitive and curious, but a bit cautious too.Take a photo of your puppy for future reference. This will also help to ensure that you actually receive the final puppy that you’ve agreed upon.

