 That's the least thing you can do. If you give up, you are not being mature enough to think about the consequences of failing your exams and future.;
, A lot of students feel "stressed" because they leave everything for the last minute. Start preparing months or weeks before, so you wouldn't consume a lot of information in one day in your mind, because you would be in a hurry to finish all the syllabus, and therefore, it would be impossible to remember everything in a few hours. Leave the last few days for revision, so you would have everything prepared for the exam.
 It's just an exam. There's nothing to be scared of. If you plan your study time well and be prepared, you would go for the exam very confident. Exams are not something to be "stressed" or "tense" about. There are other serious problems in our world which are considered as "stressful." Exams are nothing compared to these situations. If you start preparing weeks / months before, you wouldn't have problems.
 Sleep and let your mind relax for sometime. It helps a lot.
 Think about the results you want to achieve and your future career. Your exams depend on your future. The more qualifications you have, the better chance you will find a great job! So, think about exams in this way. Your exams are important events in your life, because they are the key to the next stage in your studies / life. Every exam you do helps you to grow up more which should make you more confident during your studies. Therefore, if you feel like giving up or starting to feel nervous or panic, calm down and think; think about these benefits of exams and the effects that they will leave in your nearby future. If you look at the negative side of exams, there is a risk of forgetting the points in your exam, and you don't want to receive a bad result, do you?

, Take away / switch off the things which may distract you; your mobile phones, computer, games, etc, because it would be difficult to concentrate, and start working! If you do this everyday or frequently, you would get used to it and it becomes a routine, which helps you improve your studies faster! And by the way, you don't have to lock yourself in your room 24 hours to study! It is very important to take a 1 -hour or 2-hour break after hours of studying. Divide your studies between different times of the day, for example; 2 hours in the morning, 3 hours in the afternoon and 2 hours in the evening. During your breaks you can take the initiative to do other things which help you relax, but when it is time to study, don't waste time!

, Your life depends on your actions and not what others tell you. You are mature enough to realize what is good or bad. Every person teaches us something in our life, whether if he is a good or bad person. So, look at the negative comments of people as a "lesson" or "guide" in your life, because they teach you to do the opposite, because if you follow the negative comments, you might regret it later in life.
 If at this current moment your priority is to study, work on it. Study, study and study. Because you cannot bring back the time you waste. If you waste time, you might regret it later, so make sure to make the right choices.
 Throw away the things that distract you, yes "throw away".
 It will just increase your stress and will only harm you.
 Be positive there. Don't think about previous exams like "I had bad marks there" get a new start there are lots of exams going to come so stay positive.
 Especially your diet. Your body also supports you during the exams so you need full potential for that.
 Jump from negative to positive attitude. Even a slight positive attitude helps.
 Think of the exam time. You scored good marks and are happy after the test. This can calm you down.

