 Without this information, there is no purpose in riding the metro.Make note of the Metro stops in the relative area of the location in which you are travelling to. Read the map to find this information.


There will a sign indicating where Metro exits will be located on the street, but it saves a lot of time and guesswork to plan out your trip and to be familiar with the surrounding stops before you enter the city.;
, The Washington Metro isn't open 24/7, so be sure to make other travel arrangements if you need to travel in DC outside of operating hours.


Make sure you leave plenty of time to return to your final stop before the Metro closes.
Check for expected closures and disruptions in the Metro operating schedule using their website.
 In some locations outside the city, you can expect to find outside parking lots that aren't covered with an overhang, while those inside you'll need to find their parking garage or nearest parking area that is designated by Metro. (You will need to pay to exit). You may also ride the Metro bus or a taxi to and from the Metro station.


Note which entrance you used to enter the Metro station so you can exit the same way. There are multiple exits in the Metro.



Use the map near the ticket purchasing area to determine:

Which color line your destination is on
How many stops until your final destination
If and when you will need to switch to a different color line



, A balance may be kept on the card, which cuts down travel time, but the rides are a bit pricier so buy it only if you intend to use the Metro frequently.
To purchase a ticket, follow the directions on the display window of the ticket machine. You can buy a Smartcard with a machine next to the ticket machine.

Determine the amount that needs to be on your Metro pass


On the ticket machine there is a table that corresponds to the amount it will cost to travel to a specific stop at specific times. Use this table to determine the exact amount of the trip by adding together the cost of the trip into DC and the trip back from DC.
 Put your pass in a safe spot, as you'll need it at your exit point. Only use the gates which have a lit-up green arrow. The gates which have a red circle on them are used for exiting and will not accept your pass.
 Be ready to retrieve your ticket from the top-side of the machine. (It'll go in one side and straight out the other.)


Observe the digital screen by the ticket slot in the gate to be certain that your ticket was read. If the ticket is not read on entry, you will not be able to exit the Metro station. Do not hesitate to walk through it because it will close fast.
There is an information booth with sometimes a station attendant (Stationmaster) near the ticket gate where you can ask for assistance or further information.
 There are signs that state the color of the line and the last stop of that line to indicate with direction the Metro train is travelling in. These signs have arrows that indicate in which direction you should proceed.


On the platform there are digital signs that state which train is coming on which line and how long it will be until the train arrives. It'll also say when the train boards, and will also tell you when it departs, though you can tell by the way the train looks at that time, when these other actions have taken place.
Some metro stops are a part of multiple lines. The color of the line will be displayed digitally on the Metro train. Pay attention to what color the line the train you are about to board belongs to. This will ensure that you board the right train and reach your final destination without having to backtrack.
If the station has the red line in addition to any other lines, the red line will be upstairs, and the others will be on the lower platform.
At L'Enfant station - the station with the most lines running through it - the green and yellow lines are upstairs, while the blue and orange are downstairs.
 When the train comes, the lights on the platform next to the track will begin to blink. This would be a good time to take a few steps back if you are close to the track, because the train comes in at a high speed.
 If you are getting off within a couple of stops, try to find a place near the door.


Note the direction that the train came in. If you are prone to motion-sickness, it may be beneficial to sit in the direction the train is moving.



The next stop is announced by overhead speakers (but is not always clear) or use the map located in each Metro car.
By looking through the car windows, note the signs on the platform or on the wall of the tunnel that indicate the stop you’re at.
, Following the crowd in this case can actually be beneficial for finding the exit area, but do not follow the crowd blindly, or you may end up exiting at the wrong exit.


Note the street on which you are exiting before you exit the ticket gate. If it is not the street exit you had planned on, it may be difficult to orient yourself or find the street you need.
Only use the gates which have a lit-up green arrow. The gates which have a red circle on them are used for entering and will not accept your pass. Insert your ticket or swipe your Smartcard.
If you do not have enough money on your card to exit there should be a few ticket booths located on the train side of the station platform that you can purchase additional fare or buy another ticket or add money to your pass.

