 Curtain hems are folded twice at the bottom, so you will need twice as much fabric for the hem. This means that you will need to cut your curtains longer than you want them to be. The longer the curtain is, the wider the hem needs to be; this will help make it look more proportionate.


Standard curtains have a 3 to 4 inch (7.62 10.16 centimeters) wide hem. You'll need to cut your curtains 6 to 8 inches (15.24 to 20.32 centimeters) longer than you want them to be.Shorter curtains might look better with a 2 inch (5.08 centimeter) wide hem. Cut your curtains 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) longer than you want them to be.Longer curtains, such as floor to ceiling, might look better with a 5 inch (12.7 centimeter) wide hem. Cut your curtains 10 inches (25.4 centimeters) longer than you want them to be.;
, Because of their size, it might be easier to spread your curtains on the floor. If you have a very large table and a small curtain, however, you can work on the table.
 How far you fold it up depends on how wide you want your hem to be. For example, if you want a 4 inch (10.16 centimeters) wide hem, fold the bottom up by 4 inches (10.16 centimeters). Use sewing pins to hold the fabric in place while you iron it. Be sure to remove the pins when you are done ironing.
 Be sure that you are folding it up by the same amount as last time. For example, if you just folded your hem up by 4 inch (10.16 centimeters) earlier, fold it up by that same amount again. Pin the hem in place and press it flat with an iron. You have just folded your double hem.
 The lining is usually hemmed on its own. It is tucked into the side hems, but not into the bottom hem. Click here to learn how to hem a curtain lining.
 Cut a piece of hem tape slightly shorter than the width of your curtain.Slip it inside the hem, right between the back of the curtain and the folded hem. Align the top of the hem tape with the top of the folded hem. Iron the hem down. Press down with the iron for 10 seconds at a time before moving on to the next section.Most hem tapes will require a wool setting. Different brands will require different settings, however. Refer to the packaging from your hem tape for the proper setting.To prevent the fabric from burning, consider placing a damp cloth between the iron and the curtain.Some hem tapes have adhesive on one side, and a paper back on the other. You will need to iron it twice: first with the paper backing on, and then with the paper backing peeled off.You may find hem tape also labeled as stitch-witchery, iron-on hem tape, or fusible fabric tape.
 Try to sew as close to the top folded edge as you can. Use a color that matches the curtain color as closely as possible.

