 To save power, many computers go into sleep mode after a certain time of inactivity. If you leave the desk for long enough that your screen saver comes on, it’s a giveaway that you’ve been gone awhile. Turn the sleep mode off so that the screen always looks like you just left.Make sure to leave a few windows open so it appears that you were working on something right before you left your desk. Never leave anything like a shopping site or a game open on your computer when you leave.
Another option if you work on the computer is to leave something open that says “Loading” or “Installing,” because this gives you a good reason to leave your desk.
 Fill your work area with several projects that you are in the process of doing. Cover your desk with open binders, highlighted reports, tools, or partially unpacked merchandise. If it appears that you are working on something, people who walk by will assume you’ll be right back.Don’t leave the same fake setup every day or people will start to notice.
If you sort through a box of items, leave piles halfway sorted.
 If you walk away from your desk empty-handed, it’s going to look more like you’re not doing anything. Carry a binder, a notebook, or a small stack of papers so it looks like you’re on your way to meet someone. In other settings, carry a tool, a box of merchandise, or a piece of equipment.The best thing to carry will be determined by what your job is. Don’t carry the same prop every day or it will begin to be obvious that it’s a prop.
Choose something that is easy to carry and can be set down and picked up without too much effort.
A small item will make you look busy while not drawing too much attention.
 Think of a work-related topic, like a recent policy change or a big project your firm is working on, and go discuss it with someone. When you go chat with the person, mention the work related thing, but talk about other things to use up more time. If you make up a fake topic, make sure it seems real enough to be a good cover.


Mention what you are doing to someone who works next to you to establish the alibi.
Say, "I wanted to double check and make sure both of our departments were on the same page about the new ad campaign. I know it's an important issue and I’d hate to have any mix-ups."

, Asking questions about projects, tasks, company policies, job duties, promotion opportunities, or anything else related to your job, is a great way to seem highly engaged while not actually working. This is especially useful during transition periods because it makes sense to ask a lot of questions.Be careful what questions you ask because you don’t want to sound incompetent at the job you’re required to do.
For example, ask a boss if they have copies of designs that your current client has previously requested. When she shows them to you, find things about them to discuss further.

