 Most overnight guest-hosting is a matter of common courtesy; however, the level of access that you give your guests will vary depending who's staying. If you are hosting family or close friends—people that you know and trust—you may invite them to feel at home in your space. If you are hosting a stranger (say, through AirBnB or Couchsurfing.org), you should still be a courteous host, but it may a greater risk to give them the sort of access that you'd give your family.


If you're hosting an AirBnB guest, you may not be around the house when they're around. You may even be away on a trip. Make sure to leave plenty of notes around to help your guests understand the way you want things done.
 Make sure that there are plenty of clean towels, if possible. Provide a neutral-smelling soap for you guest to use in the shower, and consider setting aside a basic but neutral mid-range shampoo and conditioner for you guest to use.


If he/she has a private room, place all of these toiletries on a bedside table with a note saying "If you need anything else, don't hesitate to ask." If your guest will have a private bathroom, you can just leave the toiletries in the bathroom., You never know how someone will feel about the temperature in your home; some like it hot, and some do not. Do not assume that your guest will be comfortable just because you are. Consider leaving an extra blanket in a dresser, at the foot of the bed, or on the top shelf of a closet., Leave an iron and an ironing board in the closet or corner of the guest bedroom. Show your guests your laundry machines, if you own any, or tell them where they can clean their clothes if need be (say, there's a laundromat down the street). If your guests have traveled a long distance, they might want to freshen up their clothes, and they might need a wash.
 If you wake up early, leave a note on the bedside table saying that you eat breakfast at 7:00 am (or whatever time), and you'd be happy to have your guest join. You may also simply coordinate breakfast plans with your guest at night before you go to sleep. Make sure to mention what's on the menu for breakfast.If your guest doesn't like eating breakfast or doesn't want to rise early, you have several options: invite her to use your kitchen, give her a tip about a local breakfast spot, or leave a simple breakfast spread out on the counter for her. Consider leaving some warm baked goods along with butter and jam for your guest to snack on until lunchtime.
It's important to make a guest feel special, but there is a fine line between feeling special and feeling like a stranger in a loved one's home. You need not change your entire family's routine to accommodate your guest.
 Encourage guests to help themselves to food, snacks, to go out for a walk, and to make themselves at home. Show them how to find essential amenities like tea, coffee, snacks, internet access and wifi.As a household host, you aren't there to wait on your guest, but to include them in your household routines. Offering to take them out to see local sites or to go on a hike is great, but don't push it if they just want to chill around the house.
 If you have time, show your guest around your area. Introduce her to local friends, steer her through the sights, and try to give her a good impression of what it's like to live where you live. If you don't have time to spend the whole day with her (say, you have work or school), give her a bit of direction for her explorations, or invite her to hang out at your place until you return.


If your guest wants to explore on her own: don't feel obligated to let her use your car, but consider loaning her a bicycle or a bus pass to get around. Tell her the most effective way to use public transportation. Suggest things that she needs to see, and tell her you'll meet her somewhere after work.
Try to ensure that your guest isn't bored. However, it's not your responsibility to spend every waking moment worrying about whether she's enjoying her stay.

