 The first thing that you have to do is open up your preferred Internet browser. Find the icon in your Start menu and click on it to open a new browser.


Alternatively, you can double-click on its icon on the desktop if you have it there.;
, Once you get the browser open click on the address bar towards the top of the screen and type in www.youtube.com to access the main page of YouTube.
 Now you need to log into your account, which can be done by clicking the blue “Sign in” button in the top-right corner. The sign-in page will ask for your e-mail address and password. Click each box respectively and type in your information.


When you are finished typing in your details, click the blue “Sign in” button below your password.
 Click on the picture of your chosen profile picture at the top-right corner of the screen. This will cause a box menu to appear below it. Click the gear icon to go to your Settings page.



You can now start adjusting the email settings on your account.
 There are three things you can edit here:


Set how often you want to receive subscription emails—YouTube can email you a summary of all your subscriptions, and if you click the drop-down menu for this option, you can select how often you want to receive these emails by clicking on the option that suits you best.
Get notifications for YouTube events—If you want to receive emails when there is a YouTube Live Event just tick the check box next to this option.
Get notifications for when you subscribe to new channels—If you want to receive notifications whenever you subscribe to a new channel, just tick the check box next to this option.
 You have 6 options to choose from under this heading. All are check boxes, just tick the ones you’d like to get:


“Someone subscribes to my channel”—This is a great way to get an idea of how many subscribers you are getting per day.
“Someone leaves a comment on my channel”—If you keep this, and the next two options, checked, you will be able to respond much quicker to people who want to get in touch with you.
“Someone leaves a comment on my private video or responds to my comments on a private video.”
“I receive a private message.”
“My video upload is complete”—This will give you an idea on how long it takes to upload a video with your connection.
“Community actions are updated or require my attention”—This is especially useful if you are active in the YouTube community.
 There are 3 choices depending on what newsletter you want to receive from YouTube. Again, these are check boxes, just tick on the option you want:


Receive “All YouTube newsletters”
Receive newsletters for “General Updates”
Receive newsletters only for what’s “Popular on YouTube.”

, The next option lets you select the language your email will be in. It is a drop-down menu, so just click on the default language and select the one that suits your email needs.
 The final option is for if you decide you do not want to receive emails from YouTube at all. If you do not want any emails, click the box to check mark it.
 When you are done, scroll to the top of the page and click the blue “Save” button on the right side of the screen. This will save the changes to your account.