 There are about a bajillion ways to do so, and the dialogue you share with your spouse will likely dictate the specifics. That said, there are few things you can say that have particularly romantic potency.Tell your spouse you love them every day.
Add to your “I love you,” with something like, “I’m so glad we married one another.”
Stop whatever you’re doing for a moment and make eye contact to ensure that the statement is genuinely given and fully received.
Give your spouse a call, unexpectedly, just to tell them you love them.;
, Even when you and your spouse are happy together and doing well, it’s easy to end up talking more about what needs to be done, and less about how great you are together. Write a letter to lay out how much you appreciate your partnership together.Start with something about your spouse that made you fall in love with them.
Remind them why you wanted to marry them. Include something specific, such as, “I knew I wanted to marry you when________.”
Articulate your appreciation. Include something along the lines of, “I deeply appreciate you and everything you do for us.”

, When you're looking forward to seeing your spouse again after a day at work or a trip apart, be sure to show and articulate that excitement. Though you may want to avoid approaching them with the exuberance of the family pet, be sure to greet your spouse as soon as you're reunited with both verbal and physical affection.Keep it simple if you want, but be sure to greet your spouse after time apart.
Not only do you want to convey your affection, but greeting a spouse when they return home sets the tone for a positive, loving evening together.
 You can do so subtly, by asking them about things you’ve done before that made them feel especially loved. Based on their response, plan a similarly romantic gesture soon!Alternatively, be explicit. Say something like, “Hey, is there anything I can do for you today?”
Though seemingly simple, reminding your spouse that you’re there for them, and that you want them to be happy, is deeply romantic.

