 Certain nutrients are absolutely essential to the health of your skin. These nutrients will allow your skin to heal effectively following an acne outbreak and will prevent the development of scars. Some of these nutrients include:



Omega-3 fatty acids — Prevents acne by enhancing the production of prostaglandin, a hormone that helps produce healthy cells and prevents inflammation. Foods rich in Omega-3 include salmon, sardines and flax seeds.

Zinc — There are many benefits of zinc for skin health. Zinc can reduce inflammation and scarring, as well as play a part in healing acne outbreaks. Soy, legumes, beans and high protein foods like fish, red and poultry meats are rich sources of zinc.Vitamin A — This essential vitamin contains antioxidants, a vital component of healthy cell growth. Plant sources are the best option to get vitamin A in your diet, because they don't contain saturated fats. Vegetables and fruits like carrots, broccoli, sweet potatoes, cantaloupes, and apricots are high in vitamin A. You can also get vitamin A derivatives (known as retinoids) in the form of topical creams and lotions (see Method 4)., Lemon juice is a natural bleaching agent that can reduce the appearance of scars as well as hydrate and detoxify the skin. The acid in lemon juice works to remove dead skin cells as part of skin healing and also lightens blemishes and hyperpigmentation.You can use lemon juice in homemade scrubs or masks:



Lemon Juice, Sugar, and Honey Scrub: Mix together two tablespoons of honey, one tablespoon of fresh lemon juice, one tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil, and one and 1/2 tablespoons of sugar. Then apply you to your face. Be gentle, since scrubbing could aggravate or irritate your skin. Then rinse.

Lemon Juice, Yogurt, and Turmeric Powder Face Mask: Mix 1/4 teaspoon of turmeric powder to one tablespoon of yogurt. Add a few drops of fresh lemon juice. Stir the mixture to form a paste. Apply this paste to your face and neck. Leave on for 15–20 minutes before rinsing with a warm washcloth., Honey has antibacterial and antifungal properties that can halt bacteria and fungus from exacerbating acne scars. It also helps the pimple dry up faster and may serve as a barrier to moisture. Honey contains many beneficial nutrients and healing properties.



Honey-Cinnamon paste: Mix three tablespoons of honey with one teaspoon of cinnamon (which has astringent and anti-viral properties). The result should be a paste that you then apply to problem areas on the skin. Leave on overnight and rinse off in the morning. Research has suggested that doing this for a period of two weeks can lead to a reduction in mild to moderate acne.Make sure you use old towels over your pillowcase, as this will likely get messy.
 Turmeric is a spice that is commonly used in Pakistani and Indian curries. Turmeric’s main known component is curcumin, a natural antiseptic and antibacterial agent. Turmeric also helps heal and rebuild damaged tissues. Try applying a topical turmeric paste:Take one teaspoon of turmeric and make a thick paste with a few drops of water. Apply on the spots. Leave it on for as long as you can, but for at least thirty minutes. Wash off with normal water.
 Research suggests that tea tree oil applied nightly to freshly cleansed face has similar antibacterial properties to benzoyl peroxide. Make sure to use 100% pure tea tree oil and not the products that contain tea tree oil.


Using a cotton pad or tissue, spill a few drops of tea tree oil into it. Then apply onto the acne spots gently. Leave it for a few hours or overnight to reduce redness and swelling.Repeat nightly to see improvements in your skin.Stop using tea tree oil if you experience redness, swelling, or irritation of your skin, which may occur in people with acne.
 This plant gel has been shown to have healing and anti-inflammatory properties. Aloe is gentle, so you won’t have to worry about it causing additional damage or irritation to your skin. In addition, aloe is a natural moisturizer and will improve the softness of skin as well.Aloe vera gel can be found in any drugstore or pharmacy. You should apply this gel twice daily. However, fresh aloe vera right from the plant is best. Should you choose to use fresh aloe, break off a small piece of a leaf and peel away the outer leaf to expose the gel. Then, massage the gel into your skin. Leave the gel on for at least 30 minutes so it can soak into your skin.