 Some of the strongest bonds begin at an early age. Provide numerous opportunities for your toddler or preschool aged child to meet other children and learn how to get along, share and have fun.


Preschool. Although you plan to homeschool your child, allowing him/her to meet other children in a semi-academic setting can help your child obtain some of the most basic social skills such as listening, sharing and playing.
Mom and tot group. If you prefer to be with your child, plenty of mom and tot type groups are available through numerous sources including churches, gyms or children’s play centers.
Organized sports. Even three-year-olds can join a team or take karate or a dance class. If your child seems to like roughhousing, try pee wee football or soccer. On the other hand, individual sports like dance or karate can also provide him/her with a creative outlet, while meeting other children.
The park. A beautiful day at the park can provide several opportunities for your child to meet other kids and play.;
, Continue the same activities you started in toddlerhood and mandate that each child must have at least one or two special after-school activities.


Select activities that allow your child to develop and grow. Consider a sport or activity that may help him/her obtain a possible scholarship to college or one that your child can build upon such as competitive dance, theater, gymnastics, karate, track or team sports. Also, theater and art courses at the local art studio or theater house can attend to your child’s creative edge.
Choose an activity that provides limitless possibilities. Select a school or league that will allow him/her to advance to a higher level and doesn’t end at a certain grade.
Consider joining a travel team. Some of the strongest bonds are formed between team members who travel together for sports or an activity. Numerous leagues offer travel teams that require the team to travel to different cities and possibly states every weekend. Also, Boy or Girl Scouts provide an unlimited amount of social and travel opportunities.
 Some states require that high school aged children earn service hours in order to graduate. Even if your state doesn’t require service hours, make a personal request that each child earns a certain number of hours performing community service such as assisting at an animal shelter, a retirement community or reading to children in the schools. Community service will teach your child how to be grateful for what he/she has and how to have empathy for others.


Check with your state to determine if your child must have service hours in order to graduate. In many cases, if your child needs hours he/she should begin during freshman year in order to have enough.
Set your own limits. If you don’t have a service hour requirement, balance academics and after school activities with service hour requirements so that your child does not become overloaded. Anywhere from 15 to 30 a year should be a sufficient amount.
 Children learn the majority of their social skills from how their parents interact with others. If you stay inside, away from others, your children may not consider being social an important aspect of growing up and living in modern society. Demonstrate how to be social and how to act.


Engage in your own set of activities. Start a book, garden or a wine club. Invite friends and their children over when you host an event to provide an opportunity for everyone to socialize. You could even host social hour for other home school families and children.
Use certain social situations as a teaching moment. If you were trying to buy groceries and someone rudely pushed past you, demonstrate the correct way to react by calmly reminding the other person that you were in line before him/her. When you get to the car, use the incident as a teaching moment to explain what your child should do if confronted with a similar situation.
Admit when you’ve been wrong or made a mistake. We all can’t be the most eloquent, model of ideal behavior. When you are wrong, admit it and let your children know that you may have made a bad choice in a certain social situation. Your child needs to know that you too are human.
 Consider spending the day at an art museum, the ballet or visit a courthouse.

