 You might want to have a pen and paper journal, or you may opt for a digital journal. Lots of websites allow you to keep online journals and toggle the privacy settings depending on your preferences. It’s up to you whether you want your journal to be private or if you want to share it with other people.Some phone applications are also available as journals. Try out different formats and styles to find what works well for you and your lifestyle. For example, if you like to have a journal on hand, a phone application may be handy. Yet, if you like to journal each morning or night, a pen and paper journal may be preferred.
 Because you will be writing your thoughts and feelings, it’s important for you to feel safe and comfortable in your atmosphere. Find a place that feels comfortable and where you will not be interrupted. You may want to write in your bedroom or at the kitchen table with a cup of tea. Some people like to go to a library or coffee shop to write. Find a place that feels comfortable to you.Don’t choose a place where you know you will be easily distracted. For example, you may not want to write in your living room if you know your children will interrupt you there.
 Get into the habit of journaling as a daily event. You may choose to journal first thing in the morning, after cancer treatments, or before going to bed. Perhaps you want to bring your journal along during treatments or appointments. Find a routine that you can easily follow to allow you to journal regularly.Some people find that journaling first thing in the morning helps to set the tone for a positive, peaceful day while other people find that it makes them too emotional and makes it harder to start the day. Try out different journaling times to find what works best for you.
Find a time when you feel creative and able to write. Make sure you are awake and energized enough to write meaningful content.
 You may want to start writing prompts, move onto free writing, then back to prompts. Don’t force your writing. Instead, let it flow naturally. If you start writing a prompt and then move into free writing, go with it. Don’t constrain yourself by feeling like you need to journal a certain way. Allow yourself to express what needs to be expressed without judgment. Write your thoughts and feelings as they arise. Don’t worry about grammar or spelling or what others might think if they read your journal.

