 Often times discounted fabrics will take away from the over-all look of your quilt.
 Some solids and patterned fabric will make a good addition.
 You should think of something simple. A well-designed flower, fish or tree is just as interesting as something much more complex. Try to "tell a story" is it a tree in your yard (with specific details) or one in the woods?, A smaller size quilt is more manageable for a beginner. Choose a solid or small print for background. Any color is possible. Use fabrics that work well in design and size. Make art quilting fun., Iron with the fusible on the back of the fabric (sticky side down.) Don't press forever as this is a two step process. The fusible, will adhere to the back of the fabric. You can draw shapes on the side of white paper, and then it will be stuck to the back of your fabric, You need to peel off the white paper and re-iron the shapes where you want them placed. Fabric shapes can be laid on the background and later sewn on to secure. Fabric layered on top with the edges sewn down by a single stitch is called raw edge applique. You can also try the zig-zag stitch on your machine or a running stitch if doing all hand work. Try laying down several layers. Remember that layering creates depth and shadowing.

It is also possible to use scraps and leftover fabric for an abstract but interesting look. Sew two or three strips of fabric the same size of different solids, small and large prints, Iron each strip and cut them up and reassemble them.
,, A backing fabric should be sewn attaching all of the layers., Use a strip of fabric 2.5-inch pressed into a long narrow strip. You will need two for the length and two for the width of your quilt. The open end is sewn down on the front of quilt edges and flipped to the back side. Carefully pin binding strip to the quilt surface and hold the strip in place and re-sew the folded part down. Trim these to the length of the quilt. Have about 3/4 to one inch of extra fabric to tuck in at the top and bottom on the width of the binding. These should be neatly done corners. The binding colors should compliment the quilt. Sewing of the binding can also be done with a bias strip by machine or hand.
 Make a 2-4" sleeve to hang it on to the wall. A sleeve (think narrow tube of fabric) is sewn into the top edge to insert a dowel or flat stick hung across the quilt. The sleeve is about 1-inch short of the back of the quilt- side to side. Hand stitch the tube down, and make a hanger from wire. A nail should be enough to hang a smaller quilt.