 After this, it can be glazed! Get access to a kiln if you don't have your own and let the pros take care of it. If you do have your own, make doubly sure you know how to appropriately work it and what your piece requires.


Different clays react differently to heat. Read the directions on the clay's packaging and do some research online. Take into consideration your piece's size, too.
 As with every other step, there are a multitude of options. Each kind will give you a slightly different look.


Liquid: You can purchase commercial glazes and underglazes in liquid form which are usually formulated for brushing. All you need to apply the glaze is a brush. Some glazes are difficult to brush on smoothly; as a result, you will see brush marks. Others will melt enough to erase the brush marks.
Dry: You can purchase commercial glazes in dry form, which are usually formulated for dipping, pouring, or spraying. In addition to a brush, you will need a bucket, some water, something to stir with, and a mask to avoid breathing the dust. The advantage of dipping is that you get a more even coating of glaze, and you can do interesting things you can’t do with a brush, such as double dip to get different colors on the same piece. Spraying is usually done by more advanced people since it requires good ventilation, a gun, a compressor, a booth, etc.
Make your own: This is the most advanced form of glazing. Using recipes, you buy raw materials and mix them. In addition to the other things, you will need recipes which may be obtained from books and web sites. You also need the chemicals which make up your glaze, a scale, a sieve, and a temperament which allows experimentation. Sometimes your glazes won’t turn out quite right. You will have to learn how to modify those glazes to solve whatever problem you’re having. Other times they will be stunning., You guessed it -- there a handful of ways you can glaze your item, too. Here's a fairly exhaustive list of the ways you can bring out the colors in your art:










Dipping:If you have a whole bunch of pottery to glaze, dipping will be the quickest method to employ. You simply dip it in the glaze (it should have the consistency of heavy cream) for about three seconds and set it aside. The coat will surely be even.

Pouring: If you're looking to glaze the inside, just pour the glaze into the pot, leave it for three seconds, and pour the glaze back into the bucket. If you're worried about excess, you can rid of it in plenty of ways.

Pouring is a viable method for coating the outside, too. It's often used a second, thinner layer. The two layers then interact, resulting in a colorful glaze with texture, shading, and visual depth.



Brushing: If you bought your glaze ready-to-use, it probably will go on well with a brush. If the glaze is thick, you're good to go -- it's designed for the purpose of camouflaging brush marks. If you like the look brush marks give your piece, vary the thickness of the coat when applying. Use a synthetic sable brush to get the job done.

If you want an even, opaque coat, use a big brush and apply the recommended number of coats +1. Put the piece on a wheel and spin it slowly while applying the paint to give it a very even finish.



Sponging: To sponge, dip your pot into a layer of the glaze you'd like to use for the background. Next, use a natural sea sponge dipped in another color of glaze to achieve your desired pattern. Commercial sponges from a craft supplier, cut into various shapes of your liking, can also be used to obtain interesting effects. If you have time, experiment by mixing and matching various shapes and colors to see what sort of combined effects are most appealing to you.

Etching: You'll need at least two different glazes here, preferably ones which you've previously test-fired together to make sure they give pleasing results when overlapped. Start off by dipping your pot in the lighter of the two glazes, then let dry. Dip again, this time in the darker glaze. Once it has dried, take a mini-ribbon tool and gently carve a pattern in the top layer of the glaze, exposing the lighter glaze underneath. Depending on how careful you are as you carve out the design, very intricate patterns may be achieved. Once fired, the carved patterns will appear in the color of the first glaze applied, surrounded by a "background" of the combined layered glaze color.

Stamping: Obtain some florist's foam (the stuff used to hold professional flower arrangements in place) from your local craft supplier. Then draw a pattern or design onto the surface of the foam. Carve out the design with your mini-ribbon tool, then dip the block into slip or glaze and use it as a stamp to decorate wide, flat forms which have already been dipped into a contrasting glaze and allowed to dry.

Wax Resist: Dunk your whole pot into a light glaze; paint on a pattern with a wash like cobalt oxide (blue) or iron oxide (brown); then carefully paint wax resist over the wash pattern you just painted. When the wax is dry, dunk your pot into a second color. If you go over the line so you're waxing on top of the white, you'll have three glazes (white, cobalt, plus final). Extra detail can be achieved by carving through the second glaze.

Tape Resist: For crisp, fine lines with sharp edges and angles, use thin masking tape instead of wax to achieve your resist pattern. This is done by glazing the entire pot, letting dry, and applying the masking tape in the pattern you desire. Dip the pot again, let dry, and remove the masking tape to expose the glaze underneath.Pay attention to firing temperatures on glaze bottles. If it is a high fire glaze, and you used a lower temperature clay, your piece will melt in the superheated kiln.



