;
, Crush the entire package of Oreos in a food processor or blender.


If neither of these items are available, you can put the Oreos in a sealable gallon size bag and roll over the bag with a rolling pan.
 Mix until completely blended in a large mixing bowl.
 Use a cookie scoop to scoop about a tablespoon of the mixture. Roll them into balls, about the size of golf balls, and place them onto a lined baking sheet.


If you do not have a cookie scooper you can use a spoon or your hands.
, Fill up a sauce pan with about an inch of water. Place it on the stove on medium to medium-high heat and put your universal double boiler over top of it and wait for the water to heat up.


Make sure the water level does not touch the bottom of the universal double boiler.
 Stir constantly to avoid burning the chocolate. Stir until it is smooth and there are no lumps. Turn off burner and remove from heat.
 Dip each almond in the chocolate at a time for best results. Then scoop them out with a fork and place them on a plate covered in wax or parchment paper in the fridge.
 After taking the white chocolate covered almonds out of the fridge, use pink cake decorating gel to create an oval on one side to represent the inside of the bunny's ear.
 After taking the Oreo balls out of the fridge, dip them in the melted white chocolate in your double boiler. Place the freshly covered truffles back onto the lined baking sheet they were on.


If the chocolate in your double boiler has hardened repeat steps 6 and 7.
 Stick the almond ears where you would like them on the freshly dipped truffle.


Make sure you place the ears in the truffle before the chocolate hardens, otherwise, the chocolate will crack.
, After taking the truffles out of the fridge, use white frosting and apply some to the back of the candy eyes to place them on your truffle. For the 'mouth', create an upside down triangle using the same black decorating gel with two hooks coming out of the bottom point.
 Share them with your friends or save them for yourself, but be sure to store any leftovers in a sealed container in the fridge.

