 There are two bachelors in Riverwood trying to woo Camillo, the sister of Lucon, the owner of the Riverwood Trader. One is a Nord named Sven who is a Bard at the local tavern. You can generally find him either in the Sleeping Giant Inn or his home (Sven and Hilde’s House). The other bachelor is an Elf named Faendal who is an archer and works at the lumber mill.;
, Camillo is usually in the Riverwood Trader, but in the evenings you may find her at the Sleeping Giant Inn. Between 10PM and midnight, she tends to wander around the sleeping town.


Sven is usually at the Sleeping Giant Inn, but you may find him in his house (Sven and Hilde’s House).
Faendal is the most difficult to locate because essentially he has two jobs. From about 4AM to 7AM he hunts, and then he works at the mill from 7AM until 7PM. Between 7PM and 4AM, you are likely to find him in his house. Otherwise, you may need to spend a little time wandering around town looking for him. If you don’t see him around town, check the time because he is out hunting for about three hours in the morning.
 If you are certain that you want to bother doing the quest, there are indeed benefits from helping one of the two suitors.


Once you report back to the bachelor you have chosen to help, he will give you Gold for your services.
Whenever you return to Riverwood, you can recruit Sven or Faendal to follow you on quests.
As an archer who is willing to teach you, Faendal is the obvious favorite. He is considerably more helpful in fighting, meaning he is more than just a way to help carry your overflow inventory. You can also have him train you in Archery when you are on quests. There are no such benefits from helping Sven; he tells you to go to the Bard College instead of training you to be a Bard.
 You can listen to the gossip and hear that there are two guys trying to woo Camillo, but you don’t have to as neither are shy about voicing their opposition to the other to a complete stranger.
 It does not matter which one you talk to because they both have the same idea: write a deceitful letter to Camillo, and say it is from the other suitor.
 Choose who you want to go to, Sven or Faendal.


Select “You and Faendal both like the same girl?” if you go to Sven. He will tell you about Camillo and his chief romance rival Faendal. You can respond with either of the two options when he stops. He will give you a letter to deliver to Camillo. Sven’s forged letter says that Faendal is happy to have Camillo as a friend, but that they can never be more than that because it would sully his elven heritage.
You can continue to talk to Sven about other things if you like. Asking him about how he learned to play so well will initiate the quest to visit the Bard’s College in Solitude.
Select “What’s your problem with Sven?” He will tell you about Camillo and his chief romance rival Sven. You can respond with either of the two options when he stops. He will give you a letter to deliver to Camillo. Faendal’s forged letter is a poem from Sven saying that he looks forward to having Camillo take care of the cooking and cleaning.
You can continue to talk to Faendal and ask him to train you in Archery.
 If you decide to show it to the rival party, he will respond by giving you a forged letter of his own. This is optional as you can go right to Camillo once you have the first letter.


If you talk to both suitors, you will only have the letter from one when you go to talk to Camillo (unless you pickpocket it from the second man you talk to). You definitely do not need both letters as you will be able to help the bachelor you prefer when you hand over the forged letter.
 You can now either tell her the truth about where the letter came from or you can lie about it.


Telling her the truth helps the suitor who is being slandered. If you talk to both bachelors, you won’t get to tell her that they both tried to do the same thing, just the last one you spoke to.
If you tell her a lie, she will believe you. This will help the suitor who forged the letter.
 Tell him that you don’t think the other suitor will be a problem anymore. Both of them will give you Gold, and will become possible followers.

