 If you show a great sense of calm and strength, this sense of calm will be contagious. If you show worry, that will only make things worse.;
, If you can understand what is causing the stress, you might be able to assist. Additionally, talking to you, may allow the victim to release his mind blocks and worries. Remember the completely stressed person may have deep fears that are hard to break through. You may be fueling the situation more if you are not careful. Sadly, failing to understand this situation, you may fall victim to your own developing stress. Be careful and be watchful.Observe every little expression and movement.
 For example, your husband has just hit his thumb with a hammer, he is going to be under a lot of short term stress. Now is not the time to barge in and try to help. Just give him some space. You can help in a few minutes, perhaps arriving at the scene with an ice bag. If on the other hand, the problem is more systemic, you might not be able to help much either in the short term. Listen to the problem. Try to understand the source of the stress. Try to be supportive.
 If your wife and the mother of your children is stressed because she has a major presentation to give at work in three days time, maybe you spearhead taking care of the dinner, bath, story and bedtime routine for a few days. This will give you time to bond with the kids, and will let your wife have a clear head to manage the project.
 If your daughter is stressed that the ankle she just sprained is going to keep her out of the volleyball game this weekend, she may be right about that. But you can help her see the bright side. Maybe sitting out the game will give her the chance to get a head start on those college applications. If on the other hand, your aunt is feeling a little stressed because she just got a cancer diagnosis, nothing you can say is going to make her feel all better. But you can let her know you will help her to evaluate treatment options. You can offer to round up the help she may need to manage her transportation to doctors appointments etc.


Explain that stress makes the problem worse. Due to stress he or she may suffer more and lose more than necessary. Explain that managing stress can put a stop to those extra problems. Ask the person to take good deep breath and set their mind to devising a positive plan forward.
Share your own story. In some cases, your friend or relative might benefit from hearing about your similar trials with life. Don't share your experiences in detail but tell that you have faced such things in life too. It is your being calm and relaxed mode/state that helped you overcome the situation with good solutions. That should let the victim understand that he/she can have better scope of thoughts when relaxed and calm.
 Get involved and take charge of some of daily chores that might be adding to your friends situation. This is hard but if you walk an extra mile at work/home, the person stressed finds it relaxing and understands that he's got good company. Sometimes the situation ends up with you getting the help yourself! It may be for good or bad. Better to be careful and cautious. If it is for your loved ones, you'll not step back, right?

, If the situation is particularly severe, you may need to suggest professional counseling to your relative or friend. If you meet resistance, make an appointment yourself, and at least get some professional help about how you can manage the situation, or about how you might be able to interest the stressed person in seeking help.

