 The Dividend Aristocrats index includes 52 companies that have had dividend increases for 25 consecutive years or more. These companies have continued to pay rising dividends even when the global economy has been in a downturn. These companies are likely to survive a recession because they are strong, competitive and have stable cash flows.In 2008, the S&P fell approximately 37 percent, while companies in the Dividend Aristocrats index fell by only an average of 22 percent.
Some of the best-performing companies in this index include Clorox, Johnson & Johnson, Coca-Cola, Walmart and McDonald’s.
 Mutual funds and ETFs provide opportunities for you to greatly diversify your your investments, which is key to surviving an economic downturn. Though there are differences between mutual funds and ETFs, in particular how they are sold and managed, they are alike in that they are made up of a large and diverse collection of securities, such as stocks, bonds, commodities, and other assets.
 T-bills are generally considered the safest investment in the world. They are backed by the U.S. government, so there is no risk of default. No other corporate bond in the world can offer that kind of security. The rate of return, however, on T-bills is not very high. They don’t pay much interest. But, if you are looking for a secure, safe place to keep your money during an economic collapse, consider T-bills.Municipal bonds may also be a solid investment, as they are issued by a state, municipality or county and you will not have to pay federal or most state and local taxes., Commodities can be a good investment because growing governments and companies will need these resources. During an economic downturn, the price of commodities usually drops, however, as these resources are not as in-demand when growth has slowed. If you already have commodity investments, hold on to them and ride out the rough times for a return later. A recession may be a good time to purchase commodities since you can get them for a good price, but be aware you will not make a profit while the economy is bad.Commodities speculation is actually very high risk, and many people lose money. If you are trying to survive a recession, spending your money on an investment that won't pay off until much later (if ever) may not be the best way to be secure.
Three of the best commodities in which to invest are copper, crude oil and gold.Demand for copper is always high since it is used in almost every industry in the world. As countries like China and India become more industrialized, demand for copper is increasing, driving the price up.
The demand for oil remains high because it is used not only for gasoline, but also for products made from petroleum, like plastics, medicines, linoleum, shingles, ink, cosmetics, synthetic fibers, solvents, fertilizer, asphalt.
While the price of gold has gone down in recent years, it is still viewed as a solid investment during periods of unrest, war, natural disasters and economic collapse.

