 If your blister is large, painful, or is getting irritated, you may decide to drain the fluid out if it. It’s always better to leave the blister alone, but you may find that relieving the pressure from the blister will help reduce pain and irritation.


Don’t drain the blister if you have diabetes, HIV, cancer, or other conditions that make you susceptible to infection.
 Use plenty of soap and warm water to wash your hands. You don’t want to introduce any additional bacteria or dirt to your blister while you’re draining it.
 You’ll need a sharp object to puncture the blister. Ensure that it is clean by wiping the needle or pin with a piece of gauze soaked in rubbing alcohol.
 Choose a spot on the blister near the edge. Gently push the needle or pin into the blister. When you see fluid start to emerge, remove the needle.


You may want to puncture more than one spot on the blister, especially if it is a big blister. This may help relieve pressure that builds up in the blister., Wipe away excess fluid with a clean piece of gauze. When there is no more excess fluid draining from the blister, gently clean the blister with soap and water. Cover your blister with a piece of gauze and adhesive tape.You may want to use some antibiotic cream on the blister for the first day or two. If your blister starts to itch or develop a rash, stop using the cream.
If there is a flap of skin from the blister, don’t trim it. Leave it alone, letting it lay flat over the blister.
Clean and re-bandage the area every day. If the area gets wet, change your bandage.
Let the area breathe at night by removing the bandage. Replace the bandage in the morning if the blister still needs to heal. This will help protect it from getting dirt into it.
 People with certain conditions such as diabetes can be at higher risk of developing infections from blisters. If you have diabetes, HIV, cancer or heart disease, do not drain your blister. Instead, see your doctor for treatment. , It’s possible that your blister may get infected. If you see any signs of infection, make an appointment to see your doctor immediately. Some signs of infection include:Increased swelling or pain at the blister site.
Increased redness at the blister.
Skin is warm at and around the blister.
Red streaks that extend from the blister and outwards.
Yellowish or greenish pus coming from the blister.
A fever.

