 Go out of your way to touch her, look at her, and create sexual attention. Make her feel wanted! You may notice that you aren't doing these things because you're embarrassed, or insecure, or unsure of how she will react. If she is your girlfriend, and you've been intimate with each other, and you're attracted to her, then you don't need to hold back. Let your hormones take control from time to time, and show her that she is the object of your animal urges.;
, Let your gaze rest on her when she's working on something, when she's in the other room, or when she just looks particularly beautiful. Do not worry about being weird! You're attracted to her, and she's attracted to you, and there's nothing wrong with owning that dynamic by staring at her.When she asks you what you're looking at, tell her how beautiful she looks. Only say it if you truly mean it!

, Do not hesitate to flirt with your girlfriend. She is your girlfriend because the two of you have entered into a verbal agreement – so there's a pretty good chance that she likes you and wants your attention. Many people find confidence sexy. Own it!

, Don't be afraid to get casually physical. Touch is one of the most powerful ways to build attraction and sexual tension.

However, it doesn't need to be overtly sexual. A light touch can be enough to signal that you're thinking about her, and it can go a long way toward reestablishing intimacy.

Put your arm around her when you're watching a movie, or hug her from behind while she's standing at the counter. Run your fingers through her hair. Touch her arm, gently, when you pass her in the hall.
Don't be afraid to get more sexual if you're comfortable being intimate with one another. Grab her butt, or caress her thigh. If you're in a private place: walk up behind her, put your hands around her waist, and grind slowly into her body.
Hold her hand! This is a great way to flirt, and it can also break the touch barrier if you're in a new relationship. You don't need to come up with a reason to hold her hand; if you feel it, do it., Even if you are upset, or stressed out, or thinking about something else: take the time to be present and smile a lot in her presence. There's something about a guy's smile that can really turn a girl on. Girls like genuine smiles, not just flirtatious smiles. Don't try too hard on this one. Just think positive thoughts and let your face do the work.

