 Listening is as important as what you say. If you are in a team meeting, you should probably listen to your employees before speaking yourself.To become a skilled listener, get rid of any distractions. Put away your phone or tablet, and don’t glance back over your shoulder to your computer screen. Instead, focus on the person who is talking.As you listen, focus on body language, which contains important cues. Someone who claims to be happy while sitting with their arms crossed is saying one thing but signaling another.
Also tend to your own body language as you listen. Practice sitting still and listening to people share bad news. It’s important not to snap back in response.
 You never know where you best ideas will come from, so you should encourage team members to voice their opinions. Give people many outlets for sharing their ideas. Not everyone likes to talk in meetings, so welcome people to share ideas via email or in individual meetings with you.


Remember not to make fun of someone for their ideas, even if those ideas are unoriginal or poorly thought out.If you knock someone for voicing an opinion, you are sending a message that people should keep their ideas to themselves.
Also ensure everyone can participate. This may mean reining in any team member who is overly negative or is trying to dominate the conversation.Say something like, “Gregg, thanks for sharing your thoughts. I definitely hear you. Now, I’d like to hear from Sonia and Marie.”

, Effective communication is clear and thorough.Strive to be as clear as possible to minimize misunderstandings. Think before you reach out to someone else and make sure you know what you want to say.


Balance thoroughness with brevity. You don’t need to take up everyone’s time with endless emails or team memos. Get to the point.
 Email is incredibly convenient. You can pop off a written note to a team member at any time of the day and retain a copy of your communication. However, it’s difficult to read someone’s tone in an email. For example, you might send an email intended as a joke which the recipient perceives is hostile.


No modern business can survive without email. However, use it strategically.
For example, you should avoid email if you are having a difficult relationship with one team member. Instead, communicate face to face so that they can read your non-verbal cues.
 Meetings often take longer than necessary. If possible, communicate in other ways. If you do hold a meeting, draft a schedule and distribute it ahead of time. Stick to it as much as possible.Sometimes, you need to have meetings, and an effective manager can identify those times. Don’t hold a meeting when you can send a memo instead.
However, hold meetings to brainstorm, or when you want to hear your employees’ perspective.
 As a manager, you are also a coach. You need to provide guidance to your team members so that they can perform at their best level. Tailor your feedback to each team member’s communication styles and motivation.


Ideally, however, you will balance negative feedback with praise.Also follow up negative feedback with concrete advice. Don’t say, “Maybe focus harder.” Instead, show an employee how they can manage their workflow, or put them in touch with someone who can help them.
Remember your company’s employee assistance program (EAP). You aren’t a therapist tasked with helping an employee sort out their personal life. However, you can encourage them to contact the EAP and schedule a counseling session.
 In your early days as a manager, make it your goal to get out and meet everyone in the organization who directly or indirectly affects your team.Walk around the building and introduce yourself to people. Ask questions about their department.


Communicating broadly helps in two ways. First, you’ll get to know who you should contact whenever you need help. For example, you might find out that an assistant wields all of the power in Human Resources. They can be your go-to person.
Second, you’ll build rapport with people, who might go the extra mile to help you when you need it.
 Communication is also non-verbal. Maintain your credibility in the eyes of your team, which means looking like the manager on your team. Aim to dress slightly more professional than your team members.If your employees dress casual, you should dress business casual.
If your employees dress business casual, then wear a suit to work.
 In fact, they should respect you, not be your best friend. If you’re too nice, employees may slack off, knowing they have nothing to fear.You don’t gain much by being “hard as nails,” either. Instead, aim to show empathy. Remember that “kindness,” not “niceness,” is what is important.
 Shy people can certainly be effective managers. However, you need to work deliberately to counteract your shyness. Consider the following tips:Get to know team members in a way that feels comfortable. For example, you might want to schedule one-on-one meetings in your office at first. Write a short agenda that will give you something to refer to if you feel tongue-tied.
Prepare properly. Employees tend to question business decisions, so arm yourself with facts ahead of time to explain the decision you’ve made. This will help you speak authoritatively.
Lean on mentors to help you. Find someone higher up to coach you on difficult tasks, such as disciplining employees.
Be yourself. You’re shy—and that’s okay. You don’t need to pretend to be a standup comic. Instead, be yourself. If you’re consistent, your team will come around to appreciate your management style.

