 When selecting one, make sure its features are pleasing. Be sure that you'll play with your teddy bear for a long time once you buy it. There is no point in buying an expensive one that you'll rarely touch. If you already have a teddy bear in your possession, skip this step.;
, Purchase ones in pleasant shades that complement your teddy bear's fur tone. Find staple items (ex: a shirt and pants) for its wardrobe before combining them to create cute outfits. You could also give it jewelry or clip hair accessories onto its fur or ears.
 Purchase fake food in order to help it maintain a well-balanced diet. Be sure that it receives enough nutrients in order to avoid starvation. Feed it an appropriate amount of food to avoid serious weight gain or loss. You could also share your dinner with it and pretend to feed it.
 Take pictures of your best moments together, and keep it in a photo album so you can later look through them. Make good memories with it, and have lots of fun together. However, make sure it always stays by your side so it doesn't get it and/or you accidentally lose it.
 When it falls ill, give it enough medicine for a healthy recovery. Feed it hot soup with plenty of nutrients to fight off the germs. Comfort it by wrapping a blanket around it and giving it cuddles. Watch television shows or read it books to pass the time. Be sure that it receives plenty of rest in bed.


If your teddy bear's condition grows worse, consider taking it to your parents so they can help you nurse it back to health.
 It will copy your actions since it looks up to you. Set a good example for it by having good character and being honest. Teach it good manners so that it can have a healthy social life. Allow it to interact with your other stuffed animals so that it can make friends.
 Groom it with a brush or a comb to detangle its fur. Keep it clean by giving it to your parents to wash once in a while. By making sure that its stays pristine, you can avoid trips to the washer.
 Avoid leaving it in the heat or cold for too long. Otherwise, its health might suffer, and it may fall ill. Also, your teddy bear's color may fade as a result of overexposure to heat.
 Make sure it moves around each day to avoid it becoming a couch potato. For a longer life and good health, it should receive a daily amount of exercise. Take it outside for walks, or let it play with you in the park.
 Giving it enough sleep per night will ensure good health. Make it stick to a regular bedtime routine before waking it up at an appropriate hour. This will avoid it feeling too weary to have fun with you the next day. Maintaining a regular sleep schedule will ensure a long, healthy life. It will also make sure that it grows up well.

