 If you are trying to remove a perfume stain from cotton, linen, nylon, polyester, spandex or wool, first pat at the stain with a dampened sponge or cloth. Make sure not to rub the stain; instead, use a light hand and dab with patting movements, starting from the center of the stain and working out.Dabbing at the stain works especially well for fresh stains, because moistening the stain prevents it from spreading and setting in the fabric. If the stain is fresh, dabbing at the stain may be enough to absorb and remove the stain.;
, If the perfume stain you are removing isn’t fresh, just dabbing at it may not be enough. To more aggressively combat the stain, create a solution that is one part glycerin, one part dishwashing detergent and 8 parts water.If you just have a small stain, use one teaspoon or tablespoon of glycerin and dishwashing detergent and 8 teaspoons or tablespoons of water.
Stir the detergent solution to mix thoroughly.
 After you have mixed together your detergent solution, pour a small amount onto the stain. Make sure to only apply the solution to the stain, not to the surrounding area., Once you have applied the detergent solution, fold up a sheet of paper towel and place it on top of the stain. Then let the detergent work on the fabric for about ten minutes.As the detergent solution works to lift up the stain, the paper towel will absorb the stain out of the fabric.
 After about ten minutes, check on the paper towel. If you see that some of the oily stain has transferred to the paper towel, swap the paper towel out for another folded sheet. Keep repeating this process until no more stain gets lifted.


If you notice that the area of the stain is drying, add more detergent solution.
If none of the stain seems to have been removed, keep the original paper towel there and keep checking until some of the stain has been absorbed.
 If you still notice stain remnant after using the detergent solution lifting process, dip a cotton ball in rubbing solution and dab the rubbing alcohol over the stain. Then dab a teaspoon or so of rubbing alcohol to a sheet of folded paper towel and place it over the stain.The rubbing alcohol and paper towel will work in a similar way as the detergent solution, they are just slightly more powerful as cleaning agents.
 Look at the paper towel after ten minutes or so. If you notice that some of the stain is lifted, change out the paper towel. If nothing has been absorbed, place the paper towel back on the rubbing alcohol and the stain and keep checking until some of the stain has been lifted.


Add rubbing alcohol if you notice that the stain is drying.
Keep repeating this process until no more of the stain is being lifted.
If the stain has been completely removed, flush the garment with water to remove any detergent solution or rubbing alcohol, then hang the garment up to dry.
 If hand-removing the stain hasn’t worked, soak the fabric in a solution of one part water and one part baking soda for 10-15 minutes. Then launder as usual in the washer and dryer.