 In LOL, there are three lanes (top, mid, and bot) and a jungle containing neutral monsters between them. In each area, one or more players go there to get kills, earn gold, and get levels. In top lane, there is usually a tanky (high health and defensive stats) champion that focuses on getting farm and staying tanky. Mid lane has either an AP caster or assassin. Bot lane has two champions, a ranged Attack Damage Carry and a support. The jungle varies widely between tanky champions, mages, high damage melee champions, and more.;
, To climb, the easiest way is to focus on one or two champions in a specific role and play them until you know all of their ins and outs and have mastered them. This way, when you are playing in a ranked match you are confident and calm while playing this champion, which increases your win-rate. #* Don't worry too much about counter-picking, because in lower elos, more often than not a person who selected their main champion will beat someone who selected a counter to that champion yet aren't familiar with them. (Ex. A skilled Zed main is against an unskilled Kayle who technically counters Zed, but due to the Kayle's lack of skill he still loses lane to Zed.)

, Yasuo, Vayne, Riven, etc.), as you want room to grow. Also, choose someone who you enjoy playing even if you are bad at them right now, because once you start maining them you will get better easily. It's much more enjoyable to climb with a champion you love compared to a champion you dislike.
 If you don't get your role or main you are probably going to do poorly. Dodging only loses you 3 lp and a 5 minute wait, in comparison to a lost game which wastes 25-45 minutes of your time and subtracts up to ~23 lp. To dodge, you can wait until the timer for you to select a champion runs out, or simply closing the client and logging on again.
 In League, CS-ing is incredibly important. CS-ing is where you land the killing blow onto a minion, which grants you gold. Killing a melee minion grants about 19-23 gold, and a caster minion grants 15-18 gold (depending on how long the game has gone on). Even if you do not get a kill on your lane opponent, you can still easily win lane by CS-ing better than them. A kill is worth about 300 gold, so if you kill about 15 minions then that is equal to the gold gained by a kill. Additionally, kills are risky and inconsistent, yet minions are not. Why not practice getting more free gold?

, To practice, go into a custom game with no runes or masteries and practice last hitting by yourself for 10 minutes or so. Try to aim for about 80-95 minions in 10 minutes. In game, 70 minions by 10 minutes is a decent score that should help you out quite a bit.
 That means, don't try to dive them under tower if they have at least 1/4 health, don't run around the jungle by yourself with no wards, and tell your teammates to ping for mia and ping it yourself too. If you don't do it, why should they? Also, don't expect your teammates to listen to you, so just make a habit to watch the minimap on the side of your screen to check where enemies are.
 This one is pretty self explanatory. Don't try to make an Insect Lee Sin play if you can't do it 9 times out of 10. Be safe, and play fundamentally.
 People often don't realize that if they stand in the back as an ADC or mage or assassin, you can utilize your damage so much more and have a much bigger impact on the game if you position well. Please, please, wait for your team to initiate if you are an ADC!

