 If you are a perfectionist, you probably fail to see the amazing accomplishments or talents in your life. Rather you choose to dwell on what you haven’t done or reached. Improve your perspective by learning to focus on your strengths.Make a list of the many achievements you have made. If you have trouble getting started, ask others, or consider what they would identify as things you should be proud of. The list might include traits like being a good friend, standing up for others, and having great ideas.
Whenever you catch yourself being critical, review the list. Praise yourself regularly for all the things you obviously can do right.
 You can decrease your desire to criticize yourself by repeating realistic self-statements. Write down or type up a list of positive and realistic statements to place in your wallet, on your bathroom mirror, or in some other location where you will see it regularly. These may sound like:”Everyone makes mistakes.”
“So what?”
”I don’t have to be liked by everyone—no one is!”
”Perfection is impossible, and boring.”
”I commit to doing my best. That’s all I can do.”

, As a perfectionist, you tend to hold yourself to impossibly high standards, as if you are not a typical human. On the other hand, you may not hold others to these same expectations. Practice self-compassion by regarding yourself as you would a friend.


Would a friend call you a loser or judge you for making a mistake? Of course not. Give yourself permission to be human and imperfect.
Give yourself a hug like your best pal would. Remind yourself of all the challenges you have previously overcome. Be gentle with yourself instead of engaging in self-blame., It seems that it’s not just high expectations that negatively affect perfectionists. In fact, many successful people have high expectations. The difference lies in how people view mistakes. Perfectionists tend to dwell on their errors much more than others.See your mistakes as learning opportunities rather than measures of your self-worth. For example, if you screw up on a speech, don’t berate yourself. Commit to improving for your next speech and move on.
You can also relax your perspective on mistakes by purposefully making them. Go part of the day with a stain on your shirt. Show up for a meeting a few minutes late. This can help you see that the world won’t end simply because you make a mistake.

