 You can use markers to write these nouns yourself, or use a computer to type them in an extra-large font size, then print them. Choose a color to write the subjects in, such as blue. Cut the paper so each noun is on its own section. For example, write The clown; The dog; The president; The tiger; and Ms. Smith.


Make sure the nouns are either all singular or all plural, so they can all be used with the same verb forms.
 The most basic sentence structure lesson can just use subjects (nouns) and predicates (verb phrases). If your students are more advanced, you can add additional sentence components like adverbs or possessive pronouns. Color-code each category of cards differently, to make it easier for the students.For example:


For beginning grammar students, just write predicates in orange, like jumped on the table; laughed; drew a picture; and flew to the moon.
For intermediate classes, add adverbs (quickly; happily; loudly), and/or adjectives (silly; red; big).
For more advanced classes, break the predicate into verb phrases, and a second stack of noun cards.
 After you've printed and cut out the words, laminate them at your school office or a copy shop. This is optional, but will let you keep these cards sturdy and reusable for years, even when young kids are using them.
 Pile the cards up by color, in a stack on the floor or in the pockets of a wall organizer. Demonstrate to your class how to take one card from each stack, and put them next to each other to form a "silly sentence." The sentences don't have to be realistic, but they should have all the parts of the sentence in the right order.


For example, The clown jumped on the table. is a good silly sentence, since the subject and predicate are in the right order.
 This can be an activity students do in small groups of 3–5, or individually whenever they have play time or individual work time. Have them leave out their sentences for you to check on. Praise the students when they get a sentence right, and help them understand the right order if they make a mistake. If a student loves a sentence he wrote, or if he needs encouragement, you can save his silly sentence on a board for all the students to read and have fun with.
 If a student doesn't understand, explain that the sentence can be put together by answering two questions: "Who?" and "did what?".Here's an example:


Teacher: Let's make a sentence about someone doing something. Who did something? Pick a card.
Student: (picks "the dog")
Teacher: "Great! Let's make a sentence about a dog. What did the dog do? Pick a card that makes sense in this sentence: the dog __."
Student: Jumped?
Teacher: That's right. Now put these cards next to each other: the dog jumped." Try making a new sentence.
 Students who are visual learners, or who enjoy drawing, might be more interested in this game if they get to draw a picture of the silly sentence they came up with.You can also put these pictures up on the wall, so your students can enjoy their silly drawings.
 If your students like the silly sentence game, ask them to think of more subjects and predicates (or "nouns and verbs," or "things and actions," depending on the terms the students know). Print these out and bring them to class, so the students can make more silly sentences using their favorite words.

