 Before vending a show, take time to scout it out. Go and see what people are selling. Check out the quality of work, evaluating whether your products are of similar quality and whether or not they fit the general feel of the show. For instance, edgy, experimental art is not likely to fit in at a county craft festival.Pay attention to what people are buying. See what's being carried around by customers, as that will give you an idea of what will sell. Also, look to see what types of booths have long lines.
It can also help to ask around about that show and other shows. Most vendors and artists have been to more than one show, and they may be able to recommend other shows, particularly if the one you're visiting isn't right for your art or product.;
, If you've never vended a festival, it's best to start small. You don't want to throw a large amount of money into a venture that completely flops. Plus, if you jump into a large show, you'll have to deal with a much larger scale of people, which can be hard if you don't have the experience ahead of time., When your vending at a festival, whether a music festival, renaissance festival, or craft fair, you need to plan ahead for how many customers you may have. Most festivals will have attendance numbers to give you some idea of how much product you need. You don't want to bring too much product and not have the space for it, but you need enough that you're not selling out before the event is over., Not every venue is going to be appropriate for what you sell. In addition, you need to pick and choose what you take to each show. You won't take all the same things that you take to an art festival that you would to a renaissance festival, for instance. Think about the audience and what they are likely to buy before deciding what to bring., At festivals, you can't have as many choices as you normally would in a store or restaurant. You can overwhelm customers who don't have much time to make a decision, or you run the risk of making your booth look overcrowded and messy if you bring too many products or have too many choices. You need to pare down your choices. Stick to your most popular items., The best booths are clean and not too cluttered. They should highlight your best products. Make sure to include touches like tablecloths, backdrops, and both vertical and horizontal displays to make your booth look more professional.When designing your booth, think about the atmosphere you want to create. In other words, you may want vibrant splashes of color to complement your work if your an artist, while if you're running an upscale jewelry booth, you may want to keep it more refined with muted colors that highlight the jewelry.
If you're going for an artistic or bohemian look, consider adding touches like strings of lights or vases of tree limbs that you hang items off of.
Also, be sure to have some branding. That is, a banner or sign can help customers remember your brand name.

