 Extreme temperatures and temperature shifts can result in malfunctions.


Your iPhone might alter its functional behavior to regulate its internal temperature which can result in various glitches, from a reduced battery life to any number of issues. Being aware of this fact can help you improve your phone's responsiveness. Here are a few things to keep in mind:

Use your iPhone in acceptable temperatures: between 32 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit (or, between 0 and 32 degrees Celsius).
Store your iPhone in temperatures between -4 and 113 degrees Fahrenheit (or, between -20 and 45 degrees Celsius).
Don't leave your phone in a parked car when it's hot outside.
Don't expose your phone to direct sunlight for an extended period of time.

;
, Try not to use up every last bit of memory your device has. Leaving your iPhone with a little breathing room can increase your phone's performance.


A good guideline is to leave your phone about 250MB of free memory space. To see how your iPhone's storage is being used, open Settings, tap General, tap Storage & iCloud, and then tap Manage Storage under the "STORAGE" section of the menu.
Try deleting some application data to free up some of your iPhone's memory.
 It's the gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is located on your home screen.
 It's near the top of the Settings menu.


Backup requires a Wi-Fi connection.
 It will turn green.
 Select a network from the list that appears under the "Choose a Network" section of the menu.


Enter a password, if prompted to do so.
 If you're still on the Wi-Fi settings screen, tap Settings in the upper-left corner to return to the main Settings screen. Otherwise simply launch the Settings app as you did before.
 It's the section at the top of the screen that contains your name and image if you've added one.


If you are not signed in, tap Sign in to your iPhone, enter your Apple ID and password, then tap Sign In.
If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 Slide the buttons next to the listed apps, such as Notes and Calendars, to the "On" (green) position to include their data when your iPhone is backed up.


The data from apps whose buttons are "Off" (white) will not be backed up.
 It’s at the bottom of the second section.#Slide "iCloud Backup" to the "On" position. It will turn green. Now your iPhone will back up to your iCloud account when it's plugged in and connected to a Wi-Fi network.


To invoke an immediate backup, tap Back Up Now at the bottom of the menu.
 It's a gray app with gears (⚙️) that's typically located on your home screen.
 It's near the top of the menu, next to a gear (⚙️) icon.
 It's at the top of the menu.
 If a software update is available, the Install Now button will appear below the update description.
 Enter the passcode you use to unlock your phone.


Your phone will restart and the update process will begin.
In some cases, you may have to set up your phone again, although all your apps and data should be intact.
, It's a gray app with gears (⚙️) that's typically located on your home screen.


If your screen is not functioning properly, such as not registering inputs or showing incorrect inputs, restoring the iPhone may get it working again. You should not lose any data using this method.
 It's near the top of the menu, next to a gear (⚙️) icon.
 It's at the bottom of the menu.
 It's near the top of the menu.
 Enter the passcode you use to unlock your phone.


If prompted, enter your "Restrictions" passcode.
 Doing so will reset all settings, as well as erase the media and data on your iPhone.


Your phone will show “Swipe to set up” after it’s done deleting your content, as it did when it was first purchased.
 Your iPhone will be in same configuration that it was when it left the factory, so you will need to set it up as if it were new.


During setup, you will be asked if you want to restore your phone from an iCloud backup. If you want to add all your media, data, and apps back onto your phone, restore from the backup with the most recent date and time.
 If your device goes completely black, and appears to be turned off, try the following tips.


Press the Home button. This will, in some cases, resolve the issue. You'll be directed back to the home screen and can go back to using your device.
If pressing the Home button doesn't work, try holding it for approx. 6 seconds. This action works in many cases, and if it does in yours, the Home screen will open with everything working properly.
 Sometimes, restarting your iPhone is the most effective way to restore it to normal functions.


Press and hold the physical Wake/Sleep button on top-right or upper-right side of your phone's housing until you see "slide to power off" on the screen, then slide it to the right.
Press and hold Wake/Sleep button again until the Apple logo appears on the screen. It might take a few seconds for your phone to power on completely. Once it's on, you should see the home screen and be able to use your device normally.
 In some cases, your device might be a bit more tangled up. In such cases, a force-restart is the best option.


It is only recommended to force restart an iPhone only as a last resort if the device is not responding.Press and hold the restart button combination. If the iPhone can't be shut down normally, simultaneously press and hold the right button combination for your iPhone:


iPhone 6S and earlier: Wake/Sleep button + Home button

iPhone 7 and 7 Plus: Wake/Sleep button + volume-down button


Continue holding both buttons. Do so for 10 seconds until you see the Apple logo on your screen, then release the buttons.

