 Certain items can cause harm to your puppy if chewed or swallowed. It is important to make sure that there are no objects within reach which can harm your puppy.Make sure you hide:


String
Electrical wires
Children’s toys and figurines
Shoes, socks, and other items of clothing
Plastic bags
Plants

, Taste deterrent is a spray that makes your furniture taste bad to your puppy. This will teach the puppy not to chew the furniture. You can find taste deterrent at your local pet store or vet.Taste deterrents often come in flavors like bitter apple or bitter cherry. Some might be spicy.
When you first buy taste deterrent, spray a little on a tissue. Let your dog sniff and taste it. This will teach them to avoid chewing things with the same smell. You can then spray the deterrent on your furniture., Young puppies need constant supervision. To make sure that they are chewing on their toys and not furniture or dangerous items, always watch them while they are chewing or playing.If the puppy starts to chew on something they shouldn’t, interrupt them loudly. Give them their chew toy instead. Praise them if they start chewing the toy. If they keep chewing the furniture, physically remove them from the spot.
 It is important that your puppy does not learn to nip you instead of their toys. While it is natural for the puppy to nip, you should discourage this behavior. When the puppy bites, make a loud yelping noise (like “ouch” or “no”). Take your hand away from them, and walk away for a second. Your puppy will begin to learn bite inhibition., You should have a room or area in your home where you can put the puppy when you are not there. This should be a safe area where there is nothing that the puppy can chew or destroy. When you put the puppy in there, place a chew toy or two in with them so that they can chew on it while you’re not home.A laundry room or bathroom might be good for this purpose.
You can buy a puppy pen online or in a pet store. You can set up the pen before you leave home and put the puppy inside.
If you are crate training your puppy, you may leave them in the crate for short periods of time, although it is better to give them more room if you are gone for the day.