 Depending on whether it is inhaled or absorbed through the skin, Chromium can cause irritation to the throat, nose, skin, and eyes, with the possibility of eye damage. It can create symptoms similar to influenza, asthma, and allergies, as well as the possibility of lung cancer with airborne contact.In addition to chrome, any primer you use likely has the potential to cause not only the same issues above, but also have chronic negative effects on the liver, cardiovascular, reproductive, and urinary systems.;
, This will decrease the likelihood of any sickness via inhalation of hazardous materials.More often than not, repair work like this is performed on a garage. This allows fresh air to enter easily and replace any fumes, dusts, or vapors that could bring you harm.


Keeping your paints and primers closed in their containers while not in use will help maintain a clean atmosphere and limit your exposure to hazardous chemicals.
 This should protect your skin from any contact with the chromium and/or primer. Another option is coveralls. A favorite of those who work in metal shops and auto repair, these are the onesies of safety and provide ample coverage of your appendages and torso.
 Since you will be working with corrosive substances, gloves made of thin plastic will not suffice. It is therefore recommended to use gloves made of P.V.C, rubber, or neoprene.As for footwear, there are a number of chemical resistant shoes available online. However, since you will not be handling any of the materials with your feet, it's really most important to just find something that completely covers your skin.
 If you choose to use an electric sander, this will guard the soft tissue of your eye from any flying debris. It will also block any splashes of paint, primer, and fumes wafting from these substances. Although it is common to simply wear glasses that rest on the ears, it is advisable to use goggles while working with chemicals.This way you have a tight film around the entire eye, and gaseous particles cannot cause you any harm.
 It is preferable to select a respirator that conforms to OSHA standards.This will filter out any particles in your paint of primer that could lead to infections of the lungs. Particulate respirators like the N-95 - common to hospitals - are simple and widely available, but insufficient. It is necessary to get something that protects not just from particles but from chemicals, gases, and vapors.