 Similar to the temporary bolster, you'll need to roll the filling lengthwise into a tight, compact bundle. Whether you are using blankets or towels, decide on how thick you want the finished product to be, and roll them up accordingly.If you're worried about the materials coming undone, either during the sewing process or after the bolster is finished, you may want to bind the rolled-up filling with rubber bands, string, or even strips of velcro.
 If this is your first yoga bolster, you should check the measurements before sewing it shut to ensure that it is adequately thick. Or you could simply make multiple bolsters to suit your various yoga needs. If the bolster is too small, add additional filling (towels or blankets) to the existing bundle to create a longer or thicker bolster. If it's too large, then you'll need to scale back on your filling. Ultimately, though, the size of the finished product should be determined by your body and your needs.


Many yoga practitioners find 24 inches long by eight inches high and ideal height for well-supported forward bends and a deep chest opening.Many yoga practitioners prefer a smaller bolster for supporting the neck, knees, and spine. If you want a smaller bolster, adjust your bolster to measure 16 inches long and five to six inches high., If you're using a 3/4 yard piece of cloth, lay the filling down at one edge of the cloth and wrap the filling tightly inside the cloth.For smooth ends on the bolster, you'll also need to measure two round end caps. To measure the end caps, trace a medium- to large-sized dinner plate on a piece of cloth. If it is an adequate size for your bolster, trace a second circle using the same dinner plate to use as the other end cap., Sew the bolster shut if you're satisfied with the size and will not need to access the materials inside. If you may need the towels or blankets that you used as filling, consider using string or rubber bands to tie the bolster shut.


If you're using a pillow case and want to make it a permanent bolster, you can simply sew the open end closed.If you're using end caps, sew them in place to cover each end of the rolled up bolster tube.