 Finding happiness is a lifelong journey, but there are a number of ways to reach it. Form “happiness habits” which make being happy second nature by doing one of the following:


Try to find happiness in everyday situations.Tell yourself a story as you go through the day, focusing especially on the good things. For instance, maybe you ate a delicious breakfast, heard a funny joke from a coworker, or took a relaxing shower. Appreciating and remembering these simple things can make a mediocre day great.
Spend time with friends and family who care about and respect you.
Practice empathy. If a client or guest is late, or your kids make a mess, try to empathize with them instead of becoming angry. After all, nobody can be punctual all the time, and kids tend to make messes once in awhile.Practice meditation. Regular mediation will adjust the “set point” in your brain, the point at which you feel happy or unhappy. You will become more empathetic and feel happy more often., Even if she doesn’t deserve it, you do. When you hold on to a grudge or to pain someone else caused you, it wears you out emotionally and mentally.Breaking up always hurts. Acknowledge that you have been hurt and confront the pain in order to move through it to a state of forgiveness.
Accept that both you and your ex-girlfriend are flawed. Nobody is perfect.
You don’t need to communicate with the ex-girlfriend you are forgiving to forgive her.However, when you feel ready, you might want to communicate your feelings about your breakup to her.
Forgiveness doesn’t mean you are not allowed to continue feeling sad, disappointed, or otherwise.
Hating your ex may feel good in the short run, but in the end it will only trap you, and leave you feeling more angry and frustrated., Changing your mental attitude in a positive way will help you realize that life after your ex-girlfriend is gone is still worth living.


Practice positive affirmation. When you encounter a negative thought such as “I am never good enough for anyone,” visualize the words in your mind and watch them drift away. Replace this thought with a positive one, such as “I deserve love and respect.”
Stay conscious of your thoughts and feelings throughout the day. Doing so will give you control of your mental attitude and help you overcome feelings of jealousy, hate, anger, disappointment, and self-doubt.
When you do encounter failures at work or school, reflect on them as opportunities to do something better the next time around. Don’t let one failure -- or breakup – blind you to the fact that you’re equally capable of success and victory.
Adopt a daily mantra and begin each day with it. For instance, maybe your personal mantra is “Today will be a good day and I will do my best to make it so.” Recite the words of your personal mantra in front of the mirror before leaving each day., Don’t dwell on the past. Minimize or eliminate contact between you and your ex. You can be just as happy alone or with someone else as you were with your ex-girlfriend.It is okay to still love your ex-girlfriend. But understand that love alone is often not enough to make a relationship work, especially if it is only felt by one partner in the relationship. Accept your pain and heartbreak, and give yourself time to let your love for your ex transform into the more caring, compassionate, universal love you have for a friend.
Stay in contact with mutual acquaintances. Depending on the length of your relationship, you and your ex-girlfriend may share many friends. Moving on with your life doesn’t mean you have to abandon shared friends. Be cordial to them despite whatever happened between you and your ex.

