 If one of your friends says no, ask if they want to be a rogue, loner, kittypet or even another animal (like a badger or a fox). This can be fun since not every cat is a warrior, but if they still refuse, don't force them to play.;
, Make sure they know about the clans, the Warrior Code, ranks, and traditions. When assigning a rank for that person, suggest them starting off as a kit or apprentice since they don't know much.


Every clan needs a leader - this must be an experienced reader (whoever has read the most books or gained the most knowledge) and somebody that will be a good roleplayer.
Next, the leader needs to choose a deputy. The deputy should have read at least a series of books. The leader should test a few willing people and then choose somebody reliable. If your clan is evil, the leader should make sure the deputy is evil unless the leader isn't actually evil and they want their clan to to be good.
The medicine cat should be a sympathetic, kind and sweet person that doesn't fight much and is quite clever. They don't actually need to know about herbs, but suggest them searching up different plants and how they can be used.
Warriors are very important so you should have at least three of them.
Apprentices need good mentors, preferably ones that have been warriors/medicine cat for a while.
Kits should be people that are quite cute, cheeky or don't know much about warriors. If you have kits, make sure you have queens.
It is also fun to have elders. Storytellers made wonderful elders.
However, in the case that you don't have many members, suggest each person having more than one character. Playing the same role in a small group becomes boring fast. Also, make sure an apprentice receives their warrior name - don't stick with the same rank.
 Names are very important. Your members must have warrior names unless they were formerly a loner/rogue/kittypet. Names for kits must end in -kit. Apprentice names end in -paw. If your cat has a certain interesting feature, like a disfigurement, you can add that into the name. Medicine cat names/warrior names usually end in body parts, but it is more creative to think of suffixes other than -pelt, -fur, -leg, etc. Be aware that medicine cat names don't usually end in claw, because medicine cats rarely fight. Deputies keep their warrior names unless they become leader, in which they take -star as their leader name ending. Elders keep their warrior names unless something has changed about them. For example, if a cat named Maplefoot had twisted her paw, she may change her name to Twistedleg. These names can be interesting, and describe your character well, but normal names are nice too.

Make sure all names are natural. Unless they are kittypets (house cats), you would hardly find a cat named Mustangpaw, or a silly name like Awesomepaw, Cocopaw, or Phonepaw! That is why it is vital to have a nature-related names. For ideas, imagine things you would see out in nature - TVs and cars aren't one of them. Instead, think of plants, animals, clouds and water, among others. Do not create mean names, or somebody can get hurt, refuse to join, or tell on you as bullies, which you don't want to be.
 They don't have to know everything, but make sure they know their personality, their aims in life, etc. Make sure they also know what your cat looks like. Pretend that they are blind and describe your cat to the best of your ability. (For example, you don't want your friends to think that a cat named Blackpelt has white fur.)

, No matter where you're roleplaying, know that you can choose anywhere for your clan to live. You may be playing in your school playground, but your clan may whisk you away to a beautiful tropical island. Territories usually have landmarks, and they always have a place for apprentices to train and a camp. There is often a dangerous area in one place in the territory, such as Snakerocks in Thunderclan's forest territory. If you want, help draw a map of the territory with your friends, showing where everywhere is. This can help you be descriptive during your roleplay.
 Always accept new members.