 Trim your hair every 6 to 8 weeks to rid your locks of damaged ends and prevent split ends from re-splitting. Regular trims will not cause your hair to grow faster, but it will allow you to easily maintain your hair’s length. When you maintain a consistent hair trimming schedule, it will only be necessary to cut approximately ½ an inch off your tresses each time., In order to keep your hair healthy, you must limit your use of harsh chemicals and products. Hair dyes damage your hair and over applying products will weigh your locks down.If possible, it is best to simply avoid dying your hair. If you choose to dye your locks, only dye your hair when it absolutely needs it.
Over time, hair products build up on your scalp. Using too many products will weigh down your already heavy locks, causing them to look lifeless and flat. To keep your tresses full and bouncy, only use a marginal amount of products., Before exposing your hair to the heat of your blow dryer, straightener, or curling iron, always apply a heat protectant. Heat protectants coat the follicle and seal in moisture. They prevent an array of damage, such as split ends and fried hair.When applying the heat protectant, always follow the instructions provided on the product.For fine or straight hair, use a heat protectant spray or lightweight gel.
For curly or thick hair, apply a heat protectant serum or oil., Ponytails, tight braids, and top-knots are adorable and stylish but they are damaging to your hair. These styles place tension on your roots, damaging the follicles. The elastic bands used to secure these looks also cause split ends and breakage. When possible, wear your hair down. If you prefer to pull it up and back, opt for a low chignon, low ponytail, or loose braid., African American hair is extremely fragile. In an effort to prevent damage and breakage, wear your hair in a protective or low manipulation hairstyle.


In protective hairstyles, the ends are intentionally tucked away to protect them from the elements. With the ends protected, your hair should retain its length.Some protective hairstyles include buns, braids, flat twists, pompadours, and extensions.The concept of low manipulation hairstyles was created in response to the major problems associated with protective hairstyles: tangling, dryness, and breakage. Low manipulation styles are easy to create, maintain, and take out. There are two basic low manipulation hairstyles:

Wash-and-gos are low maintenance. Simply wash, condition, and style your hair.
Twist/Braid outs provide additional volume to your natural hair. Moisturize your hair and separate it into 1 inch sections. Twist or braid each section. Once dry, undo and separate the twists or braids to add volume. Moisture, seal, and restyle your hair as needed., Your hair is susceptible to damage throughout the night.


Begin your bedtime routine by brushing your hair from root to tip several times. This will detangle your locks and spread your scalp’s natural oils throughout your hair.
If you prefer to wear your hair up at night, trade your elastic band for a scrunchie. Before bed, twist your hair into a top-knot and secure the high bun with a scrunchie.
Upgrade to a silk pillowcase to prevent split ends. If you can not afford a silk pillowcase, wrap your hair in a silk scarf.Consider using a sleeping cap. Waking up with tangled tresses is never fun. Protect your hair at night with a sleeping cap. Sleeping caps constrain your hair—when your hair moves less at night, you wake up with fewer snarls.