 If you want a know-it-all to listen to you, you must appeal to their sense of self-importance. Since they are not naturally good listeners, you will have to create some problem that you want their advice on. This gets their attention since you appealed to the value of their opinion. Ask something like, “I have a problem waking up in the morning, what do you think is the best way to get started in the morning?”

, Prepare verified facts when entering into a conversation with a know-it-all will limit their negative impact and opportunities to interject. If you are giving a presentation, hand out an agenda ahead of the meeting with a time limit for each phase of the talk. Add statistics and cited facts that are indisputable.
Preparation is always the key. The more prepared you are to defend your perspective the better off you will be in dealing with a know-it-all.
 If you prefer to be a little more direct you can preempt statements with truisms that give little room for a know-it-all to get involved in the conversation. Since truisms are obviously true, know-it-alls can only offer moderate, less overbearing responses.

Before making a statement, say “If we are open to all possibilities, then we could look at it this way.” These types of truisms throw off know-it-alls because it is directed towards them making them have to rethink what they were going to say.
Or, after a know-it-all provides their response, say, “I am shocked to hear this because I thought your perspective would be different.” This surprises them because you are questioning their response without being too confrontational.
 A know-it-all is often a contrarian – you say “day,” they say “night.” They just cannot help themselves. Being a contrarian compels them to say the opposite even if the truth is overlooked just to hear their own voice. personallCoerce the know-it-all to have to agree with your position by presenting the opposite perspective before making your statement: “I know you will disagree with this; indeed, you will certainly think this to be ridiculous, but…” Now the contrarian has no choice but to agree with you.
 Sometimes the only way you can get a know-it-all to accept your position is to repeat it over and over. You must be resilient and avoid getting caught up in their perspective. The strategy is to make them figure it out on their own through dogged repetition and to exhaust them to the point of surrender. For example: “I understand how important it is to you, but I don’t want to do it…seriously, I don’t want to do it…Yes, of course I am very clear how important it is, but I don’t want to do it.”
Or, “I think it is too expensive…Sure, it’s a good deal, but it’s too expensive…I understand there is financing available, but it’s too expensive.”

, Know-it-alls enjoy being contrarians and voicing their perspectives. If this becomes too annoying challenge their responses by asking detailed questions to break down their position. This forces the know-it-all to be better prepared before blurting out answers they cannot support with evidence. Be respectful, but ask specific questions about their sources, facts, or experiences. Do not be afraid to confront a know-it-all about their expertise or authority.

