 To keep bikes from unnecessary weight, many stems (the connecting, L-shaped piece between your bars and bike) do not have a lot of excess room. If you want to make a larger change to your handlebar height, you will need to purchase a new stem from your local bike shop. If you have serious comfort issues, such as reaching too far or not far enough to your bars, you should consider a longer or shorter stem.


Threadless headsets have one big bolt on the top and two smaller bolts that help clamp the stem down. If your bike only has one continuous piece of metal connecting the bike to the bars then you have a threaded headset.;
, Let your body be the best judge of where you need the handlebars. Your back shouldn't be hunched or bent and your arms should be slightly bent at the elbows. Otherwise, ride how you feel comfortable. Have a friend hold the bike in place by gripping the front wheel between their thighs as you climb into the seat to test the handlebars. Generally, regardless of mountain or road biking:


Racing riders have low handlebars so they can crouch aerodynamically. They are usually below the seat 2-4".
Comfort riders or beginners will have handlebars level with the seat or higher., Take an Allen key and remove the bolt on the stem cap. This bolt keeps the handlebars on the bike, and you need to remove it to raise or lower your bars. Remove the long bolt and take off the cap, then set them both aside safely for later.
 Use an Allen Key to loosen the two side screws on your handlebars. They will be on the part of the stem closest to your seat. Loosen them enough so that you pull the handlebars and stem off the tube in the frame.
 Slowly remove the handlebars, taking care not to stress or bend any of the wires attached to the brakes and derailleurs. These usually have a little bit of extra slack, but to be safe you should roll the bike up to a table or chair and place the handlebars down carefully, close to the bike.
 These spacers are all you have to adjust the height on threadless headsets. They are small rings that you add to gain height and remove to lower the bars. The conical piece that the bottom of the stem and connects to the frame, however, is the bearing cover and cannot be removed.You can buy more spacers at your local bike shop if you need the handlebars to get higher.
 Don't worry too much about aligning the bars perfectly just yet. If you removed any spacers, put them on top of the stem so that you don't lose them. The stem cap bolt will then cover them.
 You do not need to crank the bolt down, as hand tightness is perfectly fine. This top bolt does not affect the side-to-side movement of the handlebars, so you should tighten it before trying to get the handlebars aligned again.


If you are working with delicate pieces, like a carbon fiber frame, you should have a torque wrench to make sure you don't crack anything.Make sure you can turn the handlebars freely. If not, you should loosen the head bolt slightly until you can easily turn the bike.
 Stand over the bike with the frame between your legs, and squeeze the front wheel so that it is facing directly ahead. Close one eye and adjust the handlebars so that the centerpiece is aligned exactly with the front wheel. You want your wheel and handlebars to be in line for proper turning control.


If you are having trouble keeping the bars in place, tighten the nuts a quarter turn so that you need more pressure to spin the handlebars, yet they still move independently of the wheel.Tighten the bolts when you are done and the handlebars are aligned.
 The headset, remember, is the entire collection of piece (handlebars, stem, fork, front wheel) that turns your bike. The top bolt attaches to the headset of your bike, which affects your turning. To check it, stand with the bike between your legs and clamp the front brakes down. Turn the wheel back and forth and feel for any rocking or odd movement beneath your hands. If you feel any, loosen the side bolts, tighten the top bolt a little more, then retighten the sides to check again.


If you are struggling to turn or feel a "tight-spot," loosen the top bolt a little.