 Measure the jeans down to about shorts length and cut off the legs at this point. Then cut the jeans into four equal pieces, as shown in the image.


Be sure that the pockets are left intact in their entirety. They will be where the stored items are placed.;
, Cut off any excess threads or fabric, if needed.
 The pockets should each be accessible when placed across the board in the form of a fabric collage. See the image for guidance.
 Use fabric glue to adhere the fabric pieces to the board. Overlap the edges and glue each fabric piece to the back of the board as well as onto the front of it; the image demonstrates what you need to do.
 Glue some yarn or thread to the back of the board in a loop or half circle shape. You will use this to hang the board if you need to hang it. (Or, you can simply lean it, that's up to you.)


A more substantial hanger can be made by drilling two holes into the top of the board and threading strong yarn or string through the holes to form a hanging loop. Knot well.
 Choose a selection of fabric paints to add color to the board.


While fabric paints are the best choice, you can use any liquid color you prefer because you won't need to wash the denim board. You can use gouache or acrylic.
 Trace around anything small and circular, such as a bottle lid.


You can use any shapes you like––polka dots are simply one suggestion because they look good and they're easy to paint.



It is recommended that you tuck paper inside the pockets when painting, so that the paint doesn't leach through to the board side and cause the pocket to stick together.
 For example, a small set of sticky notes. Glue the notepaper to the board for those quick jottings you will likely make in the future––if you hang the board in your kitchen, you can use the notes to write down your kitchen needs. Just take care not to glue the notepaper in any way that will obstruct using the pockets. Allow the glue to dry for at least 30 minutes, or for the time noted on the glue label.
 You can now fill it with pencils, pens, an eraser, reminders and anything else that's relevant.

