 Wash the brushes and applicators with warm water and dish soap, and your face with warm water and cleanser. Apply lotion to your face.;
, Apply it evenly on the affected area, but not around it. Doing so will create a "halo effect." Remember to choose a concealer that either matches your skin color or is a shade lighter.
 Foundation will look fake and silly otherwise, and will not help with the fresh and clean look. If you are using it, apply as little as possible and blend very well. If there is a clear distinction between where there is foundation and is not, you're using the wrong shade. Don't test it on the back of your hand, the skin there is always darker than on the face. Go to a makeup counter and get their help, or ask an older friend or relative to help you.
 Apply only a small amount, and only to the areas that really need it - typically the T-zone, the forehead, nose, and chin. Applying it underneath the eye or on the cheeks can remove the natural glow of these areas and make the skin look aged. Brush it on gently but thoroughly, you don't want to be able to see specks of powder still on. Again, if there is distinction between where it is applied and where it isn't you're using the wrong colour. Some people prefer to use a powder-puff or sponge applicator to apply powder. It's a personal choice and you should experiment until you find what works best for you.
 For the clean look, stick to light browns, ivories, and pinks and very VERY pale purples. Anything a shade or two darker than your skin tone will look nice as well. For the clean look, try to avoid anything bright or too colorful, such as greens or blues. A little bit of shimmer will brighten the eyes, but don't go for anything glittery during the day. Eyeshadow should be applied with a brush or the sponge-tip applicators they often come with. Close one eye and touch the brush or applicator to the shadow. If you are using a brush gently tap it against the inside lid of the shadow container to get rid of excess. Lightly sweep it across the lid. Repeat with the other eye. Once over is enough, it should not appear completely opaque.
 A tip often given is to gently pinch the back of your hand or your wrist and match the colour of the blush to the colour your skin turns. When in doubt, ask for help at a makeup counter or from an older friend. Remember not to use too much blush when applying! Sweep the brush across the blush, and smile at yourself in the mirror. Apply the blush to the "apples," the part of your cheek that appears round when you smile, and sweep gently up and back, towards your hairline. For a healthy look, do not apply elsewhere and keep well blended.
 For the clean look it is best to go with lip-gloss in clear, light pink, or brown or bronze. The shade of brown or bronze should not be more than two shades darker than your skin tone. Lipstick may be worn in light pink, brown, or bronze if you desire, but will look much more made up.
