 Look for one with three sturdy wheels with rubber tires that can be inflated. Load your toddler into this stroller and go for a quick, or long, run in the park. You can even hit some of the smoother nature trails with certain off-road joggers.Choose a stroller where the seat can be slightly inclined as well. This gives your toddler the option of taking a nap while you burn some calories.
 Let your toddler practice their tricycle riding as you walk along next to them. Or, attach a trailer to the back of your bike so that your toddler can ride long as you pedal around town. Throw a picnic lunch into the trailer as well and you can head off to a local park for a nice lunch.Make sure to carefully observe all traffic laws when biking with your toddler.
Before you start biking with your toddler find a helmet that fits them correctly. It should fit snugly on their head, strap under their chin, and be level at the top.
 Enroll your child in a local music, dance, or gym class. This will give them a chance to be active and make new friends while providing you with a free window of time to work out. If you take them to a local rec center, you might be able to just walk across the hallway to hit the gym., When you take your toddler to the park look around to see how you can make the space work for you. Do repeated stair climbs up to the tops of the towers. Lean against a part of the playground wall and do a few incline push-ups. See how many pull-ups you can finish on the monkey bars.#Join a kid-friendly gym. Look for a gym that offers safe, reliable childcare. In many cases, you can drop your toddler off at the center and watch them through your phone or a glass partition as you work out. Or, find a gym that offers parent-child classes. You might bring your child along to do yoga, for example.Make sure to check out the childcare area closely before dropping your toddler off. Check for any safety violations and talk with management about how their childcare workers are screened for safety.

