 You likely already love some magazines. Use that to your advantage, and find out to submit to them. The more you know about the magazine, the more likely you'll find one of your photos that will be the perfect fit.;
, If you are looking for a particular subject, try picking up magazines at a local store. You can find ones focused on particular topics, plus you can see what kinds of photos different magazines accept without spending large amounts of money to subscribe to all of them.
 Every magazine has a different style, and you need to pick one that fits your photos. For instance, if you take dark, grainy pictures, you may not want to submit to a nature magazine that mostly publishes sun-filled, sharp landscapes., Pick magazines that align with what you like to photograph. You can branch out, but don't try magazines that are beyond your current capacity.


Remember, you may not have the perfect image for the magazine at the time, but you still want to be in their general subject area. You don't want to send a picture of schoolkids to a culinary magazine or a picture of a city skyline to a nature magazine. You want to show them that you can give them what they want in the future, even if you don't already have the perfect image.
 If you're a beginner, you may not make it into big national magazines right away. However, you can start out trying for smaller magazines. For instance, maybe your local nature conservatory puts out a monthly magazine, and that may be a great place for you to begin.
 Most magazines will post guidelines for what they want from photographers on their website or somewhere in the magazine. For instance, they may want a particular file size or format, or they may want you to style them in a particular way. It will also tell you how they prefer for you to submit and how much they pay.


If you can't find submission guidelines, you can still submit to the magazine by finding an email or physical address. Generally, you can find this information on their website. When looking through staff members' emails, look for the photo editor or art director, and direct your query to that person, if the magazine is big enough to have such a person., Get an idea of what kind of photos they want, so you know what to submit.
 Make sure they are good quality and fit the style and subject matter of the magazine.If you don't have any that fit their style, choose another magazine, or try a photo shoot to capture what they want.
 The letter should explain who you are and what you want (to have your photos printed or to receive future assignments or both).You can do so in print or online but follow any guidelines the magazine offers. If you submit in print, be sure to include both printed images and a CD with high-resolution images, so they are ready to go if the magazine wants them.You should also include a thumbnail page, a caption sheet, and a picture of yourself.You can also send a sample of your work so you are placed on their mailing list. You show a collection of your photos, and they may contact you when they have assignments.Keep your letter professional and to the point. For instance, you could write something like: "Dear Ms. (name), My name is Jo Jones, and I am a freelance photographer. I have been a fan of your magazine for over 10 years. I love the work you do, which is why I am submitting a portfolio of photographs to be considered for publication in your magazine. I feel like my style is in line with your current aesthetics. I hope that one of these photos fits your current needs, but if you don't find one to your liking, please keep me in mind for future projects. Regards, Jo Jones"

, Once you've sent an initial query letter, contact the magazine again within a month to make sure your name pops up when assignments come up.


You want to keep up with the magazine, but don't bombard them. If you send them a new set of photos everyday, they may get annoyed and reject your work.
 If they make an offer, review the details and accept or reject the offer. If you're new to the scene, remember the offer could be fairly low for someone first starting out.
 If a magazine rejects you, don't send an angry reply. Thank them for their time. You may have better work in the future that they do like, and you want them to be receptive to it.
 Your camera's manual will assist you in moving beyond the auto settings, and as you learn more about photography, you'll need to know where things are., As you learn, don't be afraid to play around with the settings. All it will cost you is time, and it will teach you what each setting does.
 Exposure affects how light or dark your picture is, and it is dependent on aperture, ISO speed, and shutter speed. Aperture is how much light your camera lets in, while shutter speed is how long the shutter is open, exposing light to your photograph.


To blur the background in photography, use a low f-stop for your aperture, while a high f-stop creates a crisp photo.Use a short shutter speed to capture an image quickly, creating a sharp, still photo even when your subject's moving. However, if you want to show how your subject is moving, use a slower shutter speed. In the first situation, the shutter will open and shut quickly, while in the second, the shutter will open and close more slowly. With a long shutter speed, you must keep the camera as still as possible.ISO speed tells your camera how much light to use for a photo. A lower ISO speed tells it to not detect as much light. Use a low speed when it's bright out so you don't overexpose the picture, and do the opposite when it's dark. However, too high an ISO speed will make your photo grainy, not sharp, so set it at the lowest setting for the light.
 Composition is how you arrange a picture and where you take the shot. Do you zoom in on someone's eyes, or pan out to the whole woods with the person small in the corner? It depends on what you're trying to do with the photo. Taking a picture of eyes creates intimacy, while a small person in a large, empty space can create a lonely, surreal feel.


One important rule of composition is the rule of thirds, where you mentally divide the image into thirds both horizontally and vertically. The best place to situate your subject is where the lines creating these divisions intersect. Essentially, you want the subject to be off center, both horizontally and vertically, because it creates a more interesting photograph.Pay attention to visual lines, as it can pull the viewer in to different parts of the photograph. You don't want to pull a viewer away from the focus., You can find fairly cheap classes at your local art museum or community college. In a class, you'll receive feedback on your photograph and learn new skills.
 You'll learn skills from other photographers, and you can post your photographs for review.
 For instance, in San Antonio, Texas, you might photograph the River Walk, the Alamo, and Texas Hill Country landscapes, because those are pictures that magazines might look for to fill up pages., Every piece of the photo is part of what you're trying to convey, so make sure each part says what you want it to say. For instance, if you're trying to show beauty in the midst of drudgery, a flower in a dirty old tire works well. However, if you're trying to catch a pristine photo of your nephew, you might want the dirty tire out of the frame., Taking photographs from interesting angles and distances can change how the viewer sees the subject. For instance, if you take an aerial shot of your yard from your roof, you might see patterns you didn't know were there.Always be safe when taking photographs. Call in extra help if you are climbing ladders.
Alternatively, try taking a shot of something by getting up close and personal. Having the subject take up the whole frame can make the shot more interesting., That is, be on the same level as your subject. If you're photographing a child or a pet, get on your knees to get the best shot., Just like setting is a part of a story, light is an important aspect of any photo. Natural lighting can illuminate photos with a glow that surrounds subjects. However, even if you're in dark conditions, try using lamps and other light sources to create interesting shadows with your subject, such as lighting the subject from the side., If you're taking photos of people, making them laugh will create joyous expressions., When processing your photos, experiment with different filters to make the photo more interesting. However, always be sure to save a copy of the original, so that you can go back to it if you want, especially if a magazine is more interested in a plainer style., Take a little time everyday to go shoot. Walk around your neighborhood, go to the park, or visit a local bar. Always be on the lookout for interesting shots.Remember to ask permission before taking shots in businesses or of people you don't know., That is, don't stop to fiddle with your camera or to look at every shot. Just keep taking photos from different angles so you stay in the moment.