 Irregularity in periods could range from your periods lasting fewer or more days, having more or less periods as a whole, or having a heavier or lighter flow.You should carry feminine supplies with you all the time in case your period comes unexpectedly.
Consult with your doctor if you notice “spotting” but have not had a period for a year. This could be caused by another health condition.;
, These refer to a sudden feeling of heat across your body. Your face and neck could become red, and red blotches could appear on your upper body. They’re often followed by shivering and sweating.Prevent hot flashes by using a fan, sipping ice water, and wearing light clothes.Remove layers of clothing when you feel a hot flash coming on.Hot flashes can be triggered by consuming spicy foods, alcohol, or coffee and by wearing tight clothing. Avoid these in order to reduce the occurrence of hot flashes., If you are finding it hard to sleep through the night or are experiencing night sweats, these could be signs of entering the menopausal transition. Try keeping the room cool with fans or air conditioning.


Being physically active is a good way to get a good night’s sleep. Exercise in the morning or during the day, but refrain from exercising close to bedtime, as this could actually keep you awake.
Drink a warm beverage such as chamomile or warm milk before you go to sleep. This can provide comfort and can relax you. On the other hand, alcohol and caffeine close to bedtime could keep you up.
To get a better night’s sleep, you should avoid large meals and should not work right before you go to sleep.
Wear pajamas made of light fabrics, like cotton, to help keep you cool.
If you wake in the middle of the night and can’t fall asleep again, do something relaxing like reading a book or listening to calm music until you’re sleepy.
 These could vary from finding it hard to hold urine long enough to reach the bathroom to sex becoming uncomfortable due to lower estrogen levels. Vaginal or urinary tract infections could become more common during menopause.If sex is uncomfortable, use a water-based, over-the-counter vaginal lubricant, which should make sex less painful. You could also use an over-the-counter vaginal moisturizer like Replens for this same purpose., During menopause, your waist could become larger. You could also gain fat and/or lose muscle.Your metabolism will slow down, so you will need to adjust your diet to accommodate this change.


Establishing a regular exercise routine of moderate intensity could help you stay in shape while also improving your mood and being conducive to getting a better night’s sleep.
Include two to three days of strength training which helps keep your bones strong and can rebuild or prevent muscle loss.
 While these may just be a sign of aging, they could also be due to the reduced production of estrogen levels during menopause and/or osteoporosis. A doctor could make this diagnosis as well as help you establish a treatment plan suited to your specific needs.