 Most video game stores and shops carry this game; it isn't that hard to find.;
,,,, It provides details on the background of the game, such as how the main character got his powers and what he did to get this far.


There will be several more cutscenes throughout the game. These are used to progress the story and make more game information known to you.
Additionally, there may be prompts on your screen that either display a text version of the commentary, give you an objective, or inform you of how to perform a certain action. Pay close attention to these as well.
If you still can't get a feel for the gameplay even by paying attention, give your start menu a visit. You can check the controls there, and adjust the options to better suit your gaming style. New players may want to visit the options to make sure the difficulty is set to Easy.
 The prompts on your screen will tell you how to do certain things (such as shooting lightning out of your hands, jumping, moving, and using the camera), but you will need to use your knowledge of other video games as common sense.


For instance, avoiding physical contact with The Beast or his attacks is a smart strategy. Relentlessly firing lightning bolts at him is also a decent means of progressing the mission.
Once you have defeated The Beast, you will arrive in a town called New Marais. This is where the game takes place.
 You will unlock new powers (which you have to keep track of) as you get closer to the end.
 While the markers for story missions appear as white exclamation points, the markers for side missions appear as yellow exclamation points. Side missions can be useful for unlocking powers and increasing abilities (such as your electric drain). They also give you a lot of experience points, and can prevent enemies from spawning in certain points of the city.
 They can increase your energy storage, allowing you to perform more electrical attacks before going dry. They can also give you experience points, so try to collect the 305 Blast Shards hidden throughout New Marais.
 They provide background information and offer ten times as many experience points as Blast Shards (though there are only 19 Dead Drops).
 You can play missions other players have created, or you can try to create your own.


It is preferable to play missions others have created before you create your own missions.
If you are planning on making your own mission, a basic knowledge of game design might come in handy. You need to have objects, obviously, but you also need to use things called Logic Boxes to dictate how the objects behave. It is impossible to win or lose a mission without logic boxes, and you can even use them to choose the music, civilian density, or time of day in the mission.
 Shoot lightning at random objects and test out your powers whenever possible. Seek out hostiles and attempt to eliminate them as fast as possible.
 Both sides have their advantages.
 You can do this in your start menu under saved games - be sure to save first!

