 Think of where and how you meet. Take their backstory and merge it with yours. Build on their personal history so that it leads them to you. Did you meet by pure chance? Or did your shared interests bring you together somehow? If you’re unsure, play out different scenarios in your head until you find one that just feels right.
 When you’re alone, either at home or out and about, pretend that your imaginary partner is with you. Watch TV together, share a meal, go for a walk–anything that couples do. Build memories with each other so that your partner becomes a true boyfriend or girlfriend instead of someone who just has a “first date” with you again and again and again, as if they had amnesia.
 Based on their tastes and interests, look around you to see what would catch their attention instead of yours. Open yourself to new ideas.If you go to a store, wander down the aisles that they would browse. If you hear something on the news about their hometown, think of how they would react. Watch movies you’ve seen a hundred times before and imagine how it would play to your imaginary partner, who may have never seen it before.
 Since no two people are exactly the same, think of how the two of you differ. Ponder how those differences might lead to disagreements. Then ask yourself how serious that disagreement would be. Would it just be a casual conversation with no hurt feelings, or could it build into an actual fight? Play the scene out just like it was happening for real, with no way to rewind or erase it.


Say you’re both watching a testosterone-fueled action movie that you love, but your partner doesn’t like the way all of the female characters are sidelined as cheerleaders and sex objects. How strongly does your partner object to this? Are they just making an observation? Are they a little disappointed about this one aspect of a movie they otherwise enjoy? Or are they really, really offended by the whole thing?

, Recognize them as a way to help you deal with real people and situations. Have them echo thoughts and concerns that people in your life have shared with you. Practice your ability to empathize and put yourself in other people’s shoes. Strengthen your relationships outside of your pretend one.