 Whether you choose to eat a hard or soft shell, you're mainly eating the taco for its filling. Many of these are classics, but you can be creative. You can also mix toppings for a variety of flavor. Here are some ideas to get you started:


Meats - ground or shredded chicken, beef, pork
Beans - pinto, black, or refried
Rice - brown, Spanish, or white
Fish - fried or grilled halibut, tuna, cod, or whatever you usually favor

, It's no surprise that certain cheese work better with some fillings than others. Here are a few ideas to try:


Try Manchego if you're using chorizo, salsa verde, or sour cream.
Use Cheddar with ground beef, crema, and jalapenos.
Try Feta or Cotija with pork belly and pineapple.
Use Mozzarella or Pepper Jack with hard chorizo, sauteed chard, and hominy.
 Try to move beyond the typical guacamole, sour cream, lettuce, and tomatoes. Give one of these a chance:


Shredded cabbage
Diced onions
Grilled jalapenos
Chopped cilantro
Lime juice

, While you can purchase a variety of salsas, you can really personalize a salsa if you make it yourself. Here are the basic types to get you started:


Salsa Roja - This is the red pepper-based salsa that most people immediately think of when it comes to salsa. Tomatoes are optional and you can make it as spicy as you like.
Avocado based: You can make it thick and pasty like guacamole, or leave it thinner with chunks of avocado.
Pico de Gallo - This chopped and raw salsa usually consists of onions, tomatoes, and chili peppers.
Salsa Verde - Again, you can make this green salsa as spicy or mild as you like. It's typically made from tomatillos, chilis, and cilantro.
Pineapple based: This is usually a mixture of finely chopped or large chunks of pineapple tossed with diced tomato, onion, jalapeno, and cilantro., Who says tacos always have to be Mexican inspired? Take a page out of another type of food you love. Here are some ideas to get your out of a standard taco rut:


Barbecue - Use barbecued chicken with lots of tangy sauce, shredded cabbage, and cheese.Breakfast - Use crispy potatoes, bacon, and cheese on top of scrambled eggs.Green - Use sauteed greens, such as kale or spinach, sweet potato, avocado, and sour cream.Leftover - Tacos don't have to be labor intensive, especially if you use leftovers. For example, don't throw out that spaghetti or sloppy joe filling. Make spaghetti tacos or sloppy tacos and cover with your favorite taco toppings.