 Add 4 ½ cups (513 g) of masa harina and 3 ¾ cups (887 ml) of cold water to a large bowl. Use clean hands to blend the two together until they are mostly incorporated and a moist dough forms. Set the bowl aside.Masa harina is a corn-based flour used in traditional Mexican cooking. You can usually find it in Latin grocery stories or in the international aisle of other grocery stores. Many online retailers also sell it.;
, Add 1 ½ cups (308 g) of cold lard and 1 tablespoon (18 g) of kosher salt to the bowl of a stand mixer with the paddle attachment inserted. Beat the two together on high until the mixture is white and shiny, which should take approximately 2 minutes.Lard or rendered pork fat helps give the masa a mild pork flavor. You can make your own or find it at Latin grocery stores or in some general grocery stores in the oil or baking aisle.
If you prefer to make a vegetarian masa, you can substitute vegetable shortening for the lard. However, it won’t have the same flavor as traditional masa.
You can substitute an electric handheld mixer for the stand mixer, though you may need to beat the lard and salt together a little longer.
 After you’ve blended the lard and salt together, lower the mixer’s speed to medium high, and begin to add handfuls of the dough you made earlier. Continue mixing in more until all of the dough is blended in.When you add the dough, make sure that each handful is mixed in before adding more.
 Once you’ve added all of the dough to the lard mixture, keep blending the mixture for approximately another minute. Stop when all of the ingredients are fully mixed, and a soft, smooth dough forms., When the dough has formed, cover the bowl tightly with a piece of plastic wrap. Chill the dough in the refrigerator for at least an hour to firm it up.You can refrigerate the dough for up to 2 days before using it.
 To make it easier to get the tortillas off the press, it helps to cover it with plastic. Cut open a plastic zipper plastic bag along a side seam. Open the tortilla press and set the open bag over it.You can purchase a tortilla press at most home goods stores and a variety of online retailers. It is a good investment if you make homemade tortillas on a regular basis.
If you don’t have a tortilla press, you can roll out the masa with a rolling pin. They won’t be perfectly round as they are with a press and there may be some cracks along the edges, but they still work well for holding your favorite fillings.
You can use regular plastic wrap to cover the press, but the bags work better because the plastic is thicker, which makes it easier to lift the pressed tortillas off.
 After you’ve covered the press with the plastic bag, use a clean hand to remove approximately 3 to 4 tablespoons (45 to 60 g) of the chilled masa dough from the bowl. Carefully roll it into a ball between your hands.A ball of masa that’s approximately the same size as a ping pong ball will typically create a 6-inch (15-cm) tortilla. Adjust the amount of dough that you use to get the tortilla size that you prefer.
 Once you’ve rolled the masa into a ball, place it down on the opened plastic bag in the middle of the press. Fold the other side of the plastic bag down over the ball so the masa is protected with plastic on both sides., With the masa ball in place, close the press. Bring down the handle over the top of the press, and flatten the dough until it is approximately ⅛-inch (3-mm) thick.If you press the tortilla and it isn’t as thin as you’d like, it usually helps to rotate the plastic with the dough on it and repress it.
 After you’ve pressed the tortilla to the right thickness, open the press, remove the top layer of plastic, and flip the tortilla onto your hand so you can peel away the plastic bag from the other side. Set the finished tortilla on a plate, and repeat the process for as many tortillas as you need.If you’re waiting to cook all of the tortillas once you’re finished pressing them, make sure to cover the flattened tortilla with a towel to keep them fresh.
You can stack the tortillas on top of one another, but you must be carefully when you peel each off the stack because they may stick together. If you like, you can cut some more plastic bags to layer between the tortillas.
 To cook the tortillas, set a large, flat cast iron skillet on the stove. Turn the heat to medium-high and allow the pan to heat for at least 5 minutes.You’ll know the skillet is hot enough when you drop some water on it and it sizzles right away.
 When the skillet is heated, place a tortilla in it. Allow it to cook for 1 to 2 minutes on the first side, or until the edges begin to curl up. Turn the tortilla over, and cook it for another 1 to 2 minutes on the other side.You’ll know that the sides of the tortilla are ready when they are dry and have some brown, toasted spots.
You can cook as many tortillas as will fit in the pan in a single layer with no overlapping at one time.
 After the tortilla is finished cooking, place it on a clean kitchen towel. Wrap the towel around it to help trap the steam and soften it. Continue cooking the tortillas, and stack the finished ones on top of one another, wrapping the entire pile in the towel., Fresh, homemade tortillas are best when served warm so you can use in them in your favorite recipes right away. If you don’t plan to eat them right away, allow them to cool, place them in zipper plastic bags, and store in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.You can use the corn tortillas for tacos, enchiladas, quesadillas, or any recipe that calls for a tortilla or wrap.
To reheat refrigerated tortillas, wrap them in dampened paper towels and microwave in 30 second intervals until they are warm and soft.
 To form the tamales, you need corn husks. Remove any dirt on the husks by filling your sink with warm water and placing them in it to soak for at least 15 minutes. Swish the husks around in the water once or twice to ensure that all of the dirt comes loose.After the husks are finished soaking, drain the sink and rinse them with fresh water before moving onto the next step.
You can find corn husks, often marketed as tamale wrappers, at Latin grocery stores and many mainstream markets.
 Corn husks are often large, so unless you want to make oversized tamales, it’s best to trim them. Use a pair of scissors to cut the husks so they are approximately 5-inches (13-cm) wide.Save the scraps from the husks that you trim off. You can use them for cooking the tamales later.
 Once the husks are clean and trimmed, lay them out flat and place approximately 2 tablespoons (30 g) of the masa in the center. Use a butter knife or offset spatula to spread the masa so it forms a 5-inch by 5-inch (13-cm by 13-cm) square along one of the longer sides of the husks., After you’ve spread out the masa, add a small amount of the filling of your choice to the center of it. Spread it out over the masa in a thin, even layer.Traditional tamales fillings include pork, chicken, and beans and cheese, but you can be as creative as you like.
It’s best to make your filling ahead of time and refrigerate it. Cold fillings hold their shape better and don’t run out of the tamales.
 After you’ve spread the filling over the masa, fold over one long side of the husks. Next, fold over the other side to cover the first. With the seam facing upward, fold one end of the husks under to secure it.One end of the tamales will still be open when you’ve finished folding them properly.
 After you’ve folded the tamales, line the bottom of the a large pot with the corn husk scraps that you trimmed earlier. Crumple a ball of foil and place it in the center of the pot before arranging the tamales around it.When you place the tamales in the pot, make sure to arrange them with the seams facing outward and the unfolded ends facing upward.
It’s all right if the tamales lean against one another, so you can create multiple rows in the pot.
 Once all of the tamales are in the pot, pour 3 cups (710 ml) of chicken stock into the pot. Heat the pot on the stove high heat until it comes to a boil.You can substitute water or another type of broth for the chicken broth if you prefer.
 After the pot comes to a boil, cover it and lower the heat to medium-low. Allow the tamales to simmer for approximately 40 minutes, adding more stock if it the liquid cooks off. You’ll know the tamales are done when they no longer stick to the husk when you unwrap them.Allow the tamales to sit for about 10 minutes before serving.

