 Look at sites written by experts who have knowledge in the employment field and regular exposure to job postings and hiring. Different experts will have different recommendations, and it's important to find the ones that seem most geared to your goals and qualifications to focus on in your job search.;
, If you are unsure about the quality of your resume, get reviews and advice from family and friends. Investing in a professional resume or critique is another option, especially if you are not getting much feedback on your resume. Post your resume to job boards and specialty sites so that employers can find you.
 Some experts say you should spend at least 2 hours a day looking for a job. Be sure to allow time in your schedule for job hunting and researching companies.
 Research the companies in your area that you'd like to work for. Don't rely on just the large corporations--spend some time doing online research to find out what companies are nearby. Drive around corporate centers and main streets. Read up on the companies, find out who the hiring managers are, and send your resume and cover letter directly to them.
 Go to business functions, job fairs and conferences. Participate in online forums related to your occupation or the field you want to break into.
 Don't just rely on the big job boards or the classified ads. Websites devoted to a specific field, like accounting, or a specific type of worker, like freelancers, often list jobs that are not posted elsewhere. In addition, check the websites of the companies you want to work for regularly.
 Your cover letter should summarize your skills and tell a hiring manager exactly why you are the right candidate for the job. Following up after you've sent a resume shows that you are truly interested in the job and committed to getting it.
 Make sure you have a thorough understanding of what the company does and who the key staff is. Think about questions you can ask about the company or comments you can use in your interview to show that you are familiar with them.
 Interviews are stressful and difficult for almost anyone. Prepare by practicing with a job coach or a friend. Go on interviews with employment agencies to get some practice at interviewing and some tips to build up your interview skills. Search online to find out what common interview questions are, and prepare answers for them. Be prepared to talk about specific work experiences.
 Employers can do Internet searches of your name and look for your profiles on social networking sites, so make sure you do the same. If undesirable results come up, do what you can to correct or eliminate them.

