 One way to avoid conflicts over toys and possessions is to make rules about borrowing possessions. Teach your children to ask each other nicely if they can use their sibling’s toys or possessions before borrowing them. Reinforce the idea that even if the sibling isn’t around, they still need to ask the parent for permission before using the toy.Let each child have a few special toys that they don’t have to share unless they want to. Make sure they also have a special place to store these toys.
 If your kids both want to play with the same toy, set up a schedule for how long each child can play with the toy. Make sure the amount of time is equal. Also, have guidelines for deciding who gets to play with the toy first.For example, if the toy is a personal belonging, then the owner has priority. If the toy is neutral, then teach your children how to be fair by flipping a coin to see who gets to play with the toy first.
 Your children’s beds are their most private spaces when sharing a room. Make a rule that states that explicit permission from the sibling must be granted before the other child sits or lies on their bed. This will make your children feel like they have control over their own personal space, and hopefully reduce conflicts., Noise, light, and having different bedtimes can also create potential conflicts between siblings. Therefore, make sure to include guidelines that designate times for quiet and play to meet each child's needs.For example, designate an hour of quiet time where noise and lights are kept at a minimum in order to do homework or take a nap.
If your children have a two or three year age gap, do not make them go to bed at the same time. Instead, designate separate, but developmentally appropriate, bedtimes for each child.
 By involving your children in making the rules, they will have a personal investment in them. This way, they are more likely to remember and follow them, as well as enforce the rules themselves.Once you and your children have settled on a few simple rules, formally type them up and print them on a piece of paper. Hang them up in their bedroom as a reminder.
Make the rules as simple and positive as possible, for example, “Ask nicely before borrowing a toy” and “Treat other people’s possessions with respect and care.”

, All rules must have consequences if they are broken. Consequences help reinforce the rules and standards. Make sure to follow through each time one of your children breaks a rule. Like with rules, you and your children can also create and agree on the appropriate consequences for each rule.For example, if a child plays with a toy longer than the scheduled time, the amount of time they went over will be subtracted from the next round of playing.
Additionally, if the children begin to fight over a toy, make the toy off-limits until they can figure out a way to share it.

