 When making infused salts, you’ll have the most success using larger grains that aren’t overpowered by the other flavors you’re incorporating. Sea salt, kosher salt or Maldon salt flakes are ideal, but you can also use normal table salt if it’s all that’s available. Begin by making about one cup of flavored salt at a time.Kosher salt is a safe choice, as it’s the least costly and has just the right texture for making flavored infusions.
If you’re using fine-grained table salt, increase the amount of dry flavoring ingredients by a teaspoon or two to keep the proportions correct.;
, Salt meshes well with a tremendous variety of herbs and spices. Some of the more common types of flavored salts include garlic, onion, celery and ginger, but you could also use cayenne pepper, citrus zest, radish, coriander, rose petals or even brown sugar or coffee beans. Almost any natural ingredient imaginable can be dried and infused into salt.You have the option of using fresh-picked herbs, if you prefer. Just throw them in the oven for a couple hours, then grind them to a fine consistency before mixing them into the salt.Dust fresh-baked brownies with cinnamon-espresso salt, or throw a pinch of rosemary-mint onto a rack of lamb.
 The easiest way to do this is to pulse the salt and flavorings together in a food processor or coffee grinder, but you could also use a mortar and pestle or simply blend them by hand. Use about 1 teaspoon of your chosen flavor per ¼ cup of salt. Mix the ingredients until the particles of the dry flavorings are evenly distributed throughout the salt.To ensure proper distribution, your salt and other dry ingredients should be approximately the same size. Crush or grind larger herbs and spices if necessary to help them blend better.
Making flavored salt using dry ingredients can be done in a single container in as a little as a couple minutes.
 Transfer the flavored salt to an airtight container and stash it away in the cupboard or refrigerator. It’s that easy! Flavored salts made with dry ingredients will last for months or even years, since there’s no chance of moisture seeping into the salt and causing it to get sticky.Salt is a natural preservative, which means you won’t have to worry about the added ingredients going bad.A shaker of garlic, chili powder and red pepper salt makes a great all-purpose seasoning to keep on the table 24/7.
Keep a few different salts on hand for when it’s time to take your homemade delicacies to the next level.

