 Nickelodeon is a friendly, bubbly community that will always give you second chances. Because of how popular it is, not a lot of people get to be an actress or actor on Nick, but you shouldn't let that get you down. If you really want to be an actress, be patient, even if it took a couple of years.;
, Before you even think about contacting an agent or even starting your attempt to become a Nick star, you have to have some education in the world of acting. Although it sounds like an insult and you feel that you're totally awesome at acting, you need to be PERFECT. You need to TRANSFORM your acting into a pro if you want to be in Nickelodeon. Take at least three months of acting classes. If you think it's too long, you can go right on ahead and give it your best shot, but you're only making your chance a lot thinner. It'll pay off taking classes. Remember, patience!

, Make sure they are reliable, take a FAIR amount of payment, and they are really doing a good job of finding auditions for you. Finding a good agent will take a month or so, but it will really pay off.
 Write a draft, then choose a great template from Google, and finally type your resume! Taking a good headshot could cost a hundred dollars. You could use an HD camera and take maybe five tries to make it look pro, but that wouldn't be too good.
 The three locations of Nick are California, New York, and Florida, so you're probably going to get one! You're waiting to audition for the lead role of a new TV show coming out and you don't think you can compete against the other awesome actors. Remember, messing up is something you THINK would be horrible, but it doesn't look as bad as you think. You still have a good chance.
 You've made it into stardom and you'll now be rich and famous! The excitement is overwhelming and powerful, and you can't believe you're going to be on TV! You'll win awards and rub elbows with Victoria Justice and Spongebob and Miranda Cosgrove! You'll be able to join Brain Surge and more! If you did NOT get the part don't be upset! Because guess what? They now know who you are and you already have a headshot, resume, and talent agent! A second try will be a whole lot easier than the first, right? And you don't HAVE to be on Nickelodeon! You could try Disney, ABC Family, Cartoon Network, and more! And if you decide to stick on Nickelodeon, trying again will be a piece of cake because now you know what to do. Be cheerful!

