 Fitness balls can help you engage in core-strengthening positions that might otherwise be uncomfortable or difficult. Choose a ball that's big enough that you can sit on the ball and still keep your feet flat on the floor. Tighten your abdominal muscles for each exercise and aim to do five repetitions each, gradually increasing the number of repetitions as you build strength.Some common fitness ball exercises for your abs include:









Abdominal crunches — Keep your feet hip-width apart and your back straight as you sit on the ball. Cross your arms, lean back as far as you comfortably can until you feel your abs tighten, then hold the position for three breaths.
Abdominal ball raise — Lie on your back with your legs on either side of the ball. Lift the ball by squeezing it between your lower legs, pull your bellybutton down towards your spine, and hold the ball above you for three breaths.
 Medicine balls are commonly used for strengthening core muscles.Remember to tighten your abdominal muscles as you engage in these exercises. If you're just starting out and haven't built up a lot of core strength, it's best to start out slow and easy: begin doing one to three sets of 8 to 10 repetitions each, then increase the number of repetitions and/or the number of sets as you get stronger.


Kneel on both knees with your body in an upright position and the medicine ball held at your chest.
Do a controlled fall forward and chest press the ball out of your hands and towards a wall in front of you as you drop.
Once you've dropped to your hands, do a kneeling push up. Then return to your starting position and repeat the entire process.
 The same fitness ball you used to work your abs can also be used to strengthen the side muscles of your core. As always, tighten your abdominal muscles every time you work out, and start out with at least five repetitions on each side.








Lie on one side with the ball between your legs and lift your upper body off the floor, resting your weight on your forearm.
Lift your legs off the floor, keeping the ball between them, and hold for three breaths.
Return to your starting position and switch sides.
If you are a beginner, start with your head down, resting in the crook of your elbow. This way, there is less chance of a back injury or herniated disk.
 You can also use a medicine ball to work the side muscles in your core. Remember to engage your core as you perform these exercises, and start out with one to three sets consisting of eight to 10 repetitions until you build up your strength.Single-leg chops — Stand on one foot and extend your arms up and to the side you're standing on. Bring the medicine ball downward and across your front in a chopping motion (towards your opposite foot) and switch which foot is in the air and which is on the ground as you swing, then alternate sides.
Figure eights — Hold the medicine ball above one shoulder and bring the ball down in a chopping motion towards your other foot (like in the single-leg chops). Stand back straight and raise the ball over your other shoulder, then chop towards the opposite foot, forming a figure-eight shape with the complete motion.
Twists — Stand with your feet hip-width apart and firmly planted, holding the medicine ball with your arms slightly bent. Swing the ball over one hip while twisting your upper body all the way around to the other side, then switch back in the opposite direction.

