 The chemicals in cigarette and other tobacco smoke damage your blood cells, as well as disrupting the function of your heart and blood vessels.Each of these things leads to the buildup of plaque (atherosclerosis).Quitting smoking is one of the best steps you can take for the health of your heart and lungs.


Quitting cold turkey often proves too difficult for many. Take advantage of smoking cessation aids such as nicotine patches and gums, support communities, etc. as you undertake the process of cutting out tobacco use.
 Exercise has a cascading effect that helps with a variety of the conditions that lead to clogged arteries. Regular exercise helps you lose excess weight, relieves high blood pressure, and lowers LDL (“bad”) cholesterol.If you’re new to an exercise regimen, you may need to start slower. Consult your doctor to set up an exercise plan appropriate for you.


Once you acclimate to an exercise routine, you should aim to complete thirty minutes of moderate aerobic activity (such as jogging or cycling) five times a week. If you prefer high-intensity workouts (such as crossfit routines), then aim for seventy-five minutes a week.Aerobic exercise is anything that gets your heart rate up.It can include high-impact running or sports or low-impact exercise such as swimming and biking.
 The changes to your diet and physical activity will go a long way toward bringing you down to a healthy weight. You can set an actual goal for your weight using the body mass index (BMI), which uses your weight and height to estimate your body fat percentage.Aim for the normal range, which is between 18.5 and 24.9 on the index.Medical professionals consider 25 to 29.9 overweight and consider 30 or higher obese.You can find more info on calculating your BMI at How to Calculate Your Body Mass Index (BMI).
 Experiencing high levels of stress releases stress hormones in your body that can have a chronic inflammatory effect, ultimately increasing your risk of atherosclerosis.If you experience high stress levels at work or at home, then it’s important to have proper coping mechanisms to relax and reduce this risk. Steps you can take to reduce stress include:Increasing your level of physical activity
Meditation
Calming activities such as yoga or tai chi.
Enjoying music, movies, or other art that you find calming and peaceful
Channeling the energy into some of your favorite relaxing hobbies

, Alcohol abuse puts you at a higher risk for atherosclerosis.Generally speaking, men should limit themselves to two alcoholic beverages a day, and women should limit themselves to one.The measurement size for one drink varies by alcohol type. Use this guideline:Beer: 12 ounces
Wine: 5 ounces
Liquor: 1.5 ounces

, Having type 2 diabetes puts you at an increased risk of atherosclerosis.If you are diabetic, stay on top of the disease by performing your blood glucose testing, managing your diet, and staying physically active.Consult your physician about the most appropriate plan for your specific case.
 Your doctor will want to monitor your blood pressure, cholesterol, and triglyceride levels closely as you make changes to help bring them into a healthy range. Keep regular appointments to monitor these indicators and mark your progress.