 Once a month, give your toothbrush a deep clean using bleach and water. Mix one part bleach with 10 parts water in a small container, like a cup. Make sure the container is big enough that you can submerge your toothbrush's head completely.Wear gloves when handling bleach.;
,, Place your toothbrush head in your bleach and water solution. Make sure to submerge it completely. Set a timer for an hour. During this time, let your toothbrush head soak. This should disinfect and clean your toothbrush.
 After an hour has passed, remove your toothbrush head from the bleach and water solution. Rinse the toothbrush completely under running water. Make sure you get out any traces of bleach as it is not safe to use a toothbrush with bleach residue stuck on.








Rinse the toothbrush until the water runs clean and you no longer smell bleach coming from the toothbrush.
 To clean the body of your toothbrush, you should also use your bleach and water solution. Dip a cloth or cotton pad in the solution. Then, swab your toothbrush's body with the solution to remove any stuck on toothpaste residue or grime from the bathroom.








Make sure your electronic toothbrush is not plugged in while you're cleaning it.
Wear gloves while handling bleach.
 If your toothbrush's head detaches from the handle, there should be a small slot near the top of the handle. Use your cotton swab or rag to clean out this area as well. You want to remove any bacteria that may be hiding here.
 Never submerge the body of your electronic toothbrush in hot water. This can be dangerous, as it can cause an electric shock. It can also damage the electronic toothbrush, making it necessary for you to purchase a new one. Only clean the body of an electronic toothbrush with a rag, paper towel, or cotton ball., Each time you use your electronic toothbrush, rinse the head under running water. Get out any traces of toothpaste from your brush after each use. This will keep it clean on a daily basis., Some people advocate storing your toothbrush in mouthwash or another disinfectant solution. This is unnecessary and it can also lead to contamination if multiple people share the same solution. Store your toothbrush in a toothbrush stand or an empty glass instead., The heads of electric toothbrushes are replaceable. Every three to four months, replace your toothbrush's head. Even with regular cleaning, a toothbrush's head will need to be replaced periodically.When a toothbrush's bristles begin to look worn and splayed, it's time to replace the toothbrush's head.
 Avoid storing your toothbrush in closed containers. This does not actually protect your toothbrush from bacteria. In fact, the increased humidity can increase your toothbrush's exposure to bacteria. Instead, store your toothbrush in an open container in your bathroom.