 Putting them in the refrigerator is a no-no. They will not ripen in cold temperatures.If you do absolutely nothing (apart from placing it on your countertop) your avocado may take up to six days to ripen.

You can place the avocado in the refrigerator if you want to delay ripening; it will keep longer there than on the counter. A day or two before you need it, take it back out and ripen in a bag as noted above., Even if it's in guacamole form, sprinkle a bit of lemon, lime, or even orange juice (so long as it's fresh!) over your avocado. The acid will slow the browning process (otherwise known as oxidation), prolonging your avocado's life.


If you're starting to see brown, you don't need to throw it all away. Just scoop out the brown parts and get to using the rest before it goes, too.If your avocado is cut in half and not mashed or chopped, you can avoid flavoring it with lemon by simply running water over the cut surface, and putting it in the fridge. It will look worse than with lemon juice, but that's a skin that actually keeps the rest of it fresh for longer. The thin browning skin peels back easily, and you have a fresh, avocado-flavored avocado.
 If your avocado is prime time to be used, but your schedule just isn't allowing it, puree it and put it in the freezer. Don't freeze it whole, the taste will disintegrate. You can then still use the avocado for dips and spreads, etc.Obviously, your avocado is best if not frozen. This should be a measure taken only if it cannot be eaten fresh.
 Hopefully you've had a few days to bond with your avocados. If you've been watching them, you'll have a good grasp on how far along in the process they are. At different stages, they'll yield different results.


If your avocado is just starting to turn ripe, it will be less directed by heat. You can grill or bake it more easily.
If your avocado took a while to ripen but finally did, it should produce slices that will do well in salads and salsas. The firm slices will look beautiful on your dishes!
If you have a bunch of ripe avocados, turn 'em all into something cream-based. Think flans, ice cream, or cheesecakes. An excuse to experiment!

