 Angry customers can be especially difficult. You need to sort through their emotions to get to the root of the anger. Stay positive throughout the interaction, acknowledge the the customer's feelings, show that you're willing to help, and work with the customer to develop a solution.Tell the customer, "I know that you are upset, and I would like to help you. Can you explain to me what happened?" Never say something like, "There's no reason for you to be upset."Remain calm and objective throughout the interaction. Do not make any promises that you cannot keep. Tell the customer, "I will do my best to get this resolved as quickly as possible," instead of promising that something can be done in a specific time period. A good rule of thumb is to under promise and over deliver.Avoid interrupting the customer when they are explaining things to you, this may make the customer more agitated. Never say, "Yes, but..." when the customer is talking to you.
Always follow-up with the customer to make sure he or she is satisfied with the outcome.
 You may encounter a dissatisfied customer after he or she has had a negative experience with another person in your organization. For example, you may be a manger at restaurant, and a customer is unhappy with the service the waiter has provided. Greet the customer with a smile, tell him or her your name, and offer your assistance. As the customer is speaking with you, make sure that you do not make excuses for the bad service he or she has received. Ask open-ended questions, verify information, and make a decision that will satisfy the customer.Ask the customer, "Can you explain what happened?"
In the restaurant example, after the customer has explained the issue, try saying "I understand what you're saying. Anyone in your position would feel the same way. We have found that _______ is a way that we can resolve this problem. What do you think about this?"

, Some customers have a difficult time making a decision to purchase a product. These customers can take up a lot of your time and keep you from helping other customers. Be patient, ask open ended questions, listen, offer alternatives, and try to guide the decision making process.Try to gather has much information as you can so that you can help the customer make a decision.
Many stores have return and/or exchange policies. If the customer was deciding between two different items, you might say, "If you find that X does not work for you, you have 30 days to return the item." This can encourage the customer to make a purchase.
 Some customers can be pushy and controlling. You have to balance being courteous and helpful without letting the customer walk all over you. Be professional, show the customer respect, be assertive and fair, and let the customer know what you are allowed to do to accommodate them.Be prepared for the customer to raise his or her voice or resort to name calling.
Always make eye contact with the customer, apologize when necessary, and remind the customer that his or her needs are important you. Try saying, " Mr. X, we value you as a customer and want to work with you to figure this out. Do you have any suggestions?"
If the customer makes a doable suggestion, say "That's a great suggestion Mr. X, and I think we are able to do that this time." If the suggestion is something that you are not able to do, be honest with the customer. Try saying, "Thank you for that suggestion Mr. X, but I can't do that because of our company policies. Can we try ____ instead?"
Having a good knowledge of your organization and policies can help you negotiate with this type of customer and offer viable solutions to his or her problems., These type of customers may use profanity, cut in line, or demand your attention when you are helping someone else. It is important that you remain professional and never try to even the score.If a customer interrupts you while you are already helping another customer, smile and say, "I'll be with you as soon as I am finished with this customer."
Always keep your cool and remember that you are a professional and represent your company.
 Some customers will start conversations with you and monopolize your time. They may want to discuss current events, the weather, or personal experiences. You want to remain polite and cordial, but still be able to control the situation. Talkative customers can take time away from your other work duties or from interacting with other customers. Show genuine interest in what the customer is saying. You do not want to come off as rude.
If the customer asks you a personal question, answer the question and then say, "Is there anything else I can help you with today?"
Do not continue to ask the customer questions that encourage them to continue the conversation. Stick to "yes" or "no" questions.

