 If you have already done this, skip to the next step. It is important to make sure that the tick has been removed or else it can continue to cause irritation, even if you use the methods for itch relief listed in this article. While it may seem surprising, tick bites are not painful and can actually go unnoticed for quite awhile.To remove the tick:


Grasp the tick’s head with your forefinger and thumb. Do not grasp the tick by its body because its head can detach from the body and continue to cause you irritation.
Gently pull the tick outwards until it detaches from the skin. Do not pull sharply as it may tear the mouth of the tick from its body.
Wash the area with soap and water after you have removed the tick.;
, Anti-itch creams, also known as topical soothing creams, can relieve itching and calm down the rash around the bite. Some topical creams can also fight inflammation, which causes the itching sensation. There are different kinds of anti-itch creams but some of the more common ones include:


Anti-allergic creams like Fenistil gel.
Steroid creams like Elocon.
Combination creams that have more than one active ingredient, like Calamine lotion.
 Antihistamines are generally used for allergic reactions. When your body notices a foreign invader, be it an allergen, virus, or a tick in your skin, it produces a chemical called histamine which causes inflammation and can make you feel itchy. Antihistamines block the production of histamine so you can feel less itchy, but only provide short term relief for lyme disease rash.You can purchase over-the-counter antihistamines at your pharmacy. Make sure to check that you get non-drowsy antihistamines if you are taking them during the day.
Non-drowsy antihistamines include brand names like Allegra, Zyrtec, Mucinex and Claritin.
 NSAIDs are non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs thank can both relieve the swelling around the tick bite, and reduce the itching sensation caused by the rash. There are many different NSAIDs but some of the more common medications include:


Aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen.
 Taking antibiotics will help to clear up the infection caused by the bite, including the lyme rash and itching that go along with it. It can completely clear up lyme disease that was caught early on, and it can reduce your chances of having symptoms in the future.You will have to talk to your doctor about starting antibiotics, but it is important to do the antibiotic treatment to keep the lyme disease under control.


Most antibiotic prescriptions last for 14 to 28 days. Some of the more common antibiotics include Doxycycline, Amoxicillin, and Cefuroxime axetil.

