 It's easy to establish a DBA or LLC, so do one of those.;
, When applying to attend E3, they look for a site that is professional and is a major video gaming website. A blog from somewhere such as WordPress or tumblr won't cut it.
 Be sure that it looks professional, that it's easy to browse around, and that it has good quality content that will keep your visitors interested and wanting to come back.
 Not only will your visitors look at it when determining how they like your website, you'll also need one when creating a business card for your website., Now that you've done everything you need to do in creating your website, it's time to launch it.
 Not only should you write about the latest news in the gaming industry, but you should also write editorials, game reviews, and other opinion pieces. This will set your website apart from others. Make sure your headlines are catchy. Instead of something like "Shigeru Miyamoto talks about the Wii U," write something such as "Nintendo has high hopes for the Wii U, says Shigeru Miyamoto." Be sure that you provide new content on a regular basis to keep viewers coming. No one wants to go to a site that is rarely updated.
 You need to get the word about about your website, so advertise on sites such as Google Plus, reddit, Facebook, and Twitter. If you write good content for your website, you'll find that your visitors will advertise your website to others as well.
 Your site has to be live for at least 6 months before you can register for E3. Preferably, you'll want to wait longer in order for your site to become popular, and that you'll become used to writing regularly.
 You'll need business cards with your site's logo on it in order to register. Make a batch of around 100 of them to give to people at the event.
 You'll need a legal ID such as a driver's license in order to register.
 Follow all of the instructions for registration, and make sure you have everything you need before registering such as a business card and legal ID. You'll also need an article with your name on it that you have published on your website within the past 3 months. The process usually takes around 2-3 weeks, although you may get an approval sooner.
 Make sure that the trip fits within your personal schedule.
 E3 takes place at the Los Angeles Convention Center at downtown Los Angeles, California. If you live far away, book a plane ride to California in advance, and choose an affordable hotel that's near the convention center. Your trip may require an overnight stay, so pack clothing and other materials that you'll want a few days before the trip.
 It's important to continue doing so in order to keep your viewers coming, and to ensure that they'll be at your website for your E3 coverage.
 You can find a list of the days and times that you can do this on the E3 website under "Media FAQ." You'll need to bring your registration confirmation and photo ID with you.
 Be sure to arrive before the time that the event starts to beat the crowd, and that you have your media badge, badge holder, business cards, and photo ID with you.
 Otherwise, you won't remember the details later when you're writing coverage about the conferences. Don't worry about bringing a laptop with you, as they have a media center where you can write stories and publish them.
 Take notes about your experiences with them so that you can write about your impressions of them on your website.
 You'll want to take pictures of the showroom, the games, and other things that you're interested in so that you can publish them on your website. Having pictures will also set your website's coverage of the event apart from other websites that only cover news of the event.
 How did you like it, and how can you do things differently the next time that you're there? If you're going for more than one day, prepare for it while you're at your hotel room. If you'd like, write an editorial or other piece about the overall experience on your website.

