 Ask yourself why you feel less confident about your beauty. In some cases, this may seem like a simple question because there is an obvious connection to your physical appearance. For example, someone may have made a comment to you directly about a specific feature. But in other cases, the connection may be more subtle. Media portrayals often narrowly define beauty, which can make people feel inferior.).


There may even be an indirect connection to your decreased confidence. For example, uncertainty about the future may create anxiety. Because you cannot easily control or alleviate this anxiety, you focus more on other, smaller sources of anxiety that you can control, such as your looks.;
, There are a number of different cognitive behavioral techniques to improve your “beauty self-esteem.”These techniques focus on evaluating the source of your self-esteem, questioning your negative opinion of your looks, and thinking about ways to think about your looks more positively. Take a good look at yourself in the mirror.


Focus on sitting or standing up straight while looking in the mirror for maximum confidence while doing this exercise., Think about your favorite physical attributes and write them on a list.


Write a sentence about each of these qualities, such as: “I have long curly hair. It looks so full and bouncy, especially just after I leave the hair salon.”

, This exercise also requires you to appreciate the qualities that are part of your personality or character. Write a sentence about each of these traits.


For example, you might write, “I help others. I volunteer every week for a local charity and always call my friends back right away when they need to talk.”

, Combine your lists of personality traits and physical features. Rank the qualities, putting the one you think is your best or most important. This will help you determine which qualities are most important to you.


Most people tend to rank personality features above beauty features. This emphasizes that that our self-esteem is influenced more about how we feel about our personality. Other people tend to be influenced by our personalities as well., When you look at yourself in the mirror, you might think certain thoughts. But consider where those thoughts come from. Whose words are they? Are they your own words, or someone else’s words? Do the words remind you of bullies, parents, or friends?

, When you consider these words, think about whether these descriptions are true. Are your hips really that big? Are you really that much taller than other people? Is that really a bad thing?

, If your friend was asking you about her looks, think about how you would talk to her with appreciation, acceptance and kindness. When you’re thinking thoughts about yourself, ask yourself if this thought about yourself is a kind thought, and whether you’d say it to a friend.


Consider how you would talk to a friend. Now think about how you can talk to yourself that way.
 Find what you like about yourself in the mirror. From now on, whenever you look in the mirror, look at this attribute first. Tell yourself what you like about this attribute.


This helps you stop focusing on what you perceive to be your “flaws.” Instead, you’ll focus on your positive attributes. Soon, you’ll see more of your attributes as positive.

