 Locate the app’s icon either on your home screen or app drawer. It’s the white shopping bag with a colored triangle in the middle. Tap to launch.;
, Tap the magnifying glass icon at the top and enter “Calorie Counter” into the field. Tap the magnifying glass again to begin the search.
 There will be many calorie counter apps in the results. Tap the one developed by FatSecret to access the app’s information page.
 Tap the “Install” button at the top, tap on “Accept” on the Permissions page that appears, and wait for the app to finish installing.
 Find the app’s icon in your app drawer or home screen. It’s the one with a lock in the middle of a circle. Tap to launch.


The first time you access the app you’ll be greeted by its Terms of Use. Just tap on “Agree” at the bottom to proceed.
 If you’re not yet a Calorie Counter by FatSecret user yet, you can create an account by entering the necessary information on the screen and then pressing “Next” until you reach the last setup page.


You will be required to enter your gender, preferred unit of measurement, current weight, goal weight, height, date of birth, daily activity level, diet goal, country, and account details.
If you’re already a registered user, just tap the “Sign me in” button at the bottom, and enter your username and password to log in.
Once registered and logged in, you will be taken to your account’s “My Summary” page. Now you can use the app to log in your daily food intake to help you count your calories.
 You will be taken to your Food Diary page.
 In the Food Diary page, you can enter what you ate for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and snacks. Calorie Counter will automatically total your daily calorie intake.


Tap on the plus sign next “Breakfast” to log what you ate for breakfast. You can search for a food type, or select “Quick pick” to choose from the names of food saved in the app. You can also tap on the barcode sign to take a picture of your food product’s barcode.
Repeat the process for “Lunch,” “Dinner,” and “Snacks.”

, You can view your total daily calorie intake at the top, under the “Cals” heading.


You can also check out your Fat, Carbs (carbohydrates), and Prot (protein) intake at the top of the page.
If you added a diet goal during the setup, you’ll see the amount of calories remaining before you reach your goal at the bottom right of the screen.

