 Treating your depression is your priority, and you don't necessarily need to wait to tell your family before you seek treatment. In fact, a counselor or therapist might be able to help you strategize the best way to speak to your family about your depression. If you are in school, visit you school counselor and tell him what is going on. If you are an adult, visit your doctor or make an appointment with a therapist and/or psychiatrist.


A psychiatrist has the ability to prescribe medications such as antidepressants to help treat your depression.
Many colleges and universities offer mental health services for their students.
You may wish to schedule a session with your counselor and your family so you can tell them about your depression with his support. The counselor may be able to answer questions your family has and back you up if they have an unusual reaction.;
, Breaking the ice can be the hardest part. But even if you’re unsure how your family will react, it’s still worth it. Reach out to your mom, dad, siblings, or relatives and ask to talk. You don’t need to say what’s going on at this point. Just make them aware you need a heart-to-heart.Ideally, your family will realize something is wrong. But don’t assume they know anything is the matter. Often, people are busy or distracted with their own lives.
Try saying something like, “Hi Mom, I’m wondering if you have some time to talk later. I have something important to tell you.” This might work, too: “Hey Lisa, do have some time? There’s something I need to talk about.”
The ice-breaker might also come naturally. For instance, a family member might find you crying or irritable and ask, “Is anything wrong?” Take up the opportunity.
 It’s best to have this talk with your family when they have plenty of time — you need their full attention, and they’ll need to process things. Try to find a moment when they’re at home, relaxed, and not involved in another task. If it’s urgent, though, raise the topic right away.Don’t worry about convenience if you ever have suicidal thoughts. Tell your family that it’s an emergency and that you need to talk to them. Get help right away.
Opening up about your depression is an important conversation, one that you shouldn’t rush. You’ll need a good block of time and should try to catch your family when they are free and don’t have any other commitments.
After dinner or in the evening might be a good time. Your loved ones won’t have work on their minds then. If you’ve been quarreling with your family lately, pick a time when you’re not arguing.
Aim for a quiet conversation, at home if possible. You’re about to open yourself up and will want privacy to express things honestly.
If you’re not sure whether the person has time, just ask. Say, for example, “Mom, is this a good time to talk?” Or try, “Hey David, I’d still like to talk to you if you have time now.”

, If it’s not an emergency and you’re not getting along with your family or feel strange opening up, consider putting your feelings in a letter to them. You’ll get the same points across and can leave the door open for a face-to-face talk later. The key thing now is to start a conversation.Include whatever information you think the letter needs.
Your letter can be short or long. It might be as short as you need to get the basic point across, i.e. “Maria, I’ve felt sad and depressed lately. Maybe I need to talk with someone.”
Put the letter where a family member will find it, like on the kitchen table or the counter near where they keep the car keys. You can also deliver it them in person. Say, “Hi Dad, could you read this? It’s something important I want you to know.”

, Depression is hard. But it’s even harder alone. You can feel better just knowing that you have people who care about you on your side. This is your chance to open up to them about your depression.The first step is to explain what’s going on. Know that there’s absolutely nothing wrong with asking for help.
State things clearly, i.e. “Mom, I’ve been feeling pretty down and sad lately. I think it might be serious.” Or, “Alex, I might be depressed. Things have been hard lately.” Saying “I might have depression” will do, too.
 You might be feeling a lot of conflicting emotions. You want your family to know about your depression, but might also be concerned about worrying them or that they might get angry or not take you seriously. Try to focus on what’s important: getting your point across. Be honest with them.Say what’s the matter. Tell them if you’ve been distracted from work and school or without energy. Say, “I feel tired and don’t want to do anything after school. I’m sad all the time and just don’t seem right.”
It might be hard for you to say more than that. You don’t need to go into detail. Still, don’t sugar coat things. Make them aware that depression is affecting your ability to function.
 What if your family doesn’t take it well? Loved ones can have their own problems and might not react positively to you. They could become irate, deny that anything is wrong, or minimize the situation. Try not to get angry — they just might not get it yet. If that happens, be specific about how depression is affecting you — and be willing to try again, if need be. Offer concrete examples of how depression is affecting your life. Your family may be more convinced if you offer them “proof” through examples.
Say, for instance, “You get upset when I go to sleep right after work and when I have such a hard time getting out of bed in the morning, and you've been frustrated that I don't want to go out and see our friends. That’s the depression.” Or, “Haven’t you noticed my average has gone from A- to D this year? I’m having real trouble concentrating on school.”

, Be persistent and keep trying, even if your family has trouble accepting or believing you at first. Getting support is that important. Bring up the topic again, repeat your requests for help, and above all don’t give up.Depression is an illness and sometimes needs treatment. Your family might not know this and think you can “just snap out of it.”
Repeat yourself again if you have to, i.e. “No, Dad, something really is wrong. I need help.” If they say that everyone feels down from time to time, tell them you think this is different: “No, Jane, I really think something is seriously wrong.”
Remember that, while support from your family can be very helpful for someone struggling with depression, you don't need it to begin treatment. If your spouse insists you just have a case of the blues and you'll be fine, you may need to pursue treatment without his or her blessing. If it's a money or insurance issue, look for a counselor or therapist who works on a sliding scale. The most important thing is that you get help

, If you are a teenager and family members can’t or won’t help, you should still try to find someone who will listen to you. Think about other adults you trust and rely on — someone you can confide in. It could be a teacher, a counselor at school, a friend, or a coach. The most important thing is finding help.You could approach a trusted teacher. For example, you might start a conversation by talking about struggles at school, i.e. “Mr. Gibbs, you might have noticed that I haven’t been doing as well as usual. Do you have time to talk today?”
A school counselor is another option. Counselors are trained to listen and help you out. They’ll take you seriously and help you find a solution – it’s their job.
Consider letting your friends know what you’re going through, too, if they don’t already know. Just having their support can be a great source of strength.
 Children are perceptive and, even if you try to hide that something is wrong, they may be able to tell that something is "off." Because depression is often not addressed, your children may come up with their own answers for why you are always crying or why you don't want to play, and these answers may be scarier than the truth.When talking to your kids about your depression, take into account their ages and how well you think they can understand and manage the information.You may wish to explain what depression is, and that it causes your brain to work differently and affect how you feel, think, and act.It can cause you to act in ways you would not normally act.
Make it clear your children are not the cause of your depression. Tell them that there can be many causes for depression, and they are not always clear.Let your children know they are not responsible for fixing your depression, but that their love and support can be really helpful.Encourage your kids to ask you questions and be open about what they are feeling, their worries and concerns, etc. Let them know that you want to hear the good and the bad — they shouldn't hide if they are feeling mad or sad because they are afraid of how it may affect you., Clear the air with your family, especially if you’ve had problems lately. Depression causes people’s behavior to change — you can be more irritable, have mood swings or emotional outbursts, and just “not be your usual self.” Frequently, this leads to arguments or quarrels.Add an apology if you need to, i.e., “I’m sorry that I’ve been rude to you lately. I just don’t feel like myself” or “I apologize for being so difficult recently.”
Make it clear that you care about them and that you don’t mean to be hurtful.
Ask for their understanding, too. Say, “I want you to know that if I’m rude, it isn’t because I don’t love you. It’s the depression talking, not me.”

, Explain to your family that you want help with your depression. Again, there’s no need to go into deep detail or try to analyze everything that you’re feeling. Just get to the important part: you want help. For example, you might say something like, “I just want to talk to someone who can help me feel normal again.” Or, try “I need your help to find a counselor or someone who works with depression.”
Let your loved ones know what you need from them, too. Willing family members can hold you accountable, help you with schoolwork, find a tutor, or make sure you are getting enough food, exercise, and sleep. They can also offer a lot of moral support.
 Thankfully, families more often than not will respond to you in a time of need. But they may have questions. Be patient, again. Try to answer as best you can, since they’ll be able to get you better help if they know more.


Your family might ask, “How long has this been going on?” It’s often hard to say when depression starts, but try to answer honestly.
You might also hear, “Is it anything we did?” or “Why didn’t you say something before?” Also be upfront if your loved ones ask how they can help.
 Again, be upfront with your needs. Chances are that your family will want to help but need to know how best to do so, so be honest with them. Depression is a serious illness. Don’t minimize it for fear that you’ll inconvenience them.Be clear that there is something wrong. Whether you feel sad, irritable, or hopeless, or just don’t have the desire or energy any more, you’re not feeling normal and it is affecting your life.
Express your desire to get better – either by talking to a counselor or by seeing a doctor.
Take any suicidal thoughts seriously. Your family needs to know about them, but don’t wait. Get help now if you think you may attempt suicide. Call 911 or a special hotline, like (in the US) 800-273-TALK (800-273-8255).
 Now that you’ve taken the first step, make sure to follow through with your family and develop a plan. You will need take concrete action, whether that includes finding a counselor or therapist, talking to your physician about depression, or specifying what your family can do to help. It’s hard to stay motivated when you’re depressed, but this is important – you and your family need to follow through!You can start by asking your family about specifics, i.e. “Will you help me find a counselor?", "Can you make an appointment for me with the doctor?", "Could you talk privately with my teachers?”
Talk in terms of time, as well. Inserting a time-frame in the conversation will make action less abstract, i.e. “Can you help me look for a therapist tomorrow?", "Can you make an appointment with the doctor for this week, if possible?”
Ask your family to help keep you on track, too. Going forward, this can include making sure you have follow-up appointments with your doctor, that you continue to see a counselor, and that you take any prescribed medications.

