 Being a sound engineer entails working with people of different personalities on a consistent basis, so you need to be an effective communicator. Learn to listen well to the responses you get from people. Answer questions as clearly as possible.Learn to understand what people mean even when they don’t make much sense.
Get used to as much of the technical music lingo as possible. Things like “lead guitar,” “feedback,” and “normalize.” In music jargon, some words and phrases may have different meanings than you are used to.
 Sound engineers often have to work long, odd hours that may revolve around someone else’s schedule. If you can only get into the studio starting at 9pm, then you need to be cool with that. If you have to redo equipment checks 5 times before a live show, don’t get frustrated. You’ll likely work long hours on some projects to get them done within a certain time.Sound engineers often work nights and weekends, because these tend to be the times that live performance events happen. Although, in some cases you may find work in radio or TV, which might afford the chance for daytime work.
At least when you are first starting out, being as available as possible will be a strong asset you can offer someone looking to hire you.
 Sound engineers are often overlooked and are not likely to get a lot of praise for the work they do. If you are passionate about the work, it makes it easier to be okay with never being noticed. Don’t give up when the job starts getting really tough and you don’t want to keep going. Persevere through the hardship.Sound engineers rarely get the credit for an amazing concert or great mix on a hit song, so don’t expect to gain fame through this career. You should find fulfillment through the work itself and not through any accolades you might receive.
 You’ll be working with lots of people, from artists in the studio, to venue owners, to tour managers. When they are demanding, do your best to go with the flow and do what they ask. Don’t get angry easily and fight with people. Keeping a level head is important in this business.If you are likeable and easy to get along with, people will want to keep working with you. If you cause drama, you are likely to be replaced.
While you can actively work on this, in some ways it is more of a personality trait than an issue of effort. If you don’t like people and have a hard time working with others, this may not be the profession for you.

