 Look the list over and read a bit about each place. If, in your research, any of the places with warmer climates seems nice to you, make a note of it in your notebook.For instance, you might check out the AARP list at www.aarp.org/home-garden/livable-communities/info-11-2011/10-Great-Sunny-Places-to-Retire-AARP.1.html.
 Once you’ve pared down your list of potential retirement spots that have warmer climates than your current location, visit your top two or three. Vacation in these warmer-climate locations four times each year, once per season. This will give you a better sense of whether you’d be happy and comfortable in each place.Try renting a home or apartment in each of the warm-climate locations on your list of potential retirement spots for a few weeks in each season.Use the information you learn about your comfort level in each season when deciding if you should retire to that location.
If you’ve visited all the potential warmer-climate locations you were thinking of retiring to and find them unpleasant or unappealing, do not retire to a warmer climate.
 If you want to retire to a warmer climate, you can buy a house or rent an apartment. If you rent an apartment, you will have fewer obligations and be free to move to an even warmer climate if you decide your current climate is too cool. But if you buy a house, you could leave your property to a child or other family member.While deciding whether you want to rent or buy, you should also determine what you want to do with your current property (if you own one). You could keep it and rent it out, keep it and spend your summers there, or sell it. Think carefully about what you want to do with this property if you decide to retire to a warmer climate.
You could rent in a retirement community that offers amenities and social opportunities for people of retirement age.If you’re in need of special medical care, you might think of retiring to an assisted living facility in a warmer climate.
 Many people love retiring to the warm climate in Florida. Florida is a large state in the southern United States. One of the most popular towns to retire in is Sarasota. The town offers white sand beaches and beautiful water for swimming. It also hosts a number of arts and entertainment centers, including the Ringling Museum of Art. If you love the great outdoors, you can visit the nearby Myakka River State Park.Sarasota has over 11,000 people over the age of 65.
 Situated in the southwest of the United States, New Mexico is sunny almost year-round. Two of the most popular retirement communities in New Mexico are Santa Fe and Las Cruces.Las Cruces is home to over 13,000 people over the age of 65. The city is organized around New Mexico State University, which has become a hub for a growing arts and music scene. Las Cruces has been identified as being especially livable for Hispanics. Santa Fe is home to over 11,000 people over the age of 65. The city has a rich arts community, with a symphony, orchestra, and many music festivals. There are many opportunities for shopping and a dozen museums in this quaint 400 year-old town., California is located on the United States’ west coast. There are two popular warm-climate retirement locations in Florida, San Diego and San Luis Obispo. San Diego is more of a big city, while San Luis Obispo retains a small-town charm due to a ban on fast food restaurants and a weekly farmer’s market. Both are popular retirement destinations.San Diego has a whopping 135,000 residents over the age of 65. The city has over 100 neighborhoods and over 140 clear days per year. Unfortunately, it has relatively high unemployment and a high rate of home foreclosure.
San Luis Obispo has more than 5,000 residents over the age of 65. The town is home to California Polytechnic State University and offers easy access to coastal amusements like whale watching, kayaking, and sailing.

