 You probably won't need to wear your coat as often, or, if it's especially pleasant outside, not at all. Instead, swap it for a simple but beautiful mac jacket instead in a fresh, subtle colour ( like petrol blue, light grey or light emerald green) for when some days are cooler. Chiffon or cotton scarves casually thrown loosely around your neck look pretty too.;
, To start with, try wearing different combinations of clothing, such as dark blue jeans with floaty shirts or t-shirts and a floral skirt with a plain vest top and sneakers, as opposed to pumps. Next, go for mixing up how you wear things. Denim shorts look cool with plain tights or tights with stars/spots dotted all over them and a cool t-shirt. You could wear a stripy hoodie or coloured cardigan with nearly anything. You could buy a few items that you really loved and enjoy those as well!

, If you're into them, Converse would be perfect for spring. Find your pair, maybe clean them up a little bit and start to wear them more. Swap around the laces if they feel old. If you would like a pair, find a good shoe shop and choose yours that are your favorite colour or high top/ low top, whichever you would prefer. Not your thing? Vans or just some similar from New Look will put a "spring" in your step.
 Don't feel like you have to wear lots of sparkly or shimmery stuff either, because this can often look too much or a bit cheap. A bunch of friendship bracelets with coloured string or beads/shells are interesting to look at. A delicate chain necklace with a kooky charm adds personality. Rings with sweet motifs like flowers or butterflies are understated but definitely stand out. A fluffy corsage would look amazing in hair that is down, or if up, a bow headband.
 It can make a big impact to how you look and feel. A new hairstyle is can boost your confidence. If you like your hair how it is, just get the ends trimmed at least every 2 months. Want to change your hair but like the length and colour? Alter your fringe or get some relaxed yet choppy layers cut. However, hair can only look nice if its in good condition and healthy- wash every 2/3 days, if your hairs dry, use a hydrating intensive mask once a week, if it can get oily quickly, reduce the amount of product you put on. Heat could make hair brittle, so if you want to cut down but your hair takes ages to dry, keep it up in an hour or so then quickly finish with a few quick blasts of the hairdryer. A small amount of mousse patted onto wet hair before drying can provide UV protection and smooth strands, some hairspray can keep a style in place and a blob of shimmery cream can enhance the hairs natural shade.
 Most often, it is advised you use the whole base for your face- primer, foundation, concealer and powder. This can look heavy, so instead swap for a tinted moisturizer and loose powder. Some pink blush swept onto the apples of cheeks looks cute and healthy. Light,metallic colours on the eyelids are great for the day- especially lilac, baby pink/blue, bronze or khaki green. Black mascara is fine too and a dab of rich lip balm/ light lip gloss to finish.
 In spring, you can expect flowers and green leaves to emerge, birds to sing and the countryside to be one of the best places. Go for a long walk or bike ride at the weekend, or if you live near a woods, walk the dog there. Hang out in the garden if the suns shining, run about or casually bounce crazily on the trampoline.
 Most of the time, it can be a little negative, so steer clear of people being spiteful and ignore any arguments. Its meant to be for connecting with people, so enjoy checking out photo albums and chatting to your friends. No one gets hurt, there's no bad feelings and you can keep in contact with people.
 Find that song you hear once before but liked, learn some lyrics, just be in the music. You could go onto YouTube or play a CD in your bedroom. Rock/ Indie/ Soul are amazing genres.
 This is a really chilled out thing to do. If you have a box set of your favorite show, then watch a few of those.
 Reading isn't nerdy, despite what some may say. In fact, it's original and can always be enjoyed- unlike texting or doing nothing. Borrow a few from the Library, start reading through a series or find a Christmas/Birthday gift. Reading lets you spend time to identify with characters, be involved in situations and most importantly, enter another place! Using books is not only helpful but a really precious way to spend some of your spare time.
 Art is creative and thoughtful. Painting is classic and some people love to create a picture from acrylics or watercolours. Others prefer drawing things they see around them, or from objects of theirs. Both are very expressive, but if you prefer using card, ribbons or pictures in art, how about making collages? Or a sketchbook/scrapbook with your photos and craft embellishments stuck in to decorate?

