 To help you lose weight and keep it off, your doctor will give you a substantial amount of advice about how to take care of yourself after your surgery, both immediately following the operation and in the long term.Immediately after the surgery, you will only be able to consume clear liquids. You will slowly introduce other liquids, pureed foods, soft foods, and then the food described in this article at about eight weeks.Your personal doctor is the best source of advice on how to adjust your lifestyle after bariatric surgery, since he is aware of other medical conditions you may have, and will give advice specific to your surgery and current level of health.
For instance, talk to your doctor before beginning your workout program.
Get periodic blood tests by your doctor. This is the most certain way to ensure you’re getting the nutrients you need following your surgery., You doctor will likely recommend that you begin to see a nutritionist. Make a point of following this advice. Additionally, address any emotional or psychological issues that arise with a mental health professional.See a nutritionist or dietician. (But remember, you’re not going on a diet, you’re making a complete lifestyle change!) These specialists will help you make healthy, nutritious food choices.
Talking with a nutritionist may even make you more aware about potential barriers to weight loss in your life. These might include depression, negative relationships, stress, discontentment with your job, or self-esteem issues.
 You’re going to be under an immense amount of physical and mental stress during your recovery from surgery and throughout the process of adjusting to your new lifestyle.


Recognize that factors seemingly unrelated to eating can strongly effect your desire to eat.If you find yourself stress-eating, see a psychologist soon.
A psychologist will help you learn stress-relieving activities to help you avoid the desire to stress-eat.
 The people in your life will be surprised by the difference in your eating habits. They may even become jealous about the improvements in your lifestyle. Be ready to explain why you’re doing what you’re doing.Be specific about dietary changes, as these will be especially surprising. Say things like, “I can only eat four ounces of food at a time now! I've decided to lose weight and I’m committed to it.”
If your social life is built around food, you’ll likely need to articulate your desire to do different things with your friends, or even spend less time with those that eat unhealthily.
Prepare yourself for changes in your romantic relationships as well. A loved one should support your decision and effort to live a healthier, more active lifestyle.
If things immediately get worse on account of your making healthier decisions, this may be a sign that you’re in a negative relationship and should consider making another tough lifestyle change., People who join such groups and actively maintain participation are in the best position to lose weight and keep it off. Keep in mind the frequency of meetings, the cost, and the type of meeting.While you can get a lot of important support from your friends and family, it’s also vital to be able to speak with those who are going through the same experiences you’re having. The groups do more than help you lose weight; they will help reinforce positive life changes.Some support groups meet in-person, while other groups meet online.
Some include a healthcare professional to act as a moderator, or be there just to answer questions or ensure that encouragement and decision-making is safe and healthy.
 BariGroups are online meetups that are anonymous, as you join via audio only. They are facilitated by a bariatric nurse “moderator”, who will post videos and audio clips to help everyone stay on track.Attend from anywhere you wish, on any internet-capable device.
There are multiple meet-ups per week.
Joining a BariGroup is free. (You have the option to tip the moderator if you wish to do so.)

