 Whether you’re parking for the night or taking a couple hours’ snooze break while your friend drives, you’ll need to make up for the car’s environment. While not impossible to sleep in cars as-is, it can be uncomfortable. You’ll probably bring a bit more if you plan to sleep overnight and not just during the drive.Must-haves are pillows and blankets, or a sleeping bag if you are traveling through regions with cold temperatures. Don’t rely for on your car’s heating absolutely when you plan to sleep overnight.
Make sure you bring enough bedding to accommodate your passengers, especially if they are children. If you are taking a road trip with another person and plan on taking turns driving, you could bring one set of pillows and blankets to save on room space inside the car.
Be sure to pack these items inside the car and not in the trunk or on the roof. You may get sleepy earlier than you anticipated, and it’s helpful not to have to leave the car when conditions outside aren’t great.;
, A lot of people have difficulty sleeping in locations other than their beds. Bring soothing items you use regularly to relax in order to make you feel more comfortable in your car.For example, if you enjoy reading before bed, bring a book and book light so you can read before falling asleep.
Music is helpful here, but don’t rely on your car stereo. Bring an mp3 player and headphones so that you can still relax to music with the car off before you go to sleep.
If you’re especially worried about your ability to fall asleep in the car, consult a pharmacist about over-the-counter sleep aids. Note, however, that you’ll be limited from driving once having taken one until you’ve had at least several hours’ rest.
 For those who are hoping to catch some sleep while a friend drives, you’ll want something to keep the sun from your eyes. Those who are burdened with an overnight stay will need coverings to ensure their privacy.


Towels and t-shirts that you’re bringing anyway are a great help here. Provided the t-shirts are large enough, either of these can be used as efficient window covers.
Bring along some clothespins or tape to attach the covers. If you’ve forgotten, you can simply close the doors on the cover you’re using with it slightly above the door frame; it will hang, caught between the door and the car.
Bring a hat and sunglasses if you plan on sleeping during daylight hours. Wearing a hat and sunglasses while you sleep will protect your face from any sun still getting in, and may also help you sleep better while providing additional privacy.

