 You will only want to defuse the bomb if you are playing on the Counter-Terrorist team. Your job as a Counter-Terrorist is to either kill all of the terrorists before they plant the bomb or defuse the bomb after it has been planted by the terrorists.


You will know when the bomb has been planted because the announcer will state "bomb has been planted."
You will also know when it has been planted because of a timer in the corner of your screen indicating when the bomb will explode. Once the bomb has gone off, you will lose the match.;
, There are two places where the bomb can be planted by the terrorists: Site A and Site B. You will need to pay attention to the minimap or what your teammates are saying over the in-game chat.


The map will show you how to get to the planted bomb. It will be clearly marked on the map.
Your teammates may also post in chat or which site the bomb has been planted.
 Most maps in the Counterstrike games are fairly simple, with clear markings directing players toward bomb sites. In addition to the in-game map, the walls in the game are painted with arrows pointing toward bomb sites.


Follow your teammates if you get confused. Chances are they are going to the same place as you are. It is also better to show up in force to the active bomb site, so try to keep up with them.
 Carefully enter the bomb site while keeping a close lookout for terrorists. The terrorists do not want you to defuse the bomb, so eliminate any the instant you see them.


It is best to strategically and slowly enter the bomb site. Do not run in guns blazing unless you are incredibly confident in your reaction and aiming skills.
Coordinate with your team before entering the bomb site. It is best to strategize with your teammates and assign certain roles so that it is not complete chaos once you enter. Decide on who will be defusing the bomb and who will be eliminating enemies. Strategizing beforehand will give you an edge over the opposing team.
 The bomb will be on a large container somewhere within the bomb site. You will hear beeping which increases in volume the closer you are to the bomb.


The bomb is a timer and a number pad attached to dynamite. Look for the colorful wires which mark the bomb

, If you haven't changed it, this is the key you want to press. After E is pressed, you will see a meter in your screen start to fill up. Once the meter is full, the bomb is defused and your team has won the match.


It takes 10 seconds to defuse the bomb without a defusing kit. With a kit, the time is reduced to 5 seconds. Purchase a defusing kit from the in-game store or pick one up off of a dead teammate.

