 Before your child begins to use a computer or a cell phone, talk to them about online safety, security, and privacy. This way, when they approach you about using social media, you will know that they understand the basics of using social media appropriately. Start a conversation with the whole family about what they think is appropriate to share online.Use everyday opportunities to bring up particular aspects of interacting with others online, and listen to your child’s thoughts and feelings.
If you and your child see a television program that shows a teen online, use that as an opportunity to discuss online safety and security. You might say to your child, “Did you see how that person posted a photo that got them into trouble? It is important to think about what may happen if you post something online that could hurt someone’s feelings.”
Talk about current events and news stories that describe cyberbullying or online privacy on social media websites., Tell your child that some who may message, follow, or “friend” them online may not have the best intentions.Ask your child what they would do if they experienced online bullying or received an inappropriate message. Gauge their readiness for social media by their response. If they give an appropriate and thoughtful response, they may be ready to use social media.

Ask you child what they would do if someone sent them a strange message or if someone tried to add them as a friend who they did not know. Your child might be ready for social media if they understand that they should come to you and ignore these messages and requests.
Reassure them that they can come to you anytime they feel uncomfortable, threatened, confused, or scared.
 Securing privacy settings is crucial for establishing a safe online environment for your child. Talk to your child about the benefit of privacy settings. If they understand and do not battle over their privacy settings, then consider creating an account with them.Stay up-to-date on the privacy settings and guidelines for the social media sites that your child uses.
Remind them not to “friend” a person who they do not know in real life, and tell them not to “check-in” or share their location online.
 It is important to exhibit good manners and judgment in both real-life and online interactions. If your child is respectful of other adults, their teachers, and their peers, they will most likely understand that those manners should also dictate their online actions.

Even if your child is ready to use social media, it is beneficial to remind them that their actions online have real-world consequences.If they are upset about a test score or something that happened at school, remind them that social media is not the place to share that information. For example, you could say, “That post may hurt your teacher’s feelings, and you may get in trouble at school.”

, Let your child know that they are only permitted to use social media and other devices, like their cell phone, for a set amount of time and in certain situations. If they are accepting of this rule, then they will most likely adhere to it. A child that argues the rule and becomes defiant is most likely not ready for social media.

Allow your child to access their phone or computer only during set hours each evening or after they have finished their homework.Let your child know that it is not appropriate to be on social media at the dinner table, when they are visiting family, or if they are at an event., If a child feels that they haven’t gotten enough likes or comments on their latest selfie, this may negatively impact their self-esteem.Take the focus away from their personal image and encourage that they post about their interests instead. If they enjoy making art, suggest that they post a photo of their latest drawing. If they enjoy sports, encourage them to share a photo of their soccer team., After you have established your rules for social media use, make sure your child understands that there will be consequences if they do not follow them. Establish that their phone will be taken away for a set amount of time or that they cannot go to the movies with their friends on the weekend. Be consistent with implementing the rules and the consequences.