;
, (23 x 23 cm.) baking tray about an inch deep. You can also line the pan with aluminum foil, if you like.
 While this is melting, complete the next two steps. It should take about a minute or two for the butter to melt. It'll melt faster if you start off with it at room temperature.
 Pour the sugar and eggs into a medium-sized bowl and stir the ingredients together until they're fully incorporated. This should take about a minute. You can use a wooden spoon, a whisk, or even an electric mixer to stir the ingredients together.
 Now, pour these ingredients into a separate bowl and stir them until they are fully incorporated.
 Then, stir until the butter is well mixed in. This will make a nice, light yellow, creamy mixture.
 Just pour the ingredients into a sieve and gently shake it to let the air in while the cocoa mixture falls down into the egg mixture. You can even lightly scrap a fork along the bottom of the sieve to help sift the cocoa mixture.
 Now, you can mix in the chocolate chips into the rest of the ingredients. You can use regular chocolate chips, or cute mini chips if you prefer that. If you're feeling adventurous and want to mix things up, you can also go for the white chocolate chips. , Now that the tray is greased, it should be all ready for you to pour in the mixture. Use a flat plastic mixer or knife to even out the mixture. It doesn't have to be perfectly even, but try to distribute it around the pan as evenly as you can so that the brownies are of even height throughout. , After 25 minutes, keep checking on the brownies to make sure they don't burn. You can even clean up while you're waiting for your brownies to cook. If you hang around the kitchen while the brownies begin to harden, you'll be craving this sweet treat even more!

, Wait at least five minutes for the brownies to cool. This will also give them time to harden a bit. If you cut into them when they're still cooling, it'll be harder to cut them cleanly.
 You can cut tiny pieces, so you can devour them in one bite each. You can also cut larger brownies, so each portion is nice and hearty. It's up to you -- if you're making them for a large event, then the smaller, the better. But if you're just cooking for yourself and a few friends or family members, why not cut them to be a little bigger?


You can even top them with confectioner's sugar for an extra sweet taste.

