 Because peas are a natural product, the package may contain small stones, dirt, or pea pod fragments. Sift through the dried split peas with your fingers and pick these out. Once you're left with just peas, rinse them in a fine mesh strainer to clean off dust.;
, Split peas cook relatively quickly, so soaking is not necessary.That said, you can speed up the cooking time by soaking them in a covered pot of water for four hours, or overnight.
 Chop up the carrots, onions, and celery, plus other vegetables if desired. Chop finely for a thin soup, or into ¼ to ½" (6 to 12 mm) chunks for a more stew-like meal.


Optionally, save half a carrot to grate over the top of the serving bowl.
 If using a leftover ham bone, trim off and discard the fat. If using a smoked ham hock, leave as-is. Either way, you have two options when adding it to the soup:Simmer the ham in a pot of water, skimming and discarding the foam. Cook for about one hour before you start boiling the peas.
Alternatively, cook the ham in the same pot as the peas. This is faster, but adds less meaty flavor. There's also some risk of overcooking the peas to mush, as the meat can take 1–2 hours to become tender (falling off the bone).
 If you aren't using ham, boost the peas in some other way. Garlic and peppers add strong flavor, while tomatoes have a good, meaty texture.Use vegetable stock in place of all or part of the water, perhaps with a splash of wine (red or white). Try additional herbs such as rosemary and thyme.

Acidic ingredients such as tomatoes and wine can make the peas take longer to soften.These are most likely fine in small amounts, but you can add them late in the cooking process if you want to be safe.
 Bring 8 cups (1.9 L) water to a boil, preferably in a thick-bottomed pot to prevent burning. Add the peas and bring to a boil again. Stir frequently to prevent burning and sticking to the bottom.

If you simmered the ham, add the peas to the same pot, or substitute ham stock for some or all of the water.
If you didn't prepare the ham in advance, add it directly to the same pot of water.
 Stir occasionally to make sure the peas don't burn.
 Heat oil in a large frying pan until it shimmers. Add onions and cook until softened and glossy but not browned, 3-5 minutes. Add the rest of the vegetables, the bay leaf, and any other herbs you're using. Sauté another 5 minutes. This will add more flavor to the soup.
 Recently purchased split peas may be ready in 45–60 minutes, depending on how mushy you like them. If they've been in storage for a while, they may take up to 90 minutes or even 2 hours. Aim to add the vegetables about 30 minutes before the peas are finished. (When in doubt, add them 20 minutes after the peas started simmering.)


Add the bay leaf and other herbs immediately, plus a pinch of salt. Despite kitchen rumors, the salt will not lengthen the cooking time.You don't need the salt if cooking the peas with a ham.
If you like soft, mushy vegetables, add them immediately.
 When the peas have begun to fall apart slightly but still have 30 minutes of cooking left, remove the ham bone or hock. Allow it to cool enough to handle it. Cut off any remaining meat, cube it, and return it to the soup. Discard the bone.


If you plan on blending the soup, leave the ham out until you're done blending.
 If you're serious about having a smooth soup, you can use a blender or hand mixer to puree the soup. Remove the bay leaf before you do. Skip this step for a thick, chunky soup.

If transferring to a standing blender, only blend small amounts at a time. Hot soup can easily blow the lid off the blender., Sea salt or Kosher salt gives a lighter salt flavor, but any salt is fine., Remove the bay leaf before serving. Serve with fresh bread, cornbread, or biscuits to make a simple winter meal or side dish. Sprinkle with grated carrot or croutons for extra flavor and crunch.