 Join social media groups to help you find resources and networking opportunities.


There are plenty of sites that can help you find jobs. Sign up and fill out your profile. The start searching and applying. Sites like Production Beast is an online resource for connecting people in the film industry. Likewise, Facebook has tons of film oriented groups which you can join to discuss, connect, and find work. Search for cinematography and filming groups in Facebook and ask to join any groups that stand out to you. Ask your friends for recommendations on any good groups.
 Once you’ve done some work of your own you’ll need to build a reel. Every position in the industry will require a different kind of reel to showcase. And within those different kinds of reels will be several methods for creating one.
For director of photography reels, there are a few things to note. Your reel should showcase your absolute best work. If it doesn’t look great and someone sees it, the viewer will think that this is the most you’re capable of.
Whether you take on other roles in your work isn’t important right now. Even if you’ve directed or edited, this reel is for cinematography. Only include work that showcases your talent as a cinematographer.
People want to see your talent in camera movement, lighting, composition, visual creativity, versatility, and, at least, one great moment.
That’s a lot to pack into no more than two minutes. You don’t have to get all those aspects in, especially in one clip. But you should try and show as much of those elements as possible. Your reel should be no longer than two minutes. And if you don’t have enough quality footage to even make it that long, then keep it shorter. Two great clips that culminate in forty-five seconds will serve you much better than two minutes of mediocre work.
 You’ve done a lot of work so far to become the amazing cinematographer you are. You’ve studied, you’ve shot your own projects, you’ve worked on sets, and you have photos and a reel to show off. Why not put it all on your own website.


These days, it’s not enough to just have a headshot, business card, resume, and a nice smile. With websites being extremely easy to make whether you can code or not, more and more industry people have one and expect you to as well.
Go to Squarespace, Wix, Cargocollective, or even Tumblr and make a site for yourself. You should pay for hosting and a customized domain name. The address to your site should be your name.
The reason you should pay to have your customized domain and other premium features is so that others can see you’re serious. If your site is clearly a stock template with no customization and your address is “‘Username’.tumblr.com,” someone might see it and not take you seriously. Put the same effort into your networking tools as you do your art.
Your website, especially as a cinematographer, should be beautiful and tell a story. You don’t have to make it super complicated. It should be simple and plainly showcase your work. But, it should in a way be a work of art in itself.
 Promote the films you’ve made or have been a part of. Upload these films online and host screenings.


Put your films up on your website, or, at least, trailers for the films. And upload the films to YouTube or Vimeo. Share links on your social pages. Host screenings and create events you can invite people to.
Submit your work for film festivals. Being a cinematographer isn’t an easy job, and getting noticed is harder. So why not do everything you can to get your name out there? Festivals are a great way to get exposure and network with other professionals and artists.
 Stay in contact with industry people you’ve met.


If you get someone’s contact information, store it somewhere you will remember. Get your own business cards to exchange and hand out. Business cards may seem old fashioned. But when someone hands you a business card and you have nothing to hand back, it sends a message and can feel weird.
Reach out to contacts. After you’ve met someone send an email or message and remind this person where you met and who you are. Explain that it was a pleasure to meet and that you'd love to work together or get advice.
Don’t be afraid to ask people for advice, invite people to screenings, and ask for feedback. You won’t always get it. But you never know when someone will help you out.
After you’ve had some experience, you can email contacts and professors and politely ask for any leads on potential jobs. Everyone in this industry is always looking for work. And people are often willing to help others out. You never know when someone will come to you for a job or advice. Or when someone who has had success will remember how great you were to work with and call you.
 Becoming a cinematographer is hard work and will take time to gain some traction and a reputation. That’s why, especially in the beginning, you should get experience however you can.


Ask your friends, colleagues, teachers, etc., for any help on getting work. Don’t expect to always get work in exactly the position you want. Take anything that gives you experience.
Continue learning and shooting things yourself. You should always be creating new work as your talent grows. Update your resume and reel frequently so that you are always ready to put your best self forward.
Experience comes in many forms. Whether it’s simply taking photos for practice, working on a set, or acting as the director of photography on a film.
Don’t get discouraged if you feel like you’re not getting the work or exposure you want. There are plenty of ways to create your own content. And in the film industry, you will go through cycles where you may be in high demand for a few months. Then the next several months are quiet. Learn to accept this flow and take down time to relax.

