 It's what Barbie would do. Barbie is kind, brave, confident, selfless, and polite. Don't curse, smoke, drink (alcohol), or spit. Don't correct people all the time or yell -- be patient. But this don't not mean you have to be a doormat. If you see an injustice make sure everyone knows how wrong it is and defend what or whoever is the victim of the injustice.;
, Be nice and considerate to others. If you feel yourself getting angry, take deep breaths (not in a theatrical obvious way) and count to five. This will hopefully stop you from saying something rude to someone! You can even try meditation for a great natural stress reliever.
 Get good grades if you are not already. If you aren't doing well at school, talk to some teachers and the guidance counselors to see what can be done. If you work, then try to do your best at your job, even if it is something as seemingly-insignificant as flipping burgers. Come in with a smile every day, whether you go to work or school.
 You definitely don't need to (and shouldn't be) cracking jokes every second, especially at others' expense. Someone's feelings are not worth a cheap laugh. But it is important to have a sense of humor. Practice telling a few funny jokes if you want, but it is easier just to make up a few witty retorts on the spot in the course of conversation. And like Reader's Digest says, 'never start a joke with 'this is the funniest joke ever'. It sets the bar too high.'

, Just because you want to be like Barbie in some ways doesn't mean that you have to be stupid. Barbie isn't stupid. Continue to read books and study, as well as stay away of your surroundings. Be careful-- some people might take you for a ditz. It's up to you to prove them wrong!

, You are beautiful! Be kind, sweet, and lady-like to other people (especially adults and teachers).
 Do not have a "school is stupid" attitude. Barbie is a smart cookie as she has been featured as a surgeon (1973), an Astronaut (1965, 1985, and 1994), and even the US President (2000)! Talk about girl power! Challenge yourself and take A.P. courses, if you can. If you are still in middle school, try to sign up for Gifted, Pre-AP, Honors, or I.B. classes. Try to get some high school credits.
 Barbie is physically fit! When it comes to sports, play glamorous ones, like swim team, synchronized swimming, lacrosse, volleyball, track, cheerleading, etc. Ice hockey, football, softball, soccer, field hockey, and even basketball are out of the question! Beach volleyball is great for summer! Don't do any sports that are mainly associated with boys. There are boy and girl teams for all of these sports, but the latter section is less feminine. But if you want to play a sport that is less feminine or less popular, still go for it! Be who you want to be!

, Barbie always has something in her movies and doll lines that she is especially good at: ice skating (Barbie and the Magic of Pegasus) or science (Barbie Princess and the Pauper; Analiese) but you don't have to be an ice-skater or a scientist; whatever you're good at and enjoy doing-- maybe art or writing, riding horses, or soccer. Take your hobby to the next level by entering an art show, trying to publish a book, going into a horse show, or trying out for travel team! Your friends don't necessarily have to be into the same thing as you, either, but you should share your interests with them if you think they would like them.
 Volunteer at your school's charity events, or the Soup Kitchen. Try to go to Beach Cleanups and volunteer at the local library. Donate canned food for the food drive and clothes and toys for the needy. Make a donation to Good Will every 6 months or less. Just generally be a helpful and giving person in your community.
 Barbie has tons and tons of friends! Be kind to everyone and gain many friends. Having a Facebook account is mandatory, but Myspace, Twitter, or AIMS are great, too. If you can't have a social networking account (parents won't allow, too young, etc.), use your phone and e-mail to your advantage. Give your email and number to all of your friends, far and close, but don't spend too much time on the phone, and remember who your real friends are.
 You are only a teen once, enjoy it! Date, have fun, shop, and flirt! Have the time of your life, but don't get a bad reputation.
 She has an amazing body. Take care of your body by being active and eating right. It's not what you look like that matters, it's what is on the inside. You don't have too have a figure like Barbie's; hers is impossible to attain and a human would look silly with that physique!

, If all you can afford at the moment is a cheap phone, go with that for awhile until you save up for a nicer phone, like an LG Touch, iPhone, Blackberry, Pantech, Sidekick, Android, or really any type of phone made for texting. Smart phones are the best. Unlimited texting is preferable for talking to friends and boys! If you have a cheap phone, decorate it with nail polish and sequins and glitter! Personalize it!

