 If you go to your FBF (female best friend)'s house, then you have to tell your girlfriend! If you or your FBF lies about it, your girlfriend will probably find out, and then she'll have problems trusting both of you. Think about it-if you found out that your girlfriend had spent the day alone with another guy and not told you, how would you feel?;
, That way, you'll show her that you have nothing to hide about what the two of you do together when she isn't around.
 Holding her hand or wrapping your arm around her when you're sitting down is a good way to help reassure her. It also shows her that your FBF is in no way uncomfortable with you having your girlfriend around.
 If they both have Facebook, why not start a group chat with both of them, and let them get to know each other?

, If her excuse is along the lines of 'we can't do things we normally do around her' or 'it's not fun when she's around' etc, then perhaps your girlfriend is right to be wary of her.
 Do not try to defend your FBF or turn the blame on your girlfriend ("So she appeared offline to you on Facebook so she could talk to me alone, whatever! Get over it! She only did it because you're so annoying!"). Instead, encourage your FBF to apologise or explain her actions to your girlfriend. The same works vice versa.
 If she's still trying to get used to your FBF being in your life, don't suddenly demand that you get to stay overnight alone with your FBF. Most girlfriends wouldn't be happy with this, and for the sake of your relationship, you shouldn't consider it.
 Chances are that if your girlfriend sees that nothing flirty goes on between the two of you, then she'll be more okay with you talking to her. If you don't want to show her because you think she'll take the things you say to your FBF the wrong way, or the messages you send are flirty, then you should own up to it and stop sending those messages immediately.
 You should also tell your FBF that your girlfriend is still feeling uncomfortable around her, and ask her to maybe try to talk to your girlfriend and put her at ease. If your FBF refuses, chances are that you shouldn't be friends.

