 When you get to the "stairs", just jump on all of them (the last one doesn't matter).;
, Once you get to where there are blocks, just jump onto them.
 Just keep jumping.
 This part looks a little confusing at first, but you can jump-drop-jump-drop or just jump four times. Then, you have to drop under the next platform, and jump out of the hole so that you don't smack the wall.
 However, for the last block you have to drop to avoid a spike.
 To do this, you tap/press/click to go upward, and release to go downward. Going up or down gives you upward/downward momentum.  

, If you can mostly stay in the middle, you are pretty much good to go.
, You have to fly up a bit to avoid this one.
, Then there will be a staircase. If you jump three times, then drop twice, or jump twice, drop, and jump, then you will get a secret coin. Secret coins unlock icons, colors, and even two levels.
 Jump all the way up; then there will be a downward staircase type section with gaps that you have to jump over.
 Once the background turns red, things get a little trickier. You have to jump twice to get on to a platform, drop, jump twice, drop and immediately jump.
 The three spike jump will require a great deal of precision; try to jump as late as possible without dying on the spike.
 There will be a couple of one spike jumps, a staircase, a downward staircase, another jump, a place where you can't jump, another pretty easy jump, and another platform staircase.
 If you jump onto the top blocks, you will get a secret coin. Be careful, on the last of those blocks (below the secret coin), there is a spike you have to jump over. Otherwise, you can just drop.
 It may look confusing, but three jumps should do the trick.
 Then, you'll jump three times, drop twice, and jump twice, wait a tiny bit, then jump until you get to the purple/pink portal.
 There, you go between two obstacles, go above one, go below one,  and go between three more. If you want to get the secret coin, you fly straight up right before the second obstacle, and there will be a hidden path in the top part of the obstacle. Then, you have to go through a complicated and difficult sequence to get the final secret coin.

