 Obviously, melee classes won't be able to accomplish this task with the exception of the shadow knight. Druids, wizards, necromancers and bards are particularly adept at kiting, and druids obtain kiting spells particularly early in the game. The ability to snare is not mandatory, but it is very helpful. Together, Snare (or another speed debuff) and movement speed (Spirit of Wolf, Selo's Acceleration, etc.) make it much, much easier.;
, Large, wide-open areas are generally preferred, though a skilled kiter can kite in dungeons.
 Ideally, kite targets should be melee fighters only. Spellcasters tend to cause problems during kiting since they can hit you from a distance. Similarly, watch out for targets that use ranged attacks .


Most classes can bring down a yellow or white-con target without draining a full bar of mana.
 Cast, or have someone cast Spirit of Wolf/Spirit of Eagle on you. Again, movement speed increases are not necessary if you can snare, but they make the process easier and give you a backup method for escape, should your snare break or be resisted when you're not expecting it.
 This is one of the primary techniques for kiting, and is often referred to as 'snare kiting'. When the target is snared, you can easily stay ahead of it during the kiting process.



Maintain a good distance from your target before you start casting a spell. It helps to know the approximate number of seconds that it takes to cast a particular spell.
Begin with using your damage over time (DoT) spells, if applicable. These will help to weaken the target, and will save you time spent on waiting for mana later.
Wait for the DoTs to apply a considerable amount of damage. This is necessary so that you are not wasting extra mana in casting your direct damage spells.
Hit your target with your strongest direct damage spell. Continue to hit the target with your direct damage spells until it is defeated.
 Don't forget to loot your kills.
 If this is your first time killing this "mob" have full mana(just in case)

