 Recognizing that you need to establish boundaries or improve them is a first step. Boundaries are an extension of love and respect for yourself and others, instead of a reaction to fear or rejection.They are the path to freedom from the need to please others in order to be loved and accepted.For example, your roommate keeps borrowing your car. She never fills up the gas tank or gives you gas money. You can’t continue to pay for all the gas.
 Ask yourself what you hope to accomplish with a particular boundary. You will want to define each type of boundary, physical and emotional, for different settings such as at home, at work, and with friends.


For example, you might decide that you won’t let others take advantage of you and disrespect your time and personal space.
For example, you want your roommate to contribute gas money when she drives your car.
 Share your boundary with the people in your life. This way, they will understand your expectations and needs.


For example, tell your roommate in a calm and polite way that you need her to contribute to the car’s upkeep with gas money. If she doesn’t want to do this, then she doesn’t need to drive your car.
For example, if your friends have a habit of popping in unannounced and this bothers you, tell your friends that you would like them to call first before coming over. Establishing the boundary also means that in the moment when something occurs (i.e., someone borrows something without asking), you can address it and let the person know that it is not acceptable. Speak in a calm and polite way. Tell your roommate that you would like her to ask first before borrowing your car.
 For many people, this is the most challenging part of having boundaries. You are not only helping others to respect your limits. You are also retraining yourself.


For example, if your roommate forgets to give you gas money, give a gentle but firm reminder.
You may slip and forget, but don’t forget: this is a process. Re-establish your resolve and firmly hold your boundary.
You may find that others are resistant to your boundaries at first. If they respect you, they will be willing to adapt.
Remember, you are not trying to change others or control them. Your focus is on how you want to be treated. You will communicate this through your words and actions. For instance, a friend still comes over without calling first. To maintain the boundary, you can say, “I’m sorry you came all this way but I am in the middle of a project for work and I cannot see you now. Next time I hope you will call first.” This strategy politely reinforces your boundary for respect of your time and personal space.
 Being direct and concise is a respectful way to let others know what your boundaries are. In contrast, being indirect, whiney, or using lengthy explanations will send mixed messages.Here is an example of direct communication:


You: “Nick, we’ve been playing video games for hours. I’m tired now and I want to go to sleep.”
Nick: “Oh come on, it’s Friday night. Let’s watch a movie or order a pizza.”
You: “Sorry, Nick. You gotta go, buddy. I’m going to bed now.”

, One of the hardest parts of establishing and maintaining boundaries is our fear of appearing rude or selfish. Put yourself first by recognizing and honoring your feelings. This does not mean that you are dismissive of others or their feelings. Your quest for boundaries hinges on your willingness to take care of yourself so that you can be there for others.


Give yourself permission to recognize and honor the boundaries that you need to function successfully.
When you live your boundaries, others can choose to respect them or not. When they do not choose to respect your boundaries, you have the opportunity to reinforce them in a self-affirming way.
 You have the right to eliminate toxic people from your life, those who would manipulate and abuse you. Learning to set healthy boundaries takes time but you will be successful if you surround yourself with supportive people who respect you and your choices. You do not have to allow anxiety or poor self-esteem to prevent you from taking care of yourself.
You are not responsible for the way others react to you when you maintain your healthy boundaries.
 Begin with a boundary that is manageable as you learn this new skill. Choose something non-threatening.


For example, perhaps you have a friend who stands too close or looks over your shoulder while you are reading your emails. This is a good time to practice asking for more personal space.As you define and establish clear and healthy boundaries, you will find it easier to maintain them. At the same time, you will notice your confidence growing and your relationships improving.
 Establishing boundaries is a good step in developing a healthy relationship. Deep friendships are built over time. They cannot be rushed by crossing social boundaries or sharing more than is appropriate.


You can still feel connected to another person even when you have healthy boundaries. But you will be able to respect yourself, your time, and your own needs without being enmeshed with the other person.You should feel free to hang out with other people. A healthy relationship doesn’t require that you ask permission to do things. If your boyfriend or girlfriend gets jealous when you hang out with other friends, have a talk that establishes a boundary about your activities.

