 Mindful eating refers to the practice of paying attention to whether you are hungry or not. If you are hungry and have not eaten recently, have a snack or meal. If you are hungry but have just eaten a healthy serving of food, wait for a brief time, then reevaluate your hunger. If you continue to feel hungry, help yourself to another serving or half-serving., Many people find it easier to notice a lack of hunger, rather than a sensation of fullness. This is especially useful if you are dieting or trying to avoid overeating., After eating a meal, you might be able to detect your body's response as pleasure or satisfaction. This sensation is often accompanied by feelings of comfort, happiness, and an inner calm. Use your perceptive faculties to help you know when you are satisfied.Once you feel satisfied due to being full, you can multiply these feelings of dining satisfaction by pausing before eating another bite. Push your food away from you and go for a brief walk, even if it’s just around the block or around your house.
If you’re at a restaurant and cannot easily or immediately leave the dining room, go to the bathroom for a brief moment before returning to the table.
 If you’ve not been a mindful eater and have failed to detect feelings of satisfaction, there is one more way you can discover whether you are full. This involves feeling uncomfortable. Discomfort following a dining experience is often the result of consuming too much food. This discomfort will manifest as a pain in your gut and may feel as though your belly is being pushed out from the inside.Discomfort is a sure sign that you are not only full, but overly full.
If you feel that you need a breather before taking your next bite, this is a sign that you are uncomfortable or nearing discomfort due to fullness.
Another potential sign of discomfort is the need to unbutton your pants or remove your belt to allow your gut to expand.
 If you eat in a social environment, you’re more likely to be focused on conversation with your friends than on what you’re eating. However, this could cause you to miss the cues that indicate fullness. In order to avoid this, sit in a quiet environment when dining.Look at your food as you eat. If making your own food, plate it in an attractive way on bone-white ceramic plates/bowls. This presentation will help make the colors pop in an attractive way.
Additionally, do not watch TV or listen to the radio while eating.
Instead, focus on the taste and texture of your food as you chew. Enjoy the flavor of the food in your mouth.

