 Browning dishes typically have small feet on the bottom of the dish, are made of glass or ceramic, and have a grid-like pattern on the bottom. These elements make it possible for the microwave to concentrate heat on the grid, browning your food.

Select a trusted brand. While you could use an off brand or unknown brand, it may be harder to find instructions, seek customer support, and find replacement parts.;
, Because browning in a microwave requires specific cooking components (typically a strip of metal caging along the bottom of the dish), you must first heat up these components before placing your food in the microwave.The amount of time required to heat the cookware will depend on your dish. Check the manufacturer’s notes to determine how long the dish needs to warm up.
 Place whichever side of the food you want to brown down in the dish. This will place the food directly over the cooking material and encourage the microwave heat to focus on that spot.

If you want an all-over brown, simply complete these steps on one side, then repeat on the other side.
 To brown in the microwave, your machine must be set on “high.” Lower settings will not concentrate enough heat. If you typically use presets, make sure the presets also provide high heat., Your cooking time will depend on the type of food you are cooking, the dish you are using, and the microwave you are cooking in. Check your owner’s manual to determine the amount of time required to cook--both the owner’s manual for your browning tool and your microwave.

If you do not have your manual, you can search the food online for a general idea of cooking time, and you can contact the manufacturer of your microwave for instructions.
 After the amount of time set in your manual, check your dish for browning. If it has not browned, continue cooking in smaller increments, such as two or three minutes, until browned., When your food has finished cooking, remove the dish from the microwave and promptly remove the food from the browning dish to prevent continued cooking. Let the dish cool for a few minutes before serving, as the food will be extremely hot.

Leaving the food in the dish could mean your food will continue cooking. Immediately removing it from heat will preserve the temperature and texture you are looking for.

