 One thing is undeniable: Jennifer Lawrence has gorgeous skin. To recreate her makeup look, you will want to start with even, healthy looking skin. Apply foundation to your entire face, making sure to blend it to your hairline and down your neck. You can use a foundation brush, a Beauty Blender, or even just your fingertips for this step. Use your concealer to spot cover any blemishes.


For more thorough information on applying foundation, check out the article here.
Set liquid or cream foundation with a powder to reduce shine and make your foundation more long-lasting.;
, Jennifer Lawrence’s brows are dark and full, and not overly arched. Unlike many celebrities, hers typically look natural and product-less. If you aren’t blessed with brows that look just like hers, however, you’ll need to imitate hers with some brow powder, pencil, or pomade.


Using your brow product of choice, fill in areas of your brows that look sparse or uneven. Don’t worry about creating a defined arch or sharp edges, because these should look low maintenance.
If your eyebrows are naturally darker than J.Law’s, brush a bit of light brown eye shadow into your brows.
 Jennifer Lawrence has a slender nose, and a bit of strategic contouring can help you recreate it. Use a small blending brush to sweep the dark contour color down either side of your nose. This will look like shadow, giving the illusion of a thinner bridge. As you reach the tip, curve the darker color in so that the two sides meet.s, Jennifer Lawrence has hooded eyes. This means that skin droops over the eyelid and actually conceals the area where most of the eye shadow would be. Because of this, Jennifer often wears darker shadows to help open up her eyes.Sweep a dark eye shadow over your entire lid. Jennifer rocks dark colors like black and steel, so don’t be intimidated to use these bold colors. Bring it a bit above your crease and to your outer corner, leaving a bit of your inner eye exposed.
Add a highlight to inner corners of your eyes. Jennifer uses inner eye highlight to make her hooded eyes look bigger and more open., Many makeup looks call for lining the top lash line but skipping the bottom. Jennifer Lawrence typically wears bottom eyeliner, so you will be lining your entire eye this time. Use a black pencil eyeliner, rather than a liquid or gel eyeliner, so that the line doesn’t look too severe., To really open up a hooded eye, lashes are everything. Using black mascara, sweep the product from root to tip. Wiggle the mascara wand as you sweep it through your lashes, so that you avoid leaving large clumps of product.If you want to create more dramatic, voluminous lashes, you can apply your favorite pair of false eyelashes. For more information about applying those, read the article here.
 Jennifer Lawrence doesn’t do the dramatic contour you see on some celebrities, but she does have beautiful cheekbones. To enhance yours, brush some of your favorite highlighter on the tops of your cheeks. This will lighten them up and make them look more defined. Then, brush a bit of pink blush onto the apples of your cheeks. As always, with Jennifer Lawrence’s style, less is more., While Jennifer Lawrence does sometimes wear bright red and bold burgundy, most people typically know her with sweet, pink lips. Apply a coat of pink lipstick or lip liner to your entire lip first. Then, go over this with some peach or light pink gloss., If you really want to look like Jennifer Lawrence in your everyday life, blonde tresses are a great way to start. Jennifer Lawrence has had a variety of different hair colors, but she is best known for her blonde.Learn all about your options for dying your hair blonde here. If you have naturally dark hair and want to go blonde, it is best to visit a salon.


If you are dressing like Jennifer Lawrence for a costume, purchase a blonde wig.
 When she first came onto the scene, she had long, flowing hair. Then, she chopped her hair into a short pixie cut. Lately, however, she’s been rocking a wavy bob. Celebrities change their hair almost as often as they change their clothes, so just choose a style of hers that you enjoy most.You can search through pictures online to help you decide.
 Again, Jennifer Lawrence has worn sleek up-dos and straight styles, but more often than not, she’s donning some loose waves. To create loose waves in your own hair, you can use a curling wand or a curling iron. Make sure to spritz your hair with a heat protectant before starting.Divide your hair into sectioned layers, so you can work with one layer at a time.
Grab a one-inch section of hair and wrap it around the barrel of the hot tool. The larger the section, the looser the wave.
As you move through your layer, switch the direction of the wave or curl. In other words, alternate the direction you wrap it around the barrel. This will help make your waves look messier, just like Jennifer’s.
 Jennifer has stated that she has a curvy figure, and covering it up fully makes her look larger than she is.You'll often see her in low-cut shirts, short skirts, form-fitting dresses, and other pieces that expose a bit more skin. She's also outspoken about embracing the body that she has, so to dress like Jennifer Lawrence, it's important to embrace and accept your body. Show a little bit of skin, and don't be afraid to flaunt what you've got!, You will not catch Jennifer Lawrence in frilly, lacy, overly-girly clothing. She prefers to wear more simple, streamlined clothing without an excess of patterns or bling. In fact, she really enjoys pieces that are inspired by men's clothing. While you will certainly see her in gorgeous gowns on the red carpet, you will notice that most of them are more simple, sleek, and classic.When dressing like Jennifer Lawrence, just remember, less is more! She is a big fan of minimalism.
 There is a reason Jennifer Lawrence is often described as Hollywood's girl next door. When she isn't on the red carpet or on set, Jennifer often sports jeans and a tee.Denim shorts, oversized sweaters, and loose-fitting, casual dresses are all in her repertoire. Jennifer has fully embraced the athleisure trend as well, often donning sweats with sneakers and slouchy tops.


Remember, stars aren't always red-carpet ready. You can dress like Jennifer Lawrence without limiting yourself to gowns, designer clothing, and high heels!

