 Teens often have to juggle just as many responsibilities as adults. A full school day, an afterschool club, practice for a sport, and homework can add up to a 12–14 hour day, at the very least. A planner will help you keep your schedule organized.Before the start of each week, write down everything that you plan on or need to do.
Get to know yourself and how long it takes you to complete various tasks, and set your weekly plan accordingly. Be realistic about what you can actually accomplish in one day to avoid over-scheduling.
Putting everything on paper will help you order your time, so you can be where you need to be on time, and complete high-priority tasks before less important ones.;
, Every night, write your next day’s to-dos. Use a notebook or an app on your phone or computer if you prefer. Try to complete the all of the items on the list the next day. This will help you put your task in order of importance, and help you develop a sense of commitment. Following through with what you intend to get done will get you far in life!Note any specific chores you might have to do at home, in addition to things you have to get done at school.
Write down a handy reminder if you need to ask a friend or teacher something
List your class and activities schedule so you can plan on how much time you need to get from one place or another.
 Just as you set weekly and daily goals, use a calendar to help you with longer-term planning. Write important dates on it like tests, sports events, recitals, birthdays, etc. Set long term personal goals in addition to things you’re required to do:Think of one to five things you’d like to accomplish each school term, like learning a new hobby or, if you're old enough, learning how to drive or applying to college. Break down each goal into smaller, regular milestones or steps.
Be realistic about your personal goals: don’t set yourself up for failure by saying you’ll do something that’s out of your reach.
Write the steps in your calendar and keep track of your progress to help you develop your long-term planning.
Follow this same “breaking it down” procedure for requirements like tests and papers.
 Try not to get sidetracked, lose your focus, or put things off until the last minute. If you procrastinate, you leave less time for back-up plans, and almost always set yourself up to be overwhelmed. Get in the habit of accomplishing a task on time, and if you say that you’re going to do something, then do it.Use your weekly planner, daily to-do list, and long-term calendar to help you stay on top of your tasks and projects.
Ask your friends to help motivate you to get things done instead of tempting you to put something off, and do the same for them.
Being proactive and learning early about how to get things done in a timely manner will help you stay in control later on in life, too.

