 Blood stains can be removed by dipping a dish cloth or sponge into a solution with ratio 1:49 bleach to water. For instance, concoct a mixture of 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) (2







, To rid your ceramic tile of mold or mildew, mix a solution of ratio 1:49 bleach to water. For instance, mix 10 milliliters (2







, Wash the ceramic tile with dish soap and hot water. Remove the leftover discoloration with either a solution of 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) (2







, Place some ice cubes in a resealable plastic bag. Place the bag over the sticky stain marring your ceramic tile. After five to ten minutes, check the consistency of the stain. It should be frozen. Scrape away as much as possible, and wipe the rest off with paint thinner.
 If you’re trying to remove a stain of oil or grease, wet a dish rag with club soda. Rub the stain using a gentle circular motion.








If you don’t have club soda, you could simply use a nonabrasive floor cleaner.
 Ink or dye stains require treatment with bleach. Soak a clean dish cloth with bleach. Lay the cloth over the stain. Check it every 60 seconds or so until the stain disappears.








Don’t leave the bleach-soaked cloth on the ceramic tile too long. The alkali in the bleach can cause whitish water-soluble salts to collect on the tile.
 Small spots of nail polish can be removed with the applicator attached to the lid of your bottle of nail polish remover. If the stain refuses to come off the ceramic tile, mix a solution with proportions 1:99 bleach to water. Dab a dish cloth in the mixture. Use the dish cloth to clean the nail polish. Alternately, dip a dish cloth in hydrogen peroxide and scrub the nail polish away.








If using bleach, a mixture of 10 milliliters (0.34  fl oz) (2/3 tablespoon) bleach and one liter (one quart) of water is typically appropriate.
 Before you try to lift a paint stain from your ceramic tile, mop or wipe down the tile and allow it to dry. Apply the commercial paint remover according to manufacturer directions. Typically, this means applying a coat of paint remover with a paint brush just as you would when painting. After about 30 minutes, the paint should be ready to wipe away with a damp paper towel.








Open the windows of the area you’re working in to reduce inhalation of the toxic fumes paint removers give off.
 Mix a few tablespoons of ammonia with an equal amount of water. Dampen a dish cloth with the solution. Scrub the iodine stain from your ceramic tile by pressing it and scrubbing in a back-and-forth method.







