 Being prepared is important. Even if that certain item wasn't on the supplies list, you should get it if you really feel you need it. As they say, "It's better to have something and not need it than to need something and not have it". Good things you might need:


Number 2/HB pencils or mechanical pencils
Tabs to mark pages
Folders and binders
Erasers
Paperclips
Mini stapler/stapler refills/staple remover
Planner
Notebooks/composition books
Loose-leaf paper
White-out
Red/black/blue pens
Scissors (small)
Highlighter
Calculator (if needed)
Glue Stick
USB;
, A pencil case is a key part of being a well-organized student. It will keep all your supplies organized and in one place. Get a pencil case with lots of pockets for better organizing.


Get a quality pencil case that will last you through the school year.
Fill your pencil case with the supplies you will need for class. These include pencils, calculators, and erasers. Remember that your pencil case only needs to contain what you need for every class. Anything needed for a specific class can be kept in a binder pencil case or folder.
 Remember to keep heavier things closer to your back and the lighter things further away. If you already have an organized backpack, skip to the next step.
 If you have a locker, it may get messy. See if the school will allow you to bring in a shelf. That way, you can put books, extra papers or supplies on one and keep them away from your other things. But before you install that shelf, rip up all the papers you don't need so they won't be copied. (Remember to clean out your locker every week or two. This will ensure that your locker will stay neat and organized.) If your school lets you come in early, take that time to clean out your locker. Bring a plastic bag if you know that your locker is messy.
 If you use a laptop for your schoolwork, print your work out on the next opportunity you have. This can stop you from getting into trouble with your teachers or wasting a lot of time printing a bulk of papers during the weekend. Be sure you have everything on your laptop backed up in case something goes wrong.Remember that all your notes and handouts on your laptop should be just as organised as they are in your binder or notebooks, folders and drives will help you achieve this.


Create a folder for each class (and make sure they are colour coded) e.g. pink for English, blue for Maths, green for HSIE etc.
Create subfolders inside each folder (homework, presentations, online textbooks etc.)
Do the same thing on all online drives, use the same colours
Remember to regularly clean through your files but never delete something if you think you may need it again.
 Planners are most helpful. Most schools sell them, but some don't. Buy one or make your own if the school doesn't provide one. Write down your homework, tests, or club meeting dates. Write down things that you know you'll forget. Make sure to look in it before you go home so that you take home everything that you need. Keeping your planner organised is absolutely essential, remember to read the tips below:


Make sure it is something you want to write in and read regularly.
Have a bullet and colour code this can be a square for a task and a circle for an appointment but remember to personalise it to you.
When your teacher tells you something, write it into your planner immediately.
Personalise your binder to your taste. Some people like planners as binders, or bound objects it is really your choice.
 You should get one binder for each different class you have. Make sure that you get different colors for each subject and label them. Getting just one binder for everything is not a good idea. The binder will become messy and crowded. And you might get papers mixed up.


Use tabs to label different sections in your binder (ex. Graded, Homework,Handouts, etc.).
 Having all of those extra papers that you got back a month ago in your folder will make it heavy. It may bend and tear. Plastic folders are a better choice if you constantly have torn folders.
 This may seem obvious, but put any papers you need to keep in its subject folder. Don't let loose papers mingle about. Take those extra seconds and put them in a folder. That way, you'll have them when you need them. Teachers become annoyed when they are constantly receiving crumpled papers.


If it is easier for you find folders that will go in your binder and do the same with notebooks. It can give a lot of peace of mind knowing everything is together.
 Another way to get organized is to use an accordion folder. Accordion folders are the folders that expand and have many places for different kinds of paper. Having all your papers in one is better than having a whole bunch of folders.
 This organizes everything and prevents you from losing anything.
 When you get to class, don't goof off with friends. Pay attention and write down your homework in your planner and begin any assignments. Never draw a teacher's attention to you with goofy behavior.
 This is a big one. Especially in high school. When you start taking notes, put the date at the top of the paper, so when you have a big test you can look back to study and everything will be in order. Doing this in history class is a major thing. Also, if a friend needs notes from a certain time you'll have it.
 Use a highlighter for the important parts. Write the date, title and homeroom number, in case you lose it.
 When you know something is due, get your supplies as soon as possible. When you get your supplies, plan out everything that you want to be included in the project. Work on it little by little each day. Do not wait until the last minute to begin your project. The night before the project is due, look over it. See if you have missed any important steps. Put what is due in a small pile next to your backpack. If it is an essay, put it in your folder. If it is raining or snowing, put your project in your backpack or cover it with a garbage bag.
 If you start worrying about other people or let people copy your homework, just tell them no. Say you need to stay organized and you need to keep your grades up and you can't cost them losing your homework paper.
 Do your work as soon as it is assigned so that you do not end up doing stuff at the last minute. Also, do not depend on friends to help you with homework. It is perfect if you and a friend are working together, but do not be the only one working.This should cover the free time you have after school and on weekends, etc. This can keep you in the routine of setting out your homework and weekend times and will help you to feel much more organized and prepared.


Remember to treat this how you would your normal planner
Look at it in the morning and when you are doing your homework

, Have a desk with paper, pencils, pens and other school supplies in your room or in a quiet area. This is for your homework and projects. All supplies should be kept there. Creating a homework station is very easy and useful. A lot of people put everything they will need on a basket and place it on the table to avoid interruptions when you need a new supply.
 You don't want to be doing homework and notice you forgot a binder or notebook.
 This will let your mind understand that this is a place for work and not a place to play.
 After you get done with your homework clean out your backpack and put everything that you might need for the next day back in. Take out the things you don't. (If you're not sure go ahead and put it in anyway). Put your backpack someplace you won't forget it. This way your already ready for school the next day and don't have to worry if you have everything.
 Every night take all your school stuff home including binders, folders, notebooks, etc., and label it according to period, subject, and time that class starts. It is also recommended to put your current grade on the inside of the appropriate notebook/folder for that subject. It will help you stay focused on getting it higher.
 Do it that same night before your favorite program comes on TV or you go out. If you don't, you'll risk doing it on the bus, or not doing it all (or at all) and then get in trouble with the teacher.
 If you're absent, do the make-up work right away. If you don't then you will get behind and maybe even miss out a whole section which might come up in some exams.
 If you need to clean out your desk, make sure that you clean it out before school so that you can find anything you need in your desk. If you don't have a desk, then don't worry about this one.
 You probably don't need to fully clean them out, but be sure to check every once in a while. Lockers can be very important though.
 If you can fit it in your locker then utilise that space and take time to grab your books between classes, in the long run you and your back will be happy you did.