 Though you and your partner may have mutual friends, you should also have individual relationships with your friends that exist outside of your partner. Spend time with those friends regularly.You can still hang out with your mutual friends together, but do maintain some friendships separately.
Try meeting up at least once per month. Catch a movie, have dinner, or go on a weekend trip together occasionally.
 Remember all of the hobbies and activities that you enjoyed before your relationship and continue enjoying them separately from one another. Though you can share certain interests together, make sure that you keep some things that are just for you.Perhaps you enjoy playing the piano but your partner does not. Play when you can to continue developing your skill.
 When you are away from one another, it will be natural to miss them and be missed in return. However, avoid staying in constant contact. Practice being fully present in the moment and in what you are doing. You can always reconnect with you partner later and update them about your day.Perhaps you want to discuss setting communication limits with your partner. Maybe you would prefer not talk to them during work, except at your lunch break, but promise to call them when you get off.
 Unless you are married or live together, avoid spending everyday together. Relationships tend to grow stronger when some healthy distance is maintained and you will enjoy the time that you spend together and cherish it all the more.Don’t respond to every call or text immediately and don’t be too available to your partner. Don't play games, but don't drop everything you are doing either.
 Remember that outside of this relationship you have a career or coursework that you should be attending to. These can provide feelings of accomplishment to you that your relationship cannot, which is healthy. Remember that you cannot derive all of your pleasure, joy and fulfillment from your relationship alone.


Maintain a to-do list and work to complete it.
Set goals for yourself outside of the relationship.

