 An effective method for overcoming catastrophic thinking is taking a brief pause. Often, once your thoughts take a negative, self-defeating track you keep on down that road. Once you become more aware of the triggers and causes of your catastrophic thinking, you can learn to slow down and digest what’s happening before letting your thoughts take over.

When you notice catastrophic thoughts, take a few minutes to practice deep breathing. This exercise can give you a moment to pause and think more rationally. It also helps alleviate stress. To do deep breathing, pull in air through your nose for several seconds. Hold the breath for 2 seconds. Then, exhale the breath from your mouth slowly. Repeat for several cycles.
 Lack of control is often one of the root causes of catastrophic thinking. You feel helpless, so you let your thoughts lead—no matter how irrational they may be. Counteract this by finding at least one aspect of a situation that you can control. Focus on that.


Let’s say, you’re worried that you will fail your English final. You find yourself thinking “I’ll fail the course and have to repeat it. This will ruin my GPA.”
What can you control in this situation? You can control your performance on the test, so speak with the instructor and ask for study tips. Create a study guide or a practice test. Although you can’t control all the variables, by focusing on what you can control, you take back some of your power and you also reduce the stressor simultaneously., Another method for disputing worst-case scenario thinking is by challenging yourself to look at the situation in reverse. Instead of dwelling on the worst possible outcome, envision the best possible result. This brings awareness to the fact that there are many possible outcomes—not just the worst.


For example, your boyfriend fails to answer your calls 4 times in a row. You worry that something horrible has happened to him. Maybe he was mugged. Perhaps he had a car accident. You strongly consider calling the police.
Rather than imagining catastrophe, think more positively. You were aware that your boyfriend has been really swamped at work. He’s been stressed out and sleeping poorly. Maybe he’s not answering your calls because he’s finally catching up on some zzz’s. How likely is this outcome?, Catastrophic thinking is often rooted in your worst fears. You dread something happening, and therefore give the event more power in your mind. Sometimes, taking action against catastrophic thinking means facing what you fear the most.In some cases, facing serious fears like phobias requires the assistance of a professional. However, if your fear is mild, challenge yourself to face it.
For instance, if you have a fear of escalators, then you could start by watching other people ride on escalators. Then, as you get more comfortable watching other people ride on escalators, then you could ride on one yourself.
 In more severe cases of resistant catastrophic thinking or chronic phobias, you may need to work with a mental health therapist. A therapist can help you search for the root cause of your disastrous thoughts, figure out triggers, and develop skills to dispute unreasonable thoughts.


Depending on how seriously your thoughts are impacting your life, you might need to try cognitive behavioral therapy or even medication to reduce the symptoms of anxiety.
Talk to your doctor about possible treatment options. Your family doctor can also refer you to an experienced therapist in your area.