 Having a strong and supportive network of friends and family is key to optimal mental health. Social interaction helps boost resilience to stressful events and even helps you live longer. When you spend time with others who make you feel good, your body generates hormones that lift the mood and fight stress.At the beginning of each week, try to schedule in contact with close friends and family on a daily basis. Your contact can be a simple phone call or a lunch date. Schedule in these connections just as you would a doctor’s appointment or a career function. While it’s nice to forge friendships online through social media and group forums, aim to meet some friends in- person regularly. This allows you to take a break from your daily grind and satisfies your innate need for social connections.;
, Mealtime with the family is often overlooked. However, sharing meals with the people you love has a host of advantages—not least of which is the chance connect with one another. Imagine the traditional family meal: each member has the chance to share big and little details about daily life that might otherwise get buried in the hustle and bustle of the day. Everyone has a special opportunity to give and receive attention.


Research shows that the tradition of the family meal is declining, unfortunately. Only about 30 to 35% of families enjoy at least 3 meals weekly together.It’s understandable that everyone is busy, but make a goal to all sit down and share a meal together a few times a week. Everyone will benefit when you do.
If you don't live with your family or they live far away, try to have a friend or roommate join you for dinner as often as possible. You can reap the same benefits by dining with your best bud., When you think of connection, that of the animal variety may not immediately come to mind, but it should. If you have ever owned a dog, cat or other pet, you probably know all too well the level of joy and fulfillment animals can offer. Owning pets provides a range of benefits that contribute to positive mental and physical health, such as:Reducing depression
Lowering blood pressure
Boosting relaxation
Producing a stimulus for exercise
Helping you meet other pet-owners

, Helping out in your local community offers a wide range of opportunities to meet new people and connect with others. This not only satisfies your natural human desire for social interaction, but it also affords you a sense of purpose and meaning.Dedicating a few hours each day or week to a good cause can help you to feel like you are making an impact, resulting in stronger self-confidence and greater well-being.


Look for ways you can contribute in your community. Animal shelters, nursing homes, homeless shelters, religious organizations, and schools typically have a need for volunteers. Contact these groups and see how you can go yourself some good by doing for others.

