 There are three styles of expressing anger. Two expression styles, “passive” and “aggressive,” are not healthy ways to express your anger. The third style, “assertive,” is the most constructive way to express your anger.Assertive communication emphasizes that both people’s needs are important. To communicate assertively, give the facts without making accusations. Here is an example:


“I was hurt and angry because it seems like you were belittling my project when you laughed during my presentation. I don’t know what was going on, but it seems like you weren’t paying attention or taking my hard work seriously. I could have just misunderstood what was going on. Can we talk and work this out?”

, Your communications should convey requests rather than demands. In order to get respect, you have to give it. Then you will foster cooperation and reciprocal respect. This is the opposite of what happens with anger. Aggressive, passive, or passive-aggressive communications put you at odds with others.Respectful communications might include:


“When you have the time, could you…”
“It would be a great help if you… Thanks, I appreciate it!”

, If you hem and haw, or you make general statements that are not specific, it can only mean frustration for everyone involved. When you communicate assertively, you should directly address the person with whom you need to resolve your issue. Make it clear what you would like to see happen. Don’t forget to put this communication in the form of a request.


For instance, if your coworker is speaking loudly on the phone and it’s difficult for you to do your work, you can state your request like this: “I have a request. Would you please lower the volume of your voice on the telephone? It’s making it very difficult to concentrate on my work. I’d really appreciate it. Thanks.” , When you figure out how you’re feeling, convey the real feeling, like hurt, and keep judgment statements out of it. Instead of saying, “I feel that you are an insensitive bore,” stick to things that pertain to you. For example, you can say, “I feel that you are not being sensitive to my feelings when you read your paper instead of listen to what I’m trying to say.”

