 Hygiene plays a key role in maintaining skin integrity. Soap, although important in hygiene, can cause irritation and may not help in removing any of the dead skin caused by dryness. Instead, rinse your feet thoroughly with warm water every time you bathe in order to promote moisture. Warm water (40 to 34°C) promotes circulation and both comforts and refreshes your feet.Always wash the bottoms of your feet well and between your toes. You should use a washcloth to get between your toes or use a long handled sponge on your feet if you prefer not to have to bend down in the shower.
 Make sure you dry well between your toes with a towel as this will prevent the develop of infection, and reduce any odors or bacteria on your feet., Tight, uncomfortable shoes can cause painful foot growths and distort your toe shape. They can also irritate your feet and lead to blisters and cracked skin. Try to wear comfortable shoes that fit well on a daily basis, especially if you are always on your feet throughout the day.If you wear high heels, look for heels that are wide, stable, and no higher than two inches. Make sure there is enough room in your heels for your toes, as your shoes should not narrow until well past the balls of your feet. You should also alternate your heels heights regularly to prevent your Achilles tendon from shortening.
Avoid wearing flip flops and completely flat shoes, as they do not provide arch support. You should also avoid walking around barefoot to avoid developing flat feet. Minimize the amount of time you wear shoes with no arch support to keep your feet healthy and strong.
 Try to alternate your shoes so you do not wear the same pair every day, even if you have two pairs of the same style. This will prevent shoe odor, and foot infections.You should also change your socks every day so you wear a fresh pair. This will prevent foot irritation and infections, which could trigger dry and cracked skin.
 Promoting hydration is one of the best ways to keep any part of your skin healthy, including the skin on your feet. If possible, drink whenever you are thirsty--thirst is your body’s way of telling you that you are becoming dehydrated. Try to drink at least eight glasses of water every day., Make sure the nail salon sanitizes and cleans every metal instrument before they use them on your feet and only go to a nail salon that is known for its good hygiene.A good nail salon can help remove dry skin from your feet, massage your feet to improve blood circulation, and moisturize your feet so they look their best.

