 When your siblings have friends over (and that includes boyfriends/girlfriends), don't bother them. You might want to talk and hang out with them or play with them, but they deserve their time alone. Wait until they call you. They will appreciate that and more likely want you to come back.If you start to hang out with them and they ask, "Can you get out now?" say, "Sure" and go and do something else.
If you know that your sibling has company coming, already have some activities (e.g. play outside, read, watch a movie, play video games, color, etc.) planned that you can do.
 Your siblings probably have something that you like and would like to use from time to time. Always ask to borrow the item before you use it. Your sibling may need it or might not want to share with you.Say, "Hey, can I borrow your ___. I'll give it back to you tomorrow."
If you do borrow something, take care of it and bring it back in the same condition that you got it. For example, do not borrow their phone and bring it back with a cracked screen.
If your sibling says no, you can politely ask them why. You might be able to convince them if you know the reason.
If your sibling refuses to share with you, do not beg or whine. Accept their answer.
 Eavesdropping will get you nowhere. You usually want answers, and you'll end up right back where you started because your sister/brother will find out and you'll lose their trust. If your sibling wants you to know something, they will tell you.


If you do eavesdrop and overhear something, do not repeat it to other people (e.g. your friends, parents, etc.)
If your sibling is on the phone or having a conversation that does not involve you, go to another room and do something else.
 If there is something small that your sibling did, don't run to tell your mom. Talk to them before you tell your parents. If you can't work it out, then tell them. If your sibling is in danger or going to do something illegal, you can go ahead and tell your parents.


If you are a tattle-tale, your siblings will not be able to trust you.
Keeping secrets is a special, fun part of having siblings.

