 Make sure you actually understand the definitions of all of your new words. If you don't understand the words in the definitions, you won't really know the true meanings of the words, which will make it much harder to remember your vocabulary., Even if you understand the definition of the word, you might not understand exactly how the word is used. This is why it's useful to search for sentences that contain the word.Try doing a simple Google search for your word. You'll probably find lots of different sentences that use your word in different ways. Write down the ones that best help you understand how to use the word.
You can also try searching your word on YouTube. You may find a song that contains your word.
If you're having a hard time understanding the meaning of the word from its context in sentences, try performing a Google image search. You may find that the pictures that show up for your word will help you understand its meaning.
 These are word parts that come at either the beginning or the end of a word. Words with common prefixes or suffixes often share similar meanings. If you learn prefixes and suffixes, sometimes it's possible to figure out what a word means, even if you're not sure at first. Here are some examples:"Dis" means not, or in absence of, as in distance, disengaged, or dissolve.
"Mis" means negative, or bad, as in misread or misfit.
"Ous" means full of, as in dangerous or fabulous.

Less means lacking, as in mirthless or guileless.
Other common prefixes and suffixes include mal, mega, super, extra, equi, sub, post, ism, ness, ment, and many more., Once you have a good understanding of how other people use the word, try your hand at writing some unique sentences with it. The more sentences you can write, the better.Be sure you truly understand what the word means in your sentence. If you're not sure, look for more examples.
Don't just change a word or two in your example sentences. This exercise will be much more valuable if you think up sentences that are entirely unique.
Your sentences should be specific enough that the context will help you remember the definition of the word. For example, instead of just writing, "She looked dejected," write, "She looked dejected after her boyfriend broke up with her." This is even more important when you are dealing with words that may have multiple meanings.
Try to use the word in as many different ways as possible. For example, if it's a noun, use it in its singular and plural forms. If it's a verb, use it in present and past tense.
 The best way to truly learn new vocabulary words is to incorporate them into your everyday speech and writing. As you are studying, try to consciously use these words in place of simpler or more common synonyms.Even if you don't use the words in conversation, use them in some way. For example, you can try using your new vocabulary words to describe articles that you read in the newspaper or you can try to incorporate them into your next book report.

