 Using commercial yeast is the easy way to make bread rise, but it wasn't always available. Before commercial yeast was made, people created dough "starters" using wild yeasts that are naturally carried through the air and found in flour and other foods. Wild yeast has a delicious sour flavor, lending sourdough bread its name. To make a wild yeast starter, do the following:


Mix equal amounts of white flour and water. 4 ounces all-purpose flour and 4 ounces water creates a good starter base. Mix until the ingredients form a thick dough.
Place the starter in a large jar or glass bowl covered with cheesecloth or loose plastic wrap.
Store it in a warm place in your kitchen. It should be kept between 70 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Store for 24 hours., After 24 hours, you should see small bubbles forming on the surface of the dough. That means wild yeast has found its way into the jar and begun to metabolize the flour to produce carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol, which is exactly what you want. Now it's time to feed the starter to keep the process going. To feed the starter,


Mix 4 ounces all-purpose flour and 4 ounces water to form a thick dough.
Pour it into the starter mixture and stir well.
Recover the jar with cheesecloth or loose plastic wrap.
Store it in a warm place in your kitchen. It should be kept between 70 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit. Store for another 24 hours., On the third day, mix another 4 ounces of flour and 4 ounces of water to add to the starter. Let it sit in a warm place for another 24 hours. On the fourth day, repeat the process one more time: mix 4 ounces of flour and 4 ounces of water, then add it to the starter. Store it in a warm place for 24 more hours.


By the morning of the third day, the starter should have large and small bubbles and a yeasty smell. It should look visibly larger in size.
By the morning of the fourth day, it should be bubbly and smell quite yeasty. It should have doubled in size.
By the morning of the fifth day, after the starter has rested for the remaining 24 hours, it should fill the jar. The texture should be loose and slippery. The starter should be filled with bubbles and frothy.
If your starter isn't big, bubbly and yeasty by now, try storing it in a different place. Make sure the temperature is sufficiently warm. Keep feeding the starter for as many days as it takes to ripen into a bubbly, frothy concoction.
 Now that the starter is "ripe," you can use it in place of commercial yeast in a recipe. Most recipes for sourdough bread call for mixing about a cup of starter with several cups of flour, water and other ingredients. Follow the bread recipe to make your bread rise properly.After mixing the starter with the other ingredients, knead the dough for the instructed amount of time.
Place it in a loosely covered bowl and let it rest in a warm area to rise.
When the dough has doubled in size, punch it, shape it and let it rise a second time before baking.
 Save at least 1/2 cup of starter to use next time you want to bake bread. Instead of making a new starter from scratch, you can feed your existing starter until it ripens again. Store it in a clean glass jar with a lid, and refrigerate until you're ready to prep it for more bread.When you're ready to use the starter, let it warm to room temperature. Feed the starter with a mixture of 4 ounces of flour and four ounces of water.
Let the starter sit in a warm area for 24 hours. During this time, it should bubble and double in size.
When the starter is ripe, divide it and use what you need for your bread recipe. Store the remaining starter for future use.

