 If any of the doors into your house require stairs, you need to make that entrance accessible. Even if there is another accessible entrance, making all entrances accessible maximizes the child's safety and gives them the same choices as able-bodied people.If a turn is required, make sure it's at least five feet (1.5 meters) square to allow room for the chair.
The ramp or path should be built far enough out to have a gentle slope up to the door.
Provide handrails on either side so the ramp is easier for the child to navigate, and make sure the entire area is well lit. You might consider setting lights on motion sensors so the child has a well-lit path without anyone needing to go ahead to turn on the lights for them.;
, Modifying a bathroom can be one of the more expensive projects to make your home safe and navigable for a child in a wheelchair, but these modifications are essential to enable the child to be independent.Install a roll-in or walk-in shower so the child does not need help climbing in and out of a tub. This will be especially important as the child gets older and develops a stronger sense of personal privacy.
Make sure your shower or tub includes a bench where the child can sit that is safe and doesn't get slick with soap and water.
Bars near the shower or tub and on either side of the toilet can help the child transition in and out of their chair.
You may have to move the water knobs and shower controls so that the child can easily reach them.
Provide enough room around the toilet so the child can use the toilet without assistance. There should be enough space for the child to turn the wheelchair around, including a 48- by 56-inch (122- by 142-centimeter) space in front of the toilet and at least 18 inches (46 centimeters) between the toilet and any side wall.
 Even though young children probably won't be cooking, you can include modifications in the kitchen that enable the child to get their own snacks and participate in creating family meals.Providing adjustable counters that can pull out for the child, or creating at least one wheelchair-height counter, will allow the child to participate in food preparation and other kitchen activities. This helps the child be more independent by enabling you to teach them how to prepare and cook healthy meals.
Arrange the kitchen so there is enough room for the child to turn around and freely navigate the space, even when appliances are open.
You may need to lower cabinet handles or drawers so the child can more easily reach them.
 A child in a wheelchair should be able to move around their home independently. Make sure pathways are clear, and there's nothing that the child could trip over or that could impede the wheelchair.In most cases, you should avoid area rugs. While an adult in a wheelchair may be capable of rolling over the edge of a rug, a child may not have the strength or control necessary to do this.
Install hard flooring or use low-pile carpeting so the chair can move smoothly from room to room.
Secure wires along the baseboards and run them around the wall, rather than leaving them across the floor.
 When arranging furniture, there should be enough room for the child in a wheelchair to move freely about the rooms – and from one room to another – without needing any assistance.Creating a full circle of space around each room may be the easiest option. This way the child can get to every part of the room.
If your home has two stories, the child's bedroom should be on the main floor. You may want to consider installing an elevator, although this is an expensive modification.
There should be at least 32 inches (81 centimeters) of clearance in doorways, and 42 inches (107 centimeters) of clearance in hallways.
Make sure all interior doors are accessible so the child can open and close them without assistance. You may have to lower door knobs so they are within reach.
 Choose heavy furniture that is relatively stable and can't be pulled over or moved if the child bumps into it or pulls on it. If you have lighter pieces that could potentially be a hazard, secure them to the wall or the floor.Avoid tables and furniture with sharp corners, or get corner protectors to cover them.
Tall shelves and other top-heavy pieces of furniture should be anchored to the wall so the child in a wheelchair can't topple them over.
Secure televisions, computers, and electronics to the table or shelf on which they sit so the child won't accidentally knock them down. This also gives the child the chance to use electronic devices independently.
 Loose objects, such as curios on shelves, can be hazardous to a child in a wheelchair. In addition to the hazard, you want the child to be able to manipulate and control objects independently, without having to ask for help.Avoid placing unsecured objects near the edge of tables or shelves where they could be easily knocked off.
You can use velcro for the child's toys and other items so they can more easily control them and put them back in their proper place when done.
Velcro or magnets also work for dinnerware and glasses, so the plate or bowl stays in place and the child can eat and drink independently.
You can find inexpensive rolls of adhesive velcro or magnet strips at most discount stores, or at crafting stores.
If you have cabinets or shelving units for the child, make sure the drawers are secured so the child can open and close them without pulling them out.

