 Wishing others would change or attempting to change others will cause you stress. It can easily make it difficult to remain peaceful in a relationship.Instead of attempting to change or control others, accept and love them (including their faults) for a more peaceful relationship.Try writing a list of what you appreciate or are grateful for with the individuals in your life.
Remind yourself that everyone has flaws. No one is perfect.
 Holding in your thoughts and feelings in a relationship will not help you be peaceful. Part of being peaceful is being at peace with yourself. Honesty is a vital component to being at peace with yourself. So, be honest, but kind, when communicating what you really think and feel.Having an open and honest dialogue in your relationships with others helps the relationship be more peaceful as well. It sets up a tone which communicates that if there are problems, they can be discussed and brought out into the open. You can state, “I want to you to be comfortable talking to me about anything.”
Make sure you are communicating any frustrations or negative feelings in order to address them as quickly as possible. Try saying, “Our relationship is important to me. I don't want to bottle anything up and risk having it affect our relationship.”
Have conversations just to check-in with loved ones. It will illustrate that you are interested in your loved ones well-being, and will make them more comfortable talking with you. You can begin with a simple, “How are you really doing?”

, What you say to convey peacefulness is important, but equally important is how you say it.The way you communicate with others is complex and conveys a great deal about your emotions and state of mind. Being peaceful in relationships with others includes speaking in a peaceful way.


Speak slowly and thoughtfully.
Notice the volume of your voice. If you are loud, try quieting your voice.
Try to use a softer tone when you speak instead of a more stressful or sharp tone.
Pay attention to the words that you use. Consider what they are conveying about your outlook.
 As you are trying to accept others for who they are, you may come across some who make that difficult. People who are consistently negative can only interrupt your sense of peace. It may be best to let them go or remove them from your life. If you feel like you cannot let go of people completely, limit the contact you have with them.While you want to be accepting of people and their imperfections, this doesn't mean you have to accept everything another person does. You are allowed to set boundaries as to what you will and will not accept in your life. For instance, you can't stop a boyfriend from doing drugs, but you can set a boundary that if he does them around you, you are leaving the relationship.
Separate yourself from violent or aggressive people. A peaceful person does not engage in violence against herself or others.Distance yourself from people who are overly judgmental or critical of the way you choose to live your life.
Let go of anyone you feel disturbs your peacefulness.
 Parenting peacefully can be difficult. It is hard not to get caught up in the stress now and then. Start small, by changing one thing you do into something more peaceful. Once you feel you have accomplished that, begin a new one. Also try to notice the part you play and how you can help create the change you are looking for.Try to remove or avoid critical or blaming statements.
Instead of focusing on what your child may have done wrong, focus on what he did well or praise him for trying. Instead of saying "Look at the mess you made! You never pick up your toys!" try, "Wow, you are playful and have lots of energy today! What is your favorite toy right now? Let's do something fun with that toy, and put the rest away to play with later."
Be the peace you wish to see in your child. Become peaceful yourself before expecting your child to be peaceful.Children need to be taught how to behave, including being peaceful. Lead by example and demonstrate the kind of peacefulness you would like to see in your child and in your relationship with him.
 Journaling is a great practice to help you be peaceful. Creating a journal will help focus your peaceful intentions in the areas of your life that need more attention. It will also help you organize your thoughts and plans.Journaling allows you a safe space to vent your frustration and stress so that you can be peaceful with others. Try prompts like the following:


Today being peaceful was difficult because...
Today being peaceful was rewarding because...
I am going to try to be more peaceful by...

