



Bonne means “good.”

Nuit means “night.”
Pronounce the phrase as bohn NWEE.;
, This translates to “good night” or “good evening.” Use it when saying hello to someone at night, rather than saying it as you bid farewell at night.


The bon part of the term means “good.”
The soir part of the term means “evening.”
Pronounce this greeting as bong-SWAHR.
 This phrase essentially translates into, “I'm going to sleep.”Je means “I.”

Vais is derived from the French verb “aller,” which translates into “to go.”Dormir is a French verb meaning “to sleep.”
Pronounce the entire statement as zhuh vay door-mee.
 This statement roughly translates into, “I am going to bed.”



Je means “I.”

Vais is derived from the French verb “aller,” which translates into “to go.”

Coucher is a verb meaning “to put to bed.” By adding the me before it, you are saying “putting myself to bed.”
Pronounce the entire statement as zhuh vay meh koo-shay.
 This is a French slang term that also roughly means, “I am going to sleep.”



Je means “I.”

Vais is derived from the French verb “aller,” which translates into “to go.”

Pieuter is a slang verb meaning “to sleep.”
The statement should be pronounced as zhuh vay pyuh-teh.
 This is another French slang phrase. Essentially, it means, “I am going to snooze.”



Je means “I.”

Vais is derived from the French verb “aller,” which translates into “to go.”

Roupiller means “to snooze.”
Pronounce the statement as zhuh vay ru-pii-jeh.
 This phrase means “sleep well.”



Dormez is derived from the French verb dormir, meaning “to sleep.”

Bien means “well” or “good.”
Pronounce the phrase as door-meh byang.
 Use this phrase if you want to tell someone, “sweet dreams.”



Fais is derived from the French verb faire, meaning "to do" or "to make."

De means "of."

Beaux translates into "beautiful."

Rêves translates into "dreams."
The sentence should be pronounced as feh duh bo RAI-vuh.
 This essentially translates into, “I hope you sleep soundly.”



J'espère is a phrase meaning, "I hope."

Que translates into "that."

Vous means "you."

Dormez is derived from the French verb dormir, meaning “to sleep.”

Tranquille means "quiet," "tranquil," "calm," or "peaceful."
Pronounce the entire sentence as zeh-spehr ker voo door-meh trahn-KEEL.
 Use this phrase if you want to tell someone, “Sleep like a log.”



Dormez is derived from the French verb dormir, meaning “to sleep.”

Comme means "such as" or "like."

Un loir usually translates into "a dormouse," but within this particular phrase, it typically means "a log.”The phrase should be pronounced as door-meh cohm eu lwar.
 This phrase should be used if you want to tell someone, “Sleep like a baby.”



Dormez is derived from the French verb dormir, meaning “to sleep.”

Comme means "such as" or "like."

Un bébé translates into “a baby.”
Pronounce the phrase as door-meh cohm eu beh-beh.


