 Cancers are both born leaders and astute financial planners. If they are a part of a group, they are likely to be at the head, leading it. They are also very good with their money and can be quite successful at anything they set out to achieve.Don’t be intimidated by this aspect of Cancer. While they are successful leaders, they are also incredibly sensitive. The power and success does not go to their head.;
, They tend to appreciate lavish dinners, the arts and cultural experiences. They will be open to someone who is well-versed in the arts and appreciates extravagance.Tell them about the last book you read and which part was most touching to you.
Suggest a fine dining restaurant and describe your favorite dish.
Talk about plays and movies which have meant a lot to you and stirred your emotions.
Mention museums and your favorite works of art.
 A Cancer can be prone to mood swings. Don’t let this throw you off. They are incredibly emotional and can seem contradictory with these emotions or move through several emotions in a short amount of time.Be kind when their emotions begin to appear.
Attempt to find logic and reason for their feelings. Stay sensible as they become emotional.
 A Cancer will rarely make the first move, so it is going to be up to you to step up and initiate a conversation. Their emotional delicacy and fear of rejection tends to keep them at bay, but they will be open to your initiation., Do not rush them into a decision on the spot. If you try to force them to give you an answer right away, that answer will likely be “no” and they will pull away from you. Make suggestions and allow them time to make their decision.If you ask them on a date, give them options of when and where, then allow them time to decide.
Leave them with a question. Give them time to consider your proposal, and check back with them later in the night to see what they think.
 A cancer enjoys physical affection. Their erogenous zone is their chest. This works better when flirting with a man than a woman. Gently touch a Cancer man on the chest as you are flirting.You could gently pat him on the chest when he genuinely makes you laugh.
Gently run your hand along his chest as you briefly walk away, before you return to check in on him.
While you want to avoid touching a woman’s chest while you are flirting, you can still be physically affectionate and reach out to touch her shoulder or forearm.
 Cancers are very loyal people and tend to have a small group of very close friends. They will take their friends’ opinion of you to heart. Being respectful and kind to a Cancer’s friends will draw you closer to the inner circle.Spend some time with the Cancer’s friends when the Cancer walks away. Befriend them on your own.
Actively listen to what the friends have to say. Make a point to learn their names and remember specific things about who they are and what they do.
Ask a Cancer about their friends when just the two of you are together. If someone had an important meeting come up, ask how it went. If one of their friends is going through a tough time, follow up and ask the Cancer how that person is doing.
 Let your feelings and intentions be known. If you are looking for a long term relationship, mention it. If you are hoping for a one night stand, let it be known.On the other hand, do not lead them to believe that this has potential for a relationship if that is not your intention. They will find this out and it will drive them away.
 Like most people, Cancers have a need for approval, but they will see right through a forced or insincere compliment. Even if the compliment is very simple, keep it honest and sincere. Find something truly unique about their appearance and mention it.Maybe they have a distinct speck of color in their eyes.
Something about their style or outfit could intrigue you. Mention their necklace or tattoo and ask them about it. It likely has special meaning to a Cancer.
 The biggest sticking point for a Cancer is trust. They instinctively protect themselves until you earn their trust. This can be tough to gain in a short amount of time, but starts with complete honesty.


A Cancer will see right through any pretense.
Speak the truth and do not contradict yourself.
 People born under the sign of Cancer have strong ties to their families. Family always comes first to them and they are likely to have a large family. Cancer women are great mothers.Ask if they have brothers and sisters. Take a genuine interest in learning more about their siblings.
People who are important to a Cancer should be important to you.

