 People generally behave differently in private than they do in public. You may see more open, honest or even outrageous behavior in a private situation. Perhaps people feel more comfortable in private. It is helpful to spot signs of insecurity because it will lead to a more compassionate understanding of others.


Look for traits and behaviors such as: jealousy (wary of others and suspecting others of wrong-doing);selfishness (overly focused on own needs with little regard for others);sulking (gains control via fits of moodiness).If you choose to discuss a person’s insecurities, be mindful that it is a sensitive subject. The person may deny a direct question such as, “Are you insecure about my sister spending time with me?” Consider saying something such as, “I’m so grateful to spend time with my sister. I really feel supported by her, which helps me be a happier person all around, which helps us.”

, Whether you are in a group of friends, visiting from out of town, or you recently joined a running club, you can identify people’s insecurities by watching and interacting. It can be difficult to connect and relate to a person who has a lot of insecurities. Public displays of insecurities take many forms.


Look for traits and behaviors such as: excessive people-pleasing (attempts to please everyone to avoid being disliked);arrogance (an inflated view of oneself and boasts about all accomplishments);excessive competitiveness (turns every situation or conversation into something that must be won);overly materialistic (surrounds themselves with expensive items to convince others they are important).Observe body language as it is another way to identify insecurities.A person who is insecure will hold his body in a slumping, hunching fashion, as if he is trying to hide from the world. The opposite would be true for someone who is confident. He would stand tall and straight with shoulders back and make direct eye contact with others.
Avoid publicly confronting someone about his insecurities. Pull the person aside for a private conversation. The person may not be aware he is exhibiting these behaviors. Let him know his behaviors are causing unwanted turmoil by saying, “Hey, I know this might be a sensitive subject, but it appears when you get overly competitive it’s upsetting a lot of people. I didn’t know if you were aware of that.”

, Seeing others become defensive or upset can be difficult to watch. It is also challenging to be a part of such conflicts. When a person is put into a position where he believes he must defend himself, he will show you his insecurities by way of his reactions. Watch closely and you will better understand the person and his motives.


Look for traits and behaviors such as: extreme authoritarian (know-it-alls who bully and boss people around);defensiveness (cannot accept feedback without perceiving it as an attack);extremely passive (won’t fight back or stick up for themselves).Ask yourself the following questions when examining a conflict:
If the person gets defensive does he resort to physical abuse? (Always report this to the authorities).
Does the person say nothing or agree then have a reaction that is passive-aggressive (an indirect resistance to your request such as procrastinating)?If he is not feeling good about himself because he lost his job, does he have a short temper, is irritable and doesn’t seem to care about most things?

, There are examples of verbal responses caused by underlying insecurities. Understanding these concepts does not excuse negative behavior. Instead, allow it to provide understanding so you can remain safe, remove yourself from the situation, or resolve the conflict once and for all.


Ask yourself the following questions when examining the verbal aspects of conflict:
When challenged, does the person attack your shortcomings or call you names?
Does the person respond with, “Are you calling me stupid?” when you said nothing related to the person’s intellect?
Does he hear things that are not said and twist words into an attack upon himself?

