 It can be difficult to get leafy vegetables into your lunch, especially if you have limited storage space in your lunch container. Instead of packing a separate container of leafy greens, chop them up and mix them into a rice dish or soup to make sure you're getting all the greens you need.For example, you can chop up spinach and blend it into your brown or wild rice. The spinach will infuse your lunch with protein and iron.
You also can mix leftover greens into soups. Even if the soup is already prepared, you can still stir in finely chopped greens so you're getting more volume of leafy greens without taking up too much room.
 If you normally cook your dinner, you can easily prepare a little more and save the excess to take with you to work the next day, or a couple of days later.Refrigerate food that you plan to eat within three days. If you're going to wait any longer to eat it, go ahead and freeze it to keep the ingredients as fresh as possible.
If you're cooking a hot meal that you'll need to reheat for lunch, take out the excess you want to save for lunch right after you finish cooking it and refrigerate or freeze it. This will ensure that you have a lunch portion set aside already. It will also prevent the vegetables and other ingredients from getting overcooked if you plan to leave it on the burner, such as for a soup or stew.
Keep sauces on the side so they don't overly moisten your food while it's being refrigerated or frozen. You can pack a small cup of sauce with your lunch and use it the next day.
 You can save time making your lunches for work by chopping and dicing vegetables ahead of time and keeping them in a container in the fridge or freezer so they stay fresh. You can make a variety of lunches using the same ingredients.Take care with storage of sliced or chopped fruits and vegetables, and make sure they're sealed in air-tight containers. You may want to write the date you prepped them on the container so you can use them before they start to spoil.
 You may think of thermoses or insulated mugs as only being for drinks, but they also can be used for soups or stews that need to be eaten hot. While they typically won't retain heat overnight, they will for a few hours.This can be especially helpful if you don't have a microwave at your workplace, or if there's typically a line to use it that takes up valuable time. Simply heat your thermos by filling it with boiling water, heat your soup, and then pour out the water after a few minutes. Then, pour the soup into your thermos. Do this in the morning before you head to work and your soup will be warm enough to eat when you open it for lunch.
Another benefit of thermoses and insulated mugs is that they are easy to carry and won't take up too much space in your bag. If need be, many have a loop or hook that allows them to be tethered to the outside of your bag.
 If you have a couple of hours on the weekend, you can make larger portions of staples and sides. Split them into individual servings and freeze them so they'll be ready to add to lunches during the week.If you're making multiple batches of something that needs to be reheated, remember not to cook it completely. You want it to maintain its consistency upon reheating.
 If you made a salad for dinner, or have other leftovers, the ingredients often can be used to make a sandwich for work the next day. Use a whole-grain wrap and layer your food, putting the lightest on the bottom so they will be on the outside.Think about texture as well. Leafy greens typically should be on the outside so they stay crisp, and the wrap or pita itself won't get too soggy and fall apart.
Wrap tightly and store in the refrigerator. Most wraps and pitas will be okay at room temperature for several hours, but be aware of any ingredients that require refrigeration.
In many cases it's better to keep condiments separate and add them before you eat your wrap or pita, rather than letting the ingredients soak them in for several hours – especially if you won't have the opportunity to refrigerate your lunch during the morning.

