 Sure, you want your daughter to like you, but that shouldn't compromise your values or her safety. You can try to be cool, while having a firm hand over her at the same time. If she comes to you asking to go to a party one evening, this can come as a shock. Whatever you do, do not say no straight away; ask for details on who's holding the event and when and where it is. Come up with valid and reasonable responses to her proposal, even if it is that she's not allowed to go. This can be applied in many situations.


Of course, everyone wants his or her daughter to think he or she is a cool parent. But that shouldn't compromise your expectations of your daughter. In the end, when your daughter is all grown up, it won't really matter if she thought you were cool when she was sixteen. What will matter is that you raised her right.
 It's important to lay down the law, but it's also important to be friends with your daughter as much as you can. Of course, though every parent wants to be friends with his or her daughter, this is not always possible. You cannot be one hundred percent your teenager's friend, as your main role is to be her parent. This doesn't mean you can't have a fun conversation with her or spend an evening doing some fun activities together. Make sure your daughter sees you as more than just an authority figure, but as someone she can turn to in a crisis or just for sharing a fun experience.


Of course, this is a delicate balance. If your daughter is the type who says, "My mom is my best friend," she may be less likely to listen when you tell her she can't go to a party until she does her homework.
 It's important to have some base rules for your daughter, such as a curfew. However many times you hear the phrase "None of my friend have a curfew," more often then not, it's not true. Girls need boundaries, and letting them stay out can be dangerous. You can even consider having a set "lights out" time, even if you don't call it a bedtime. Growing teenagers also need their sleep. They're not going to grow properly or get the grades they deserve if they don't get enough rest.But, don't get too hung up on these times. Have some flexibility on the times, and this way your daughter will respect you more.
Make sure your daughter is clearly aware of these rules, so she doesn't bother arguing whenever they come up.
Though some flexibility is necessary, it's also important to be consistent. You don't want to be flaky or erratic in your rules, or your daughter will never know what you want or expect.
If you have a two-parent household, then it's important to agree on the rules with your spouse. You don't want to be known as the strict or lenient parent; your daughter should see you and your spouse as people with similar views about how she should be raised.
 While you don't want to call or text her every two seconds when she's with friends or on a date, you should make it clear how often you expect her to check in. If she knows that you'll call her if she doesn't text you every three hours, she'll be much more likely to check in. Find a balance between knowing where your daughter is and not being too overbearing.
 Not every parent gives their daughter an allowance, but if you do, then you have to carefully consider the amount. How much money do you give your child? Think about what she's going to be spending it on -- most often, parents buy the clothes their daughter needs, and the child buys the ones that they really want but don't need. Be reasonable with the money.


You should also instill a work ethic in your daughter. She can have a part-time or a summer job to make some money on her own. She can't always think that all of her money will come from her parents.
Some parents give their children a set amount of money for doing chores, but this isn't for everyone. You may want your daughter to feel like doing chores is just part of her duty of being your child, and that she shouldn't have to get paid to do the dishes or help out around the house.
 Teenagers respond better to rewards then threats. So, when you want your daughter to tidy her bedroom, say something like, "If you tidy your room, you can go out on Saturday." Say this instead of, "If you don't tidy your room, I won't let you go out on Saturday." Both things mean the same thing. However, the first one will be far more effective. Wording is everything.


You want your daughter to look at you as someone who gives her opportunities to do things, not as someone who keeps her from doing what she wants.
 This doesn't mean you should try to be an absolutely perfect parent. We're all only human, after all. However, if you want your daughter to respect you and to listen to you, then you have to demonstrate the behavior you expect to see from her. You can't yell at her every second if you tell her never to raise her voice. You don't want to be mean, spiteful, or nasty toward other people if you expect her to treat everyone with respect. If you don't want her to be a gossip, don't gossip about your friends in front of her. If you want her to be kind to others, then model this behavior for her.


If you make mistakes, it's best to apologize than to pretend nothing happened. Let your daughter see that you're only human and are sorry for what you did, and in turn, she'll be more likely to apologize when she's made a mistake, too.

