 People who have lived near your home for a long time can be a wonderful resource for discovering more about your home's history. Ask your neighbors about major renovations, or remodeling or construction projects on the house. This will help you differentiate between original architectural details, and more recent additions. Also be sure to ask about the previous owners, as well as the history of the neighborhood in general.If any of your neighbors are still in touch with the home's previous owners, ask to be put in touch with them. Previous owners may be able to provide insight into the home's construction and renovation, and may have even conducted some research themselves!
You might also wish to ask your neighbors about the history of their own homes. In some neighborhoods, many of the buildings were constructed at around the same time, so insight into the history of other homes in the area might provide you with some clues.
 If your house is quite old, you may notice that parts of it have been remodeled or changed. Take some time to look closely at these changes, and try to identify unique or original elements. Here are some examples of things to looks for:Old windows framed with wood or metal instead of modern plastic.
Original glass panes in windows and doors. These can often be identified by the "wavy" pattern which can arise in glass over many years.
Original floorboards under more modern carpeting or flooring material.
Original wallpaper or paint which may be revealed when more recent coats of paint chip away.
 Sheds, basements, and storage spaces may contain clues regarding the history of your house and its occupants. Spare lumber, tools or building materials may still remain from your home's construction, or from more recent renovations. Because architectural technology and fashion changes over time, these items may help you understand the age of your home, as well as how it has changed over time. Investigation may also uncover documents, such as newspapers or discarded mail, which explicitly mention dates. If you have access to a metal detector, you can scour your home's yard for tools, coins and other metal artifacts which may be present.

