 Although the economy as a whole suffers during a recession, there are always exceptions to the trend. When you are looking to change jobs, try to target industries on the rise. Every industry requires a wide range of skills; chances are that you can find a fit for your skills somewhere.For instance, even though most attorneys work at law firms, almost all large companies employ lawyers as well. An attorney looking to changes jobs in a poor job market should target in-house counsel positions at companies in growth industries.;
, Since you should be looking to find positions in growth industries, you should target specific companies in those industries. Different applicants have different needs, so there’s no one-size-fits-all solution to finding which companies an applicant should target. Instead, think of what you want out of the job and find companies which can offer you those things.For example, you may be looking for an employer who can offer stability and security, and should therefore target large, well established companies. If you are looking to quickly advance your position within a company, target start-ups and other aggressively expanding enterprises.
 One of the most common mistakes applicants make is having a one-size-fits-all resume. Accurately or not, companies don’t look at themselves as interchangeable. Each feels they bring a unique value to the marketplace. In order to stand out, you need to try and recognize what they feel is unique and play to those qualities.For example, large, established companies have more elements that need to work in sync with one another in order for the whole to be successful. If you were applying to a company like that, you should make you resume highlight things like reliability and the ability to work as a part of a team. A start-up might be looking for an employee who is creative, multi-talented, and able to switch gears at the drop of a hat.
 No matter what job you apply for, you should talk about accomplishments in concrete terms instead of giving a job description. This is even truer during a recession, when companies are even more focused on revenue than they are normally.


For instance, instead of saying that you “sold houses in an upscale market for a new home construction firm,” say that you were “ a multi-million dollar producer, landing in the 90th percentile of aggregate sales each year.”

