 There are several areas to set up traps where they are not easily seen.


Some of the most common ones are the gravity-lifts, the small bunkers, and little hiding places where you can set up and wait for an opponent to drive by.;
,


If you choose to set up a trap in one of the bunkers, use fusion coils and fill it up until no more can be put in. Set up a sniper spot from where you can see the bunker, and when an enemy comes stumbling by, shoot next to them so they go into the trap and then shoot one of the coils to cause instant death.



They should be positioned in such a way that the first portal is the only accessible one and the others are in high areas where no one can reach them.
Once they go into the first portal, they go through the rest, thinking they will end up somewhere better.
That is when they come to the last portal, out in the middle of the desert, where the guardians make short work of them.



Make it such that the enemy spawns are next to a useless vehicle, like a mongoose or the ghost.
Then, on your side of the map, set up tanks and walls so that the unsuspecting enemy doesn't know what to expect.
 A warthog with correctly positioned barriers takes up to four shots with a rocket launcher to destroy. Place Gauss warthogs in unlikely areas to dominate with the cannons.



Both the players should switch to monitor mode
One should lift a scorpion tank high up into the air.
The other player should spawn a fusion coil and set it on the tank while it is in the air.
Then, just move the tank and the fusion coil will spawn and fall every 30 seconds unless you set the timer (preferably 10 seconds). Just repeat all over the map and you have random fusion coils falling from the sky onto people!

, Leave one door open, but set up a turret there to can run off anyone who may try to enter through there.


One way to build a bunker is to spawn a barrier, tip it over and set up a machine - gun turret in it.
Tanks are very useful and make a huge difference in a battle. To catch the enemy off - guard, put a Warthog or a tank in the base so when they get in, they get killed by the cannons.

