 The halo effect describes a phenomenon where you unconsciously judge someone as a whole based on a single attribute. This is why more conventionally attractive people are perceived as being better at their jobs. However, the effect work in the opposite way as well. If you are a genuinely kind, attentive person, people will perceive you as more attractive. Being genuinely kind to those around you can help you appear more attractive to women., Women tend to be attracted to men who are passionately engaged with life. Be yourself around women and try to discuss subjects you're genuine interested in.


Many women feel that men who speak passionately are attractive. While you do not want to inadvertently dominate a conversation, do not feel shy about talking about your own interests. Do not be afraid your hobbies or passions are too weird or non-conventional. Women will be attracted to your genuine nature.Women are also attracted to deep, intelligent conversation. Do not be afraid to bring up intense subjects you feel passionate about, like politics, art, and literature., Women appreciate men who are supportive and understanding. Being genuinely invested in a woman's life can make her more attracted to you.


Allow a woman to express herself how she sees fit. Allow her to take selfies, take pictures of food, make jokes, and laugh without judgment. Be supportive of her choices.
Be nice to a woman's friends. Female friendships are important. Be supportive of her fostering strong relationships with other women. Allow her to spend time with her girlfriends on occasion.
 Women are often attracted to men with a romantic side. The occasional romantic gesture, even something small and simple, can go a long way in getting a woman's attention. Bring her flowers on a random day. Light candles for dinner. Plan a fun date night. Send her a sweet text during the day that say something like, "Hey, just wanted to let you know I think you're pretty.", Women tend to be more attracted to considerate men. Simply working on being more conscientious of those around you can help you be more attractive to women. It can also help you be a better person overall.


Being considerate involves a lot of small gestures that mean a lot. Pay attention to how a woman's feeling when you're out together. Offer to take her home if she doesn't seem like she's having a good time. Ask if she needs anything if you're headed to the bar.Ask how her day's going. If you know she had a dentist appointment at 3, text her at 4 with something like, "Hey, how was your appointment?"You should also be considerate of those around you. Tip well at restaurants. Say please and thank you to waiters and bar staff. Be kind to any friends she introduces you to as well as her family.

