 Although all riding students should try a find a good riding school, it is even more important for someone who plans to go into a profession that is very reliant on reputation. For an unqualified or newly qualified instructor having the recommendation and contacts of a respected instructor can be make or break.;
, Being able to ride and care for horses is not the same as being able to teach riding and horse care. Watching is, in many cases, better, as you can watch a range of levels, do not have to focus on learning or riding yourself and it’s free.
 He or she is the person in the best position to help and advise you. If you want to become an instructor you should have a passion for horses and other ponies.
 Although it is a good idea to view as many schools and instructors as possible early on, at this stage it is best to make a commitment to only one or two schools. Some riding schools have a volunteer program which will allow you to take part in stable duties. Be reliable, helpful and friendly with the staff.
 Knowing when new students come in is very helpful. Offer to give them a quick tour, show them their mount, and teach them to groom and tack up.
 In horse care lesson this is fairly straight forward and you may well be more involved in the teaching. For a mounted lesson this could mean helping people check tack before the lesson, putting up jumps and moving equipment, cleaning up after the horses, having a horse/pony on lead rein and generally being a second pair of hands. While in the ring stay alert and look alert. Even if you are aware of where all the horses are all the time the instructor must feel confidant that you are. Don’t give instructions, talk unnecessarily or otherwise distract attention. If you must talk you will normally talk to the instructor only, the exception being if you are helping a student with something. Talk to a low clear voice, close to the person you are speaking to. If you have any questions about the lesson ask them after the lesson is over and the students and horses have been seen to. Remember that this is the riders’ lesson not yours.

