 On the eighth day of the twelfth lunar month, many families make laba porridge, a delicious porridge made with glutinous rice, millet, seeds of Job's tears, jujube berries, lotus seeds, beans, longan and gingko. Boiling Laba porridge is one way to celebrate the harvest and show appreciation by sacrificing to the ancestors and heaven and earth.;
, This is a tradition for every Chinese family to thoroughly cleanse the house as well as their clothes, bedclothes and all their utensils in order to sweep away any ill-fortune and to make way for good incoming luck. Get debts paid or repay them, get your hair cut and sew or buy new clothes as preparation. Decorate windows and doors with red color paper-cuts and couplets with popular themes of good fortune, happiness, wealth and longevity.
 People in northern China will eat jiaozi, or dumplings, for supper on the Spring Festival Eve, as "jiaozi" is homophonous to the word phrase “to bid farewell to the old and usher in the new.” Also, the shape of the dumpling resembles gold ingot from ancient China. So people eat them and wish for money and treasures. Meanwhile, people in southern China eat niangao (New Year cake made of glutinous rice flour) on this occasion, because as a homophone, niangao means "higher and higher, one year after another."

, The Spring Festival gala is an essential entertainment activity for the Chinese both at home and abroad. Most families will stay up to see off the old year and welcome the New Year with their TV turned on. There were 51 galas broadcasted by local television networks throughout China in 2012.Due to varying tastes, the gala shows are often a favored background noise while people in front of their TV enjoy other family activities.
 After extending greetings to their parents, children will receive money as a New Year gift in red envelopes. In most cases, these hongbao are given to children by their elder relatives or friends of the family.
 Setting off firecrackers and fireworks is the most practiced custom during the Spring Festival. People think that the spluttering sound helps to drive away evil spirits. Once in the mid-1990s, the government took safety, noise and pollution factors into consideration and banned fireworks in major cities. Now, however, almost all cities have lifted the ban to give way for such a long-held tradition.
 Everybody dresses up. First they extend greetings to their parents, then to their grandparents and other relatives, neighbors and friends.
 The first five days after the Spring Festival are a good time for relatives, friends, classmates and colleagues to exchange greetings, gifts and chat leisurely. Friends meet together to share what have happened in their lives during the past year, talk about their plans for the coming year, and otherwise enjoy their time together.
 Most families play card games or mahjong for fun over the Spring Festival. A small sum of bet is usually placed to add excitement. Playing mahjong or poker is not only for entertainment, but also a ritual for cathartic release traditionally at the social gathering of peasants, completing the leisure activities during the holiday break.

