 Use a sharp chef's knife to divide the butternut squash in half, cutting lengthwise from top to bottom.









Depending on the size of your cooking dish, you may need to cut the squash in half once more so that it will fit. Cutting the squash into quarters may also make it easier to remove the seeds.
Scoop out the seeds and pulp. Use a metal spoon, melon-baller, or metal ice cream scooper to dig out the seeds and stringy pulp.
 Arrange the squash pieces in a microwave-safe glass dish with the cut-side facing down. Add roughly 2 inches (5 cm) of water to the dish and cover.









If you do not have a big enough dish to fit the entire squash, you may need to cook it in batches. Alternatively, you can cook the squash on the stove in a stockpot filled with boiling water for approximately twice as long.
 After 15 minutes, poke the squash with a fork. If it feels soft enough to scoop out, the squash is done.









If the squash is not soft enough, continue microwaving it for 3 to 5 minutes at a time until done. This process usually takes about 20 to 30 minutes total., Use a large metal spoon to gently scoop out the cooked squash from its skin.









If cooked enough, the squash should come out of its skin with relative ease.
Let the squash cool slightly before you handle it to minimize the risk of burns. You may also want to hold the squash with an oven mitt or dish towel as you work.
 Place the squash in a bowl or container and use an electric hand blender to mash the squash until it develops a smooth consistency.









You could also use a standard blender, hand mixer, or fork to puree the squash, but a hand blender is the most convenient and quickest tool to use.
 Transfer the butternut squash puree to a freezer-safe plastic food container. Freeze up to 12 months.









Leave roughly 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) of empty headspace so that the squash has room to expand as it freezes.
This method is especially useful if you already know that you will need to use the squash in puree form.
You could also use resealable plastic freezer bags instead of the plastic container. Ice cube trays with covers or ice cube trays covered in plastic wrap will also work well.
Label the container or bag with the current date before placing it in the freezer.
