 Don’t feel like you need to conform to whatever is popular. Your opinion, though different, is still valuable.


Be open-minded and receptive to hearing new ideas, but this does not mean you need to agree with them. Education is about being exposed to and analyzing different perspectives.
 Read books on the subject, practice your skills, or even join a debate team. This will help you in your classroom discussions, and is a valuable skill to have in life.Stay calm and respectful during debates. Avoid loaded language and name-calling. Instead of “Obamacare was idiotic. He was clearly conspiring with insurance companies,” try saying “Obamacare has become a bureaucratic nightmare, and now insurance companies are profiting off it.”Back up your arguments with facts and statistics. The argument that Ronald Reagan was the best President for the economy will be stronger if you can support it. Try saying, “During Reagan’s presidency, he cut the top tax rate from 70 percent to 28 percent. Freeing up this money from the government allowed industry to create jobs and innovation in the country.”, Expressing your frustration at every liberal perspective will not endear you, or your points of view, to others. Sometimes it may be better to remain silent, or speak with your instructor after class.


Try saying, “Sometimes I feel like I am always the person bringing this up, but I didn’t our discussion on drug offenders offered all perspectives. Instead of raising my hand and having everyone get frustrated at me again, I decided to wait until after class to talk to you.”

, If you feel the classes are too left-leaning, and that your instructors do not do a good job sharing all points of view, be an advocate for your education and work for change.


Write a letter and present it to your principal, dean, school board, or university official. Send it to your school newspaper or local paper as well.
Run for student government. While you may not win due to your school’s demographics, your presence can bring the issue to the table and start a conversation.

