 If your condition is too severe, you may need to stay in the hospital. Your doctor can work on reducing the inflammation of the pancreas. You may need to fast or be fed through a tube to give your pancreas time to rest and recovery before you start eating by mouth again.You may also be given pain medication to help with severe pain.
Your doctor also might recommend surgery that will remove stones that are blocking your pancreatic or common bile duct.
There are also other surgical options, including draining fluid from the pancreas as well as pancreatic resection, which involves removing the diseased part of your pancreas., One way you can help manage your chronic pancreatitis is to change your diet. You should eat a diet low in fat since your body has trouble absorbing and digesting fat. Instead, you can eat a high-protein and high-calorie diet.You should also start eating smaller meals more frequently through the day. Try four to five meals each day instead of three larger ones.Try to limit your daily fat intake. Many doctors recommend eating less than 10 grams of fat with each meal. To do this, eat skinless chicken breast and fish. You may also replace meat with tofu. This also provides high protein content.
Choose cooking sprays over oils.Avoid fatty meats, fried foods, nuts and seeds, and whole milk or full-fat dairy products. Avoid eating packaged baked goods, which contain high levels of fat, especially trans-fat. Avoid all foods with trans-fat, such as margarine.
Take extra caution when eating out. Fast food is full of fat and trans-fat, and even healthy looking foods, like salads, may contain high levels of fat in the dressings.
Eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables. These provide vitamins and nutrients you may be deficient in.
You may be given vitamin or pancreatic enzyme supplements to help improve digestion and fight against malnutrition.
 If you have chronic pancreatitis, you should stop drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco products. Alcohol and tobacco damages the pancreas and causes more inflammation and pain. Continued alcohol consumption can lead to extreme pain, complications, and even death.If you have pancreatitis due to alcoholism, you should seek treatment to quit drinking. Talk with your doctor about getting help for your addiction, seek out a group like Alcoholics Anonymous, or go to an addiction treatment center.

Talk to your doctor about quitting smoking. There are many medications and programs you can use to help you stop smoking.
 You may need to manage the pain of your chronic pancreatitis. This may begin with over-the-counter pain medication, like NSAIDs, ibuprofen, or acetaminophen. You may be prescribed stronger pain medication if over-the-counter medication does not help.You may be sent to a pain specialist to help you learn how to manage chronic pain.
Your doctor may suggest a surgery where your nerves are blocked that send pain from the pancreas.