


Check your account online and see how many statements are available to you.
If you don’t have all of the statements you need, contact the credit card company and request a complete list of past charges to your account. They must provide this information to you within 40 days, but they may charge you for it.;
,


Include charges for late payments, returned payments and over the limit fees.
 Tell the company that the past charges they added to your account were “disproportionate.Detail each charge to include the date, amount and reason for the charge.


If you’re in the United Kingdom and the charge hit before June 2006, either ask for a full refund or for the difference between the charge and £12. Otherwise, ask for a full refund of the charge.
Keep a copy of the letter for your records.
Double-check that the letter is addressed to the correct department at the credit company. Consider sending the letter with delivery confirmation so you know it arrives.
Call the credit card company after you the letter has been delivered to make sure they received it.



Chances are that the credit card company will try to thwart your request to reclaim credit card charges. If they tell you their charges were lawful, that you have no case or that your case is suspended until further notice, take things to the next level: threaten to take them to court.
If the credit card company offers you a partial payout, consider taking it. You must decide if it’s worth it to you to take things further and risk getting nothing at all.



In the letter to the company, include your account number, the default charges information from your previous letter, the amount you previously requested and the amount you’re requesting now (consider asking for a lower amount if they agree to settle now rather than go to court).
Keep a copy of the letter for yourself and follow up with the company after you send the letter to make sure they’ve received it.



If you live in the United Kingdom, your local financial ombudsman will help you settle your dispute with the credit card company at no cost. Simply contact your local financial ombudsman, file a complaint, explain your dispute with the credit card company and include copies of your correspondence with the company.
Taking your dispute to small claims court costs money. If you choose to take the company to court, file a claim either at your county courthouse or through the court’s online system.
If you take your case to small claims court, the credit card company might choose to settle in full. They may also either default by doing nothing or acknowledge the claim, but choose to do nothing. In either case you must request a “judgment by default” to receive payment from the credit card company. They may also choose to defend the claim, which means a full trial.

