 For a moist, juicy barbecued brisket, choose a piece of meat that has a layer of fat approximately ½-inch (1.27-cm) thick on one side. Purchase a 5 to 6 pound (2.25 to 2.75 kg) brisket with a thick layer of fat to ensure a successful barbecue.For best results, opt for a brisket that's USDA Choice or better meat. Your butcher may not have those pieces of meat on display, so you may need to ask for it. In some cases, you may even need to special order it.Look for a brisket with visible fat striations to ensure a moist piece of meat.;
, Unwrap your brisket, and allow it to rinse under cold, running water for several minutes. Carefully pat the meat dry with paper towels, and set it aside for a moment.If the layer of fat on the brisket is thicker than ½-inch (1.27-cm), use a sharp knife to trim it down. You can go as thin as ¼-inch (0.6-cm).
 In a small bowl, mix together 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) (17 g) of coarse salt, such as kosher or sea salt, 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) (7.5 g) of chili powder, 2 teaspoons (4 g) of sugar, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground black pepper, and 1 teaspoon (3 g) of ground cumin until well combined. Rub the spice mixture all over the brisket so it’s completely coated.You can add other spices or seasoning to your rub, depending on your preference. Some options to consider include dry mustard, granulated garlic, cayenne powder, dried oregano, and paprika.
 Once you’ve rubbed the brisket with the spice mixture, cover it with plastic wrap. Allow it to cure in the refrigerator for 4 to 8 hours so the flavors of the spices have time to penetrate the meat.You can skip this step if you’re short on time. The brisket will still be flavorful if you cook it right after applying the rub.
 To give the brisket a delicious smoky flavor, you need to barbecue it with wood chips. Take 6 cups of hickory or mesquite chips, and soak them for an hour in enough cold water to cover the wood. When the hour is up, drain the water from the chips so they’re ready for the grill.If you’re using wood chunks in your grill, it isn’t necessary to soak them beforehand. In fact, soaking wood chunks can actually make it take longer to get them burning.
 When you’re ready to start your grill, place your charcoal in a chimney starter. Use an electric starter or lighter fluid to ignite the coal and allow the pieces to burn until they are red., Once the charcoal pieces are hot and red, add them to the bottom of the grill. However, make sure to create two piles, one on each side of the grill with the center area free of coal.Some grills have special baskets that are designed for holding the charcoal in piles on either side of the grill. If your model has them, you can place the coals in the baskets.
 Fat may cook off the brisket as you barbecue it, and you don’t want it to reach the charcoal. To catch any fat or other debris that may fall off the meat, place a drip pan between the two piles of coal in the center of the grill.An inexpensive foil pan works well as a drip pan for your grill.
 When the charcoal and drip pan are in place, toss ¾-cup (177 g) of the wood chips on each of the piles of coal, for a total of 1 ½ cups (354 g). Next, place the grate over the charcoal and wood chips to prepare for barbecuing., When you’re ready to barbecue the brisket, remove it from the refrigerator and unwrap it. Set it in an aluminum pan, but be sure that the side with the fat layer is facing up.If you don’t have a pan for the brisket, you can make your own using two sheets of heavy-duty aluminum foil.
 Place the pan with the brisket in the center of the grate, so it’s not directly over either pile of charcoal and wood chips. Cook the brisket until you can shred it with your fingers, which usually takes between 6 and 8 hours, depending on the size of the brisket.Make sure to close the grill’s lid to trap the smoke from the wood chips and flavor the meat as it cooks.
It’s important to check on the meat regularly while it barbecues to avoid overcooking it. Pay closer attention when you reach the 6-hour mark, and the meat is closer to being done.
While the brisket is barbecuing, periodically baste the meat with the juices from the bottom of the pan to help add flavor and keep it moist.
You’ll need to add fresh charcoal and wood chips to the grill every hour while the brisket is barbecuing. Throw approximately 10 to 12 fresh coals on each side of the grill to keep it hot. Add about ¾ cup (177 g) of wood chips to each side when you reload the charcoal for the first three hours of grilling.
 When the brisket is tender enough to shred easily, remove the pan from the grill. Allow it to rest on a heat-safe surface for approximately 15 minutes so the juices have time to redistribute throughout the meat.To keep the brisket warm, wrap a piece of foil over the top of it while it’s resting.
 After the brisket has rested, transfer it a cutting board. Cut the meat in thin slices, going across the grain. You can use your favorite sharp knife, cleaver, or electric knife to cut the meat., Once the brisket is cut, set the slices on a serving platter. Carefully pour some of the juices from the pan that it barbecued in over the top of the meat, and serve while still warm.You may want to serve the brisket with a side of your favorite barbecue sauce.
