 While you were raising your children, your interests probably took a backseat in your life. Now that your kids are all out of the house, think about some goals you’d like to reach or new skills you’d like to develop. Learning something new can be a great way to distract yourself from loneliness, meet new friends, and fill your schedule.


Learn a foreign language in preparation of an upcoming trip. Or, simply sign up for a woodworking, flower-arranging or cooking class to build an entirely new skillset., Visiting someplace new can help ease your transition from full-time parent to empty-nester. Getting outside your home and into a new environment is not only exciting and fun, it can also help foster your independence, reminding you that you are your own person and that you can have fun on your own.
 Being a single empty-nester offers you the opportunity to selfishly pursue your own interests again. What kinds of things did you enjoy doing when you were younger? Sit down and make a list of passions you let go because of parenting responsibilities. Pick three that you’d like to pick back up.


These can include anything from playing an instrument, cycling, painting, writing, crafting, welding, or bowling.If you don't know where to start, see if your friends have any interesting hobbies and ask if you can tag along or they can give you a lesson.
 A terrific method for making new friends and pursuing a passion is by getting involved with a local club or organization. These groups might be purely for hobbyists like cake decorating, or they may involve more civil pursuits like politics, volunteerism or activism. Contact the group and find out how you can join., Did you always dream of finishing your college degree but never had the extra time? Now you do. Reach out to a local college or contact someone from an online institution to find out what you need to get enrolled. You may even be able to find grants or special scholarships for older adults returning to the classroom.Not interested in a traditional education? Do some on-the-job training to enhance your knowledge of your given career path. Ask your supervisor what sort of training courses you can enroll in to help you become better at your job.
 It seems indulgent, but it’s also important to use this time to pour into your physical, mental and spiritual health. You probably neglected yourself while caring for your children. Use your free time to rebuild a self-care habit.


Support your physical health by eating nutritious, balanced meals several times a day. Drink plenty of water. Exercise regularly (consider working with a personal trainer to help you transition back into exercise if necessary). Get seven to nine hours of sleep each night.
Boost your mental health by managing stress with relaxation techniques like progressive muscle relaxation, guided imagery, deep breathing, meditation, or yoga.
Nurture your spiritual health through mindfulness, prayer, spending time in nature, attending spiritual or religious services or listening to music.