 This recipe calls for cubed chicken. To cube chicken, place a breast on a chopping board with the smooth side facing up. Using a very sharp knife, cut straight strips about 1 inch (25 mm) apart down the length of the breast. Turn the cutting board and cut straight strips about 1 inch (25 mm) apart across the width of the breast. Lightly salt and pepper the cubed chicken.
 These three ingredients will take some time to prepare as they require mincing, dicing and de-seeding, but the kick they’ll give your chili will be well worth the effort.


Dice the onion as you did for the crockpot chicken chili recipe.
To mince garlic, you must first pick off a clove from the bulb and peel it. Start by laying the flat side of the clove on a cutting board. Take a wide-blade knife, hold the handle with one hand and lay either of the flat sides of the knife on top of the clove. Push down hard with the heel of your hand to smash the clove, which will allow you to easily take off the peeling.Now lay the clove on one of its flat sides on a chopping board, cut off both ends and cut the clove in thin strips lengthwise, or from root to tip. Turn it 90 degrees and cut strips in the opposite direction, which will form a pile of garlic. Put the tip of the knife on the cutting board and, using a rocking motion, move the heel of the knife in different directions as you cut into the pile. And Voilà! Minced garlic.To de-seed and mince jalapeno peppers, first consider wearing a pair of gloves! Next, cut the stem off the pepper, slice it in half lengthwise, take a spoon and scoop out the seeds.Now, cut very thin, or roughly 1⁄16 inch (1.6 mm) lengthwise slices. Take the slices, turn them crossways and make very small cuts across.
 Heat a saucepan deep enough for soup over medium or medium-high heat for a few minutes, or until the pan is quite hot. Next add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) extra-virgin olive oil to the pan and swirl it around so that it coats the bottom. Continue heating for 10-30 seconds, or until the oil begins to shimmer, looking almost colorful or iridescent.Toss in the onion, garlic and jalapeno, stirring frequently for about 3 minutes or until tender.
 Pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of extra-virgin olive oil into the pan and add the cubed chicken, cumin, chili powder, oregano and crushed red pepper. Stir them all together until the chicken is lightly browned on all sides.


Flip and stir the chicken frequently so each side browns, but does not burn.
If the oil splatters, turn the heat down a bit.
 Pour in the chicken broth and add the corn, cannellini beans and Rotel. Reduce the heat and simmer for 30 minutes.


You will want to stir occasionally to make sure nothing sticks to the bottom of the pan.
This is also a good time for a taste test to see if you want to add more spices, which is best to do while cooking because heat draws out the flavor in spices., While the chili is cooking, you will want to get the bacon prepared. There are three ways to do this: pan fry it, cook it in the oven or microwave it.


To pan fry bacon, lay out the slices so that they don’t overlap but still fill up the pan. You want enough slices in the pan to produce plenty of grease. Otherwise, they’re likely to burn. If you overlap them, they won’t cook evenly. Turn the burner to medium heat and let them cook for several minutes before flipping. Once they are crispy enough for you, use a fork or spatula to remove them from the pan and put them on a paper towel-covered plate to soak up the grease.To cook bacon in the oven, pre-heat the oven to 350 degrees. Lay out the slices in the pan horizontally and don’t overlap them. Cook them for about 10-15 minutes, flipping once. To cook bacon in the microwave, put 3 layers of paper towels on a plate and lay the slices side-by-side across the plate. Cover them with another paper towel. The total cook time depends upon microwave wattage and whether or not there’s a rotating tray, so you will just have to go slow and watch it., After you've crisply cooked the bacon, let it cool for awhile. Then crumble it so it's larger than bacon bits but not in massive chunks. You can crumble it by breaking it apart with your fingers or by using a knife to chop it.
 Add the cream cheese to the chili and stir until it is well blended and fully melted. Next add half of the crumbled bacon and stir.


Setting out the cream cheese while the chili is cooking will soften it up and make blending it much easier.
 Ladle the chili into serving bowls and top it off with shredded Monterey or cheddar cheese and more crumbled bacon.

