 If your health care coverage requires a referral to see a specialist, you will want to arrange for an appointment with your primary care physician first. Give your doctor an accurate description of your medical history, and explain to him or her the detailed history of your facial cyst., In this regard, it can speed up healing. It is also a quick and easy procedure that can be completed in one office visit with your doctor.
 removed), thereby greatly speeding up the healing process. The one downside to this method, however, is that it does not prevent recurrence of the cyst down the road. To the contrary, although this method is extremely effective in the short-term, it frequently leads to recurrence of the cyst later on. However, it is worth a shot and may very well be the cure you are looking for!


The doctor will pierce the cyst with a sharp object and ensure that all the keratin, sebum or other substances are ejected from the cyst so that it can heal.
Incision and drainage will require careful cleaning and dressing to avoid infection. Follow your doctor's instructions after the procedure to maintain good hygiene in the area.
Never pop open a cyst at home or on your own, as doing it improperly could result in infection and scarring.
 Generally, in order to proceed with surgery, your doctor will want little to no inflammation around your cyst. As a result, if your cyst is inflamed, you may need to undergo a corticosteroid injection first to diminish the inflammation prior to surgery.


You can opt for more mild surgery where just the front wall of the cyst is removed and the rest is left to heal on its own.Alternatively, the entire cyst can be removed surgically. This gives the greatest chance of preventing recurrence or any further problems down the road. This procedure will involve sutures for about a week afterwards, at which point you will return to your doctor to have them removed.
If you are opting for a complete cyst excision, ask your doctor if it is possible to have an incision through the mouth in order to avoid a scar. This is a new surgical technique that is becoming more common, as it is cosmetically preferable., After surgery, carefully follow all the surgeon's directions for optimal healing. Because the cyst was removed from your face, attention to proper healing is key in order to avoid cosmetic concerns down the road. Potential complications of surgery can include scarring, infection, and/or damage to facial muscles.
 These can be an option for people with frequent facial cysts. If you get facial cysts often, your medical provider may prescribe a course of oral antibiotics to prevent more cysts from appearing.

