 Aloe vera, available at most supermarkets and drug stores, is one of the most popular methods for treating insect bites, burns, and other skin irritations.


Aloe vera has powerful anti-bacterial properties. It is 95% water and is otherwise comprised of a mix of essential oils, enzymes, vitamins, minerals, anti-inflammatory acids, and other components that make it effective at reducing swelling and itch.Apply dabs of aloe vera to the bite as long as symptoms persist. It will provide a relieving cooling sensation and also reduce itching, redness, and swelling., Vick's Vapor Rub is a popular topical ointment found at most drug stores and supermarkets and can be used to relieve symptoms of mosquito bites.


Menthol is one of the primary ingredients in Vick's Vapor Rub. Menthol aids the skin in two ways. It is oil rather than water soluble, so it can enter the nerves and muscles beneath the skin and diminish the spreading of pain and discomfort. It also stimulates the same receptors in the skin that respond to cold temperatures. This cools the bite, which relieves itch.Apply the recommended dosage to the infected area. Check the label for any warnings about allergies and other medications before applying.
 Corticosteroid creams are a variety of topical steroids, available at most drug stores, that reduce inflammation and swelling of the skin. They have been shown to effectively relieve symptoms of mosquito bites for some people.


Mometasone is the recommended option because it is medium strength and is not reabsorbed into the skin.Antibiotic treatment is not recommended for the early phase treatment in mosquito bites because it is unlikely that bacterial infections will develop that rapidly.
Corticosteroid creams take about 15 minutes to work. They reduce the skin's immune response to the bite, soothing the skin and eliminating changes to the skin.Another medication that works is a non-sedating H1 antihistamine such as Cetirizine.
 A variety of essential oils, available at some supermarkets and drug stores, can provide relief from symptoms associated with mosquito bites. Do not use too much, as this can further irritate your skin. A small dab, diluted with water, is all that is needed.


The cool agents in peppermint oil provide an instant cooling sensation. Relief from itch is quicker with peppermint oil than many other treatment options.Tea tree oil has many anti-inflammatory properties. It prevents itching and pain and also releases anti-bacterial agents into the skin that can reduce risk of infection.Lavender oil is another option. A small dab can reduce pain, itch, and prevent infections.