 If you treat your prosthesis like a shameful secret, your date might feel like it is a bigger deal than it actually is. Instead, treat it like a quirk of yours—similar to your love of cheesy jokes or interest in riding horses. Your prosthesis might seem a little unusual to other people, but to you, it's an ordinary part of life. If you end up in a long-term relationship with your date, they'll probably end up seeing it the same way.


Don't overthink it. Your prosthesis is not a huge deal, and your date doesn't need to see it that way.
After you discuss it for a few minutes, change the subject and talk about something else. This will help to prevent your prosthesis from becoming the sole focus of your date.
 Although leading with a discussion of your prosthesis might not be the best idea, you should also avoid hiding it. If you have a more visible prosthesis, it might be best to talk about it early and get a feel for how comfortable your date is with it. If your prosthesis is not readily visible, you can feel out the conversation and talk about it when you feel more comfortable. Either way, it is important that you eventually discuss it with your date.Try having a trustworthy friend or family member help you to come up with a few sentences you can memorize to introduce your prosthesis. This may help you to feel less anxious about it and enjoy your date.
You might even wait for a few dates to reveal that you have a prosthesis to better feel out the other person. However, if you want any kind of serious relationship with your date, you should let them know sooner rather than later.
 Unless this is a very blind date, odds are that your date already knows a few things about you. Whoever set you up on your date may have informed them about your prosthesis, doing much of the reveal work for you. If you think that your date might already know about your prosthesis, ask about your mutual friend or acquaintance and what they told your date about you.


Even if your date does not mention it, it may give you an opportunity to reveal your prosthesis.
If you have been set up by a mutual friend, you might ask your date something like “How much did Tim tell you about me?” or “What did Tim tell you about me?”

, If you are less comfortable with cutting to the chase and bringing up your prosthetic device, you may want to wait for the conversation to turn to it. Simply talk to your date and wait for a good moment to bring it up. You can also set up the reveal by gently nudging the conversation in that direction.For example, if your date mentions that someone in their family has a prosthetic, you could use that as an opportunity to bring up your own prosthesis and say something like “You know, I also have a prosthesis.”
Or, if your date asks you to tell them about yourself, then you could mention the prosthesis briefly as part of your response.
 A great way to reveal your prosthesis to a date and defuse any tension is by using humor. Although you do not want to minimize your experience, highlighting your prosthetic device by making a joke may diffuse any anxiety you have and make your date feel more comfortable. Using a joke also highlights your sense of humor, which your date should find appealing.Ultimately, it is entirely up to your to determine how comfortable you feel using jokes that make light of your prosthesis. If you are okay with it, a “Here, take may hand” type of joke may be a great icebreaker. However, avoid making yourself uncomfortable and minimizing your own experience in a misguided effort to make your date feel more at-ease.

