 Before you can vacuum your pillow top mattress, you’ll have to strip all of the bedding off of it. This includes any mattress covers you have on it. You should wash these linens while you clean your mattress.;
, Connect the upholstery attachment to your vacuum. Use it to remove dirt, lint, and other (sometimes microscopic) debris from your mattress. You might have to go over the mattress a few times to make sure you get everything up., If your vacuum has a crevice attachment – usually the longest and thinnest attachment – use it to clean the seams of your mattress. Most pillow top mattresses have a quilted top, where the material gathers to a central point, usually fastened by a button. These areas tend to collect debris and dirt, and a crevice attachment can help you clean it well., To clean the mattress itself, mix a solution of equal parts warm water and liquid dish detergent. How much you need will depend on how large your mattress is. It’s always best to start with a smaller batch and make more if necessary., To truly get your pillow top mattress clean, the cleaning mixture will need to soak through the pillow top layer. Pour the cleaning mixture onto one small area of your mattress at time. You should use enough solution to dampen the surface, but not so much that it completely soaks your mattress.
 Once you've applied the solution to a small area, you should massage it into the mattress. Using a clean cloth, massage the solution in so that it soaks through the top layer of the mattress, thoroughly cleaning it., Once you’ve worked the cleaning solution into the mattress, dip a clean cloth into clear water. Press the soaked cloth into the mattress to rinse the suds out. You can also use white vinegar in place of clear water. This removes both soap suds and odors from your mattress., It will take your mattress a while to dry completely because of how much water is required to clean it. Let the mattress dry for 24 hours before sleeping on it. You can open your bedroom windows and/or use ceiling or box fans to speed to help speed up the drying process., If there are only a few stains or if there are particular stains you are worried about, you can spot clean your mattress. You can use carpet cleaner or an enzymatic cleaner like OxiClean. Wet the area with the cleaner and let it soak for ten to fifteen minutes. Then use clear water to wipe it away., To deodorize your mattress completely after you’ve washed it, spread baking soda across the whole mattress. This could take up to a whole box of baking soda. That much baking soda won’t hurt your mattress in any way., You should make arrangements to sleep elsewhere – another room in your home, or away somewhere. The baking soda needs time to penetrate any stains or odors in your mattress.You should close the door to your bedroom so children and small pets can't get into the baking soda.
 Using the upholstery attachment to your vacuum, suck up the baking soda after 24 hours have passed. You might have to go over the mattress more than once to be sure you get all of the baking soda up.