 You will best adhere to a routine if you designate daily times for exercise. Without a specific timeframe, you may be more likely to stray from your daily fitness commitment.Once you’ve been scheduling them for a month or two, your workouts will feel like a natural part of your day, just like showering or eating breakfast.


You can split your workout into chunks if necessary (for instance, running before breakfast and Pilates after work).
Make a new color in your calendar for fitness, and officially mark off a block of time for it every day.
Choose a time that complements your daily schedule. For example, if you join a gym located near your place of work, you can exercise early in the morning before you go to work, or in the afternoons or evenings following your work shift.
 If you’re more likely to keep social obligations than promises to yourself, it might help you to plan your workouts for two. Many people find that this helps them keep to their workouts, and, as a bonus, makes them enjoy their time. It’s a win-win.Try to find a buddy who’s at a similar level to you, so you can grow together. If one of you is much more experienced than the other, it might throw off the “buddy” power dynamic.
If you’re a long-distance runner and you live in a town or city, there are probably multiple running groups you can join. Ask around!

, This way, you can go to your workout without taking the extra time to prepare, which can be helpful if your daily schedule is extremely busy. Put together your gym bag for the following day before you go to bed, or keep your fitness equipment in your car or in a locker at the gym.
 It may seem counterintuitive, because it’s an extra ten minutes at the end of your workout, but stretching may protect you from a lot of soreness tomorrow. (This saves you time in the long run.) Furthermore, it helps build strength and flexibility, and it’s a nice way to cool down your mind as well as your body at the end of a tough session.Stretch your legs. Lunge forward so your knee makes a ninety-degree angle, and keep your back foot flat on the ground. You should feel a strong stretch in your back calf.
Stretch your arms. Bend your elbow so that it’s above your head and your hand rests between your shoulder blades. Grab the raised elbow in your other hand and pull it to your opposite ear.
 On average, an adult body needs at least 30 minutes of exercise daily.It’s hard to get that in sometimes, so try to have some backup workouts in mind in case you can’t make it to the gym or jog a 10K. For instance, you might jump rope for or do a half-hour YouTube Pilates routine that challenges you. If all else fails, turn on your favorite music and have a solo dance party!

