 It's common knowledge that leather gets a little stretchy when wet.As long as you don't go overboard with the wetness, you can use this fact to your advantage to help break in you new jacket. One easy way to do this (while getting a little exercise at the same time) is to go for a short walk with your jacket while it's raining lightly or drizzling. The raindrops should get your jacket just wet enough for it to become pliant, but not so wet as to damage it.


Obviously, you shouldn't wear your leather jacket during a rainstorm. Too much water can stain, warp, or damage your leather permanently.
 Before the leather dries, take the opportunity to stretch it out a little. Bend your elbows, windmill your arms, and shrug your shoulders. You can even run, bend, jump, do pushups, or dance around to be sure all of the leather gets stretched. Physical movement is the key here — anything that starts creasing your jacket at the joints is good.
 Get out of the rain and into a dry indoor place. Keep wearing the jacket for a few hours until it dries naturally. As the water evaporates, the stretched-out damp leather will slowly shrink until it's completely dry. Since you're wearing the jacket, this will cause it to contract around you, breaking it in and giving it a fit that's unique to you.If you have to take your jacket off while it dries, stuff it with bunched-up clothes so that it doesn't shrink.
 Obviously, the water is what's important in this method — not where it comes from. If you don't want to wait for it to rain, just put a little water in a spray bottle and give your leather jacket a light spritzing all over. Wear the jacket while it dries as normal. Be careful not to use too much — remember, you're trying to simulate a gentle drizzle, not a downpour.


If you accidentally spray enough to make drips, just use a towel to remove the excess water. The leather won't be damage if you don't let it sit in prolonged contact with water.
 Another way to apply moisture to a leather jacket is to do it by hand. Soak a washcloth in water, then wring it well so that it's just slightly damp. Gently rub it across the leather, taking your time and touching every part of the jacket.

