 To teach close reading, it is important that you first do a close reading of a text yourself.Extrapolate all of the details you can that are both directly stated and implied in the text, determine the apparent audience and the writer’s purpose.


Make a list of the details you have gleaned from the text so that you can later compare your list to the student’s list in order to model adequate detail from a close reading.
For example, you may use the following passage from Dr. Martin Luther King’s famous “I have a dream” speech:

In a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds."Details you may glean from the text involve the following (this list is not exhaustive):

Who is the speaker? Dr. Martin Luther King, famous African American civil rights activist
What is the purpose of the passage? To persuade the audience (a large number of US citizens gathered in a rally for civil rights) that black men deserve the same rights as white men.
What figurative language is used? There is an extended metaphor about a banking transaction between the US government and its citizens. Dr. King also personifies America, giving the country a (female) gender and agency.
What rhetorical devices are used? Dr. King uses an appeal to authority when he cites the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. He also uses an appeal to the audience’s sense of fairness when he alludes to the government failing to withhold their end of the promise/transaction.

;
, While this may seem like a frivolous detail, deciding the specific way you’re going to give a student the text is an important consideration. This is particularly true if you’re helping a student prepare close reading for a specific purpose, such as a state-wide exam that will be taken on a computer: you may want to mirror the process of the exam as well as the content as much as possible.


Are you going to type the passage and give it to your student? If so, be sure to double- or triple-space the text to give him plenty of room to make notes an annotations.
Are you going to have the student read directly from a book? Then provide scrap paper on which he can write notes while he reads.
Are you going to have him read on the computer? Can he highlight and make notes on the computer screen, or will he need scrap paper?

, The student should know that he is supposed to do a close reading, and what information he should be getting from the text while he reads. It may be helpful to explain the differences between reading for pleasure and performing a close reading.After explaining it, ask the student to explain in his own words what his goal is for close reading so that you can be sure he understands.
For the excerpt from “I have a dream,” you might explain the context of the speech to aid understanding. Tell the student that you’d like him to read the excerpt and figure out what the passage is about, who is speaking, why he is speaking, and to whom he seems to be addressing his words.
 Guide the student to preview the text—look at any title or author attribution present, determine the form (prose or poetry, for example) and then do an initial read of the text. It may be helpful to have him read the text all the way through one time, then begin annotating and making notes on the second read-through. With the initial read, students should be able to answer “big picture” questions about the text, such as “what is the passage about?” and “who seems to be speaking?”
For the “I have a dream” excerpt, students should be able to express that Dr. King was explaining the unfair way that the US had treated African Americans. They should know that Dr. King is speaking and that the excerpt is part of a speech, but you may need to provide them with this information verbally or in a sentence or two before the passage begins.
 Give the student explicit instructions about how to annotate or make notes on/about the text. He can develop his own system later, but to begin with, it’s useful to give him explicit instruction.


For example, you might tell him to underline the most important concrete nouns, circle adjectives, make a box around active verbs, and highlight the main (topic) sentence. If he is reading directly from a book, you can ask him to make a chart and list the nouns, adjectives, and verbs separately and copy down the main sentence.
For a persuasive piece like the “I have a dream” speech, your instructions may differ slightly. You might want the reader to highlight any rhetorical devices, circle “loaded” words that have strong connotations for the listeners, underline figurative language, and list important details to the side.
 Because you read the text closely yourself, you should be prepared to ask questions to help the student flesh out details from the text. The questions you ask will depend on the level of the student (a second grade student may not be able to answer the same questions as a high school or college student, for instance.) Some questions to consider are:


What details does the author include to make you “see” what is happening in your mind?
What details do you think are being intentionally left out?
What is the author’s purpose for writing?
Does the author use any intentionally persuasive language? Where?
Why does take ?
What emotions are communicated in the passage? How does it make you feel?
Who do you think is the intended audience of the passage?

, Depending on the student’s age and abilities, ask them to explain all of the details he can glean from the text. He can do this orally (telling you the details) or he can write them down in a list. Emphasize this is not a summary, which provides a brief synapses of the material, but a close reading, which requires listing as much detail as possible.


You may want to share your list with the student after he finishes. This can give you the opportunity to model a more thorough list of details if his was a bit spare, and you may even find that he noticed some details that you did not.
This is a great opportunity for a discussion about how each of you approached the text and why your lists may have differed., When the student lists or tells you details from the text, divide those details into things that are directly (explicitly) stated in the text and those that are not.Close reading should primarily center on details directly from the text, and while extrapolating more information is a valuable skill, it is important for the student to know the difference.
In other words, close reading should focus on what is actually present in the text, not what the student thinks the text should say.
For example, direct details from the “I have a dream” text would be: America has treated black men unfairly, the country was founded on principles of free will and the innate rights of humans, and the speaker and audience are in Washington DC asking for change.
For example, indirect details from the “I have a dream” would be: Dr. King is an influential leader, people listening to his speech want things to change, and American laws supported the equality of black and white men at the time of the speech.
 Tying close reading into other skills, such as the students’ own writing,can make the activity seem more meaningful. Giving students a reason for doing an activity (other than “you will be tested on it”) often gives them more of a stake in their own education.There are many ways to connect the “I have a dream” speech to other student skills. Students could write and deliver their own speeches about injustices in their lives, write journal entries in the persona of Dr. King, or even do a creative response, such as a collage or an interpretive dance, that follows the theme of Dr. King’s speech.
 You might want to provide some support along with the text. Remember that the process of close reading is what’s important here, not challenging the student to identify complex vocabulary words.


For example, if there are a couple of very challenging vocabulary words that you think may stump your student, you might want to provide a gloss (synonym) for them beneath the passage.

You may provide glosses for the “I have a dream” speech for the terms “promissory note” and “insufficient funds” if you think that your students will not understand these finance terms.


If the passage does not make sense out of context, you may want to provide 1-2 sentences of context prior to starting the passage, such as “This speech was given by Dr. Martin Luther King in 1963 in front of the Lincoln Memorial. Over 200,000 people attended the speech, which was part of a rally known as the ‘March on Washington.’”

, The skills of close reading are not limited to printed texts. Visual texts can be closely read as well, and reluctant readers may be more open to visual texts. Teaching the skills of close reading with a visual then later applying them to print text has the potential to engage more reluctant students.


Effective visual texts should have enough ambiguity to leave them open for interpretation, but offer rich nuance that enables the close reader to extrapolate more about what’s going on as he spends more time analyzing the visual. The “I have a dream” speech is widely available in audio format. Though some students may have trouble processing audio as well as reading, you could certainly provide both audio and written copies for close reading. You can then also discuss delivery in addition to the content of the speech.
 In order to effectively close-read, the selected passage should be short. An entire novel is not an appropriate selection for close reading (at any age!), but a paragraph or two is likely more appropriate.


Close readers in the early grades should focus on a very short paragraph, while more advanced readers may be able to close read 2 fairly complex paragraphs.
The “I have a dream” speech is fairly long in its entirety (around 1,600 words) and would not be appropriate for a short close-reading lesson. However, there are many short sections that can be excerpted and analyzed on their own.
 A close-reading text should be somewhat difficult for a student, but not so difficult that he cannot engage with it at all. If a text is too difficult, the student can become so bogged down in vocabulary that he has trouble finding any meaning in the text. If the text is too easy, the student is unlikely to engage in truly close reading because the majority of the details will be immediately obvious.


The “I have a dream” speech example here is likely appropriate for most high school students, but may be a more difficult passage for younger children.
 Particularly when you are just starting to work with a student on close reading, it can help to provide texts that the student finds interesting and relevant to his life. You can later move to texts further outside of his comfort zone if necessary.


For example, if your student is a fan of sports, finding a text about the final moments of a basketball game could keep him engaged with the reading.

