 Target or Walgreens, even most grocery stores) and purchase posterboard. You can typically find plain, white posterboard for under $1.00, but if you really want the news to be communicated in a special way, you might splurge on something more exciting.;
, (Tip: if you don't already have the materials you need, you can purchase some on the same trip to the store in which you purchase the posterboard). Good decorating materials include, but are not limited to, the following. If you need inspiration, just wander around the art supply aisles of the store. Just pick out what you like, and remember to trust yourself!


Markers (remember, the larger the marker, the less time you spend making the design)
Crayons
Colored pencils
Glitter glue
Spray paint
Acrylic paint
Watercolor paint
Finger paint
Colored glue
Gel pens
Stickers
Construction paper (to cut out letters or shapes, but don't forget to buy glue if you plan on using some other paper to put on the poster board)
Feathers
Small, battery-powered lights
Fake gemstones
Real gemstones (keep in mind that posters are often thrown away, and that precious gemstones, while they may make the poster really shine, are costly)
Yarn
Ribbon
Mechanical pencils

, Feel free to Google around for inspiration. Try to make the message short and sweet (for example, "Getting Hitched!" or "Promotion for this Guy!" or "I got a puppy!"), thinking of your audience. What phrase would best capture the happy news and also interest your audience? Write that phrase on the poster.
 Though this step is optional, bubble letters are typically your safest option to ensure that your audience will be able to read the poster from a fair distance away. (Tip: If you don't know how to make bubble letters, you could watch a tutorial or enlist the help of a friend who knows how to make bubble letters).
 Typically, designs that go along with the happy news are the best ones to put on the poster. For example, if the happy news is that you are growing a garden, it may be appropriate to draw large flowers around the message.
,