 If you feel you have a purpose, you're more likely to develop strength. A sense of purpose and motivation can help you develop strength as a caregiver.Remind you why you got into the field or why you are caring for this person. Why did you want to care for people as a living? If you're not doing it professionally, why did you take on the roll of caring for this person in need?
It can help to have an actual list to refer to when times get tough. Make a list of all your motivations for caregiving. When you feel weak, refer to this list. This will help you develop your strength.;
, It can be hard to be optimistic, especially when caring for someone very sick or even terminally ill. However, part of strength is staying optimistic. A positive attitude can give you the energy you need to move forward.Try to expect good outcomes. Think positive. Hope that the most recent medical tests will bring good news. Hope the person you're caring for will feel better each day.
Studies show a good attitude can help with your health, overall strength, and sense of resolve.
 When you're caring for someone else, you often neglect yourself and your feelings. However, you cannot be strong keeping things bottled up. Find someone to vent to when you feel frustrated or overwhelmed. This will help you be a better caregiver.It can be difficult to watch someone suffer and struggle, especially if you're close to that person. You don't have to be upbeat and cheerful all the time. When you're feeling down or overwhelmed, it's important you experience these feelings.
Find a way to express your feelings. It's okay to cry sometimes or write down your thoughts. Try seeking out support from a close friend or family member.
 Humor can go a long way towards maintaining your strength while caregiving. While it may seem impossible to laugh when you're caring for a sick person, laughter can help lighten up a dark situation. Try to keep your sense of humor strong despite trying circumstances.It's okay to laugh sometimes. Even during hard times, funny moments occur. Learn to embrace your silly side.
Make jokes, laugh at things you find amusing, and try to encourage others to get a little silly. A little merriment can help you develop a sense of strength.
 Positivity is important. However, you cannot expect to be positive 100% of the time, especially if you're caring for someone who is very sick. Remember to feel your feelings, positive and negative, in healthy ways.Positive thinking can help you embrace the good. In a given situation, strive to be positive about the outcome. This will make things less stressful leading up to, say, a doctor's exam or test results.
However, do not overuse positivity. You need to be realistic about the situation as well. If you are, say, worrying a test result may be negative, acknowledge this in a proactive manner. Instead of thinking, "I will be so upset if Dad's chemo isn't working," think something like, "What action can I take to help Dad cope if his chemo is not working?"

, They may be facing difficult emotions about their condition, especially if it is progressive, or if they fear that they are a burden. Take time to truly listen to what they have to say, validate their feelings, and talk with them.


The person may deal with feelings of helplessness or uselessness. You listening to them can help them feel wanted and valued.
 You'll face plenty of problems along the way, so it's important to communicate well and appreciate each other., People with chronic illnesses or disabilities may fear that they are being a burden, or that they are asking too much of the people around them. While you can't be responsible for the person's feelings, it helps if you are polite and accepting about their needs.


Avoid blaming them or calling yourself a martyr, either to their face or within earshot.Remember, how they hear you talking about them can impact their self-image.
Labeling a disabled child as "bad," "naughty," or "non-compliant" can be harmful., Don't complain about the person on the internet. An inability to care for oneself does not mean a lack of dignity, or the loss of a right to privacy.If you need to vent, do so to a friend or family member, not to the internet. Don't broadcast your struggles at the expense of your loved one.


Just as you would be embarrassed if someone else shared stories/pictures/videos of your hardest moments, a disabled or chronically ill person would feel the same way.Remember that people who know your loved one might see the posts. For example, if you post about your autistic teen's incontinence, their future employer could see it.
If you keep a blog about caregiving, use fake names to respect the privacy of the person you care for (and anyone else).
 While it can be hard to be a caregiver for someone with an illness or disability, it is even harder to be that person. They aren't struggling in order to inconvenience you, and they didn't choose their situation.
 As a caregiver, you will make mistakes. Part of developing strength is letting go of mistakes and moving forward. Strong people know they are not perfect. Getting hung up on mistakes will drain your strength as a caregiver.No one is perfect and there is no one right way to do your job as a caregiver. You will make a mistake at times, and may frustrate or upset the person you are caring for. It is okay. Other caregivers have done the same.
Instead of beating yourself up, stop and think. What can you do different next time? What have you learned from this?
For example, everyone likes being comforted differently. Maybe you offered advice to one patient, only to find out they only wanted to vent. While you misread the situation, next time the person expresses themselves you will know just to listen and empathize.
 Setbacks happen. You can provide the best care possible, but you cannot control someone's health. Adopt this as your personal mantra to develop your sense of strength as a caregiver.Negative test results, declining health, and a lack of progress are things that will happen. The person you're caring for may not always have a good week. While you can do the best you can to help, you cannot control their health.
Learn to accept this. Do not dwell on what you cannot control. If you feel, for example, discouraged a patient is struggling to walk more this week, think about what you can do to boost their morale instead of dwelling on their increasing physical limitations.
 Asking for help is not a sign of weakness. The strongest people are not embarrassed or ashamed to admit they can't do everything all the time. If you want to handle stress with strength, ask for help when you need it.Ask for help with your emotions. Let friends and family members know that you may need to vent from time to time.
You can also ask for more concrete forms of help. If you need help, say, keeping up with chores and running errands, ask someone for help. If you can't handle everything alone, say so.
 Look for support groups for caregivers in your area. You can ask at local hospitals or community centers or do an internet search. If you can't find a support group near you, join a support group online or by phone., If you're caring for someone else, you need to remember to care for yourself. You can't stay strong if you don't give yourself the self-care you need. However, caregivers often neglect self-care. Evaluate yourself and your mentality. See if you have any mental blocks preventing self-care.There are many reasons you may have a mental block caregiving. You may think it's selfish to put your needs first. You may have trouble asking for help. You may be so used to thinking about someone else's needs, you're scared to think of your own.
Remind yourself that, despite these barriers, you do deserve self-care. Caring for yourself helps you stay strong and, in turn, better care for others. It is not selfish to care for yourself. It is necessary.
 Routines are important to maintaining your strength. Even when it's hard, try to stay on a personal routine.Strive to eat three healthy meals a day. It can help to eat foods you can eat on the run.
Exercise. Exercise can help you reduce your overall stress. Even something like, like a 30 minute walk each day, can really reduce your stress.
 You may not always have time to treat yourself as much as you want. However, try to look for small ways to relax. Find something you enjoy and do it for a little bit each day.Make a promise to yourself to spend 15 minutes a day doing something you love. Even if it's something small, just 15 minutes can really help you maintain your strength and resolve.
You can, for example, watch a TV show at the end of each day or read a book.
 Make sure to stay social, even if it's difficult. Friends can help you develop perspective and build strength.If you don't always have time to see your friends, reach out in other ways. Text, call, or video chat to stay in touch while you're caregiving.
 It can be tempting to binge on junk food when you're feeling stressed. However, unhealthy foods are only likely to make your situation worse. Do not reach for the chips or cookies when your stressed. Instead, prepare a healthy snack, like some fruit or a piece of whole wheat toast., When you're caring for someone else, you often forget to care for yourself. Make sure you don't let your own health fall to the wayside. See a doctor on a regular basis and get any unusual symptoms evaluated. If you get sick, find someone to fill in for you for the day. Staying strong means staying healthy on your own end., It isn't fair for you or your loved one if you are the only person who looks after them. See if friends, siblings, grandparents, community members, et cetera can step in and help out. This spreads the work among more people, making it easier on each individual.

