 You'll need to access the OnStar radio control box directly. In most vehicles, it is mounted to the back of the right rear wheel well, which can be accessed through the trunk.


In some vehicles, the OnStar control box will be located behind the left wheel well. It should still be accessible through the trunk if this is the case.
 Locate the edge of the trunk carpet or liner. Simply grab the liner around one edge and lift it out.


The liner itself shouldn't be secured with any screws or nuts.
After removing the liner, set it aside and look at the newly revealed space. If your vehicle has space for the spare tire, you should see that space and/or the spare tire after removing the liner.
 If your vehicle has a spare tire in it, you will need to remove it from the trunk and set it aside for now.In some cases, there might be a nut in the center of the spare tire compartment holding the tire in place. Use a screwdriver and twist the nut counterclockwise to remove it. After removing the nut, lift out the tire.
 Locate four screws near the four corners of the trunk. Remove these screws and lift out the sill plate.


If your vehicle has a cargo net in the trunk, you only need to remove the four screws securing the net. Remove both the net and the sill plate.
If your vehicle does not have a cargo net in the trunk, the four screws you need to remove should be located in the corners of your trunk.
After removing the screws, pull the sill plate up to lift it out of the trunk. Set it and the screws aside in a safe spot while you continue working.
 Grab the front of the shell panel on the right side of the trunk. Pull away enough of this panel to reveal the interior contents it covers.


Pull the panel forward just enough so that it clears the stud located in the back lip of the trunk. After pulling it forward, carefully pull it toward the middle of the trunk, revealing the compartment beneath it.
Note that you do not need to remove this panel completely and doing so is ill-advised.
 The Onstar control box should be a small metal box attached to the side of the vehicle. It will usually be marked with the OnStar logo.


If you do not see the control box, remove the left side panel in the same way you removed the right side panel and check there.
You should be able to do what you need to do with the OnStar control box without actually removing it from the side of the car.
 Locate the three cable connectors on the bottom of the Onstar control box. Pull them straight out to disconnect the system.These three cables provide power to the system and allow the system to communicate with OnStar. Pulling them out should shut down the system and block any additional communication.
You should be able to disconnect the cables by pressing the sides of each plug and pulling it straight out.
 Wind up the three cables and tie them loosely together with cable ties. Position the coil above or beneath the OnStar control box.Coiling the cables will prevent them from getting in the way. It will also make it easier to access the cables again in case you need to reconnect them at some point.
 Work in reverse steps to return all of the removed covers and parts to the trunk.


Push up the side panel until snaps back into place.
Side the sill plate back into the trunk. Make sure that it lines up with the snap holes on the bottom of the side panel you just replaced.
Screw the four sill plate screws back into place.
Return the spare tire to the trunk. Screw the nut back into place, if necessary.
Lay the liner back down over the spare tire compartment.
Close the trunk.
 Start your vehicle's ignition. Pressing the OnStar button beneath the rear view mirror should now result in dead air. If the OnStar light was previously on, it should now be off.


You should also check your other vehicle systems to make sure that none of them were affected. Turn on all lights, radios, and other electric features. Verify that there are no warning lights displayed.

