 You may be able to earn some money through a part-time or seasonal job or be given an allowance by your parents. Even though you may not have any serious financial commitments like rent or children, you should learn to manage your money. Create a budget for the money that you have and set some small savings goals so that you don’t have to ask your parents for more money before your next payday.Try asking your parents if they would be willing to teach you about basic money management, or look into a community course where you can learn basic money management skills.
If you get a weekly allowance, list out all of your expenses for that week. Make sure to include gas, food, or money needed for activities. What is left over is money that you can spend or save for things you want.
Resist giving into peer pressure to go somewhere and do something that you cannot afford to do.
Keep a log of your spending and income to help stay on budget.
 Throughout your childhood your parents probably cooked for you and helped you make wise food choices. As you grow up, it is important to start to make some of these decisions for yourself. You need to resist the temptation to eat only junk food when your parents are not around.Remember to eat a balanced diet that includes a variety of vegetables, fruits, grains, proteins, and dairy products.
Resist the urge to skip meals when you are running short on time.
Learn to make wise dietary decisions by helping your parents prepare meals or grocery shop for your family.
 You probably had a bedtime when you were younger. However, as you get older, your parents will probably allow you to make more decisions, including what time you go to bed. Don’t be tempted to stay up all night, especially if you have to wake up early for school or work the next day. Not only is adequate sleep crucial to doing well in school, it is also an important part of your health and development.In your teenage years, you need between eight to ten hours of sleep per night. It is also important to go to sleep and wake up at about the same time every day. This will give your body a chance to perform important tasks, such as healing and detoxifying, which usually occurs between 11pm and 3am.
 Staying physically active is important to maintain a healthy weight, flexibility, and reduce stress. You may get plenty of physical activity through PE classes at school or extracurricular activities such as sports or dance. If not, it is important to incorporate about 60 minutes of physical activity into your daily routine. Log your daily physical activity in a notebook or using a smartphone app to help you stay on track.Take a walk.
Go on a bike ride.
Do chores such as vacuuming or gardening.
Play frisbee with some friends.

