 Flowers can be the easiest and most rewarding gift. If you don’t know her favorite flower, you can use your best judgement and find something that fits her personality. The good thing is that no matter which flowers you get, they will all be beautiful and she’ll appreciate the gesture.You can go to a florist shop if you want a really nice bouquet, but you can also get some for relatively cheap at your local grocery store. You can even pick some flowers yourself.;
, You can also buy her a card, but homemade is always best! There are many ways to make a Mother’s Day card. You can use a photograph, or construction paper, or use sewing thread.Be sure to write a note somewhere in the card -- the message is the most important thing! If you aren’t sure what to say, try thanking her for all she has done for you: “Dear Mom, Thank you for always being caring, helpful, and patient with me. Love, Amber.”
Don’t forget to illustrate your card! In addition to a note, you can even include an original story or poem.
 Think of a special item or memory from her childhood and give her something that will remind her of it. For example, if your mother loved the daisies outside of her house when she was young, a good gift would be a bouquet of daisies, or a scarf with daisies on it.


Take into account her favorites. For example, you can find a gift that incorporates her favorite animal, like a mug with an elephant on it, or her favorite color, like turquoise earrings.
 Put together a photobook for your mom from pictures you have from family time, holidays, or vacation. You can make one online using a service like Shutterfly, or even Walgreens. You can also make one by hand by gluing photographs into a scrapbook.Making a photobook can take a long time, but the memories will last forever.
 If it’s a classic book, you can find an old copy of it. If it’s a new book, you can get a copy autographed by the author.Add a nice touch by leaving an inscription in the book that says something along the lines of, "Happy Mother's Day! Love, Frankie."

