 Pour the flour, sugar, and salt into a large mixing bowl. Stir everything together until they are evenly combined. This will create a sweet-tasting crust. If you have a different crust recipe that you prefer to use, you can try that one instead.
 Start by adding 3 tablespoons (45 grams) of butter into the flour mixture, then add the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 grams) of butter. The dough will be crumbly, which is fine., Start with 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of water, knead the dough a little, then add the second tablespoon (15 milliliters)., Towards the end of the chilling period, you can start preheating your oven to 350°F (177°C). This way, by the time you are done rolling, cutting, and forming the crusts, the oven will be the right temperature for baking., Cut the dough in half first; this will make it more manageable. Roll out one of the halves to ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) thick. Save the other half for later., The circles need to be about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) bigger than the mason jar lids. You can use a glass or bowl that is the right size, or you can set the lid down on the dough, and cut ¼ inch (0.64 centimeters) around it with a paring knife., Take a wide-mouth, two-part Mason jar lid. Pop out the bottom part and flip it over. Place it back into the ring, so that the rubbery part is on the outside and the metal part is on the inside. Do this for all six lids, then place them on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper., Place the circles into the lids first. Use your fingers to gently form them against the inside walls of the lids. When you are done, pierce the bottom of each crust 1 to 2 times with a fork.This will help the bottom stay flat when you bake it and prevent it from bubbling., Preheat the oven first, then bake the crusts for 2 to 3 minutes. Take them out of the oven, and allow them to cool. Don't worry if they look under-baked; you will finish baking them later with the filling., Stir them together with a rubber spatula until they are all mixed together.You can also use your own filling instead. In this case, prepare the filling according to your recipe., This allows the fruits to release their juices and the flavors to blend together. After a few minutes, give the filling another stir., Each pie gets about 1 to 3 tablespoons of filling. Avoid overfilling your pies, however, or they will burst while baking., You will be using this batch of dough to make the upper crust for your pies., These circles will be going right on top of the pies, so they need to be the same size. If you know how to create a lattice crust, you can create one instead., Gently place the cut circles on top of each pie. Use your fingers to pinch the edge of the upper crust against the edge of the baked crust., These are the vent holes and will allow the steam to escape during backing. For a nicer touch, have all three slits point towards the center, like a start or three-petal flower., Beat the egg in a cup with a fork or mini whisk. Use a pastry brush to coat the top of each pie with the beaten egg. Add a sprinkle of raw, chunky sugar over each pie before the egg wash dries.This is not absolutely necessary, but it will give your pies a nice touch.
 They are ready when they turn golden and the filling starts to bubble., Run a knife around the inside edge of the lid, then push the bottom of the lid upward. Slide the pie off of the lid, and onto a serving tray.