 Although rules may be boring, they keep everything from getting out of control. Set party guidelines and talk them over with your parents. Include how many people are invited. 10-20 is a good number (very important - if one person invites 2 people, and another person invites 2 people, and it keeps going, you could end up with over 50 guests!). Younger children will need more adults to chaperone them. Most people don't have their guests invite more people, though, so you don't have to do that.;
, Ask around for pool-hire, and whether you can decorate it and have food and drinks at the pool. Jet-powered cleaning hoses are great fun. Or, you can go to a hotel with a pool(endless pools are better) There's nothing worse than a group in togs with nowhere to go!

, Some ideas for pool/ocean-y themes include:


Pirates
Mermaids
Ocean cruise
Tropical resort
Movie stars by the pool
Neptune's kingdom and the Little Mermaid
Spongebob Squarepants

, Reflect the theme in the invites. Make sure to include the date, times for start and finish, RSVP, and the theme (for costumes). Have your guests dress to the theme. A fun idea is black/white bathing suits with sunglasses, for a rich and famous celebrity theme. But don't go over the top - a massive mermaid tail can be difficult to maneuver, and if no-one dresses up, that's fine too - just have fun! You can either let your guests choose their costumes, or you can advise them in the invitation.
 Be sure your music is appropriate for the theme. Think ukulele for a Hawaiian luau, or perhaps dance or R&B music for a celebrity theme.
 Finger food is best, because you can keep snacking! Pizza, being the ultimate party food, is great, but order it early so it arrives in time. Hungry guests will not put you at the top of anyone's Christmas list. To make hot dogs, you don't have to have a huge grill, you just can have a small table top grill. If it's someone's birthday, you might want to have a cake as well. Be considerate if some of your friends are vegetarian/vegan, and make sure to provide at least a couple of things that they can eat.
 Nobody wants to be thirsty and bored., Try to choose items that fit in with the theme. You can use banners, balloons, or streamers; just don't let them get wet. Other elements suited to a theme might include:


Posters and pictures
DVDs (JAWS?)
Props (fake palm trees!)
Decorations from the movie/book/era/set...
Add some beach toys, sun umbrellas, and some buckets of cold water.
 Depending on the age of your guests,you could play games like Sharks and Minnows, Water Balloon Pop, Pinata, Kiss Chase (in the pool)and beach volleyball. Games for younger children include Marco Polo, Stuck in the mud, Tag etc. Again, try to match the games to the theme if possible, for example, a pirate theme could have a "walk the plank" game. Competitions like handstands and holding your breath are fun too!

