 Some dentists offer dental financing through a third party source like a medical loan company. These credit plans work like a personal loan that you take out with your dentist. They are unsecured and you do not need to put up any money as collateral against the loan. Because you do not need to make a down payment for this type of financing, it is considered a high risk option for your dentist. Your dentist may only offer this type of financing if you are a long standing patient or you have a history of good credit.Many dental credit plans are done through financing companies that will try to make the agreement as favorable for them as possible. This means the loan will likely have a high interest rate, possibly even higher than your credit card interest rate.
Some credit plans will have a no-interest option and may not charge interest for the first one to two years. However, you will need to strictly adhere to the repayment terms of the credit plan and there may be strict penalties if you fail to repay your loan on time after a certain interest free date. Make sure you are aware of the terms of the loan and are prepared to pay back the loan within the allotted timeframe to avoid steep penalties or high interest payments.
 Another option is to apply for a healthcare credit card to pay for your dental work. Just make sure that the dentist you are planning to go to will accept this payment option. You can apply for healthcare credit cards by searching for dental financiers online or by asking your dentist to refer you to a dental financier. These healthcare credit cards work in a similar way as regular credit cards and offer competitive interest rates.Many healthcare credit cards require minimum monthly down payments and may offer low interest or no interest options. Healthcare credit cards can be useful if you require emergency dental work or dental work that you would like to get done sooner rather than later. You can then proceed with the dental work and pay off the cost of the dental work over a set period of time.
Make sure you are aware of the penalties for not paying your minimum monthly payments and are prepared to make your payments on time every month. Treat the healthcare credit card like you would a regular credit card and focus on paying it off as soon as possible to avoid being charged interest.
 If you are looking to save money on your dental work in the future, you should consider going to a low cost dental provider in your area. Look up low cost dental providers in your state by contacting your local or state health department and asking about their financial assistance programs.You can dial 2-1-1 in the U.S. for information and referrals to human services in your area., Another way to get reduced rates on dental work is to make a dental appointment at a local dental school clinic. Many dental school clinics offer reduced dental care by dental students who are trying to gain practical experience and improve their patient treatment skills. As well, dental hygiene schools often offer low-cost preventive dental care as part of their training. This care is supervised by a more experienced dental hygienist or an instructor.You can find a list of dental schools at the American Dental Association website: http://www.ada.org/267.aspx.

