 One of the most wasted items in this country is food. If there's still food leftover at the end of your meal, don't throw it out. Save it for at least a few days to see if anyone eats it. If even one meal gets replaced with leftovers, you've saved money and resources., Store-bought air fresheners can get expensive quickly. To avoid this cost, place a few dryer sheets in a room, somewhere out of the way. They will freshen up the room without you having to buy new air fresheners., If you use water bottles regularly, you've probably seen the costs add up over time; not to mention the damage so many empty bottles does to the environment. Try refilling a bottle a few times before getting rid of it. You could also buy a reusable water bottle. Once you cut out your bottled water expense, you'll save a lot of money., Tupperware can be expensive if you constantly buy new containers. Try saving old butter containers and reusing them to store small portions of leftovers. This way you can avoid replacing your plastic Tupperware containers.
 Before we get in the shower, we usually let the water run for a few seconds to a few minutes to warm the water. This wastes a lot of water, which will run up your bill every month. Instead, catch this water in a bucket and use it to water your plants. It's good for the environment and it will save you money.
 There is no need to spend money buying rags. Instead, just use an old T-shirt. This handy trick will save you plenty of money., There is no need to buy small containers to store your household odds and ends. Coffee cans are a great reusable item that many people use for storage. One popular method is using coffee cans in a workshop or garage to store nails and screws., If you leave little notes for yourself or your family, buying new pads can get expensive. It will save money to write on old scrap paper. For example, if you printed an article off the internet and don't need it any longer, cut it up and use the back for writing notes., When your shower towels get too worn out for you to use, you can still dry your pets with them. If your dog goes outside in the rain, use one of these to rub him off so he doesn't get water and mud all over the house.

