 No one else can hand you success. If you have goals, although people can help you realise them, people cannot be successful for you. It's a solo journey, albeit with support from loved ones.;
,  Whatever it is you are doing, if you are constantly doing yourself favours, then by its very nature you are being successful in your life.
 Situational analysis is a key factor in success because it allows for a teen to see the bigger picture ahead, helping them to develop a good outlook and understand the various ways in which to proceed.
 Most people just drift through life without any knowledge of what makes a brighter tomorrow and often come to lose sight of this possibility. Through developing knowledge of this, the teens can learn to make with clear and strong goals.


Some things that might constitute a brighter tomorrow include being free of debt, having a stronger and fitter body, having more contacts, being more skilled in a certain field, more knowledge, wealth and ownership, good friends. Make it clear it requires effort and planning but that there is also a certain sense of satisfaction that comes out of being involved in planning the future with care.
 Explain that when a person begins to drift, this results from not having clear goals and ambitions. If someone begins to wander, it can be easy to give up on everything. Both of these things make a person develop anti-productive, anti- achievement and anti-creative tendencies, which remove the opportunities for being successful in life.
 Many people forget that the common denominator in every activity and thing that they do is themselves. Help the teens to see that if they enhance themselves, then everything they do will be enhanced, by taking care of yourself you are by extension taking care of the task.


Especially teach them to enhance their intelligence, their perceptions and their capabilities. Help them to see that these are things a person can always work on, they're not innate.
 Help the teen to understand that when a person begins to recognise what the wrong things to concentrate on are, they begin to realise where they have been wasting time and even harming their own welfare in some circumstances. Organising energies is essential lest a person begin to stagnate.
 Most of the best things in life are created because people delight in the joy of others. By making sure the teens are remaining sensible and joyful, they make sure that people do not exploit them or take negative advantage of their kindness.
 People need products and services and by providing these, the teens are doing a good thing and are likely to take care of their own needs too.
 Help them to see that they must value their own welfare and the welfare of others. Looking for and keeping good friends is paramount to having a well-lived life.
 Attention is of utmost importance to success, without attention there is nothing happening, with attention the whole world is on fire. Teach teens to use attention to help them to recognise everything and develop some of the most profound knowledge of life.
 When these four things come together, many truly wondrous things happen. Look at all the great people throughout history and you will see that they had this combination of attributes.
 Teach them to analyse why people fail. Most people fail because they had no preparation, because they are not being true to the best that they knew, or because they gave up halfway through something that was worthwhile doing. This can help the teens to value persevering when something matters.
 Thinking right is paramount to all of life. What we think we become, we must analyse our thinking to make sure that we are doing right. Through wrong thinking, we can stop ourselves from being motivated, eliminate our own joy and create misery for ourselves. Even top CEOs can face a lot of stress because they lack critical thinking skills and sink into negative thought patterns.
 By doing this, you can see where your team is struggling and where it needs advancement and aid. Anyone who doesn't know their own strengths and weaknesses will not get very far because they will not know what to apply themselves to.
 These are important things that you must not ignore. some would go so far as to say that if you never find time for your family and good friends then you are not successful.  Keeping good company and success more than often go hand in hand.
 At every stage of life it is people that you are going to be dealing with. if you are full of disrespect for people then not only will you be perceived as untrustworthy and dishonourable but your emotional well-being can suffer.

