 Many machines require that a player gamble with the maximum amount of money to have a chance at winning the jackpot. Make sure you check the payout table to find out. The payout table is a small printed sticker displaying the percentages of likelihood for the winning combinations.If you don’t want to pay the maximum, consider finding a less expensive slot machine.


For example, if you play on a machine with a 25 cent minimum but a one dollar maximum, you should play with one dollar to see the best results.
This technique is best for machines with a jackpot. However, this is a good method for regular slot machines as well.;
, Put in a few dollars and see how much you get back. After some time has passed, figure out whether or not you’re breaking even. If you are, stay put! It could be a loose slot machine! If not, move to another machine.


For example, if you spend about twenty dollars at a machine over half an hour and only get about ten dollars back, that’s probably not a loose machine. Leave and find a better one.
Avoid choosing a “favorite machine.” If you devote a lot of attention to one particular machine, you won’t be as likely to leave it when it stops paying out.
 Experienced gamblers will often play two or three slot machines at the same time. This is based off of the belief that loose machines are situated right next to tight machines.These gamblers believe that increasing the number of machines they use increases their chance to find a loose slot.


Don’t spread yourself too thin. If you use machines that are too far away from one another, you may lose track of which machines you’re gambling with.
Take care when using this method as you might lose your money that much faster!

, Before stepping foot into the casino, figure out how much money you can afford to lose. Never spend money that you need for other obligations. Similarly, if you make a big profit, consider pocketing the profit and limiting your gambling to the money you came in with. Adopting this system will minimize your losses.