 Hormonal therapy works by interrupting the signals in your hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal circuit, which links your brain to your ovaries.


By interrupting this circuit, the therapy can be used to stop ovulation and stabilize your hormonal ups and downs. This will allow your menstrual cycle to get back on track.;
, Oral contraceptives regulate and stabilize reproductive hormones. Commonly prescribed oral contraceptives, such as those that work well in relieving PMDD symptoms, are pills with combinations of ethinyl estradiol and drospirenone.


Studies have shown that these types of pills offer relief for the physical and psychological symptoms of premenstrual syndrome and also regulate the menstrual cycle.Oral contraceptives are composed of a set of pills that should be taken for the whole month. There are two types of pills found in each set: the pills that contain the hormones and the placebo pills that should be taken during the days of your period.
 Oral contraceptives come in packets of 21, 28 or 91 tablets. These tablets should be taken by mouth. Take your oral contraceptives at the same time every day.


Be sure to follow your doctor’s specific instructions about when and how to take them.If one type of oral contraceptive does not make your cycle regular, talk to your doctor about trying another brand of oral contraceptive.
There are a number of types, and brands, of oral contraceptives. Some are triphasic pills — which include both progestin and estrogen in varying levels — while others are monophasic which are pills that have the same amount of hormone dose in each pill.In addition, there are mini-pills that are progesterone only.
All oral contraceptives are not created equal. Some have estrogen while others have progesterone. These two hormones may affect your body differently. Talk to your doctor to find which one is right for you., Birth control pills are not your only option to treat irregular menses with hormones. You can also use a vaginal ring, birth control patch, Depo-Provera, progesterone-containing IUD, or a progesterone implant. The choice will depend on what works best for your lifestyle and what your reproductive plans are. You can also use progesterone-only tablets to trigger a monthly cycle (keep in mind this would have no contraceptive benefit and would only help regulate your period).

