, Use at least two different colors and make the pieces about 1 to 3 inches (2.54 to 7.62 centimeters). Other than that, you can get really creative here. You can cut or tear the tissue paper into small squares, rectangles, triangles, strips, etc.
 Squeeze some glue onto a paper plate (or another scrap of wax paper). Use a paintbrush or a foam brush to apply a thin layer of glue to a small section of your wax paper.








Don't make the section too big, or the glue will dry before you lay all of the tissue paper pieces down. You can always add more glue later.
 Make sure that you overlap them slightly. Don't worry if the glue soaks through the tissue paper. You will be covering them with more glue later on.
 Extend the glue past the edges of the patch to help seal everything in. At this point, you can make your design bigger by adding more glue to the wax paper, and covering it with more tissue paper. Remember to coat everything with a thin layer of glue when you are done.
 Glue doesn't stick very well to slippery surfaces, such as wax paper, which is a good thing for this project. Once the glue dries, carefully peel your tissue paper design off of the wax paper. You should now have a thin sheet of patchy tissue paper.
 This is completely optional. If you do not wish to make a border, simply cut your tissue paper into a shape and hang it in a bright window.If you'd like to make a border, follow the steps below:









Cut a simple shape out of a sheet of black paper.
Cut a second shape out of from the inside, leaving a ¼ to ½-inch (0.64 to 1.27-centimeter) border.
Keep the border and discard the inside shape.
Consider making a second border for the back of the sun catcher. Use the first border as your guide.
 If you made a second border for the back, set it aside for right now.
 Smooth it down with your hands so that it sticks to the glue. If you made a second border for the back, glue it on top of your sun catcher now. Make sure that it's aligned.
 You will most likely have some tissue paper sticking out from behind your border. To make your sun catcher look neater, trim this excess tissue paper off with a pair of scissors.
 Punch a hole near the top of your sun catcher. Thread some string through the hole. Tie the string into a loop, then hang it up.

