 Know where the closest hospital is to your home and your work. Also keep a list of emergency numbers and information at a central and visible location in your home, so that someone visiting your home will see it if there is an emergency., Prompt action can prevent serious damage to your heart, and it may even save your life. The quicker you respond to the symptoms of a heart attack, the more likely you are to survive. , Do not drive yourself. Get trained medical help as quickly as possible. In general, do not leave the person alone except to call emergency help.


Seeking help in the first hour of a heart attack greatly improves your chance of recovery.
Describe your symptoms to the emergency response operator. Be brief and speak clearly.
 If you are witnessing someone having a heart attack, it may be necessary to perform CPR. You only need to do CPR if the person having the heart attack is unconscious and has no pulse, or if the emergency operator instructs you to do so. Continue to administer CPR until the ambulance and medics arrive.


An emergency response operator can give you instructions detailing how to perform CPR if you do not know.
 Sit or lie down and keep the head elevated. Loosen any tight clothing so that the person can move and breath easily. Do not allow a person with chest pain or who has had a heart attack to walk.
 If you have a history of heart attacks and have been prescribed nitroglycerin by your doctor, take the pills when you experience symptoms of a heart attack. Your doctor should have given you recommendations about when to take the pills.
 Aspirin makes your platelets less sticky, reduces the chance of blood clots and keeps your blood flowing through your arteries. If you don't have any aspirin available, do not give the sufferer anything else. No other over-the-counter painkillers will do the same thing.


Chewing helps the aspirin absorb faster into the bloodstream than simply swallowing it. Speed is necessary for treating heart attacks.

