 Plan also for excursions, which you should schedule in advance, spaces can fill up quickly on popular ones.;
,, You can also look up information on your destination online or in travel books(available in most book stores and libraries)

, Check with your travel agent or contact your cruise line before you pack. In most cases resort casual is a safe bet- khakis, nice slacks, and comfortable shirts. Depending on your style and which cruise you are taking there maybe nights when formal dress is required or suggested, you will find this information with your brochures.
 You may want to pack shorts and a t-shirt in your carry on if you are leaving somewhere cold and arriving somewhere warm so you can make a quick change at the airport upon arrival.
 It may be helpful to pack a collapsible bag inside another piece of luggage to use when coming home.
 Make sure you have all of the proper paperwork (passport, photo id, etc.) before getting in line to board to insure a smooth boarding.
, Your luggage should be brought to your room by the staff.
 This is a must. You might want to be in a table for 2 to only find you're in a table of 8 or vice versa.
 There the staff will show everyone where the life boats and life jackets are and what to do in case of emergency.Please be considerate of your shipmates and don't be late for this meeting.
 These are for your benefit and come in handy in planning all the things you want to do. Port arrival and departure times will be listed there, as well as special activities on the ship; movies, classes, contests, shows, hours of service for services and amenities, etc. Some ships have a channel on the television in your room with all the information you need (weather, estimated times for arrival in port, etc.
 This is the time to take advantage of the beauty parlor, gym, and other amenities offered.
 The cruise director and his/her crew are in charge of most of the activities on board.
 You should keep track of the time you need to get back to the ship they will not wait for you if you miss the boat!

, Most excursions have to be reserved ahead of time. Depending on where you are cruising excursions may include things like snorkeling, para-sailing, helicopter rides, there should be plenty to choose from for everyone.

Remember to steer clear of the cruise ship's help desk right after boarding the cruise, as it will likely be swamped with passengers. Wait until that night or the next day to book your excursion, buy packages, etc.







