 This page of their website collects all the forms used by the DMV. Whether you’re mailing your form or submitting it in person, you’ll need to print it from this page.


There are quite a few forms available on this page. If you’re only getting a personalized plate (rather than a plate for disabled drivers or servicemen for instance), you’ll need the “Application for Personalized License Plates” (MV-96) form.Original forms can also be found at your local DMV office.;
, This includes your name, physical address, mailing address if applicable and telephone number. You’ll also need to complete the field asking for the total fees you’ll be paying.


To determine the total fee you’ll be paying, consult the Registration Fees chart in the top right. You’ll pay this fee in addition to the $30.00 fee for the plate.
 This includes the make and model, Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and current license plate number.
 Check the “Yes” box if you’re looking to donate, as well as indicating the amount you will be donating. If not, leave this space blank.


Donate Life South Carolina is a non-profit organization that manages the organ, eye and tissue donor registry., This is to confirm coverage for your vehicle. Completing this field implies a commitment to keep your vehicle insured while it is registered with the state.
 You’ll find the field for your signature at the bottom of the first page. It serves as certification that the information you entered is accurate.
 If registering a car, enter your choices under the “Regular Personalized Plate Choices” field. If registering a motorcycle , enter your choices in the “Motorcycle Personalized Plate Choices” field.


List your choices in order of preference, as you will be issued the first available choice.
Note that boxes left blank are counted as a character.
Do not use any other symbol except the ampersand (&).
 Make sure to include your exact payment with your application. You can mail your application to: South Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles, P.O. Box 1498, Blythewood, SC 29016-0008. You should then receive your personalized plate within 2-6 weeks.


The DMV only accepts cheques by mail.
If you plan to submit the form in person, go to your local DMV office after completing it. You can pay your fee in person in cash, cheque, credit or debit.