 A great way to improve mental flexibility is to adopt a beginner’s mind. When you enter a situation, no matter if it is familiar or not, take on a childlike sense of wonder and exploration. Oftentimes, you may be so obsessed with competing or impressing others that you may miss a chance to learn something new.Approach every situation with curiosity. Focus on learning, not measuring up.
 When you develop mental flexibility, you use any and every obstacle as an opportunity for self-development. Don’t scurry away from problems or pass off challenging tasks to someone else. Dive in head first and activate your creative thinking skills.See yourself as adept at handling difficulties, and you will. Change your dialogue by calling “problems” by a new name: “opportunities.”
Try using positive affirmations to help change your dialogue. For example, you could write down a list of your positive qualities and capabilities and read these back to yourself and say them in conversations with other people when you are feeling overwhelmed. Post them places where you will see them on a daily basis as well. The more you can repeat these reminders, the more you will believe them.
 If you happen to take on a challenge that doesn’t end favorably, continue on anyway. Challenges are not designed to defeat you—they are designed to help you develop mastery. It’s okay to take some time to regroup and lick your wounds, but never allow a setback to knock you completely off course.For example, if you set a goal to learn a new language in six months and you don't reach it, reevaluate your goal and reset it. It may be more reasonable for your schedule to give yourself a year. If you must extend the deadline, do so. But don't give up on the goal.
Focus on your progress and talk to other people about where you succeeded rather than where you fell short. Reward yourself for your accomplishments as well.
 You probably know someone who has a flexible mindset and who could serve as a role model for you. This might be a friend, coworker, member of your religious group, or even just an acquaintance. Observe how this person behaves in situations that might challenge you and look for ways that you can adopt their habits.

For example, you might notice that the person asks lots of questions when they encounter someone who has a different opinion on something that they do. These questions might be meant to help them gain a better understanding of the person’s opinion. You could use some of these types of questions to gain a better understanding of someone else’s worldview the next time you encounter a similar situation.

