 No one likes a faker. It's hard enough that you're still learning who you are in grade school; don't make it worse by trying to be someone you're not. If you pretend, eventually, he will find out and you will lose his trust. He should like you for who you are, and if he doesn't, you shouldn't be together anyway. Be the person you are, and don't be afraid of being yourself!
, Being nice to this guy will help him like you. Think about it: would you want to be with a guy that's always putting you down and insulting you? No. And neither would a guy. Be nice to him and show him that you care about him and like him., You don't know if the guy you like is even interested in anyone yet. In grade school, most guys like girls, but be aware that some don't. Also, grade school guys aren't prince charming (yet). They probably won't sweep you off your feet and have super-romantic moments with you. If this is what you're expecting, wait a couple years., Don't over-think things and spend hours rehearsing each conversation. If you do this, it will be obvious that you had a list of conversation topics and wouldn't let the conversation naturally flow from one thing to another. Act like you're talking to a friend. You never know what the other person is going to do or say, so don't be surprised by anything. You may think you know what they'll say (if you ask them out, for example) but they could say something completely different. When talking to guys, it's best just to wing it., If you get along with a guy and you can hang out and be friends, don't try to rush to the hand-holding and the kissing. There's time for that much later. Just be content as friends for now., Show of your talents, but just not too much, because that guy can get tire of seeing the same things about everyday. Guys like girls with some talent. If you're a good soccer player, play soccer with your friends at lunchtime. This way, when he walks by, he'll see that you're a soccer star. If you're brave, invite him to play with you. If you're great at creative writing or math, ask him if he needs help with his homework one day. This will not only impress him with your skills, but it will give you two some time together, and he'll be thankful that you're helping him out. Basically, if you can act, dance, sing, play a sport, play an instrument, paint, sculpt, etc., guys will be more drawn to you than if you're boring and have no talent at all., We hate to admit it, but the world is pretty shallow nowadays, so looking nice will give you a better advantage when it comes to getting this guy to like you. This doesn't mean that you have to wear makeup and revealing clothes. Looking nice just means brushing your hair, having good personal hygiene, and smelling good. Don't go overboard; you're not a celebrity about to hit the red carpet!, If you think he likes you, and he hasn't given you a definite 'no', don't give up. Guys are dense. Sometimes they don't get the "subtle hints" and flirting that you do, especially in the beginning. Don't get discouraged just because he's not responding the way you think he should. Maybe he just doesn't realize what you want. Maybe he wants that too, but he is afraid you don't! At this point in life they aren't always sure what to do. Try to get them alone and talk so that you won't unintentionally embarrasses him., If you get a clear message like "Stop calling me", or "No, I don't like you," then stop trying. You'll look like a total clingy, desperate stalker. Stalkers are not cool, and if you do cling on to him, this may ruin the chance of a relationship between you two in the future. If you respect his wishes, he may thank you for it later by asking you out when he's ready. But if you continue to hound and harass him, you'll only end up making him not like you at all., This is one of the most important things you must carry around when you're with a guy. Always look confident, even if you're alone at lunchtime. Always smile and look like you're having fun and enjoying your life, because being a happy, energetic person will attract a guy more than if you're depressing. Always look up when you're walking, look people in the eye, speak loudly and clearly, and smile to top it all off! Just be careful you aren't too over-confident and come off as conceited and stuck-up.