 It is important that both you and the babysitter understand the exact boundaries that exist for social media usage. Before you write down rules, carefully consider what you are and are not comfortable with being posted online. For example, you may be comfortable with pictures of your children being posted on Facebook, as long as only close family members and friends can see them. Or you may not want photos being posted online at all.Ask yourself:


Do you care if the sitter posts status updates or blog posts about working for your family? If so, would you prefer that your name or children’s names not be used?
Are you comfortable with pictures of your children being posted online? If so, who are you comfortable with seeing your photos? Are you comfortable with being “tagged” in these posts?
Are you comfortable with pictures of your home being posted online?
Do you mind if the babysitter video chats a friend while they are babysitting? If so, are you comfortable with your children interacting with these friends on video chat?
Do you mind if the sitter uses apps or games that use location tracking?;
, It is important that you consider all different forms of sharing that occur over the internet. Babysitters have the possibility of sharing photographs of your family, complaints about their job, details of your home, and their physical location through GPS and tracking services. In addition, they may think it is all right to call friends or take video of things that occur within the home.As you establish rules, consider various forms of sharing, including:


Social media pages like Facebook, Twitter, and Google Plus
Photo apps like Instagram and Snapchat
Video chatting services like Skype and Facetime
Geotracking apps and games like Pokemon Go and Foursquare

, If you are worried about your sitter using social media instead of watching your children, you should set firm boundaries about when they can and cannot use technology like phones, tablets, or computers.Ask yourself:


Is the sitter expected not to use computers or phones at all while babysitting? Can they use them if the children are asleep? Can they use their phone to contact their parents, ride, or you while babysitting? If they are students, can they use computers to do homework while babysitting?
Can the babysitter take pictures of the children? Can they send you pictures of the children, as long as they do not post them online?
If the babysitter is allowed to use phones or computers, do you want your children using their phones or computers? Can the children play games on their phone? Is the child allowed to take pictures using their phone?

, Once you have considered your own boundaries and limits, create a set of specific rules that the babysitter can follow while watching your children.Some rules you might set include:


No posting pictures on any social media app.
No sending pictures to friends.
Do not mention the family by name on any public forum.
Location settings on the phone must be turned off.
The babysitter may not accept or make calls while babysitting, unless it is an emergency. This includes video chat.
The babysitter may not use their phone to text, post, or read social media sites until the children are asleep.

