 Most of the time, when people place a bet they keep it to a nice round number, like $50 or $300. However, your chances of winning a bid can be greatly increased if you use odd figures instead, such as $50.03 or $301.87. This way you can win an auction by paying only an extra few cents more than the next highest bidder.For example, if you place a bid of $150.97 on a piece of furniture, you may win the auction over someone who placed a round bid of $150.00. You get your coffee table, but you only had to spend an extra 97 cent to do so.
 eBay is busiest at specific times of the day, and at these times there are more people bidding on each individual auction. Thus, logically, if you can bid during the site's quietest hours, you increase your chances of winning more bids. eBay gets the most traffic during business hours on weekdays and in the early evenings, on Eastern Standard Time. It's at its quietest in the early hours of the morning, around 1 am to 2 am.You can take advantage of this fact, particularly if you live in an accommodating time zone, if you place your bids while all of the East Coasters are asleep. Surprisingly, many auctions end during the early hours of the morning, so you'll have plenty of items to choose from.
Holidays like Christmas and Thanksgiving are also quieter than normal days, so take advantage of this by placing your bids while the turkey's in the oven.
 Many new eBay users make the mistake of placing a high bid early on in the auction. This is not a good move, as it makes it obvious how much you want the item and marks you out as a newbie. You can either make a low bid early in the game and increase it as the competition intensifies, or you can place a high bid near the end of the auction, only when it becomes necessary to secure the item.Unsurprisingly, most sellers will be very happy if you place a high bid early in the game, as they know that they are guaranteed that amount no matter what.
Unfortunately for you, you may end up having to pay a much higher amount for an item you could have got for half the price, if you'd played your cards right. Avoid over-bidding by researching amounts that have been paid for similar items during past auctions.
 Bid sniping involves placing your bid as late as possible in the auction, typically in the last minutes or seconds before it closes. The thinking behind this is that other buyers won't notice or won't have time to outbid you and you will win the auction. Although sniping is a very popular strategy and works in a lot of cases, it has a number of flaws.Firstly, if your snipe is a lower value than that of the maximum bid of another buyer, then eBay will automatically increase their bid to the next incremental value. In this case, you will not have enough time to come back with a higher bid and you will lose the auction, in addition to raising the buying price for the winner. Lose-lose.
Secondly, sniping is very risky if you have your heart set on a specific item. A last minute sniping war with another buyer may cause you to bid higher than you originally intended out of panic, thus undoing any potential savings. In addition, you run the risk of your computer crashing, of unexpectedly having to log in again before placing your bid or some other external factor which will prevent you from making your bid., Proxy bidding is the system outlined in the previous section, whereby you enter the maximum amount you are willing to pay for an item and eBay does the bidding for you. This is the easiest way to bid, as eBay will enter the lowest possible winning bid on your behalf, then increase it incrementally (up to your maximum amount) as competing bids are submitted.This is a pretty safe way to bid, as the only way you will lose the auction is if the selling price is higher than your maximum amount.
Only eBay knows what your highest maximum bid is, that information is not available to the seller or to other potential buyers.
 You can bide your time and wait to see how the auction is going before entering your maximum bid. This will give you a chance to see how fierce the competition is and how low you can possibly bid to win the auction. You can watch a number of ongoing auctions easily by clicking the "Add to Watch List" link on the item's description page. You can then access the auction information by going to your My eBay page. Remember to check back every day for updates., Bidding wars happen all the time on eBay, particularly in the final few seconds before an auction closes. This is all part of the fun - you may be certain that you have placed the winning bid on an item, only to find out at the last minute that you have been topped by someone else.


It is possible to increase your maximum bid to get another shot at securing the item, but without knowing what the other buyer's maximum bid is, you cannot guarantee that you'll win.
Don't be too angry or frustrated if you you lose an auction. The same items pop up again and again on eBay and you may find an even better deal next time round.

