 When fruits and vegetables are in season, they tend to cost less. Often, grocery stores will run sales on what's in season because they know customers expect certain fruits and veggies at certain times of the year. As an added bonus, when things are in season, they taste better.In fall, look for produce like pumpkins, winter squash, cabbage, and apples.
In the winter, opt for winter squash, cabbage, and other root vegetables.
Springtime is great for produce like beets, leafy greens, spring onions, and asparagus.
Summer is a good time for watermelon, corn, and berries, just to name a few. You'll likely notice the cheapest produce prices in summer. Also, because produce is cheaper this time of year, you can buy extra and freeze it or can it yourself.;
, While you may prefer fresh fruits and vegetables, you can often save money by opting for frozen or canned instead. These options have the same health benefits, though be sure to pick ones that don't have added sugar or salt.Check your proteins, too. Frozen chicken may be cheaper than fresh, and canned salmon and tuna is likely cheaper than fresh fish., Most grocery stores run weekly specials, which you can learn about through their weekly ads. When something is on sale, that's the time to stock up on it. Most protein can be frozen and saved for later, for instance, so if your store is running a sale on boneless, skinless chicken breasts, buy some to use and save for later., You probably already know to check for the lowest prices on the items you're buying. However, you may get stuck in a rut buying a certain brand and assuming it's the cheapest, when prices change all the time. Check each time you buy.Look up and down, as grocery stores tend to put the most expensive items at eye level.
Keep an eye on store brands, as they tend to be cheaper.
 While buying in bulk can come with a higher price upfront, it'll be cheaper overall. For instance, buying a large can of quick oatmeal is much cheaper than buying a box of the instant packets. Add some fresh fruit to create your own flavors.You can also buy some items in bulk bins at health food stores. Often these stores will have items like grains, beans, pastas, nuts, granolas, flours, and sugars. You can get just what you need, taking advantage of the cheaper prices without having to buy more than you need.
 Take advantage of coupons when you come across them. However, only use them for the foods you already buy. If you're buying something you don't normally buy, you're just spending extra money that must come from somewhere else.

You can find coupons online, as well as in the newspaper. You can also use a variety of coupon apps to save money.
 If you are low-income, you might qualify for SNAP or WIC. SNAP is the contemporary version of food stamps, and you get your assistance on a debit-type card.WIC is only for women with low income who have young children. Pregnant women also qualify. It's also more restrictive about what you can buy, but it can still help you afford healthy food.Visit your local SNAP office to apply in person, or you can apply online in many states. Check if you can apply online in your state at https://www.fns.usda.gov/snap/apply.
To apply for WIC, contact your local WIC office.
 Sometimes, you can find cheaper produce at farmer's market, though you must hunt for deals. Also, driving out to local farms to pick your own produce can make it cheaper, as well. Be ready to use what you buy, though, as farm-fresh produce doesn't tend to last as long as grocery market produce, which is bred and treated to last longer. However, you'll make up for it in flavor.

Some farmer's markets even accept SNAP.

