 Try a patterned sarong with solid colored swimsuit, or a solid colored sarong with a patterned swimsuit. Always match the solid color to a color inside the pattern/design. This will help you avoid any clashing.;
, This will dull down your look, and won't bring attention to either your sarong or outfit. If you must wear solid colored sarongs and clothes together, consider wearing an interesting belt, necklace, or accessory.
 In contrast to wearing only solids, wearing only patterns will make your outfit look too busy. The patterns may also clash, and neither your sarong or outfit will stand out.
 They are perfect for keeping you covered during the short trip between your car or hotel room and the pool or beach. Keep in mind that some sarongs are transparent. If you are self-conscious about this, place your hand behind the sarong before you buy it. If you can see your hand, people will be able to see your swimsuit.


Avoid wearing white sarongs with dark-colored swimsuits—unless this is the look you are going for. White sarongs will be transparent.
Patterned sarongs can make great, long dresses.
 Sometimes, your stay at the beach or pool may extend into the evening. It might be too cool to just wear your swimsuit, but too warm to put on a sweater. A sarong will cover you just enough to keep you warm.
 If you are nervous about your sarong slipping off, you can pair it with a belt. If you are using the sarong as a skirt, wear the belt as your hips. If you are using the sarong as a dress, place the belt as your waist, or the narrowest part of your torso. This will help cinch the excess fabric in.
 It is a piece of plastic, metal or wood that has two holes in it. Pull the corners of your sarong through each hole until it is tight and secure. Your sarong will remain secure without the need for bulky knots., Leather sandals and belts, woven hats, and seashell necklaces work great with sarongs. You can also try vintage, hippie accessories with lots of beading, embroidery, feathers, or metal embellishments.

