 Riders need to be very competent and confident and should have some experience working cattle. A horse will preferably have had experience working cattle. Horses should have the ability to turn on their back legs, stop and start quickly similarly to a cutting horse. Indeed, many cutting horses, or, more commonly cutting bred horses, often make fine campdrafters, providing they have the speed to keep up with a beast in the arena. The most common breed used for campdrafting is the Australian Stock horse, closely followed by the Quarter horse, however almost any smart horse with a bit of cattle sense can make a campdrafter.;
, Many small towns in Australia run a campdraft at least once a year and there are campdraft exhibitions at all the major royal shows. Campdraft calendars can be accessed at the following sites-<www.abcra.com.au> (Australian bushman's campdraft and rodeo assn.), <www.campdraft.org.au> (Southern Campdrafting assn.), <www.campdraft.com.au> (Australian campdraft assn.), <www.campdraft.com.au> (Australian campdraft assn.), NB- As these sites are different associations they all have different campdrafts.
 So, you're all set, you've got an idea what to do and you're at your first draft. It's probably best if you go to a small local one for your first time. The competitors will tend to be more friendly and it is a lot more fun, even if the cattle are often more difficult.
 If you have time, you should take at least half an hour to do this, and longer if your horse is unused to the atmosphere. Once the initial warming up is done, a great place to work your horse is in the arena, returning cattle that have already been run into holding pens. Everyone is usually welcome to help out but it can get crowded in the mid morning before the weather is too hot. This is great to get your horse on cattle and to get him used to the atmosphere.
 How long you spend here is personal preference. Some people arrive half an hour before their run, others arrive just as they are about to go in. My personal preference is to arrive 10 runs before mine, to give both you and your horse ample time to relax and for you to pick a beast.
 Picking a beast is probably one of the hardest parts of drafting. Often this is a personal preference, with people choosing a certain breed of cattle or maybe heifers or steers. A general rule of thumb is to pick the beast you would want to take home to slaughter. You don't want a little mouldy beast as the smaller ones can run very fast and are often dangerous. A beast that is over fat is likely to knock up outside and prevent you from completing the course. You want a beast that turns away from the horse and rider (but does so calmly- the beast that bolts away will do just that outside), is alert and not in amongst the mob. in an ideal world this is what you would pick. also, never be afraid to ask, most campdrafters are more than happy to help a newbie.
 RELAX. If you get tense, so will your horse, and you WILL stuff up. Ride in with one hand on your waist to relax you. If the judge isn't looking, you can ride amongst the mob to help chose a beast, just be careful not to start working until he says go.
 The judge will tell you to start when the previous competitor's beast is off the course. Usually he will call out to you to start, or it may simply be a nod. Either way, be ready when he says go. There is nothing more infuriating than someone trying to pick a beast when the judge is waiting. Shorten your reins, using two hands and calmly try to cut your beast from the mob. If he is on his own you can simply ride up to him and push him down the camp. You may need to bring more than one beast up the front. This is OK, but should be avoided. It looks bad and it works your horse up. Once your beast is separated you need to turn it about 2-3 times at the front of the camp. Once you become more experienced you can get a bit more 'fancy' but for your first little while its best to keep it simple.
 Yell out "GATE" or "RIGHT" or whatever else, just make it loud and clear as the gatemen are more than likely chatting or half asleep.
 You are outside in the arena. For the purpose of this we will assume it is a left hand course (the judge will tell you if the course is left or right hand). Your aim is to turn the beast around the first peg, then bring him round in a figure 8 and go round the second peg before going through the "Gate" (two pegs"). The whole course is similar to a barrel course. Use common sense to turn the beast. If you want him to turn a gradual left, hang back about the length of one beast back and one out from his head, on his right hand side. If he turns to quick, change sides to correct him. Sometimes it is necessary to "Shoulder" the beast, or push him with your horse's shoulder. DO NOT ATTEMPT THIS UNLESS YOU AND YOUR HORSE ARE VERY EXPERIENCED. This is one of the major causes of accidents.
 Remember, you are not doing this to make money. If you win that's a bonus, if you get the whip in the camp then bad luck, try again next time. Don't lose heart. If you stick at it long enough you will get there.
