 An extremely intelligent breed, Border Collies need opportunities for mental stimulation to keep them occupied, engaged, and alert.Puppies need to be kept engaged with mental and physical exercise, or they can develop destructive behaviors. Border Collie puppies can easily become hyperactive, so finding time to mentally engage with them can curb these behaviors.


Games that use your puppy's senses, like sight and smell, are good ways to mentally stimulate your puppy whether you're indoors or outdoors.
Obedience training is a great way to mentally stimulate your puppy. They learn very quickly, and as working dogs, they are bred to be responsive to commands. Teach them basic obedience commands like sit, stay, and come before moving on to more advanced tricks., Your Border Collie puppy has a keen sense of smell and will enjoy games that involve seeking out food and toys, since this appeals to their instinct to find prey. You can play games indoor, or outdoors, by hiding a treat or piece of dog kibble and letting your puppy find it. This is also a good opportunity to practice commands like stay and come.


You can also play hide and seek by hiding behind a door or piece of furniture and calling out your puppy's name. They'll try to find you and you can reward them with praise or a small treat whenever they successfully find you.
 It is important to start training your new puppy early on. Border Collies are very intelligent and respond well to training, but can be headstrong and overly independent if they are not taught to respect their owners early on. Start using positive reinforcement to encourage good behaviors and to discourage negative behaviors, like nipping or digging. Obedience training is also a great way to mentally stimulate your puppy and to curb destructive habits.While young puppies, those four months old and younger, can learn basic commands like sit and stay, they may not be able to fully grasp more advanced commands, like any tricks to roll over, until they are older., Border Collies love to fetch and can fetch a ball or toy for hours. You can play fetch either indoors or outdoors with your puppy, making it a great game to play no matter what the weather is. Teach your puppy to retrieve a ball or toy by using positive reinforcement, like offering a treat for a successful retrieval.You can enhance the fetch game by tossing the toy up or down stairs, which will give your puppy additional exercise.


Use a white or light colored ball when you’re playing fetch outside, especially if the sun is setting, for visibility.
Softer toys can be used for fetch indoors, since rubber balls could damage items in your home.
 Use a long sturdy rope toy to play tug of war with your puppy. Do not use articles of clothing for tug of war, especially socks or shoes. This can encourage negative behaviors, like chewing on clothing, as your puppy begins to associate chewing with a game. This game can also serve as a compliment to training.Use tug of war to practice the “let go” command, and reward your puppy with a small treat for successfully listening.

