 Not only can talking to your neighbors help you figure out where the smoke is coming from, but you also may find out that you're not the only person having trouble with secondhand smoke in your apartment.Begin by asking the person if they smoke. If they say they don't, you might say "Have you noticed any secondhand smoke coming into your apartment lately? I've been having a problem with that."
If they do smoke, ask if they smoke in their apartment. If they do, you might say "I believe your secondhand smoke is drifting into my apartment through the vents. Can we talk about some ways to stop that from happening?"
Focus your efforts on the tenants in apartments that share a wall with yours. It's most likely that you share ventilation systems or have common air conditioning and heating ducts, which means these tenants are most likely the source of the secondhand smoke coming into your apartment.
Branch out to talk to your neighbor's neighbors in the same way. If one of your neighbors is smoking in their apartment, their other neighbors may have noticed the secondhand smoke coming into their apartments as well.
Others may have similar complaints, but be afraid to say anything. Banding together can bring more power to your message.;
, Rather than assume that everyone understands the dangers of secondhand smoke, before you talk with your neighbors you may want to gather some basic information about the health risks associated with secondhand smoke.Search online for brochures and information. You may find materials you can use on the websites of health organizations such as the American Heart Association or the American Lung Association.
Particularly if any of the neighboring tenants have children, they should be aware of and concerned about secondhand smoke coming in to their apartments.
If you have any particular health issues, you might bring those up as well. People might feel more sympathetic to someone with specific health issues than they would someone who just seems like a militant anti-smoker.
Avoid being accusatory or insulting. Keep in mind that most smokers want to quit but feel powerless to do so.
For example, you might say "I don't mean to step on your toes, but my daughter has asthma and the secondhand smoke is causing her serious problems. Can we work on a compromise so you can stop smoking inside your apartment?"
If you're talking to someone who suddenly gets defensive or antagonistic, don't take the bait and get into an argument – it won't solve the problem and will only leave you and your neighbor locked in a tense situation.
For example, you might say "I understand your concerns. I'm only trying to protect my health and the health of my family. I would really appreciate it if you would at least meet me halfway on this."

, Complaining about secondhand smoke in your apartment won't accomplish anything unless you help the smokers come up with an option that respects their rights while ridding your apartment of secondhand smoke.For example, if each apartment has a private balcony or patio, you might suggest that your neighbors smoke there instead of inside their apartment.
If you live in a high-rise building, you might point out designated smoking areas located outside the building or on the floor.
Another option may be to request that any smokers who must smoke inside their apartment do so through an open window, which would limit the amount of secondhand smoke traveling through the ducts into your apartment.
 Your neighbors who smoke may take your complaints more seriously if you send them a written letter. Even if they don't, the written letter provides evidence that you attempted an amicable solution before involving your landlord or other authorities.A written letter also can work if you're shy or don't feel comfortable addressing your concerns to your neighbor.
Keep the tone of your letter friendly and neighborly, and stress that you would like to work out an amicable solution without involving anyone else or causing any problems.
Avoid threatening your neighbor. Instead, provide reasonable solutions to the problem.
Give your neighbors a deadline to respond to your letter, and let them know what you'll do next if they don't agree with you to work on the problem.
For example, if you intend to go to your landlord, let them know that. This isn't a threat provided you actually follow through with it.
Make a copy of your letter before you give it to your neighbor. You can place your letter on their front door – there's no real need to mail it, just watch and see that your neighbors have seen the letter or taken it inside.

