 The easiest way to find a pet sitter is online. There are a number of professional dogsitting companies that provide searchable databases or maps that can help you locate a dog sitter near you. Take advantage of these online resources to locate a pet sitter near you.Petsitter.com, for instance, has a database at https://petsitter.com/pet-sitters.
A similar organization, DogVacay, can help you locate dog sitters through their portal at https://dogvacay.com/.
You’ll usually pay the pet sitter up front, and the payment is delivered when you return from your trip.
Ensure the dog sitter you select is responsible. A good dog sitter should be vetted by other site users. They should have a high rating and lots of positive feedback.;
, If you have friends or family members who have a pet sitter they like, ask them for the phone number or contact information for the pet sitter. Contact the pet sitter and ask them if they would be willing to watch your dog while you’re away.You could also ask your vet for a recommendation. Vets are often in contact with reliable petsitting services or individuals.
 Many local venues and businesses have bulletin boards where locals can post fliers advertising their wares, services, or request help with a special task. Check these bulletin boards for people advertising their petsitting services. If the flier was well-designed, there should be a small strip at the bottom of the flier with the individual’s name and contact info. Pull one of these strips off and use it to contact the pet sitter later.Alternately, you could print up a bunch of fliers advertising the fact that you’re looking for a dog sitter. Write “DOG SITTER WANTED” in big bold font at the top. Below, write a few words about your doggie. Include a picture of them if you want. Cut the bottom of the flier into strips and write your name and phone number on each so that people who are interested in replying to your ad can contact you.
Check for bulletin boards at your local library, cafes, and community centers.
 Sometimes dog sitters advertise in the newspaper. Check the “services” section for a dog sitter. Check the classified online, too. If your community has a local forum, start there. Other sites like Craigslist, for instance, offer space for advertising petsitting services of all sorts., The yellow pages is a large volume that lists all local businesses. You can use this volume to locate a boarding kennel for your dog. It might be listed under “kennels & pet boarding,” or just “pets.”Nowadays, most businesses are listed online. If you don’t have a yellow pages book, you could just use an online version like http://www.theyellowpages.com/ or http://www.yellowpages.com/ to find a boarding kennel in your area.
 Finding the right dog sitter or kennel might take time. You might have to endure a process of trial-and-error by contracting with several different kennels and dog sitters over a period of time before discovering one you really like. Just remember, the wait it worth it, so keep looking.