 If you think you and your friend can easily talk it out, do so immediately. But, if you’re worried that neither of you have the ability to resolve your conflict independently, think about your options for mediation.


If you go to school or college, your institution likely provides a free or low-cost service that can help you with personal disputes. Research your options on the school website or call an administrator to obtain a referral.
If your friend is a work colleague, you can ask your Human Resources department to officiate a conflict resolution. Don’t choose this option if your dispute is very intimate and you would feel uncomfortable about someone at work learning about it, though.
If neither work nor school offers an option for mediation, ask an adult you both trust.
 If you’ve decided to get outside help for your conflict, contact this party as soon as possible so you can begin the process.


Make sure the party you choose has no stake in the conflict. It might be helpful if the person trained in conflict resolution, such as someone trained as a lawyer or therapist, or a peer who has completed peer mediation training., Let your mediator know what times work best for you and they can help you settle on a time and place that is convenient for everyone.


If your friend declines the invitation, try to stay positive and give them more time. Different people process conflict in different ways and at different rates, so just because your friend isn’t ready now to meet, does not mean they will never be ready., You might find yourself tempted to wrestle control from the mediator in order to vent your feelings, but this approach will just continue and even exacerbate your conflict. Remember that your mediator is there to help, so let them guide your discussion.


When the mediator asks you a question or to clarify your side of the argument, do so in a calm, reflective manner. Focus on your own feelings and actions rather than making accusations.
 When your friend is speaking, listen quietly and thoughtfully. While charged situations like this can make it difficult to listen, make it a priority to do so with an open and focused mind. Try to understand your friend's point of view by putting yourself in their shoes, as empathizing is one of the best ways to resolve conflict.If you catch yourself planning a response while your friend is speaking, chances are that you're not really listening. After all, holding your tongue and listening aren't the same thing, so make sure you wait until your friend finishes speaking before considering and formulating a response.
 Your conversation will be more pleasant and productive if you keep the positive aspects of your friendship in the forefront of your discussion.


It can help to take regular breaks throughout the session where you each say something positive about the other or recall a positive memory. This will remind you both how much you care about each other and that you are meeting because you want to make the friendship work.