 Try to write something that will hook your audience so that you immediately grab their attention.


Use an anecdote or a quote. Sometimes, someone else has already said it better than you ever will. Just be sure to credit your source.
Be cautious about opening with a joke unless you know your audience well. You may think that a joke is funny, but your audience may find it humorless or even offensive.
 Make sure that your points are concise and direct.


You can start by looking at generic sources like an encyclopedia or Wikipedia, but you need to fact check your ideas with more authoritative sources after you generally understand your subject.
Draw on your own experience. If you have a long history with your topic, your experiences and personal stories can be great resources. Just keep these stories succinct so that you don't ramble and lose the audience's attention.



Consider your comfort level with the topic. If you know the topic well and can improvise easily, then use index cards.

Use 1 card for the introduction. This card should include your opening statement.
Use 1 or 2 cards for each supporting point. Then, create 1 card for the conclusion which ties back to the main idea of your speech.
Write brief sentence fragments or even single words on your cards. These words or fragments should contain key phrases that remind you of what you want to say.


If you feel insecure or don't know the subject well, write out the words of your speech exactly as you want to say them.
 You may create a Prezi or a PowerPoint presentation to go along with your speech, or you may choose to use paper-based charts and graphs.


Keep the visuals to a minimum. You want them to aid your speech, not to overshadow it.
Make sure that the audience can read the content of your visuals. Too big is better than not big enough.
Check the facilities of the room in which you will be speaking. If you need Internet or you need a projection screen, be sure that the facility has the equipment.
 That way, you can cover the most important points in your speech while giving the audience a reference for the more detailed points that they can keep for later.
 If someone will be introducing you before your speech, then providing the correct information beforehand will be helpful.

