 They will need to report your earnings to the federal government using your SSN. You will need to fill out a form at the beginning of your employment that includes your SSN, so that they can withhold taxes.
 If you receive interest from your accounts, they will need to report that interest to the government as earnings at the end of the year, using your SSN.
 There are many programs that can read this data or save it in an insecure place. Ask to do business that requires this number by certified mail, at a business location or by phone.
 As of 2011, the sale of SSNs to private firms has not been restricted nationally. Do not give these institutions your number if they reserve the right to sell your data, including your social security number.
 It should not be used for personal identification, so ask if an account number or phone number will do. A number of people in the business office and bank can be privy to viewing your SSN, your address and other key details required for identity theft.
 In order to use www.optoutprescreen.com or call (888) 567-8688 to opt out of credit card solicitations, you must give your SSN. The agencies involved in the process say it is the only way your request will be successful.
 Similar to checks and driver's licenses, these cards pass through a number of people in the private sector. Most insurance companies have company-specific numbers that can be used for cards, even if your social security number must be kept on file.
 Patient social security numbers are not always secure in a medical database; however, there are situations when it is necessary for accurate billing. The following are good rules to follow when faced with a medical office asking to see your social security number.


If the medical procedure will be billed to Medicare or Medicaid, then they will need to know your social security number. Those governmental benefits are coordinated through your SSN. Although there have been attempts, the bills to ban the use of SSNs on Medicare and Medicaid cards have not been passed in Congress.
If you have more than 1 insurance carrier, then they will most likely want to coordinate the insurance owed by each carrier through your SSN. Although most medical insurance companies now create their own insurance ID number, that number does not follow you to another insurance company. They need your SSN to make sure they are calculating benefits for the same person.
If your medical procedure is a small one that only involves 1 insurance company and no governmental benefits, tell the office that you do not believe it's necessary and refrain from placing it on their forms.
 You should first ask why, or if, it is necessary to give them your SSN. You should also ask what the company does to protect social security numbers and what will happen if you refuse to give them your SSN.


You may be required to give your social security number for credit card pre-screening and credit checks. Give it out over a secure phone line or in an office, if possible, rather than over the Internet.
Some companies refuse to provide a service, if you do not provide them with your SSN. You should weigh that with how actively you feel they will work to protect your records. If they use it as a personal ID, it is not likely to be very safe.
Do not give your SSN to a company if they say they need it for "general record-keeping." This usually means it is used as a means of personal identification, which can prove harmful because it is viewed by many people in the course of record-keeping.

