 Open your notebook so the front and back are next to each other. Set it in the middle of your piece of fabric and grab your ruler, measuring 2" (5cm) more on each side.


Make a line all around your journal, forming a large rectangle that's 2" wider than your notebook. Then, cut along this line.;
, With your notebook still centered on the piece of fabric and 2" sticking out on either side, apply glue to the top and bottom flaps (the exposed 2 inches). Fold the top in first, and then fold in the bottom. Use plenty of glue; you don't want it coming up later.


If you have one handy, use a foam paintbrush to spread the glue evenly over the fabric. That way it won't clump and be visible from the outside.
 With more glue placed on the left and right edges, fold up the flaps and attach them to the inside of the notebook cover. Do this for both the front and back covers.


You may want to crease triangles into the corners much like you're gift wrapping a present to give it a professional touch.
You'll notice that where the binding is looks a little weird. To remedy this, cut two slits in the fabric where the spine is and get rid of this small square of fabric.
 Right now the inside of your journal probably looks less than perfect – it's just the exposed, raw edges of fabric and nothing else. To get rid of this, we'll cover it with cardboard and fabric. To get started:


Cut out two pieces of lightweight cardboard or heavy cardstock that's about 1" (2.5cm) smaller than the front and back cover.
Cut out two pieces of fabric (a different fabric) that's 1-2" (2.5-5cm) larger than the cardboard you just cut out.
 Center the cardboard on the fabric and follow much the same method you did with your journal. Apply glue to the edges and fold in. In this case, it doesn't matter if you turn the corners into triangles or not – they won't be seen anyway. You'll only see the side of cardboard that's completely covered.


Do this for both pieces of cardboard – one for the front and one for the back.
 The side covered in fabric will go face up on your inside cover; the side that has the edges of the fabric will be glued down on to your journal, covering the original edges of fabric you first glued.


Then, place the covered cardboard into the inside of both the front and back covers. Make sure they're centered and covering the raw edges of the fabric evenly. Now it has a much more finished look to it than before.
 At this point, technically your journal is done. However, you can now truly make it yours by adding more embellishments like fabric letters, stickers, textured paint, glitter glue, buttons – anything. Decorating your journal can be the funnest part.


You could even use iron-ons, ribbon, stencils, feathers, or scrapbook additions. The only limit is your imagination.

