 Capsaicin is a chemical derived from the plant capsicum, and can help fight pain associated with arthritis, nerve pain associated with diseases like HIV and diabetes, and fibromyalgia. If you have any of these conditions, get a tube of capsaicin cream and apply it to areas you’re experiencing pain 3-4 times per day. The full effects of this herb will be felt after 14 days of consecutive treatment.Capsaicin creams are available over the counter and by prescription, and range from 0.025% to 0.075% capsaicin concentrate.
Never use capsicum products near the eyes or on areas with sensitive skin. In fact, a particular form of capsaicin is a commonly used ingredient in pepper spray on account of its ability to cause discomfort to the eyes.
Side effects include skin irritation, burning, itching, sweating, and runny noses.
 A plaster containing capsaicin can be applied daily and left on your skin from 4-8 hours. If interested, speak with a doctor before pursuing this treatment option, and ask their guidance regarding how to go about making a plaster that will be safe for you., If you have recurring cluster headaches, a multi-day capsaicin treatment may help reduce the frequency and severity of the attacks. Apply a 0.025% capsaicin cream, such as Zostrix, every day for 7 days. Only apply the cream to the nostril on the side of your head that hurts.Consider applying a topical pain reliever such as lidocaine to the nostril before applying the capsaicin cream, as the latter can cause painful burning.
Though the irritation will not cause serious side effects, burning pain may be accompanied by sneezing, watery eyes, and a runny nose. After 5 or so days of repeated use, these effects should subside.
Capsaicin cream may also diminish the pain of a migraine headache.
 Capsicum can be used to treat many other conditions as well. In particular, you may find relief from toothache, ulcers, and shingles. Further, if you suffer from prurigo nodularis, an extensive capsaicin regimen may diminish symptoms., Dilute vinegar with water to remove the capsaicin from your hands, as water alone will not do so. This herb can cause burning on sensitive areas of your skin. In particular, be sure never to touch your eyes or use the restroom with capsaicin still on your hands., Avoid using capsicum products when breastfeeding. Never use capsaicin cream on damaged skin. Stop using capsicum products 2 weeks before undergoing surgery. Capsicum products may increase the likelihood of dangerous effects of cocaine use, including heart attack and death.Talk to your doctor before using a capsicum product if you’re using any medications or other herbs, particularly those that slow blood clotting. These include many common over-the-counter pain relievers.

