 This is very important especially if writing is like a second job to you,you might be very busy with other things but always make a schedule for writing.;
, Let your mind wander and you may find yourself ending up with some great new story ideas!

, system. What if _____? What if _____ happened to _____? What would happen if _____?

, You should always analyze your story and re-read it. You might get ideas from actually re-reading your own work!

, Sometimes writer's block can be caused by lack of inspiration, fear, or anxiety whereby one loses the craving to write and gives up. Therefore, if you think you lack inspiration you can try visiting the library and picking up some books that interest you and get your inspiration back!

, Maybe you will discover some inspiration from doing that! You may even think of any words that you like, and they may inspire you. What about 'survive', 'love', 'betrayal', 'harsh', 'cruel', 'kind'?

, Your parents divorcing, moving to a new country, whichever want. But only whatever that has happened to you that’s worth reading!Write about an important event in your life, but twist it around. What if you did something differently? Write about what could have happened.
 This will get your creative juices flowing and a plot will come easily. An easy way to create a novel character is by being able fill in this biography, such as their name, age, date of birth, appearance, personality, background, etc.
 Do you see some very successful writers like Stephen King, and long to be like them? Well it is all up to you. Your will and strength will take you there so don't be too hard on yourself because of some nasty remarks made by someone who read your work. As long as you feel it's right. It is all right.
 If you overwork yourself nothing will come out you need to have rest to have an active and more concentrating brain! Listen to music,hang out with friends or do something fun even going for a vacation would be fine! Relax your mind and you will feel refreshed.
 You might find this very insignificant but it helps you if you are still experiencing a block after trying the steps above. Sometimes random lines or quotes said in movies or dramas can be made into a really creative story!

, Having pessimistic thoughts will never help you. You can build up a habit of having positive thoughts by waking up every morning and looking at yourself in the mirror and smiling to yourself and saying "I'm going to get through this. I can do it!"

, Share with them your problems and you might find out that maybe they face the same problems too! However if you do not have friends or relatives who have interest in this do not fret. That's why there are sites like wikiHow!

, If you've got a clear plan yet you find yourself stuck, then just lie back and imagine what you have written (or if you have nothing, just imagine potential ideas). Think of it like a little film in your mind; whatever you're imagining will eventually flow on. Just be creative and think of alternative endings.
 Brainstorming and making diagrams are often very useful for both planning storyline basics and making plots more complex, with alternative endings as such.
 Having different stories can help you keep your desire for writing. However remember to not overwork yourself if you have many things in your mind write them down and go to them slowly!

, Remember, there is no use in being anxious. If something is created hurriedly and halfheartedly it will not be good. Therefore take your time to write your stories!

