 You can get them on tape or CD, whichever medium you prefer.;
, Start at least a couple of weeks before your trip so you have time to make it through a course before you leave.
 They provide a list of country specific information including crime rates, details of crimes perpetrated, the locations of embassies and consulates, and much more.
 If it's obvious you're a tourist, you're more of a target. Don't wear bright clothing, or walk around with a camera hanging from your neck.
 If possible, vacation with a friend or family member, and stay together when you're out. When you're alone, you're more vulnerable. Traveling in pairs or groups makes you less attractive to criminals, and you can keep an eye out for each other.
 When addressing shopkeepers, restaurant servers, transportation personnel, museum attendants, or anyone else you encounter while seeing the sights, speaking the native language will help you stand out less as a tourist.
 If someone approaches you on the street and tries to talk to you, speak to them in the native language of the country you're in, even if they address you in English, or whatever language is native to you. This lets them know you understand them, and makes you less vulnerable to scams they may be trying to get you to fall for.
 If someone approaches you on the street, they may be the distraction while another person is trying to take your bag or wallet. Stay aware of who is around you, and keep your belongings close to your body, and in your full view.
 As soon as you discover that a street vendor took advantage of you, or that you were pickpocketed, contact the authorities. Speaking the native language will help you explain to them what happened so they can help you., This is especially important is your passport is stolen so they can help you get a replacement, and be on the lookout in case anyone tries to use your stolen one for travel.
 If your wallet or purse is stolen, you need to notify your creditors as soon as possible so they can freeze your accounts, and prevent anyone from using your cards. Keep their phone numbers and your card numbers somewhere separate from where you keep your cards.
 Before you travel you might want to install an app that will allow you to find your way around in an unknown city. There are navigation apps that require data connection such as Waze and other where you could download the maps upfront (while being at home) such as Tom Tom.





