 Making a doll sleeping bag is a quick project for even a novice sewer. However, you will need to have some special materials to complete this project. You will need:Two kinds of fabric. You will need fabric for the outside and inside of your sleeping bag. Use two different ones for the inside and outside of the sleeping bag. Cotton fabric is easy to work with, or you can try something like fleece or flannel for a softer, cozier sleeping bag.Batting. This will go in between your two fabrics to provide insulation and fluff.
Sewing machine
Scissors
Measuring tape
48 inch separating zipper
Embellishments, such as ribbon, buttons, pompoms and silk flowers;
, You will need to measure and cut out two pieces of your inner fabric, outer fabric, and batting. Cut out two pieces measuring 20.5 inches and 15 inches.This sleeping bag is the perfect size for an 18 inch tall doll. If your child's doll is bigger or shorter than this, then you will need to adjust the measurements for the doll's size. Each fabric piece should be about 2 inches taller than the doll and about 3 to 5 inches wider than the doll to ensure that the sleeping bag will be nice and roomy.
 Trim along the bottom corners of the fabric and batting you have cut out so that they are curved slightly where the doll’s feet will go. Only do this on one side of the rectangles you have cut out., Before you sew all of the pieces together, make sure that the zipper is in the correct place. Lay out the pieces that will be on the inside of your sleeping bag so that they are facing each other.Then, pin the zipper to the right side of the inner fabric pieces so that the zipper is on the inside of the fabric edge. You will fold this out after you sew it to hide the raw edges.
Start pinning at the top corner and move downwards to the second curved edge.
 To keep the zipper in place while you sew everything else together, use your sewing machine to baste the zipper to the fabric pieces. Make sure that you do not sew the fabric pieces together. Just sew a baste stitch about ¼ to ½ inch from the inner fabric’s edges.Remove the pins as you go.
After you finish the baste stitch, fold over the edge of the inner fabric so that the raw edge is tucked under. You will be hiding this and securing the zipper more permanently when you stitch the three pieces of fabric together.
 Next, place the batting over the wrong sides of the inner fabric and then lay the outer fabric with the wrong sides down over that.You should have two fabric sandwiches at this point with the inner fabric, batting, and outer fabric.Make sure that you can see the print sides of both your inner and outer fabrics.
 To hide the raw edges of the outer fabric, fold the edges of the outer fabric under about ½ inch so that it wraps around the batting. Then, pin these edges to the inner fabric and zipper.Do this for both fabric sandwiches. You should have two, which you will sew together to complete the sleeping bag.
Make sure that the zipper teeth are exposed and on the outside of the fabric edges before you sew.
 To secure the zipper, sew a straight stitch along the edges where you pinned the three fabrics together.Since you will be sewing through four layers, you may want to use a heavy duty needle, or at least go slowly.

Sew all the way around the edges where you have pinned the fabrics and zipper together.
Remove the pins as you go.
Repeat for both sides (both fabric sandwiches) of the sleeping bag.
 With the zipper unzipped, lay the pieces so that the inner fabric is on the outside. Then, line up the edges so that the longest non-zippered edges are even.

Sew along these edges making sure that you go through all six pieces of fabric.
You may want to use a heavy duty needle to sew these six pieces of fabric together.
After you finish sewing along this edge, trim off any excess fabric greater than ½ inch past the seam.
Turn the sleeping bag right side out and it is ready for your doll to use!

, If you want your doll sleeping bag to look like it is quilted, then you can sew across all layers of fabric in a criss-crossing pattern to create a quilted effect.To do this, start at one corner and sew all the way to the opposite corner. Then, start sewing at another corner and sew to the opposite corner. The result will be a big X across the fabric.
Keep repeating this criss-crossing pattern by moving the starting point up a couple of inches each time.
This works best if you do it before adding the zipper and hemming the other side.
 You can add some cute flair to your doll sleeping bag by adding embellishments to the corners or to the top of the sleeping bag. Try sewing on buttons, silk flowers, pompoms, ribbon, or other embellishments.You can also use some pretty ribbon to secure the sleeping bag when it is rolled up.
 You can make a pillow to go with your doll’s sleeping bag by using two pieces of fabric. You can use the same kind you used for the sleeping bag or just something that matches.Cut out the pieces so that they are 3.5 by 8 inches each.You may want to measure the doll's head first to ensure that the pillow will be big enough.
Then, line up the pieces with the right sides (print sides) facing each other.
Leave a small gap in one side so you can turn the pieces inside out to reveal the print sides.
Then, fill the pillowcase with stuffing and hand sew the open edge with the raw edges folded in.

