 If you are asking for more privileges from your parents, you need to demonstrate that they can depend on you. One way to do this is by completing your household chores and responsibilities on time.Complete your chores before you need to be reminded of them.
Be good-natured about helping around the house. If you complain the whole time you’re cleaning your room, for example, your work won’t be as appreciated.;
, An easy way to build trust with your parents is to do well in school. By taking care to finish your assignments on time and study as much as you can, you will show that you take your education seriously and are preparing to be a responsible adult.
 By respecting the rules they already have in place, you can show your parents that you understand limits and respect their viewpoint.Come home by your curfew. If your curfew is 11:30, don’t show up at 11:45. Staying out just 15 minutes after your designated time shows that you aren’t trustworthy.Respect their limits on screen time.
Don't have friends over when your parents aren't home, if that is one of their rules.
 Any help you can offer around the house will be welcomed by your parents, and it will demonstrate again how responsible and mature you are. You can offer to help younger siblings with homework or watch them while your parents run errands. Additionally, you could be the primary person for making sure your pet is fed and exercised daily.
 Despite the fact that you want to assert your independence, you can still learn from your parents’ experiences and perspectives.


When they offer advice or constructive criticism of your behavior or choices, don’t immediately become defensive and argue with them. Rather, you can ask them why they feel the way they do and try to see things from their perspective.
Additionally, you can ask for their opinions when you are making difficult decisions or trying to solve a problem. They will be happy that you asked for their help, and they’ll be impressed that you are trying to solve your problems in a mature way.
 You can show your parents you respect them by responding promptly to their efforts to contact you. Being in contact with them also shows them that you are dependable and trustworthy.
 One way to demonstrate that you are maturing and looking towards the future is to be frugal and save money when possible. If you are asking your parents to allow you to study abroad or travel with a friend for the weekend, you need to show them that you can handle money responsibly.Set up a savings account at a local bank.
Track your spending and savings with an online app, like Mint or Pocket Money. Apps like these allow you to set up simple budgets and savings goals, and they can send you alerts when balances drop below a certain level. These will help you as you work to save money and work toward future goals.