 If you simply want an ID tag, there are a number of Internet companies that sell in them in many designs. Once you order, most of these companies will also engrave your information on the alert tag.


If you are internet shy, you can also find medical ID bracelets at larger pharmacies like Walgreens. Even bulk superstores like Walmart and Costco sometimes stock them.Bracelets and necklaces can cost between $20 to $250. In most cases the price depends on the material and make.
 Medical IDs most commonly come as bracelets or necklaces. They are also made from a variety of materials. You will need to wear it often, so choose a type and style that feels comfortable.


Medical IDs are now also available to look like fashion accessories. Find something that looks good on you in addition to being comfortable.
It’s up to you whether to go with a necklace or bracelet. Both range from simple designs to more elaborate models with bangles or charms. Some companies also offer “gendered” choices, like dogtags for men.
Still, make sure that the medical alert insignia is easily visible. Although bracelets have become more attractive in recent years, you don’t want to disguise your reason for wearing it.
 You should be able to pick from metal (stainless steel, nickel, gold, silver), leather, silicone, bead, or even nylon sports-band. Whatever the material, most IDs will still come with a metal plate carrying the Star of Life insignia., Some stainless steel has a small amount of nickel and could cause a reaction. Opt for a hypoallergenic metal like surgical grade steel or gold in that case.Your daily activity might also have an impact. Choose a material like metal over less durable weave or beads if you are afraid of losing the ID.
 When you’ve settled on an ID, make sure that it will perform its basic function. Measure your wrist (or neck) to ensure you have the right fit. You’ll want to make sure that your bracelet cannot slip off.


Also make sure that there is room on your ID for personal information, including your condition and, if applicable, the emergency response line for your membership service.
Buy more than one bracelet, just in case. You can also choose two different styles for variation or to match your wardrobe.
 You may be ordering from a company that pre-engraves the ID before they ship it. In this case, be sure to include all info, including your name, condition, and emergency contact numbers.


To ensure your medical information is as accurate as possible, it may be best to consult your doctor or to have him or her fill in these details for you.

