 Act fast. The quicker you remove the egg from the side of your house, the better off you will be. When egg dries, the stains become more stubborn, although still removable.


In particular, you want to make sure that you get rid of any pieces of shell fastened to the house. Try to get rid of any looser pieces of the egg that you can easily remove.
Due to their high moisture content, eggs remove somewhat easily when the egging is fresh. Prepare cleaning supplies as soon as you notice that your house has been egged.
You could also use a dull knife to scrape off excess egg stains. Or you could use a cloth or soft-bristled brush. Wipe away any egg that you can easily see. Be aware that some residue will likely remain.;
, Take a hose, power sprayer, or pressure washer, and direct a stream of water at the remaining egg stain.


The water pressure in the hose will help remove some of lingering egg residue. You don’t want to scratch the house while removing the egg, which is why it’s important to hose off or remove any loose shells.
Wash the egg downward. Wet the area beneath the egg before you do so, so that it doesn’t stick as it is washed downward. Avoid using hot water on the egg at any time because it could actually cook the egg enough that it will become harder to remove from the side of your house.
Put the hose on low pressure, and use warm water if possible. Try not to use a high-pressure hose, because this can move the egg to other areas of the house. You can buy or rent pressure washers at local hardware stores.
 If the remainder of the egg stain doesn’t entirely come off with the water spraying, you’re going to need to apply a cleaning solution to your house siding.


By testing a small area of the stain first, you can see if the cleaning solution is removing any of the paint.
There are times that you will need to repaint the area that was egged. However, you may be able to remove the egg without causing that issue.
Most cleaning procedures work for aluminum or vinyl siding, although more unique sidings like stucco can require a more intense cleaning process.