 For thick buildup on porcelain surfaces, you’ll need to use something a little more heavy-duty. Use a product like Comet or Ajax that comes in powdered form. The small particles will be able to penetrate deeper into stains that have set up on the surface of the tub to remove them.Powdered cleansers contain chemicals known as surfactants which have mild abrasive properties. This makes them much more effective for addressing hardened, stuck-on residue.Apply abrasive cleansers sparingly. For most jobs, a single canister be enough for a single thorough cleaning., Alternately, tough stains like rust and hard water residue can be treated with a mixture of hydrogen peroxide and cream of tartar. Blend the two ingredients together until they're about the same consistency as cake frosting and spread them directly over the stains. After 10 minutes, buff the stains with a nylon brush or pumice stone until they're erased completely.Homemade concoctions like hydrogen peroxide and cream of tartar will be preferable for those who are wary of the health and environmental effects of chemical cleaning products.
Hydrogen peroxide will also help treat age-related discoloration and lighten the finish of the tub., A moderate dusting should be enough to deal with most messes. The powder won’t stick to the surface of the porcelain on its own, but when combined with a liquid it will form a paste that can be spread directly over stains.Be sure to cover the bottom of the tub, where accumulated mold can become a slipping hazard.
 Spray purified or ordinary tap water onto the cleaning powder. With the addition of moisture, the powder will take on a thick, foamy consistency. Rub this paste into the stains and give it about half an hour to take effect.You can also wet a clean sponge or washcloth and use it to rub in the cleaner until it thickens.Be careful not to add an excessive amount of water. The cleaner won’t be as effective if it’s too thin.
 Since porcelain has a hard, durable finish, you can scrub it safely with an abrasive implement without worrying about scratching it up. For best results, equip a pumice stone or stiff-bristled scrubbing brush. Work on the stains until they’re completely erased, then rinse the tub with clean water and let it dry before using it again.If you don’t own a dedicated scrubbing brush, you can use the rough green side of a kitchen sponge.
Never use steel wool or any similar material to scour a porcelain tub. Even though porcelain is scratch-resistant, this can be enough to cause permanent damage to the finish.