 Place the milk, heavy cream and coconut milk in a saucepan over medium heat. Heat the milks until the mixture comes to a light simmer. Don't let it come to a full boil. Remove the pan from heat.


A note on coconut milk: choose full-fat coconut milk, rather than low-fat, for best flavor. Don't confuse coconut milk with cream of coconut, which is a different product. It's normal for coconut milk to separate during storage; just scoop it into the saucepan and mix it up.;
, In a separate bowl, mix the eggs, sugar and salt with a whisk. Mix until the sugar has dissolved and the combination is light, fluffy and pale yellow., Slowly pour the hot milk mixture into the egg mixture, all the while continuing to whisk the contents of the bowl with your other hand. If you pour too fast or neglect to stir constantly, the hot liquid will scramble the eggs. Pour in a slow, steady stream while you mix.
 Return the mixture to the saucepan and place it over medium low heat. Stir it constantly while slowly cooks and begins to thicken. When the mixture is thick enough to coat the back of your spoon, it's ready. This should take about 10 minutes.


Don't cook the mixture too quickly, or the texture will suffer. Cook it slowly and keep stirring until it's smooth and thick.
 Pour it into a mixing bowl and set it into a larger bowl full of ice water. Stir it occasionally and allow it to chill completely before freezing.
 Pour the custard into your ice cream freezer and freeze it according to the manufacturer's instructions. In most cases you will be instructed to transfer the churned ice cream to the freezer for a few hours until it firms up and become scoopable.


If you don't have an ice cream maker, freeze it as follows: pour the chilled custard into a shallow baking dish. Cover with plastic wrap and freeze it for 45 minutes, then unwrap it and stir the custard to whip some air into the mixture. Wrap it back up, put it in the freezer and repeat every 45 minutes until the mixture is frozen and scoopable. The more frequently you stir, the lighter and fluffier your ice cream will be.

