 It may be at work, on a social occasion or at home. Not everything is about what you want, and learning to curtail your sense of entitlement around other people is a part of maturing healthily.


Doing as your asked when it forms part of your job description is common sense; work is not a place for rebellion but a place for consensus, discussion and fair dealing.
In social contexts, there will be times when it is best to not let out your true feelings or to insist that others constantly pay attention to you. Spare people intimate gripes when socializing––find yourself a good therapist or kind listening friend for getting that stuff out. And when conversing with others, listen more than you expected to be listened to.;
, While you may feel that you are in the right while another person is wrong, don't get angry about it. You can't change other people and you most certainly can't stomp over their perspectives as if they always see things wrongly. Accepting that someone else carries a different opinion from you is not agreement; it is acknowledgement that there are other ways of seeing the world and that not everything has a wrong and right way of being seen.
 While you are getting along with others by acknowledging the things that matter to them, keep your own sense of values and principles alive within. Do not discard who you are or what you believe in just because you need to make a show of deference or compliance for particular times of your life. Some ways to ensure this include:


Giving yourself restful times each day. Take at least 30 minutes a day to do something that is just for you and that is peaceful and reflective, such as meditation, reading, thinking or simply lying about and "being".
Realize that other people's perspectives consist of their opinions and inner worlds. They are not replacements for your own thinking or values; you are entirely responsible for the content of what you think and believe.
 Emotions are an important part of who we are but being angry, out of control or stroppy are forms of losing control. Sometimes we use emotions to manipulate others to do what we want without being openly clear––that is also failing to align yourself with others sensibly and will only end up hurting you and others. By keeping your emotions in check and behaving calmly, you will be able to adjust your nature to fit in with others and get along well.

