 Keep in mind the décor in the rest of the room and the desired level of comfort on the sofa. Do not choose fabric that is especially expensive, as your cover will hang on the ground and will also likely need to be cleaned because of frequent use.


A home supply or sewing store will have many options for your sofa. Choose a lightweight fabric that is easy to clean. Buy a piece of fabric approximately twice the length and twice the width of the sofa to give yourself extra room to work with.
Jersey fabric is recommended, as it will stretch to form to your couch. However, it will not look as "fancy" as some other fabrics might.
Purchasing the fabric for your cover on sale from a fabric store is recommended, since this will save you a lot of money. In the US, many craft stores will have weekly coupons that can be used to save money on fabric as well.
 The length is the distance from where the sofa touches the ground in the back, over the sofa, to where it touches the ground in front. In other words, measure the height of the back of the sofa, add the depth of the sofa, and then add the height of the front. Use a flexible tape measure to get this measurement. The sofa's width is the distance across the seat of the sofa from one arm to the other.


Write both of these measurements down.
 The arm width is the distance from where the arm meets the seat of the sofa, over the arm, to where the arm touches the ground. The arm length is the distance from where the arm meets the back of the sofa to the edge of the arm.


These measurements should also be written down.
 The under layer is the main piece of fabric that will go directly on top of the sofa. It serves as the main protection for the sofa and lies beneath the top piece.


To find the under layer's width, add the sofa width to both arm widths and add an additional 12 inches (or 30 cm.) to allow for tucking. For example, a sofa with a body width of 4 feet (or 122 cm.) and arm widths of 1 foot (or 30 cm.) should have a width of 7 feet (or 212 cm.). To find the under layer's length, add the sofa length to both arm lengths and add an additional 12 inches (or 30 cm.).
 A hem is a small ribbon of folded-over fabric that runs along the edge. It will serve to keep the under layer in place. To sew the hem, fold over 5/8 of an inch (or 1.6 cm.) of fabric along all sides and sew this to the under layer.
 The body of the top piece will drape over the back of the sofa onto the floor. To find the body's length, use the sofa length and add approximately 12 inches (or 30 cm.) to allow for tucking. To find the width, use the sofa width and add approximately 2 inches (or 5 cm.) to allow for hemming.
 The arms of the top piece will be secured to the body and flow over the arms. To find the arm piece's lengths, use the arm lengths and add approximately 2 inches (or 5 cm.) to allow for hemming. To find the arm piece's widths, use the arm widths and add approximately 12 inches (or 30 cm.) to allow for tucking.
 Drape and tuck the under layer behind the sofa's cushions. The under layer should fall evenly to the ground and should have any excess fabric tucked between the back of the sofa and the cushions.
 Drape the body of the top piece over the body of the sofa. Now, drape the arms of the top piece over the sofa's arms.
 Sew together the body and arms of the top piece. After adjusting the arms so that they fall to the floor evenly, pull each one about 5/8 of an inch (or 1.6 cm.) under the body piece. Sew each arm piece to the body piece. You can do this by hand or with a machine. When you're done, tuck any excess fabric into the cushions.

