 A innocent, happy life is impossible for a teenager without friends. Even if you only know these people to call out their name on the street, it will boost your self-esteem immensely if you know people and they know you. Of course, don't forget to have a few close friends around you, also. Friends (if chosen carefully) can cheer you up enormously, give sound advice, and are fun to be with. Brush off toxic "friends" who sap your energy and make you feel inferior; they're not worth your time;
, Study enough to keep your grades at a respectable level, satisfying you and also your parents. Counteract your hard work with leisure time outside the home - it doesn't have to be expensive, the point is that you can switch off your mind for a little while. Walking the dog, going to the gym, cycling, dancing, even hanging out with friends are all great ways to switch off, and meet new people. If you are 19 and have a job, you can still maintain healthy work / life balance.!

, Talk to them over dinner, or if this isn't possible, do a little housework alongside them. You will not only develop a lifelong bond with your loved ones, but you will be more able to open up to them about your feelings and worries. Also, if you are seeking more freedom or responsibility, your parents will take your efforts into consideration. Apply this to your children, if you have any.
 Brush and floss your teeth for that winning smile, and wash yourself every day. Use deodorant, perfume or aftershave to keep yourself smelling nice. You can also workout occasionally if you feel you need to (but always consult your GP before embarking on a fitness regime). These actions show others that you care about yourself, as well as making you feel and look much healthier and happier - because let's face it, who doesn't feel better when they are clean and well-kept?

, If you have developed a bad habit of swearing all the time, then wean yourself off by recording every swear word you say each day, or limiting your "swear count" to a few words.
 Unless someone is in a position of authority (teacher, instructor, etc.) then their opinion of you shouldn't matter in the slightest. Many teenagers constantly worry about other people and how they appear to the world, without realising that they become self-absorbed and unappreciative of the more important aspects of life. Unless what you do or say will intentionally hurt someone else, then go ahead! Stand by your actions and your positive energy and pride will rub off on others.
 Teenagers, as well as other groups in society, are commonly involved in certain illegal behaviour. Have a happy, innocent life by avoiding recreational drugs, joy-riding, truancy, shop-lifting, carrying offensive weapons, petty theft, mugging, vandalism, trespass, cyber crime (ie downloading illegal movies or music), stalking and obtaining good through deception (e.g., buying alcohol with a fake license). Of course being innocent isn't just related to criminal activity. Be innocent of crimes against society by not bullying, not intimidating people in public by hanging around in a gang swearing and being rowdy, not littering, not wasting any public funding you are in receipt of, and not becoming a burden on society by growing up able to support yourself and anyone else who is dependent on you.