 Cattle dogs can learn to live with children and pets, but they should be given time and space to adjust. When you first bring your cattle dog home, separate them from other animals and children with a baby gate. This will allow the other pets to get used to their presence and smell before they are left alone with one another.


Cattle dogs may have an instinct to chase or herd your cat. While many do live successfully with cats, always make sure that your cat has somewhere in the house to escape to where the dog cannot reach them. Supervise your cattle dog and your cat for the first few weeks. If your dog tries to mouth or chase the cat, distract them with a toy.If you have another dog in the house, you should introduce them outside while they are both leashed. Slowly walk them towards one another, and if they do not react aggressively, you can try taking them on a walk side by side. Inside the house, you may need to keep them separate for the first few weeks.
Always teach your children how to properly act around a dog. You may notice your cattle dog trying to herd your children, especially if your children are running around.;
, If you are adopting a cattle dog, you will need to provide a fenced yard for them to play in. Cattle dogs are an extremely high energy dog, and daily walks are not sufficient to exercise them. In a small home or apartment, the dog may grow restless and misbehave.
 Australian Cattle Dogs need mental as well as physical stimulation. Toys can provide both, keeping your cattle dog busy and out of trouble. Good toys include chew toys, food puzzles, stuffed animals, balls, Frisbees, rope toys, and rawhide bones., You should have a reliable vet who can screen your cattle dog for health problems and provide routine care and checkups. When you first adopt your cattle dog, make sure that they have all of their vaccinations. Certain health problems are more common in Australian Cattle Dogs, and you should be prepared to care for your dog if these develop.


Hip dysplasia is a deformity that can cause arthritis and joint disease in dogs.Patellar luxation is a dislocation of the kneecap. Surgery may be required to treat it.Portosystemic shunts is caused by a deformity of the blood vessels in the liver. It can cause growth problems, seizures, or strange behaviors such as circling or head pressing. This is a congenital problem that can be treated with diet, medication, or surgery.Progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) causes the dog to gradually lose their sight. It is a genetic disease.Genetic deafness can also occur.Unless you are seriously considering breeding your purebred Australian Cattle Dog, you should also have them spayed or neutered.

