 If your sibling shares suicidal thoughts with you, she may plead with you to keep it between the two of you. It can be understandable for siblings to share sensitive information, but suicidal thoughts should never be kept confidential. You may need to tell a range of people, so avoid swearing confidentiality and you can avoid breaking a promise later.For example, you might say to your sibling, "I'm sorry, but I cannot keep this a secret. I want you to live, and that means telling someone so you can get the help you need."

, Your sibling may order, threaten or even beg you not to do so, but a very important step here is telling someone immediately. Alerting a parent is best, as this is someone who lives with and loves both you and your sibling. Also consider telling another close relative, such as a grandparent, aunt, uncle, or older sibling, or a school counselor if your parents are unreachable.


Teens may fear being judged or getting their parents angry. If your sibling says he doesn't want to tell them, offer to do it with him. The two of you might go to your parents and you hold his hand as he says something like, "My life has been really crappy lately and I have thought of how to kill myself."Or, if he refuses to talk to them, you might approach them and share your concern. "Mom, Dad, I'm really worried about Ben. He told me he has been wanting to kill himself, and I believe him. We need to get him some help." Respectfully let them know that you are serious and if they don't act on your urges to get her help, you will tell others (other close family members, a school counselor, etc.) until someone listens.
 Once you involve an adult, all of you can get together and create a safety plan to help your sibling feel safe and secure in an acute situation. Such a plan details what actions your sibling can take and people she can call to feel safe from suicide.A safety plan template is available from the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline. This document allows your sibling to list any contact numbers she can call, such as her therapist, the suicide hotline, or the local emergency room.
It will also include warning signs that your sibling may notice when feeling suicidal and coping strategies she can do to take her mind off these thoughts and feelings like phoning a friend, taking a walk, or exercising., Contact a psychiatric treatment hospital, a local therapist, or call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK. A professional can assess your sibling's situation and determine whether he needs to be hospitalized for intensive treatment.If your sibling is resistant to treatment, ask him to do it for you as a favor or gift. For example, you might say, "Having you feel better and more hopeful is important to me. That's why I'm asking you to see a psychologist that will help you with what you're going through. I know you don't want to, but it would give me peace of mind."
Take things further by facilitating the process. Research a therapist who specializes in suicide or depression and set up an appointment for your sibling. Reassure him that you will attend the appointment with him., You may think that after your sibling has been seen by a professional that your job is done. It's not. Keep up your show of support and encourage her to commit to treatment.

