 There are lots of places you can find erasers. Here are just a few of them:


Ask family and friends if you can have some as a small gift.
If you like the Japanese erasers, you can find them in school supply stores, stationery stores, large department stores, at book fairs, etc. #*If you're into Foohy erasers, you can find these online and at stores stocking stationery items.
Do gift swaps with your friends where you give them something they like and you get what you like in return - erasers of course!
Inherit a sibling's eraser collection. If they're no longer interested in collecting erasers, pick up from where they left off.;
, When collecting erasers, don't collect random ones like bland office erasers. Japanese Iwako erasers are particularly interesting, for example. Pencil tops are great also. Erasers with interesting shapes, designs and even scents are worth investigating.


Decide whether you'll stick to one brand, kind, manufacturer, country of origin or collect more broadly. Don't limit yourself too much but don't collect just anything either. Consider collecting various different types and brands. There are all different types of erasers, so don't feel limited to collecting just one brand/type of eraser.






Consider the following: Foohy, Crazerasers, Iwako, Gomu, Googly Erasers, Kawaii erasers, Lemon erasers, Spencil brand, etc.






If you are not sure what these brands are/look like, then type the brand name into Google, Bing, or another online search engine.
 Call around to find store in your area that sell the real Iwako erasers.
 A fishing tackle/bead boxes are perfect to keep them ordered and organized. Some Japanese erasers come in cute boxes. Keep them there. The rest you should put in a divided box which you can find at dollar stores or Target.
 They must remain in mint condition or they're no longer collectibles. Plus they won't look cute anymore. Make sure the erasers that you buy are not used; if they are, discard them from the collection and put them into your pencil case instead.
 That way you can have something fun to do with your erasers. Do this at least once every two months.
 If you have Japanese erasers, they are fun to take a part and put them back together again!

, Always keep track of how many erasers you have.

