 Cream blushes don't have to contain dangerous chemicals. By making your own cream blush, you get to decide exactly what goes into it—and you can customize the color too. This section will teach you how to make your own cream blush. You can apply it using your fingers or makeup sponge.
 Fill the bottom pot with an inch or two of water and place the upper pot on top. Transfer everything to the stove and turn the stove on to a medium heat.


If you do not have a double boiler, then you can make your own by filling a large pot with an inch or two of water, and placing a large bowl over it. The bottom of the bowl should not touch the water.
 You will need 1 teaspoon of shea butter and ½ teaspoon of emulsifying wax. Place both ingredients into the upper pot or bowl of your double boiler.
 Heat the two ingredients until they melt. Be sure to stir them while they are melting with a spoon or spatula. This helps the butter and wax melt more evenly, and it mixes them together.
 Once the shea butter and emulsifying wax have melted completely, turn the stove off and move the double boiler to a heat-resistant surface. The mixture in the pot should look translucent, and there should be no clumps.
 Once the mixture has cooled slightly, measure out 1 tablespoon of aloe gel and transfer it to the mixture. Blend everything together with a spoon or spatula. Try to use a clear aloe gel, as opposed to a tinted one.
 Add both your mica and cocoa powders a little bit at a time until you get the color you want. You can use any color of mica powders you want, but pinks and reds might yield the best and most natural results. The cocoa powders will help darken the blush. If you wish to have a lighter blush, then use less cocoa. You will need ½ to 1 teaspoon of each powder, depending on your preferences.


Consider dipping a spoon into the mixture, letting it cool, and holding it against your cheek to make sure you have the right color.
 Once you have achieved the color you want, transfer everything into a small, seal-able jar using a spoon or spatula. Leave the jar in a cool place, unopened, until it has solidified, then seal the jar tightly with a lid.


Wait 24 hours before using the blush. This allows it to solidify., You can leave your container as is, or you can personalize it further by adding a personalized label or embellishing it with stick-on gems.

