 A child’s self-esteem begins with a parent or other trusted adult showing them love and acceptance. Laying this groundwork for them means that they can learn ways to love and accept themselves. Make it a point to frequently remind them that you love them.Give them lots of hugs and kisses.
Snuggle up together and read a book.
Be responsive when they are upset. It shows that you are paying attention to them and what they have to say matters. Hold them when they cry and help them feel safe and loved as they express difficult feelings., It’s okay to show your child that you are upset. Show how feelings can be expressed appropriately. Your child will see what those emotions look like, how you deal with anger or sadness, and it will increase your child’s emotional awareness.Seeing you upset can help your child learn ways to make you (and others) feel better, boosting their self-confidence.
If your child spots you crying, you could say, “Yes, I’m sad right now. My friend told me some bad news. Sometimes when I’m sad it helps me feel better to cry. Do you ever feel better after you cry?”

, Be proud of your body, and share your pride with your child. Avoid putting too much emphasis on the valuing the appearance of your or other people’s bodies. Role model body positivity so your child can know how to be proud of their body, as well.You could say, “What I like best about my body is that I have arms to give you a hug! I like that I can run and swim and hike with my body. I also like how my eyes look brown in some light and green in others. What do you like best about your body?”
Participate in a race or other athletic event so your child can see you using your body in a healthy way.
Avoid criticizing your appearance in front of your child. Don’t complain about your weight or something about your appearance you dislike.
 Being around children who are constantly demanding can be stressful, and a parent or other caregiver can feel overwhelmed by their needs. It can feel like an easy release to lash out or be sarcastic with your child, but diminishing their feelings only leads them to believe that their feelings are not important. Over the long term, this can harm their self-esteem.If you are feeling stressed out or frustrated, try to take a short break from the child, even if it is just going into another room for a moment to collect yourself.
Role model appropriate behavior by not using name-calling words to describe other people. For example, when someone cuts you off while driving, don’t yell, “You idiot!” with your child in the car.

Apologize to your child if necessary. It role models how to say you’re sorry, and it helps a child feel secure that a grown-up can admit when they are wrong. Saying you’re sorry shows that you have good enough self-esteem to face the consequences of your actions.You could say, “Miles, I’m sorry for not using kind words with you earlier. I was upset, and I should have taken a break rather than lash out at you. You didn’t do anything wrong, I did. I’m sorry I hurt your feelings.”

, When you feel proud that you have accomplished a goal, let your child know. Celebrate your successes with your child. Talk about how mistakes you’ve made don’t make you a failure.For example, if you get a promotion at work, share your news with your child. You could say, “I am so proud of myself today! I’ve been working on a project for a long time, and today my boss told me that I did such a great job on it, they know I am ready for more responsibility, so I am getting a higher position at work. I reached a goal, and I am feeling great!”
Role model what your child can say to themselves when they make a mistake, even a small one. For example, if you spill something in front of your child, you could say, “Oops, I just knocked over the water glass. I made a mistake, but I can fix it. I’ll get a towel. I screwed up, but it’s okay.”

