 This might be the most difficult and most important step to an entire photo shoot. You must first come up with a concept or idea that you want to shoot. It could be as simple as, "I want to shoot my friend in the park," or as complex as, "I want to produce a conceptual image, depicting how a dog sees the world.";
, Whether it is difficult or not, you have to go further with what you want. Maybe write down a short list of what you want from the image or images. Here's a short list of questions you can ask yourself to develop your idea further


Am I trying to make an emotion connection? If so what emotion?
What do I want to be in the image?
Do I have a specific location to use or do I need to find one?
Are there specific poses that I would like to use?
What is the most important part of the image? etc.
 The next important step is, if you don't have one yet, find a location. With your idea developed, you should have an idea of what you are looking for in a location. Finding the location can take time and you might not find the location that you imagined in your head, so improvising might help. Scouting the location, whether you know it or not, is key to success in making a solid image. You need to pay attention to the lighting of your scene and other factors, like weather. Things change, but having an idea of what you will need for lighting and for weather changes is nice to know going into a shoot.
 If you're new or don't want to join a site, you can always ask a friend for their time. Usually finding a person to be in your image isn't too difficult, it seems.
 Sometimes this doesn't matter too much, but if you have a specific style for the photograph, you might want to take time to figure this out. When you have connections to people or money to waste, you can always go out and get exactly the outfit you want, but that won't apply to many people here. The best way to do this then, is to have an idea of what you want and explain this to your model. It can be helpful to have images of what exactly you are talking about. Visuals help people to be able to think of what they have that is similar to what you are asking.
 You have the idea, the location, the model, and their outfit planned. You should have a understand of how the lighting of the photograph will be done. Now it is time to set up a date and time for the shoot. Timing matters. There needs to be a common time for you and your model can meet, but this time has to also coincide with the time of day you want the image to be taken also. When a date and time are finalized though, attempt to make a "make up shoot" day also. This is a fall back, in case something happens to force the shoot to another time.
 Usually the day before you shoot, you should make sure that your model is still ready for the next day and that the weather, if important, is going to be ok for you. All of your equipment should be checked and cleaned and ready to be transported.

