 This is called "plotting," and in breaking your story down this way, you decide where the action takes place, which characters make appearances and how they act, and how many panels should be devoted to each scene. Minor scenes can be dealt with in 3 panels or fewer, while major scenes may take several pages worth of panels to be resolved.
 An opening sequence for a Superman adventure story might begin with a range of mountains, then show the door to his Fortress of Solitude, and then show the Man of Steel at work in his science lab, then cut to a display of a flashing light on one of his computer monitor banks.


One way to develop this sequence is to create a storyboard, a series of rough sketches or thumbnail images that show the flow of the story. Storyboards are often helpful in conveying the essence of the comic story in progress to an outside observer, such as an editor.
 This determines the size and shape of the comic panel. A mountain panorama can best be depicted in a long, rectangular panel, while a character close-up may best be portrayed in a large square panel.


When putting more than 1 object in a panel, place the most important object in the foreground, preferably off-center, so that it appears closer to the reader. Other objects can appear in the background, as long as they don't clutter it. If a character or object needs sufficient emphasis in a panel, you can eliminate the background altogether if you've established it in a previous panel.
At this point, you can also decide which scene should provide the image for the splash page and the front cover, and whether you want to use an actual story event or a variation of it.
 Once you have determined what you want to show, it's time to draw it. Comic book drawing usually begins with a pencil sketch, which is then inked to bring out the important lines, shadings, and shadows, and then it's colored in.
 The narration includes the word and thought balloons, captions, and onomatopoeia. In most cases, the space for the narration is blocked out, reference lines are drawn to place the words on, and then the words themselves are written in before the boundary balloon or caption box is drawn around them.

