 Predictability can be an important part of creating structure and stability for your toddler. Following a routine can help a special needs child to practice and master skills and anticipate difficult transitions, like staying with a nanny or going to bed. Have regular times to wake-up, eat, nap, play, and go to bed. Use these opportunities to increase their confidence and learning.Tantrums commonly occur around mealtimes, bedtime, when asked to start or stop an activity, or in interactions with other children.Prepare for any potential tantrums by working the schedule around preventing these events.
 Sometimes, new things can be scary, like going to the pediatrician or dentist. Prepare your toddler for these changes by announcing them in advance. For example, if your child will get an immunization, rehearse it with a medical kit the day before so that your child knows what to expect. Describe the instruments and what the expert might do. Have verbal cues to help them anticipate what will come.Say, “The dentist will call your name, and you’ll walk back into another room with them. They will ask you to open your mouth and that’s most of what you will do. They might poke some tools into your mouth to make sure everything is okay. All you have to do is listen and follow directions.”

, Look out for tantrum warning signs and learn to anticipate them. If your toddler is starting to get fussy, redirect them to another activity or offer a snack. If your child is sick, tired, or hungry, avoid situations that might trigger a tantrum.For example, if your child tends to take an afternoon nap and missed their nap, avoid activities that might upset them or that may be new to them.
 Let your child know if they are going to meet someone new, go to a new place, or encounter a new situation. Let them know what they can expect and how to prepare for it. Because visually-impaired children are often sensitive to loud noises or crowded places, communicate ahead of time that they will be somewhere loud. Tell them how they can navigate problems ahead of time so that they can anticipate difficulties.For example, say, “We are going to the train station today, and it will be very busy. If you have a hard time navigating with me, we can use the stroller.”
Say, “Today we are going to a new playground and you will meet new friends. We can walk around the playground before you play so that you can become familiar with it.”

, As toddlers start to seek independence, allow them to make small choices for themselves. For example, say, “Do you want to eat grapes or carrots?” or, “Shall we read this book or that one?” Don’t overwhelm them with choices, as this might upset them. Keep them simple and let the child choose.Your toddler can feel in control by picking out which shoes to wear, what foods to eat, and what songs they can listen to. Help them feel in control of areas that are important to them.
 Choose a therapist or counselor who specializes in working with children and families with visual impairments. Your therapist may offer suggestions in how to speak to your toddler or modify their environment. Often, child therapists use behavior therapy with young children. They may use play to teach skills or learn better communication. Your therapist may also collaborate with you on creating a behavior plan for your child so that consequences are predictable and enforced.Find a behavior therapist by calling your insurance provider or local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from a physician, friend, or family member.
 Seek out other parents who have a visually impaired child that you can consult. Join a support group, pose a question on an online forum, or ask friends for some advice. Talk to other parents about how they’ve gotten through their toddler’s temper tantrums and how they’ve handled specific problems related to their toddler being visually impaired. While every child is different, they might have some valuable advice for you to try.

Find an online support group or look for a support group for families of visually-impaired children in your community.

