 Open a blank word processing document and set 1.5 inch (3.8 cm) margins on each side. You want to select a font size and style that looks readable. Times, Arial, or Helvetica 10-14 point is ideal.Use letterhead if you have it. Remember to leave enough room for the letterhead at the top of the page.
Set up the letter using block-style paragraphing. You leave one line between paragraphs and don’t indent. Instead, all text should line up with the left-hand side of the page.;
, If you don’t have letterhead, then insert your name and current home address in a block near the top. You can also include your phone number.Hit enter twice and then insert the date. Remember to spell it out: “January 12, 2017.” If you are outside the U.S., your date format might read “12 January 2017.”
Enter twice and insert the contact person’s name, title, employer, and address in a block beneath the date.
 You might know the name of who you are addressing. If so, use the name. A salutation should read “Dear Ms. Smith.” The salutation goes two lines beneath the employer’s address.


If you don’t know the name, you can write “Dear Hiring Manger” or something similar.You can also call the company and ask who to address the letter to., In the first paragraph, you should identify that you are applying for the job. Identify the job and how you found out about it.Also state that you believe you are qualified.


For example, you might write: “I am writing to apply for the customer service position at U.S.A. Cell Phone, which was advertised on Moster.com. I believe I have the experience and skills necessary to make a great employee.”If someone recommended that you apply for the job, include that information as well. “Michael Art recommended that I apply for the customer service position at U.S.A. Cell Phone. Having reviewed the job description, I believe I am a good fit for your company.”

, Before describing your experience, you should note what particular customer service experience the employer is searching for. You’ll want to tailor your experience to the needs of the employer.For example, the employer might want someone who can answer the phone and help clients troubleshoot problems. If possible, you should highlight this experience in your cover letter.
Don’t lie. You can’t say you’ve done something if you haven’t. However, think broadly. An employer might want a customer service representative to process credit card payments, which you might never have done. However, you might have handled billing, which you can mention. This will show you are detailed when it comes to numbers.
 The second paragraph should identify your experience in customer service. If you don’t have any formal job experience, then you can mention volunteer experience. Quickly tick off what you’ve done in those jobs.


For example, you can write, “I have extensive customer service experience. For the past five years, I have worked as a Customer Support Specialist in the tech industry, where I have been responsible for monitoring, reviewing, and updating customer accounts. I have proven myself to be a strong team player who communicates comfortably with a diverse range of customers.”If you only have volunteer experience, you could write something like this: “I have entry level customer service experience from high school, when I volunteered to help in the Principal’s office. For two years, I provided support to staff, including answering in-coming calls from the public.”

, In the third paragraph, you can develop in a little more detail the skills you have acquired, including soft skills like “listening” and “working well with others.” Remember not to reproduce your entire resume here. However, you should hit the high points. You might also end this paragraph by stating you want a new job to develop these skills further.


For example, you can write: “As you can see from my resume, I have extensive experience building and maintaining customer relationships. At my current job, listening is critical. I have to identify problems, forward calls to appropriate staff, and troubleshoot customer complaints. To perform my job well, I have learned to think on my feet and juggle many responsibilities. I would like to develop these skills in a full-time position at a company that will allow me to advance.”

, You should end by stating you are available for an interview and look forward to hearing from the hiring manager soon.You may also tell the person how you can be reached, such as by phone or email.


End with “Very Sincerely,” or “Sincerely,” and move down four lines. You’ll sign in the space between the lines.
If you’re sending the cover letter by email, you can just type your name as an electronic signature.
 You probably have included a resume along with your cover letter. If so, make a note of that fact below your signature.You can type “Enclosure: resume.” If you are enclosing other documents, mention them as well.
 You want your cover letter to be informative but concise. Simplify complicated sentences and eliminate unnecessary words. Include transition words that make the letter easier to read.
 Common errors include typos, grammatical errors, and missing words. The hiring manager might easily drop your application in the “Reject” box if you make these mistakes. For this reason, carefully proofread your letter.


Read the letter out loud. Often, you might hear a mistake that your eyes slide right over.
Read the letter backwards. Read the last sentence first, then read the one before it. This technique really forces you to focus on each individual sentence. You can find a lot of mistakes this way.
Ask a friend to read the letter.Another pair of eyes might catch mistakes.
 Print on 8.5x11 ivory paper. You don’t have to use heavy stock paper unless your letterhead is already on it. Ideally, you should use the same type of paper for both your resume and your cover letter.Check the paper to make sure there is no smudging. Also make sure the print is dark enough.
 Remember to include your resume with the letter and send it in a business-sized envelope. If you are sending other documents—such as a writing sample—you might want to send it in a larger envelope so that you don’t fold anything.


When you email a cover letter, you should include your name and the job title in the subject line. For example, “Micah Jones—Customer Support Position.” The body of your email will begin with the salutation.