 Before you even bid on your first item, make sure your PayPal and eBay settings are as secure as possible. It's not a bad idea to have an entirely separate email and bank account dedicated solely to your eBay transactions.


The same logic applies to your home address--especially if you're purchasing something from a long-distance seller, consider picking the package up at the post office. This method provides added security coupled with your retention of privacy.;
, If you don't know the playbook, you're liable to end up as a statistic in it. Most eBay scams that target buyers are centered around sending faulty products for an insane mark-up or simply not sending a product outright after payment is delivered. These kinds of scams happen most often with big-ticket items like cars or property, so if you must purchase a vehicle or something similar through eBay, be sure to insist on a mutual meeting place to do the transaction.
You can avoid most basic scams by simply requesting more information about the item and the terms of the item's sale. If the seller is reluctant to give you information or they appear evasive, you should give the item a pass.
 While this isn't the most accurate way to determine whether or not someone is a scammer, it eliminates the possibility of buying from someone with a ton of negative reviews or a lack of history.


This precaution is mostly contextual, so be sure to ask questions. If you contact the seller and they tell you that they've been working on eBay for years when their account was registered last week, that should raise an immediate red flag.
 If you don't read the fine print and somebody ships you a damaged or faulty item "as is", eBay won't side with you in a dispute. It's shady, but technically legal; therefore, you should spare yourself the trouble by reading through every single detail on the listing before you bid. If possible, request additional photos or information as well--again, if the seller is reluctant to accommodate your request, they're probably hiding something.
 Before you even contact a seller, look for negative reviews, a lack of a refund policy, missing or vague information, or requests for money orders, checks, or other third-party payment methods.


You should also generally be on the lookout for things that simply sound too good to be true. If you see someone selling a piece of expensive hardware described as "brand new" for well under market price, it's probably a scam.
 PayPal and eBay both keep records of transactions, and you have access to these records at any time; going through third-party sites or payment methods is a surefire way to lose the support of both companies in the event of a scam.


Pay on collection of big-ticket merchandise such as cars, large furniture, or similar items. The easiest way to ensure the cooperation of both parties in an event like this is by meeting face-to-face in a neutral area with plenty of visibility--i.e., a shopping center. , eBay and PayPal deal exclusively in written records, so if a seller wants to discuss business over the phone, politely explain this to them. They will likely be dissuaded if they are attempting to scam you.


You should keep any written records of transactions for at least a year after the transaction takes place, simply for insurance.
 In the days following your transaction, keep an eye out for any irregular activity in your bank accounts. If you spot any, contact PayPal, eBay, or your local branch and report the circumstances.

