 Many people use voile curtains in conjunction with heavier standard curtains to create a visually appealing layered look. Others use voile curtains on their own. Determine which option works best for your room before you do anything else.


Voile is lightweight and transparent, so it will never provide the full privacy a normal set of curtains would offer. Hang voile by itself in an enclosed patio or similar area where privacy is not an issue.When voile is hung behind a traditional curtain, you would usually pull back the other curtain during the day while keeping the voile curtain closed to soften the light and offer a minimal amount of privacy. The heavier curtain is then drawn closed again in the evening.;
, You can find voile curtains in a range of colors and patterns. Pick out the style that coordinates best with the look of your room.The most traditional voile curtains tend to be white or off-white, but nowadays, these curtains are available in a range of soft pastel colors.
If plain voile is too drab for your tastes, look for voile curtains with a soft print. Floral motifs are common, but you can also find voile with stripes, dots, or other abstract patterns.
Also pay attention to how that particular voile curtain is supposed to hang. Most voile curtains use net pleat tape, which is the most adjustable and versatile option. Other options include tab tops and ring tops (eyelets).
 Measure the width of the window. Voile curtains should measure two to three times wider than your measured window width.You'll also need to consider the curtain length. Measure the height of the window from top to bottom to get a base figure.

A curtain rod is usually placed 6 inches (15.24 cm) above the top of the window, so add this value to the base figure.
The curtain can either fall to the floor or to the windowsill. There should be no more than 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) difference between the end floor/windowsill and the bottom of the voile.Subtract this value from the current calculated height. The solution should tell you how long the voile needs to be.


Note that most curtains come in standard sizes, so you may not find voile curtains in the exact length and width you calculated. Select the next nearest size if you run into this problem.
 Measure the width of the window again. You will need to gather the voile until the width of the curtain roughly matches the width of the window.


The width of the curtains can extend slightly past the width of the window if desired, but the total width of the gathered voile should be no more than 1 foot (30 cm) longer than the width of the window. Using curtains that are slightly larger can make the window appear larger, thereby making the room seem lighter and more open.
 There should be two drawstrings hanging from one side of the netpleat tape at the top of the curtain. Pull these drawstrings outward until the voile shortens to the appropriate width.If you need the voile to be wider, pull more of the material over the attached drawstrings.
Note that one drawstring should be at the top of the net pleat while the other should be at the bottom of the strip.
Also note that the gathering and pleating only applies to voile with netpleat tape. If you are using tab tops or ring tops, skip directly to the "Hang the Voile with a Curtain Rod" section.
 As you adjusted the width of the voile, pleats should have formed in the material. Use your hands to rearrange these pleats as needed until they are all even in size and distance.


Make sure that you do not accidentally change the overall width of the voile as you adjust the pleats.
Do not cut off the drawstrings after adjusting the pleats. These drawstrings should remain intact permanently.
 The tension rod will need to be placed in between two facing surfaces. Measure the distance between those two surfaces and select a tension rod that can extend or shrink to that length.


If the window is recessed into the wall, the two facing surfaces will be the vertical sides of the window frame. If the entire window area is recessed into a small room nook, the two facing surfaces might be the two facing walls on either side of the window.
Note that this method will only work if you have voile with a netpleat strip. If your voile only has tab tops or ring tops, you will need to follow the "Hang the Voile with a Curtain Rod" section."

, Adjust the length of the tension rod so that it is approximately the same as the width of your window recess.


The length of the rod should actually be slightly smaller. This will enable you to wedge the rod in place within the recess.
To adjust the length, locate the spot where the two interlocking shafts meet and place one hand on either side of that position. Twist counterclockwise to make the rod longer or clockwise to shorten it., Find the raised transparent loops along the back of the netpleat tape. Slide the tension rod through each of these loops.


Work slowly to ensure that each loop is caught around the tension rod.
The length of the tension rod might be larger than the width of the voile. In this case, simply make sure that the voile is centered along the rod so that it falls in front of the window when placed.
 Put the tension rod in place at the top of your window recess. Twist counterclockwise to lengthen the rod slightly and create pressure on either side.


Once you think the rod is firmly in place, test it by applying pressure to one side. The tension rod should not budge.
This completes the process.
 Insert standard curtain hooks along the top of the voile using the pockets or holes provided.


If using voile with netpleat tape, you should insert the hooks at even intervals into the white pockets along the top of the strip.
If using voile with tap tops, insert a hook into each loop sewn into the top of the curtain. For voile with ring tops, simply insert a hook into each of the open gaps along the top of the voile.
 The curtain rod should be wide enough for the window and suitable for use with voile. Insert the rod through the hooks one at a time until all of them are in place.


If you're hanging the voile by itself, simply slide a standard curtain rod through the hooks.
If you're hanging the voile with a second curtain, try using a double curtain rod. This type of curtain rod will allow you to open and close each curtain separately.
The length of the curtain rod itself should roughly match the width of the gathered voile, but the rod can be a little longer if necessary. Avoid using a curtain rod that is too short. Also note that you should only take the length of the rod itself into consideration here, not the combined length of the rod and its brackets.
 Use a pencil to lightly mark where the curtain rod brackets will need to be on the wall above the window.


Keep in mind that the ideal placement for a curtain rod is about 6 inches (15.24 cm) above the window.
The rod will need to be centered above the window. There should be an even amount of excess overhang on either side of the window. For instance, if the combined length of the rod and its brackets are 1 foot (30.5 cm) longer than the width of the window, the rod should extend 6 inches (15.24 cm) past either side of the window.
Use a tape measure and a level to make sure that your measurements are as accurate as possible. Measure two or three times to reduce the risk of error.
 Use a power drill or screwdriver to twist the screws partially into the wall. Once roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) has been inserted into the wall, remove the screw again.


Do not use the brackets during this step.
Creating a pilot hole is a good way to carefully start the process of screwing something heavy into the wall. This step can help prevent the screws from cracking the wall as you install the curtain rod.
 Position the curtain rod brackets onto the wall so that the screw holes line up with the anchor holes. Use a screwdriver or power drill to carefully insert screws through the bracket holes and into the wall.


If you are installing the brackets in between studs in the wall, you many need to use plastic screw anchors instead of standard screws. Anchor screws can also be a good idea if you are using a heavy double curtain rod.
 Insert either end of the curtain rod into its corresponding bracket. If done correctly, the curtain rod should rest securely inside both brackets and the voile should hang evenly.


If you are hanging double curtains, you will need to make sure that both curtains are on the rod before you install it. The voile curtain should be the one closest to the window.
The conclusion of this step completes the process.

