 For most people, plants like privet, laurel, yew or holly will make practical, no-frills living fences. These shrubs tend to grow tall and develop thick foliage, making them well suited for promoting privacy and banishing pests. They can also be purchased inexpensively, making them a cost-effective way to fence in vast pieces of land.Shrubs can be groomed into symmetrical designs or planted in conjunction with other flowering bushes, adding visual appeal your property.;
, Survey your property to determine where you want to plant your line of shrubs. If you raise livestock or own a spacious tract of land, you might choose to erect the fence around the outer boundary of your property. If you’re planting a fence for aesthetic reasons or to give you more privacy, put some thought into your desired layout for the area you’re working with.Thick shrubs are well suited for lining off crops and flower beds.
Calculating the exact area you intend to fence off will give you an idea of the amount of seeds or clippings you’ll need to plant.
 Dig a series of holes around the area you've selected to grow your living fence. Place the seeds or clippings in the holes and cover them back up with soil and a thin layer of mulch. The individual shrubs should be tightly grouped while having enough room not to choke one another’s growth or compete for nutrients.The exact distance needed between different types of plants varies. Most shrubs and flowering plants can be spaced about a foot apart. The shrubs will continue to spread and fill out as they flourish.
 Twist a plant tie or length of wire around nearby branches where they intersect. Over the years, the branches will eventually grow together, forming a tightly-woven, impenetrable mesh. This process is called “inosculation,” and is used to turn many species of shrubs and flowerings plants into more effective barricades.By strategically positioning and tying the plant’s branches, you can create a dense natural gridwork that will keep even the smallest invaders out.
Make sure smaller branches have enough room to keep growing.