 Shingles begins with pain, itching, burning, numbness, and/or tingling for 1 to 5 days.Then you develop a rash. In people with normal immune systems, the rash usually occurs as a single, distinct stripe on one side of your body or on your face. Some people with weak immune systems may have a rash all over their body.Other symptoms include fever, headache, chills, sensitivity to light, sensitivity to touch, fatigue, and an upset stomach.The rash will form blisters that will scab over in 7 to 10 days. Shingles lasts between 2 and 6 weeks.;
, You should see a doctor as soon as you develop a rash. It is best if you get to the doctor within 3 days (sooner if the rash is on your face). The doctor can diagnose you and make a treatment plan. Early treatment can help your blisters dry up faster and decrease your pain.Shingles can be treated at home. You probably will not have to stay in the hospital.Most people get shingles once, but it is possible to get it 2 or 3 more times., While you are having an outbreak you should wear loose-fitting clothes made of natural fabrics, get lots of rest, and eat healthy. You can also try taking an oatmeal bath or using calamine lotion to calm your skin.Try wearing silk or cotton fabrics instead of wool or acrylic clothing.
You can add a handful of ground or colloidal oatmeal to your bath to soothe your skin. You can also buy oatmeal bath products that can be added to your bath.Apply calamine lotion after you bathe and your skin is still damp., Stress can make your shingles more painful. try to do things that take your mind off of your pain by doing things that you enjoy like reading, listening to music, or talking with friends or family.Stress can also trigger an outbreak, so do what you can to avoid it.



Meditation and deep breathing techniques can help you relieve the stress of enduring a shingles outbreak, and may help reduce your pain.You can meditate by silently repeating a calming thought or word to keep you from being distracted by your thoughts.You could also try guided meditation where you focus on a mental image or place that you find relaxing. As you visualize this place, you should try to incorporate the smells, sights, and sounds. It is helpful if you have someone else guide you through the visualization process.Tai chi and yoga are also other ways to reduce stress. Both of these combine specific postures and deep breathing exercises., Your physician will likely prescribe valacyclovir (Valtrex), acyclovir (Zovirax), famciclovir (Famvir), or a similar drug to treat your shingles. Take the medication as directed by your doctor and pharmacist, and talk to them about any potential side effects or reactions with other medications you are taking.You should take these medications as soon as possible so that they will be effective. This is why you should get to your doctor as soon as your rash appears., The pain you feel during a shingles outbreak should be brief, but it may be intense. Depending on the level of pain and your medical history, your doctor may prescribe something with codeine, or a medication that will manage long term pain such as an anticonvulsant.Your doctor may also prescribe numbing medication like lidocaine. It may be applied as a cream, gel, spray,or a skin patch.Your doctor may also inject you with corticosteroids or a local anesthetics to manage your pain.Prescription capsaicin cream, which contains the active ingredient in chili peppers, can also help manage pain when you apply it to the rash., Take cool baths during an outbreak of shingles, or hold a cold compress over the blisters and sores.Keep them clean with cold water and mild soap to prevent further irritation or infection.You should bathe with a gentle soap like Dove, Oil of Olay, or Basis.You can mix 2 tsp of salt in 1 liter of cool water and use a washcloth to apply the solution to your blisters or rash. This will help with any itching you are experiencing.