 Setup all the custom classes for different situations and different maps. On large maps with tanks (such as Downfall or Roundhouse), use a class with tank-penetrating weapons like the NT grenade and Bazooka/Satchel Charge, just remember your sniper. On small maps that have a lot of advantage sniping points, Castle for Example, will be an EXCELLENT place to make use of Bouncing Betties or a friend that will guard you while sniping.;
, This will help you learn which maps are good for sniping. Use your surroundings to figure out where you can snipe and where you can't. Camouflage can actually blend in quite well on some maps if you're prone in the shade and bushes, an example of a map like that would be Downfall in the trenches. If you can make yourself virtually invisible (not firing unless you have a straight shot) then you might be able to camp there for 1-3 shots although 1 is recommended while camping.
 You need to know how to switch weapons quickly, and kill rushers. Grabbing weapons of enemies you've killed is an excellent strategy and should become second nature. You should switch out your pistol (unless you have a Magnum or think you can take them) and pick up the gun (as long as it's a semi).
 If you can place them close to enemy entry points but out of sight, then place them there but remember to keep them hidden so enemies can't destroy them.
 Find some of your Xbox Live friends to help you out and go onto a private match and practice. The more you know about your weapons and their capabilities, the better of a sniper you will be.
 This means to put your reticle (cross-hair) in front of your target just a little bit. This will cause your target to run into your bullet and give you a pretty good shot. Just make sure not to go too far ahead or else you'll miss the bullet and s/he will take cover.
 This will allow you to gain levels quicker to get the better guns. You may use them up until which ever gun you want but it's recommended you use snipers for experience and use each one and complete challenges for the scopes as this adds a new competitive perspective to look into in the game.
 Make sure to set your perks to where you can use them to your advantage for each situation, just as in step one.
 Those are the most important aspects of the game. Whether you miss a shot or what not, you will get it eventually.

