 For areas where a backsplash is required, a post-formed factory built countertop may be more suitable, but for many applications, a do-it-yourself top will work well, offering you more flexibility and the satisfaction of doing the job yourself. Here are some things you will need to know before beginning:


Decide how large the counter top or work top will be. For example, a work-counter in a craft room may need to be 24–36 inches (61.0–91.4 cm) wide, depending on the size of the materials you will use on it.
Look at the colors and the effect they will have on the surface. Dark wood or stone designs are pretty to look at, but if the lighting in the area you will use them in is not sufficient, a lighter or brighter color may be more suitable.
Look at the exposure the surface can expect. For areas near sinks or where water or other liquids may be spilled, post-formed counter tops will help manage spills since they have an integrated back-splash and slightly raised front edge to decrease run-off from the surface.;
, Plastic laminates come in an almost limitless selection, from solid colors to realistic wood or stone designs, either very smooth and glossy, or embossed and textured to more closely replicate the material they resemble.
 Plywood or MDF (medium density fiberboard) are common materials for a laminate substrate, and each has advantages and disadvantages. Here is a limited comparison:


Plywood has a somewhat higher structural strength, and weighs less than its fiberboard counterpart. It can be purchased in thicknesses ranging from 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) to 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm), and comes in sheets normally sized at 4 foot (1.2 m) by 8 foot (2.4 m), although special order sheets can be longer. Plywood with exterior glue will be somewhat more resistant to moisture, as well.
MDF board is less inclined to warping, since it has no directional grain. Its surface is more dense, so it takes the glue a bit better than plywood, and the glue will not dry quite as quickly. Typically, MDF board is about 25-30% less expensive than a sanded hardwood plywood.
 There are a number of grades and brands available at building supply stores and home improvement retailers, so you can plan to spend some time researching and shopping for the product you will use. Plastic laminate comes in sheets, normally measuring 49 or 60 inches (124.5 or 152.4 cm) by 12 feet (3.7 m), but can be purchased cut to size for your project to minimize waste.
 Many retailers sell laminate with a thermoset glue already applied to the back of the sheet, but if you buy one that does not have this feature, you will have to glue up the laminate yourself. This is the process we will be looking at in this article. You should find two basic choices in adhesives, either a solvent based (very flammable, very fast setting) or water based (non flammable, slower setting) contact cements. Generally, you will need about 1 quart of adhesive for each 4 X 8 sheet or 32 square feet of countertop.
, You will also want to make sure you have the tools you will need to perform the work.
 If this is going to be a close fit project, you may want to make it slightly larger than you will need so it can be scribed and trimmed to fit. This is especially critical if you are fitting against an abutting wall or between two walls, as they may not be square (at a true 90 degree angle).
 Screw (and glue, if preferred) this strip along the front edge of your top. Make sure the edge is square and perfectly flush, sanding if necessary to perfect the fit.
 Usually, you will allow about 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) overlap so the material can be trimmed to fit after it is glued, since placing it with contact cement on it does not allow for error.
 You will want to be very careful to keep the plywood and laminate clean after you begin to apply the glue.
, The glue will cease to be tacky, or wet, to the touch. Carefully lift the laminate and place it on top of the plywood, aligning it as it is placed along the front edge and ends. Once the glued surfaces make contact, repositioning them is almost impossible.
 This will prevent buckles or bubbles from forming. Ideally, when the laminate is pressed down, you will have at least an eighth of an inch of overhang all the way around the top.
 If you are using 3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) thick plywood, you will want the edge band to be about 1 5⁄8 inch (4.1 cm) wide, and at least 1⁄4 inch (0.6 cm) longer than the edge it will fit on. Ideally, you will also want a factory edge to tuck underneath the top laminate at the corner, but if not, you will need to pre-fit the band and trim it so it fits tightly.
, Be careful, if using a tapered trimmer, not to set the bit so deeply that it scuffs the laminate below the thickness of the surface material.
