 Ahi tuna is sold in form of large steaks or fillets that can be cooked in a similar fashion to beef steaks. Look for deep red tuna steaks with firm flesh. Avoid steaks that have a rainbow sheen or look dry, also avoid buying fish that looks mottled or pale in color.


Buy a six-ounce steak per serving you need.
If you're using frozen tuna steak, thaw it completely and put in the refrigerator before using.
Fresh tuna is in season from late spring to early fall. If you're choosing fresh tuna, it's best to get it while it's in season. Frozen tuna is available all year round.
Ahi or yellowfin tuna from the United States or Canada is the best choice, since it has relatively low levels of mercury and is not in danger of being overfished. Bluefin tuna should be avoided, as the mercury levels are higher and it is being over-fished across the world.;
, Seared tuna is frequently coated with spices that complement the tuna's meaty flavour. You can use a steak rub or any other type of spice mix that includes ingredients like garlic powder, pepper and dried herbs. Try making your own spice mix by combining the following ingredients in a bowl (makes enough to coat one six-ounce steak):


1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1/4 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1/4 teaspoon garlic powder
1/4 teaspoon dried basil
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano

, Tuna steaks and fillets are easy to sear on either a grill or stove top. The key is to fully heat the cooking implement you're using before adding the tuna. This will ensure that the tuna cooks evenly and attains a good crunchy sear.


If you're using the stove top, heat a cast iron skillet or other heavy skillet over medium high heat. Add a tablespoon of peanut oil or canola oil and heat it until the oil just begins to smoke.If you're using a grill, light the charcoal at least half an hour before you plan to cook the tuna. that way it will have plenty of time to get nice and hot before you add the tuna.
 Each six-ounce steak or fillet will need approximately one to two tablespoons of seasoning. Pat the seasoning into the tuna on all sides so that it's completely coated. After you've coated the steak, allow it to sit out and come to room temperature before you place it on the grill or skillet.
 Tuna steaks are normally served rare, since the texture of rare tuna is more appealing than the texture of a fully-cooked piece of tuna, which tends to be on the dry side.


To achieve a sear on the outside and keep it rare inside, place the tuna on the skillet or grill and let it sear for two minutes on the first side. Flip the tuna and let it cook for another two minutes, then remove it from the heat.
Watch the tuna as it cooks to make sure you don't overcook it. You'll be able to see the heat cooking the tuna from the bottom up. If two minutes seems like too much time on one side, flip the tuna sooner.
If you'd prefer to make sure the tuna gets fully cooked, leave it on the heat for extra time.

