 No matter what kind of surgery you are going to have, it is important to be knowledgeable about all of its aspects. Knowing the significant details of your surgery can help you prepare mentally and emotionally.


Your doctor/surgeon should provide you with a lot of detail, so don't worry too much about doing extensive independent research.
Usually, most details of your surgery will be explained during your first appointment.;
, As an autoimmune disease, lupus affects you systemically. This means that when you are considering an upcoming surgery, it's important to take into consideration the various organs that can be affected indirectly. Your primary care physician and any specialists you have will know the details of your lupus, and can inform your surgeon of any additional accommodations he or she must make for your disease.


For example, if you have a joint condition, your rheumatologist will give you a recommendation letter about all the drugs you have taken because some drugs may interact during surgery.
For other affected systems like the heart (cardiologist), kidney (nephrologist), digestive tract (gastroenterologist), and nervous system (neurologist), doctors will give recommendation letters, including the details of laboratory tests, drugs, and any prior interventions.
 Some medications can interact, causing harmful effects during or after surgery. Informing your surgeon of any over-the-counter medications or prescriptions you take will allow them to monitor and prepare for any potential drug interactions.


All medicines including vitamins and herbal supplements should be taken down in notes including the dosage and the frequency on how many times you’re taking them per day.
Additionally, take note of any dietary supplements that may not immediately come to mind as medications.

Vitamins and supplements such as vitamin E, gingko biloba, and garlic can increase your risk for bleeding.
Herbal supplements such as Kava, St. John’s wort, and Valerian can interfere with the medicines that are used for anesthesia.


Stop taking non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 3-4 days prior to surgery. NSAIDs can cause excessive bleeding due to their blood-thinning properties. For this reason, it is always recommended that you stop taking these drugs at least three days prior to surgery.
NSAIDs include medication such as ibuprofen (Advil) and acetaminophen (Tylenol).
However, some NSAIDs can still be continued, as they do not cause the blood to thin. These include non-acetylated salicylates such as salsalate, diflusinal, and magnesium trisalycylate.
In any case, follow the advice of your doctor or surgeon.
 Some steroids, called “stress doses”, are given during surgery to control inflammation and swelling. However, if you have been taking steroids on your own 3 weeks prior to surgery, the surgeon may not give stress doses in order to avoid complications such as adrenal insufficiency. Informing your surgeon of personal steroid use can help prevent serious complications.


Steroids taken for long periods of time can result serious side effects such as Cushing’s syndrome.
 Prescription blood thinner medications such as Warfarin, Clopidogrel, Apixaban, Dabigatran, and Fondaparinux can be taken by individuals with lupus, with the approval of their doctor and surgeon. The decision to take these blood thinners prior to surgery should only be made with your doctor's specific knowledge of your condition.


The doctor who prescribed your blood thinners will be the one responsible to communicate to the surgeon what to do with the medications before surgery.
 Raynaud's is a condition that causes your extremities (fingers, toes, tip of the nose, and ears) to feel numb, especially when exposed to cold temperatures. It causes small arteries to narrow, limiting circulation of blood in those areas. The operating room could be cold, and Raynaud’s phenomenon could disrupt normal blood flow to your arteries and veins, interfering with the surgery.


If untreated, this could lead to death of the tissues in the finger, rendering them useless and prone to gangrene/infection.
By informing your doctors of this condition, special care will be taken to ensure a warmer temperature or provide sufficient blankets to maintain a safe body temperature.
 Sjögren's is an autoimmune disease that affects the exocrine glands in the body, particularly the mucous membranes and other moisture-secreting glands, decreasing saliva and tear production and causing the mouth and eyes to dry. The low humidity levels of most operating rooms can exacerbate symptoms of Sjögren's and severely dry out mucous membranes. It is important to communicate to your surgeon if you have this condition, to prevent excessive dryness and irritation of the mucosa and its linings.


During surgery, artificial saliva for your mouth and moisturizing gel for your eyes can be given to you.
You should bring all your moisturizers to the hospital to keep your eyes and mouth moist, especially after surgery.
 Getting an adequate amount of rest and sleep can relieve anxiety and tension caused by the upcoming surgery. Try to get at least an hour of rest directly prior to the surgery, and 7 to 8 hours of sleep the night before to relax your tense muscles and stabilize your vital signs.


You can also express your thoughts to your family and friends to relieve tension.
 Nurses and technicians will be monitoring and recording your baseline vital signs – this will serve as a basis for identifying any abnormalities and keeping track of your stability during surgery. During surgery, your vital signs will be continuously monitored. Taking vital signs is important in order to identify any unusual changes happening in the body.


Any abnormal condition will change the values of your vital signs, alerting your medical team to a problem.
 The type of anesthesia used will vary from case to case. Anesthesia is given to keep you sedated or numb for the duration of the surgery. This will prevent you from becoming conscious or feeling any pain.


The anesthesiologist is the one who decides what kind of anesthetic agent will be used during your surgery – it can be general, spinal or epidural, or local anesthesia.
The anesthesiologist will also monitor your vital signs to determine any adverse effects of the anesthetic agents.
 Also known as the recovery room, this is where nurses will wait with you and monitor your condition. They will stay with you until you regain your normal level of consciousness and stable vital signs.


If you are not sedated the nurse will continue to monitor you until the numbness goes away.
If your vital signs are stable for hours, the surgeon, anesthesiologist, and the nurse will decide that you are ready to go out from the recovery room.
 Right after surgery, pain medications will be ordered by your attending physician to manage your pain. Surgery can be very painful, as layers of your skin and muscle have been cut and manipulated.


Pain medications are given round the clock or as needed by the patient.
 Usually, symptoms of lupus worsen after surgery. Because your system will compensate to heal damaged muscles and tissues, inflammation is inevitable. Steroids and other medications will usually adjusted to manage any inflammation in the body.


These adjustments are made by your attending physician.
The physician will manage your case effectively to avoid post-operative complications and unwanted symptoms.
 You should ask your medical team about anything that you haven’t understood or about any clarifications on what to do after your hospital discharge. Don’t ever hesitate to ask them, as they can answer your questions honestly and help you to fully recover from your surgery.


Making sure you know what to do before leaving the hospital will alleviate stress and help you avoid confusion.
 Your doctor will give you an appointment a week after you’re discharged, or as early as possible, to monitor your condition for any abnormalities. Follow-up check-ups help understand your current condition and what to do if any untoward symptoms occur.


These follow-up appointments will continue for some period of time as you recover.

