 No trip to Cambridge is complete without going punting on the river Cam, and there’s no better introduction to the city and its history than a chauffeured punt tour through the College Backs. Alternatively, you can hire your own punt and drift along one of the most scenic stretches of the river at your own pace.;
, Cambridge has the highest number of internationally renowned collections outside London. The Fitzwilliam Museum is well worth a visit, showcasing a huge collection of classical arts and artefacts, and it’s free to enter. For contemporary art, visit Kettle’s Yard or one of the many independent galleries in the city.
 Cambridge boasts a number of parks and commons within walking distance of the city centre. There’s plenty of space for a game of Frisbee or football with the kids on Parker’s Piece, or you can challenge someone to a game of Ping-Pong on the tables at Christ’s Pieces. One of the most popular spots for a picnic is just across the bridge from the Mill pub in Mill Lane, where you can sit on the riverside and watch the punts go by.
 Cambridge city centre is jam-packed with bikes. The city and the surrounding area is perfect for cycling, with beautiful scenery and not a hill in sight. Many of the bike shops in town offer bike hire and there are some great cycle routes along the river. Guided cycle tours of the city are also available.
 From gift shops to vintage boutiques, there are plenty of independent shops to choose from in Cambridge city centre. Mill Road is one of the city’s busiest and most cosmopolitan streets, and is home to many independent businesses including a world-food store and some great antiques shops. The market in Market Square is open every day of the week, or for quirky handmade gifts, visit the nearby craft market in Trinity Street.
 Music is everywhere in Cambridge, and there’s a busker on practically every street corner in warmer months (be sure to look out for the infamous busker-in-a-bin). Cambridge offers a number of different music venues if you’re looking to go out in the evening, catering to all tastes from pop to classical.
 Built in the early 18th century, the Pepys building at Magdalene College houses the world famous diaries that Samuel Pepys left to the college along with his library of 3000 volumes. Visiting hours for the public are restricted, so make sure you check the opening times beforehand.
 Standing beneath the fan-vault ceiling of the magnificent King’s College Chapel and listening to the choir fill the place with song is a truly magical experience. The chapel is part of one of the oldest and most famous Cambridge colleges and the regular choral service is open to the public and free of charge.
 There are some brilliant pubs in Cambridge, several of them hidden away down back alleys and many of them steeped in history. The Eagle in the centre of town is rumoured to be haunted, with the top-most window kept open at all times to let the spirits out.
 Looking for somewhere to stay? There are a number of historic guest-houses and hotels on the river bank, as well as luxury apartments with city views, all with easy access to city adventures.

