 Aside from carrots, other classics include apple slices and bananas. There are actually lots of fruits and vegetables that are safe for horses.


Other fruits horses love include: Apricots, blackberries, blueberries, cherries, dates, figs, grapes (and raisins), grapefruit, mangoes, oranges, peaches, pears, pineapple, plums, strawberries, tangerines, and watermelon.Whenever you feed a horse anything that has a pit, remove the pit first.
Other safe snacks include: Beets, celery, corn, horseradish, lettuce, pumpkin, rutabaga, squash, sweet potatoes, and turnips.
 Some horses will get especially excited by treats and try to gulp them down. They may even swallow with such voracity that they wind up choking. Break up carrots with your hands or cut them into small pieces.
 Include carrots and oatmeal in a recipe for cookies designed specifically for horses. Start by mixing 1 cup uncooked oatmeal, 1 cup flour, and 1 cup shredded carrots.
Stir in 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon sugar, 2 tablespoons corn oil, a ¼ cup water, and a ¼ cup molasses.
Roll dough into small balls and place them on a greased cookie sheet.
Bake horse cookies at 350 degrees for 15 minutes or until golden brown.
 A horse’s diet should regularly consist of plenty of roughage, as well as grain. Feed your horse a consistent diet with disciplined regularity.Ensure a horse eats one to two percent of their body weight in roughage every day. A horse’s digestive system is designed to eat grassy stalks, such as hay. This should make up the majority of your horse’s diet.
Allow your horse to replicate the eating pattern associated with foraging by simply making roughage available all day.
Provide grain in small amounts, twice a day. Not only are smaller meals more natural, they allow for better digestion.
Feed according to size, lifestyle, and season. If your horse is at pasture all day, you don’t need to provide hay. Winter weather may prevent the availability of grass, however, necessitating the provision of hay. (In the spring and summer, there will likely be plenty of grass naturally available to your horse if they have sufficient pasture.)
Make any dietary changes slowly and intermittently. Do not make any sudden or drastic changes to your horse’s diet. If you’re changing a type of feed, only replace ¼ of a batch with the new food every other day until the new food has fully replaced the old.
 Even sugar cubes, which are frequently used as snacks, are pretty unhealthy for horses (though they’re not dangerous, they’re simply a bit gratuitous in the sugar department). More importantly, there are certain things you be sure never to feed your horse. Don’t allow your horse to eat lawn clippings. There may be poisonous plants or pieces of yard debris in clippings that might cause your horse to choke. Certain lawn clippings can also cause dramatic changes to your horse’s digestive tract, causing illness or discomfort.
Be careful about cabbage, broccoli, and cauliflower. These plants can all cause bloating, gas, and discomfort if your horse eats a lot of them.
Avoid potatoes and tomatoes. While some claim these are fine, it’s best to avoid them as they’re members of the nightshade family of plants, some of which are poisonous to horses. Accordingly, also avoid feeding your horse any type of pepper.
Do not feed your horse chocolate. While there’s not immediate danger, chocolate can cause positive results on drug tests (if your horse competes).
Avoid bready items. Bread products, especially fresh bread and donuts can turn into a clump of dough in the digestive tract and block your horse’s bowels. Nobody wants that.
Skip the sweet feed. Even some foods meant for horses can risk an unbalanced diet. While meant to be fed as treats, there are simply healthier options.
Other specific foods that are unsafe for your horse include avocado, onions, persimmons, and rhubarb.