 If the style is noticeably different, it may be that the student plagiarized the most recent essay. For example, is the work considerably longer or does it employ more in-depth analysis than you'd expect from this person? This doesn't mean plagiarism per se, but definitely keep your eyes open for other signs of plagiarism.For instance, does this person usually make typos, but all of a sudden provides a perfectly clean essay? Does this person usually have incoherent or poorly formed concepts, then suddenly presents well-formulated statements?;
, If one sentence is simple and clunky and the next is verbose with complicated connections, it's likely those sentences came from two different sources. Watch for these changes throughout the paper, as many times students will interweave other sources into their own writing.You may also note that points of view shift or that the student abruptly ends thoughts by switching to another topic.
Also, look for a weak start and end with an amazing middle, or some other mix of weak and strong areas. While this mixture can be a sign of a student struggling to shape an essay logically, it can also be a sign of plagiarism if a student has cut and paste from various sources.
 When a paper is plagiarized, certain words may have different spellings. For instance, the essay may shift from British to American spellings or vice versa. Sometimes, a character's name in a novel varies slightly according to the version of the text. If words shift throughout, that could be a sign of plagiarism.

However, inconsistent spelling can also be the work of a poor writer.
 Of course, students may veer off topic in a essay just because they are not great writers yet. However, if the essay veers off so much that it's not even covering the main points, it may be that the student chose poorly when picking a source to plagiarize from., It's not always easy to find a good plagiarized paper. If the student doesn't read it well, they may not notice it is written poorly. Often, the odd phrasing is due to bad translations, as some papers may come from other languages., If you notice some concepts are way above the class level you're teaching, you may want to follow up on it. Of course, some students will be way above the current level, but it could also mean the student copied from another source.For example, if you are teaching intro composition and the student is doing graduate-level work, you might want to check their essay more closely.
 One way to catch plagiarism is to look for similar phrases across different papers. Often, students who plagiarize will do so from the same websites, so the same words and phrases will show up in their essays.For instance, you may find that when discussing a book like Frankenstein, a particular phrase such as "represents the monster within each of us," shows up across many papers.
 If the student uses more than one type of citation style, it may be that the student plagiarized part of it. Similarly, if you requested the paper be in one style (such as MLA), and the paper is another style (APA), it may be that the student plagiarized the paper.Also, check if the citation even exists. In some cases, students make up the citations altogether, or claim that a chapter essay in a book exists when it doesn't. Perhaps you have access to the book in question and can check. Check Google Books, or look online for article citations.
 Sometimes, a plagiarized paper will have details that are not current. For instance, if the paper references a "recent" event that happened years ago, that could mean it was plagiarized. Similarly, if the essay references someone in a particular position that they have since left, that could be a sign, as well.Also check for old resources, which may indicate the paper is older.
 If the student is copying and pasting into a document, they may not go back and make sure the font is the same throughout. If the font changes size or style, that may be an indicator of plagiarism., The font style isn't the only thing that may change throughout the paper. You may notice that curly quotation marks turn to straight ones and vice versa, for instance. Similarly, the heading style may not be the same throughout., If you suspect a sentence or phrase has been plagiarized, you can simply stick that phrase in a search engine, such as Google or Bing. Try putting quotation marks around it to search for that exact phrase, though sometimes that will turn up no results (if the student changed part of the phrase).If the text has been copied either verbatim or fairly closely, it's likely that the search engine will return some exact matches. Any online source that has the same text should appear on the first page of results.
 Many schools offer plagiarism software to their teachers. However, many checkers are also available for free online. You simply copy and paste the text in, and the program searches for plagiarized parts by checking it against other text on the internet. While these methods aren't foolproof, they can help you determine where the student got the paper.Turnitin is one widely used site for plagiarism checking. You can also try Plagiarisma or Copyleaks.
 Once you're fairly certain the student has plagiarized, save the evidence. Then, follow up with the student. Discuss with them the evidence you've found, and use the time to see if the student will confess to plagiarism.If you're not 100 percent sure the student plagiarized, you can also use the meeting to determine if the student actually knows the material or not.However, some introverted students may freeze up under these circumstances, whether they wrote the material or not.
 As far as consequences go, how you proceed is determined by your school's policy, but it's helpful to have the incident in writing. Discuss the consequences with the student. After you've met with the student, write an email to the student noting what happened and the action you took.