 To qualify for a full scholarship, whether you're applying for money from private foundations or applying to university scholarships, you need to demonstrate your excellence first by maintaining good grades. Most scholarships have a cut-off somewhere around 3.3 or 3.5 GPA, but you'll probably need more like a 4.0 to really stand out. Focus on keeping your grades very high.
 When considering scholarship applicants, boards are looking specifically for well-rounded students with dynamic presences and personalities. In addition to academics, joining an extracurricular organization can help to demonstrate that you're a serious and dedicated student.


Formal organizations such as Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) or Future Farmers of America (FFA) will demonstrate your commitment to a particular field, while also offering networking privileges and insider info on securing scholarships and applying.
Take small steps by joining clubs and school organizations early on in your high school career and becoming a president or officer by the end of your time in high school. Being a part of athletics, bands, and other types of extra curricular activities can be an excellent way of standing out.
 Well before your scholarship applications and college applications are due, you should start crafting a personal statement that you can use to apply for colleges, and tailor to specific scholarships as needed. The personal statement should introduce you to the organization by articulating your interests, your goals, and your personality. Many people use the personal statement to describe an obstacle overcome or a challenge met.


Don't use your personal statement to list things that can be easily found on your resume. Instead, use the personal statement to highlight your goals and your personal connection to those achievements and events. Where do you want to go from here? The personal statement should address that question primarily.
Revise your personal statement every time you submit it. You shouldn't use a single blanket statement that you send everywhere, instead choosing to do a little bit of digging and make your personal statement specific to the institution to which you're applying. How does your mission fit in with this school? With this scholarship organization?
Personal statements aren't the best time to start experimenting with form. You don't need to write an experimental meta-short-story full of $20 vocab words to try to trick the admissions board into thinking they've got a genius on their hands. Write with concision. Use the thesaurus sparingly.
 So you didn't go to a prestigious prep school. So you didn't enjoy reading in school when you were younger. So your parents haven't been to college. These aren't things to hide on your application, these are things to highlight. Scholarships are most often awarded to students who've faced an uphill battle, not students who've been handed a silver spoon. Don't worry about whether or not your application will look prestigious, make it true to you and your experience.

