 IVF taxes both your mind and body, often creating a peak of negative emotions. Counter this by keeping your life as simple as possible. Do not add the stress of a new job, for example. Recognize that you may experience medical and emotional setbacks.


Take a small journal with you into appointments and make notes about any actions that make you feel anxiety. Do you feel especially tense sitting in waiting rooms? Do you hate talking with doctors? Do you fear needles or other procedures?If waiting rooms are a problem for you, plan to arrive at the very last minute and communicate this plan to the front desk staff. You could say, “I get really anxious sitting in this room, do you mind if I do all of the paperwork via email beforehand?” In the future ask for morning appointments when the wait is typically shorter.
 When a mind is stressed, it may signal the body that it is not the right time to conceive. High stress can cause up to a 29% reduction in fertility, thus negatively affecting the odds of a successful IVF cycle.So, it is important to keep a calm mind throughout much of the process.


Listen to relaxation tapes on the way to appointments. Take deep, soothing breaths. Consider joining a meditation or tai chi group.
It is commonly stated that the most stressful time is the two weeks or so waiting for the results of implantation. You may feel the emotions of anger, hatred, disgust, and sadness. Schedule calming appointments for this time period, such as yoga, massages, manicures, and acupuncture., Create a mental image of what you want to achieve. In this case, visualize a pregnant you. Then, picture a successful delivery. And, finally, craft an image of the moment when you get to hold your baby. Repeat this series of images whenever you feel stressed or overwhelmed.


In many cases, positive mental imaging is as effective as physical training and preparation. Imagining good things acts like training for your mind, preparing it for a positive future., Meet with a counselor solo or with your partner or another support person. Schedule regular appointments to talk about your feelings as they relate to your experience with IVF. Counseling provides a safe space for you to release all of your pent up emotions, the good and the bad. , Eat at least three healthy meals each day. Bring filling snacks with you, such as nuts, if an appointment coincides with lunch. Carry a refillable water bottle with you. Exercise at least 150 minutes a week (30 minutes five days a week). Exercise reduces stress levels and makes you feel happier.


If you are a smoker, try your best to quit. Smoking can lower IVF success rates by as much as 50 percent.A diet low in red meat and high in fruit and grains has a positive effect on male sperm count and increases the likelihood of successful IVF.