 Be modest and ladylike. To look virtuous and sweet, don't yell or scream. Don't curse or be disrespectful. Just be kind to others and be nice. Courtesy and confidence is key.;
, It may be hard to cut out, but swearing is one of the worst things you could do if you're trying to be ladylike. Try making a deal with your friends about not swearing for a day. Just think about proving to everyone you have the will power and self control to actually control and think about what comes out of your mouth. If you're a person who swears loads, this is not a ladylike thing. Definitely say things like "shoot" and "idiot". Try not to use crude words like "crap" or "retarded". They're not okay. Try to make very calm and civil comebacks, not the regular old stuff. It'll take practice, but it's a huge step towards being innocent.
 Wear pastel clothes, like white, pink, grey, orange and brown. This will enhance your look of vulnerability and will make you look innocent.
 Make sure hemlines reach at least your fingertips and necklines reach the collarbone area. Invest your hard-earned money in a few quality clothing and jewelry pieces that you will need your whole life.
 Sounds complicated, but it's not. You could also try wearing a really light and clean top over a long sleeved white top. If the top you're wearing over it is very pretty and gives off the "baby doll" theme, you'll get the perfect, ladylike look. Experiment and play around.
 Make sure you use a conditioner and a shampoo that's right for your hair type (i.e. if you have thin hair, don't use a shampoo designed for thick hair).
 Don't leave too much hair on your face unless you have bangs. Don't feel like you have to pin your bangs off your face and do an old fashioned style -you don't. Just make sure your hair looks sleek and well looked after. Wash your hair a couple of times a week, and use a good and sweet smelling shampoo.
 They damage your hair. Try not to curl or straighten too much, don't use it too much unless it's a special occasion. Your hair can be any length, it doesn't have to be very long.
 As for hairstyles, you can do anything. Side ponytails, braids, buns, anything. Just make sure the style won't come out during P.E or anything, and that you won't have to keep adjusting it. Add a white, pink, or gold ribbon for a nice effect, and matching hair clips. The headbands with little bows on the side are very sweet and lady like.
 Clear coat on your fingernails; color or french pedicure on your toes. Don't let the skin around them get dry to the point that they crack, and stop biting your nails. If you polish them, go for a natural French manicure, clear polish, or even neutral, solid-colored polish. Don't let the polish chip off, and don't let your nails get too long.
 This will give you a bad reputation, and will harm you eventually.
 Try quiet and leisurely activities, such as reading, writing, listening to the radio and talking on the phone(not to much or it will annoy your parents).
 When you are at parties or at social events, you can flirt, but not too much. Just say hi and chat about nice things, like concerts, movies and television shows.
 Develop this kind of attitude.
 Having a selfish and nasty attitude towards others will drag you very far away from being sweet or lady like. Always have a smile on your face, and be willing to let people borrow things from you (but not to the point that they're using you).
 Everyone deserves a chance, so make sure you give it to them. Don't exclude people from games, gifts, or secrets, keep your promises and don't gossip. When someone gossips about someone else, politely tell them you find gossiping rather mean and would prefer not to. Don't be mean or hotheaded, always keep your cool.
 This is a difficult step, but also a crucial one. Being graceful doesn't mean you have to hate sports and walk on tiptoe. Just make sure you walk with your head up, shoulders rolled back and your back straight. Don't swagger, or swing your hips. It looks exaggerated and weird. Don't swing your arms either - keep them by your side.
 Don't drag your team down, participate.
 When necessary, voice your opinions appropriately and constructively. This encourages your audience to listen carefully when you speak. But if someone is bulling you you have the right to insult.
 You don't want to come off as creepy. Compliment people you wouldn't normally talk to, it's a good way to make new friends.
 i.e. Go to bed on time, offer to wash the dishes, bring in the groceries, clean up after dinner, etc. No matter how tempting it is, if you know there's something you should be doing (no matter how badly you don't want to do it), do it! They will trust you and let you do more things.
 Make sure you label and cover all of your school and text books. Try just covering them with clear contact paper,it looks a lot neater. If you really like patterned contact paper, try the metallic looking ones that come in red, silver, blue and gold. Label your things and look after them to make sure they don't get lost or damaged. Buy some nice pencils and pens, fancy pen or a cute- colored pencil. Make sure you always have enough of everything, constantly asking to borrow things isn't very lady like or innocent. When buying a school bag, go for light and neutral colors and posh brands, stuff that's good quality.
 It's important to be looked on as intelligent and keen at school. Try hard in every single, solitary subject and class you take, and always hand in homework(on time!). Don't talk during class(you have loads of time for that later, don't pass notes either-it gets very embarrassing if you're caught). Ask questions and participate in class discussions. Try to get involved with the school and its' activities, too. Reading up on background information about a topic you're studying is good too, and can actually be interesting. Help others if they're struggling, and don't suck up to your teachers. Just try hard, be punctual in everything and share your knowledge.
 A good goal to set for yourself is to try to get mostly A's in everything you do at school, including homework. Take notes, study for tests, focus, but most of all, come to school ready to learn and try not to worry about the social scene too much, after all, that's not what school is for. try to join extra curricular activities but only if you know it will not bring your grades down.