 If you've got a lot of books, they're one of the easiest and best places to hide a little bit of money. Hide a few dollars at a time in a few different books on your shelf. It's uncommon for thieves to mess around with literature.


Pick a specific page to put cash in with your books. If you've got a lot of money to hide, you might try doing it at your favorite page in a bunch of books. Pick page 88 for Reggie Wayne's number, or whoever your favorite player is, and you'll always remember. It can be easy to lose cash, so this is a good way to help yourself remember.
If you've got too much cash, use an X-Acto knife to cut out a cash-sized divot in the pages of a big book. Get a significant one, like Adam Smith's The Wealth of Nations, and cut out a rectangle from the middle of the pages, so a stack of cash will nestle easily into the interior.
Video game cases, DVD cases, and other types of cases can be a great alternative to books, if you don't have many laying around. Fill your old VHS sleeve of "Money Train" with actual cash.
 Roll up a fat stack and stick it in the middle of a toilet paper roll to hide it. Robbers aren't usually in the business of messing around with the TP too much.


Mark the money roll with a little dot of marker somewhere that only you'll recognize. This way, you won't try to use that roll and you'll be able to quickly find it among all the others.
 Pick something that you've had in your cabinet forever and have never eaten, and are unlikely to eat in the next ten years, and use it as a hiding place for cash. Here are some ideas:


Peel the label back and hide it under the label of a can of soup
Under cookies in a tin, or in a cookie jar
In a box of tampons or condoms
Buried in some decaf coffee grounds
Between the bag and the box of cereal
Inside an empty baking soda box in the fridge

, Aside from the kitchen, there are lots of other places around the house that you can hide a wad of cash from prying eyes. Try out a couple of these ideas:


Inside a guitar, or an instrument case
Under a lamp
Behind a picture in a frame
In a box of puzzle pieces
In an old pair of shoes
Behind a poster on the wall

, If you want to build your own money hiding place, head to the basement and find a good place to install an extra pipe where you don't need one, or a good place to install a couple of extra tiles loosely, that you'll be able to slot some cash behind if you need to.


Find a real pipe-fitting in your basement and buy an identical pipe, then fix it adjacent to the plumbing. Leave one end open and put some cash in it. Mark it with a marker for easy access.
Loosen some trim along the bottom of one corner of the floor, and pull it away. Keep cash behind the trim and put it back into place, fixed with putty or tacky glue.
 The best way to keep your money safe? Put it in the bank and only take it out when you need some. Money in the bank is insured against theft and secure. You don't have to worry about losing money that's in the bank. It's always the safest idea.


Open a few different accounts if you want to spread out your wealth and make it more difficult to find. Check out the next section for more information about hiding funds for tax purposes.

