 You should have a registered hauler carry the tires to your recycling center where you can either retread them for sale as a used tire or shred them down into crumb rubber.


Crumb rubber is shreds of rubber that have been broken down into 3/8-inch (.95 cm) particle size. Crumb rubber is used in a variety of applications including rubber mulch, asphalt, flooring, mud flaps, and many others. Retreading tires gives them additional life where they can be resold.;
, This will help you determine everything you need to really start your business and what you plan to do with the tires when you get them. The business plan will also help you secure any necessary funding you will need to start the business. Purchase all the specific equipment you need to run your business.


The used tire recycling equipment you will need will vary based on what you are doing with the tires, but could possibly include tread shredders, tread cutters, and bead removers.
 Make sure you are in compliance with all local, state, and federal guidelines for a business of this nature. You may have to operate your tire recycling business within an area zoned accordingly, and you may need specialized licensing and permits depending on your location. You should also secure general liability insurance to protect your business, potential employees, and all your equipment.
 It should be located within the proper zone as according to your local laws. You should have a building where you can house all your equipment and office tools as well as can greet customers. You should also have plenty of room to hold all your tire waste.
 You may not need to do this right away, but as the business expands, you will hopefully get more rubber and tires than you can handle on your own.
 Talk to local waste management companies to learn about the best places you can get the tires. Speak to all the tire dealers in the area and negotiate deals to get all their tire waste. Look through local directories to find other locations for used tires, such as metal recyclers where cars are crushed.

