 Coffee is a great and cheap natural product that you can use to dye your hair darker. Be sure to buy organic coffee as non-organic coffee can contain other chemicals.Make a strong coffee with organic coffee. You should make it too strong to drink and use a dark roast or espresso. This will provide the most potent dye.
Let your coffee cool down. You don't want to burn your scalp in the process!
Mix 2 cups of leave-in all natural conditioner with 2T of organic coffee grounds and one cup of cold strong brewed coffee. Always mix your materials in a non-metal bowl, as metal can affect your color.
Apply the mixture to your hair with applicator bottles. You can get these at beauty supply stores.
Let the mixture sit for one hour, then rinse. Your hair will now have a beautiful chocolate color.;
, This procedure might need to be repeated a few times for best results.Shampoo your hair, then pour strong brewed coffee (that is cooled) over your hair.
Leave the coffee on for 20 minutes.
Rinse your hair with apple cider vinegar. This will remove the coffee and help to seal in the color.
Repeat rinses as needed to get even darker results.
 You can use walnut powder or the walnut hulls. Walnut hulls will provide the most potent dye and tend to stain.If you are using hulls, crush them and cover them with boiling water. Let this soak for three days.
If you are using walnut powder, boil water and pour 5 tablespoons of powder into it (depending on the darkness you want). Let the mixture soak for a few hours or longer if you want darker results.
Apply the mixture to your hair and let it sit for at least 20 minutes and let it air dry. Your hair should now be several shades darker.
 This is also a great method for covering gray hair.Mix equal parts of sage and rosemary to one cup of hot water.
Steep the herbs for at least 10 minutes.
Strain the herbs from the water.
Use the liquid as a rinse, repeating daily until hair is darkened to the desired shade.
 This is best for brunettes who want to darken their hair.


Use three black tea bags in 2 cups of boiling water.
Allow it to steep for 5 minutes then allow it to cool.
Apply to hair using applicator bottles, then let it sit for about one hour before rinsing.
To cover gray, add an equal amount of sage to the water with the tea while it is steeping.

