 Since wet coughs generally point to infection or inflammation, it is important that you get rest. This helps you get better and reduces the risk of spreading germs.Take a sick day from work or school to rest your body as well as keep yourself from spreading your infection.;
, Use a vaporizer or humidifier to make the air in your home more humid. If you don't have these things, take a hot shower or boil water on the stove.


If you take a hot shower, close the bathroom door to trap the steam inside. This can help you breathe better because it helps loosen congestion.
 Drinking a lot of fluids helps your cough by reducing the congestion. Try to drink water all day long. In addition to water, try hot beverages such as tea or warm water.You can also drink juice, clear chicken or vegetable broth, or brothy chicken soup., When you are feeling sick, eat small meals full of food that are easily digestible. Foods to avoid are those high in fiber and fat. Also make sure you eat often. This gives your body a continuous energy supply, which helps your immune system fight infection.Eat quality proteins, like fish and poultry, as well as eggs and complex carbohydrates.
 Ointments that contain camphor and menthol provide relief for coughs. They act as expectorants, which leads to a decreased cough. Try Vick’s VapoRub, Mentholatum, or a similar topical ointment.


Rub a small amount onto your chest and around your nose. The smell and exposure to the menthol will help loosen your cough.
 If these treatments don’t give you any relief within five to seven days, make an appointment to see a physician. You may be dealing with a more complicated situation.


If your phlegm is a greenish-yellow, you are wheezing, or you hear a whistling sound, you may want to see a doctor. If you experience these symptoms along with a fever, you need immediate treatment.
These treatments can be used along with pain relievers, antibiotics, and other treatments. If you are already seeing a physician, continue with those treatments along with steam treatments.

