 Often times people will get into arguments and you may feel as if you are done with that person. However, these feelings aren't always permanent. Before you do anything drastic, evaluate your friendship and think of the good and bad things your friend has done to you.;
, Avoid a scene or adding to the drama; try talking with them in private or even in writing over email. Handling the issues one-on-one in person is the best way to make sure you're both heard and understood.


If it's a person who you know wants to be your friend and you don't want to be theirs, let them down gently. A good thing to say might be "I think we should have a distance for a while. I really need to focus on school right now. I know you want to be my friend, so I hope you understand." Say it nicely.
If it's a person who does not want to be your friend and you want to be theirs, make sure you understand their reason. Sound sad, but not angry at them for their choice. "I understand," is a good way to put things across.
If you have been through an argument and you both do not want to be friends, you should evaluate this, because the argument may fade and time may heal it. If you're sure you both want to move on from the friendship, the transition should be fairly easy; accept your feelings openly and decide to "cool it" together.
 The best way to really cool a friendship is to stop hanging out. This may be more difficult if you have shared friends in common, or you attend the same school or workplace. But it's not impossible. Stop calling one another, texting, or hanging out one-on-one. In groups, stay cordial and friendly, but don't seek one another out. Just build a healthy distance, and your friendship will soon become less intense.
 Don't launch into a deep conversation with that person, but there's no need to be rude. Talk with your other friends and talk to that person if he/she happens to join the conversation. Instead, stay polite and say hi in the hallways sometimes, as if he/she were just a classmate and not anything better or worse. Do not give the person the cold shoulder, or they may start to be mean to you too.
 If the ex-friend is talking with one of your friends, therefore leaving you out, make sure you engage. Don't walk away just because the person you don't like is talking to someone else who you do like. Still, be polite so that your friend doesn't mention anything in public.Also you friend may question you about that person. Tell them slowly and calmly what happened,  if your friend is a good one they will understand.
 It's best to avoid making a big scene

, If a friend of yours is starting to become closer to the person you don't like than you, you may feel jealous. This is okay.  But do not be mean or cruel to your friend or that person. Instead try regaining the friendship with that person.
 You'll both feel it, especially at first. Just try to be polite and talk normally as if you were talking to a friend.
 You may eventually choose to be friends again. Let the friendship evolve naturally, and if you find yourself wanting to talk or hang out more again, just go with it. You don't need to make big public announcements; just let it happen.


If they want to be your friend but you don't want to be theirs, it is better to avoid making a big scene or saying "no". You can be nice to them, but you don't have to spend all your time with them. Don't feel bad. You can be polite without becoming best friends again; just keep the distance that you feel comfortable with, without being intentionally rude or off-putting.

