 Much of the time, tinnitus, or ringing in the ears, is caused by a treatable condition. Treating this underlying condition may help remove some or all of the ringing.


Have your doctor remove earwax from your ear. Alternately, do it safely yourself. Removing an excess buildup of earwax can help relieve symptoms of tinnitus.
Have your doctor take a look at your blood vessels. Blood vessel conditions such as impaired blood circulation may make tinnitus worse.
Have your doctor re-examine the interactions of your medications. If you take several medications, talk with your doctor about possible side-effects that could be causing the ringing in your ears.
 Several different noise-suppression tactics are used by doctors to mask the sound of ringing in your ears. These tactics include the following devices and techniques.


Make use of white noise machines. White noise machines that produce "background" sounds, such as rain falling or wind whooshing, may help drown out the ringing in your ears.

Fans, humidifiers, dehumidifiers and air conditioners also serve as effective white noise machines.


Make use of masking devices. Masking devices are fitted over ears and produce a continuous wave of white noise to mask the chronic ringing.
Wear hearing aids. This is especially effective if you have hearing problems in addition to tinnitus.
 Although medications probably won't completely rid you of the ringing, taking medications can make the ringing sound less noticeable if effective.


Talk to your doctor about tricyclic antidepressants. Tricyclic antidepressants can be effective for severe tinnitus, but have some undesirable side-effects, such as dry mouth, blurred vision, constipation and heart problems.Talk to your doctor about Alprazolam. Better known as Xanax, Alprazolam has been shown to be effective in reducing tinnitus buzzing, but is habit-forming and also has undesirable side-effects.
 Taking ginkgo extract three times a day (with meals) may help increase blood flow to the head and neck, reducing the ringing caused by blood pressure.Try taking ginkgo for two months before evaluating the effectiveness of the treatment.

