 The word via (road), is pronounced "wi-a."


Original Latin texts used the letter V in place of the vowel U as well (since the letter U did not exist). Modern Latin textbooks typically update the text to use the letter U for the vowel, and V only as the consonant.;
, Latin did not originally have the letter j, but some modern writers use it to avoid confusion. If J does appear, it is always pronounced "y" as in "you." If you are reading Latin as it was originally spelled, the letter i is sometimes this consonant "y," and sometimes a vowel.


For example, the name Iulius or "Julius" is pronounced "Yoo-lee-us."

, Unlike in English, each Latin letter is almost always pronounced in a consistent way:C is always hard, as in "cat." cum (with) = koom
G is always hard, as in "goal." ago (I drive) = ah-go
S is always a voiceless "s" sound as in "snake." spuma (foam) = spoo-ma
R is always rolled. This sound doesn't exist in most English dialects, so beginners can pronounce this as they would normally say "R."

, Don't get fooled by combinations like "th" or "ch" — they do not have any special meaning in Latin. Just pronounce the first consonant as you would normally.


If you want perfect pronunciation, try to include the h by making the following vowel breathier, as in "hot house" or "uphill", Apart from the exceptions above, you can pronounce consonants as you would in "proper" English (the form usually taught in schools).


Enunciate to keep the sounds distinct. For example, Classical Latin "t" is always pronounced clearly as a hard "t," never softening to a sloppy "d" sound.There are a small number of corner cases which are not important for beginners. If you want to become a Latin pronunciation expert, these are covered in the extra rules later on.
 The easiest way to learn how to pronounce Latin vowels is to read texts designed for students. Each Latin vowel has a long and short pronunciation. Introductory textbooks often mark the long vowels with a macron (horizontal line) over the vowel, so a is always the short pronunciation and ā is the long one.


If your main goal is to speak Church Latin, now's a good time to skip down to that section, since the vowel pronunciations are quite different.
If you cannot find a text like this, speak with an advanced Latin student to get familiar with vowel pronunciation. Most students learn this best through practice and memorization, but you can look up the complex rules for identifying long and short vowels if you prefer that method., Beginner textbooks either leave short vowels unmarked or top them with a circumflex (˘). When short, these vowels are always pronounced as follows:


A as in alike
E as in let
I as in lick
O as in off
U as the "oo" in foot

, Textbooks mark long vowels with a macron (horizontal line). Long vowels are pronounced as follows:


Ā as in father (the same sound as short a, but held for a longer time)
Ē as the "a" in mate
Ī as the "ee" in beep
Ō as in only
Ū as the "oo" in boot

, A diphthong is a combination of two vowels pronounced as one syllable. Latin pronunciation is much more standardized than English, so you do not have to guess at a vowel sound. These combinations are always pronounced as diphthongs:AE as the word eye. saepe (often) = sai-peh
AU as the word ow. laudat (he praises) = low-daht
EI as in ray. eicio (I accomplish) = ay-kee-oh
OE as in oil. poeta (poet) = poi-ta
In all other vowel combinations, pronounce the vowels as separate syllables. tuus (your) = tu-us

, For example, the word Caesar ir pronounced KAI-sar. This holds true for all two-syllable words., Latin poets relied on this classification to build their meter. Most Latin students learn to recite poetry eventually, and learning it early helps you with pronunciation as well:If a syllable has a long vowel or a diphthong, it is heavy.
If a syllable is followed by a double consonant, it is heavy. The letter x counts as a double consonant (ks).
If neither of those is true, the syllable is light.
(Some teachers refer to this as "long" and "short" syllables, but it's important not to confuse them with long and short vowels.)

, The second-to-last syllable of a word is called the penult. If this syllable is heavy, stress it.



Abutor (I squander) is pronounced ah-BOO-tor because the penult has a long vowel.

Occaeco (I make blind) is pronounced ok-KAI-ko because the penult has a diphthong (ae).

Recusandus (that which must be rejected) is pronounced reh-koo-SAN-dus because the penult is followed by a double consonant (nd).
 If the penult is a light syllable (meaning it has a short vowel and is not followed by a double consonant), it is unstressed. Stress the third-to-last syllable instead, called the antepenult.



Praesidium (guard) is pronounced prai-SI-di-um. The penult is light, so the accent falls on the syllable before it.
 These are rare or low priority corner cases that many Latin students never learn. If you plan to time travel back to ancient Rome, you can impress Caesar with these signs of an excellent accent:


Double consonants are pronounced twice: reddit (she gives back) is "red-dit," not "re-dit".
"bt" and "bs" are pronounced "pt" and "ps.""gn" was pronounced "ngn" as in "wing nut."Some scholars think the letter "m" at the end of a word nasalized the final vowel, as in modern French, and that the combinations "ns" and "nf" had a similar effect."br", "pl", and similar double consonants that "flow" into an l or r do not count as double consonants for syllable stress., Church Latin, also called Ecclesiastical Latin, has been used in Catholic ritual, song, and church pronouncements for many centuries. Its pronunciation has changed in some respects to match modern Italian, which, after all, is a form of Latin filtered through millennia of change. One of the most noticeable differences from Classical Latin is the appearance of these sounds:If C appears before ae, e, oe, and i, pronounce it ch as in chain (instead of a hard c as in cat).
In the same context, G is soft as in gem instead of hard as in goat.
SC becomes sh as in sheep instead of sc as in scold.
CC becomes tch as in catchy instead of cc as in accord.
XC becomes ksh instead of ksk.
 Church Latin vowels tend to have less difference between the long and short forms than Classical Latin. The exact pronunciation can vary by congregation, so if you follow someone's lead or go with your instincts, you'll probably be fine. Singers especially tend to holding the same sound for a longer or shorter time instead of changing the quality of the vowel. When in doubt, use the following system:A as in father.
E as in red.
I or Y as the "ee" in sleep.
O as in for (not as in go).
U as the "oo" in boot.
, In Church Latin, these sounds are closer to modern Romance languages:GN is always pronounced as the "ni" in onion.
TI followed by any additional vowel is pronounced as the "tsy" in patsy.
Exception: TI is still pronounced "tee" if it is at the start of a word, or if it follows s, x, or t.
 These two words are pronounced as though the h were a k: nikil and miki. H is silent in all other words., Church Latin still uses the diphthongs AE and OE, as pronounced in Classical Latin. For AU, EI, AU, and EU, make both vowel sounds distinct. If stressed in a song, hold the note on the first vowel sound, and move through the second for a moment at the end.EI is pronounced as a diphthong (one sound) only in the word Hei.

