 As a student affected by a mood disorder, you have certain rights as set forth by your country’s educational system. In the United States, high school and college students with bipolar are protected by two federal laws: Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). If you live in another country, you can talk with the disabilities or guidance counselor at your school to learn more about your rights.


In most cases, your school will need results from an authorized psychological assessment performed by a licensed psychologist in order to verify your diagnosis. At that point, modifications can be made to your Individualized Education Program (IEP) in order to accommodate your bipolar disorder.Students may receive accommodations for the impact bipolar has on their school functioning due to medication side effects, sleep disturbances and problems with concentration or memory. You may be provided in-school counseling services and testing accommodations as well., Alert your high school or college instructors when you feel an episode coming on. You will likely have to take a few days for yourself when you experience a manic or depressive swing coming on. Talking to them about getting extensions for assignments or taking a make-up exam can help you stay on top of your grades without getting too overwhelmed because of it.


Ask your doctor or therapist for a note explaining your condition and why it is understandable for you to have to miss class sometimes. Keep this on file to use whenever you need to take off. Approach the subject by saying, “Excuse me, Mr. Thomas. I may have to miss class next week because of the symptoms of my bipolar disorder. Can we work out a plan for me to still get everything turned in even if I have to miss class?”, Map out your entire semester’s worth of deadlines and exams so that you are able to plan ahead and get work done early, if possible. You never know when an episode is going to occur, so getting work done before it is due can prevent assignments from being turned in late. Keep a calendar, in which you write your schedule down for the week, including study times, breaks, and social events and try to stick with it as much as possible., Some students work best under pressure, but bipolar students should avoid doing so at all costs. Not only is stress a trigger for episodes, but waiting until the last minute could be disastrous. If you have an episode during the day you are supposed to study, you can go into the test unprepared. Instead, study a few days ahead of time, and then just brush up on the material the day before., It’s important to understand and accept that, with bipolar disorder, you may not be able to function and perform as your classmates do. Resist the need to compare yourself with others students and simply do the best you can. This may translate to taking on a few less courses in high school or college, taking summer school to balance out what you can’t do during the regular school year, and dropping out of some extra-curricular activities.


While it’s important for you to have a full and active high school and college experience, taking on too much can actually exacerbate your symptoms and make you feel overwhelmed. Sit down with your parents or school counselor to discuss what is feasible for you to take on each school year.

