 Desiccant is a sandy-textured product which absorbs moisture from the rose encouraging it to dry quickly and evenly. There are several products you can choose from, including borax, cornmeal, alum, and the popular choice, silica gel.









This method is also effective using sand.
 You want to be able to place your rose with the bloom facing up inside your air-tight container. Trim the stem to 2 inches, then test it in the container and make sure that it fits with room to cover the bloom with the lid.








If the rose is too tall, trim more of the stem to fit the container.
 Pour 2 inches of desiccant into the container. Push the rose stem into the desiccant so that the rose stands in place with the bloom facing up.








If you are drying more than one rose in a container, make sure there is at least one inch of space between the roses.
 Using a small cup, pour more desiccant over the bloom to cover the rose. Be sure that the desiccant fills between the petals. If the rose falls to the side, use a spoon to right it until it is balanced again.
 Cover the container with an airtight lid. You may also want to run some masking tape over the edges for extra security. Let the standard roses sit for 2 weeks. Mini roses should dry after 1 week.








Write the date you sealed the container on the side of the container with a pen.
 Gently pour the container out into an oven pan. Pick up the rose by the stem and shake off the excess desiccant until the rose is clean. Gently brush the petals off if the dust persists.








If some residue is still stuck to the rose, pour a stream of desiccant over the trouble areas to drive the residue from the rose.
Pouring the silica desiccant into an oven pan preps you for baking the silica for reuse.
 Silica desiccant shows signs of moisture by fading or changing in color. If it has faded, blue is turning into pink, or orange is turning green, you will want to dry it out by baking the desiccant.








Pour the desiccant into a microwave safe bowl. Set your microwave to medium heat or defrost. Cook the desiccant for 2-3 minutes or until the color has returned to signify it is ready to use.
Remove the bowl from the microwave using an oven mitt. Both the bowl and desiccant will be very hot. Allow it to cool on a heat-safe surface for 24 hours.
If the desiccant is showing signs of moisture from a humid environment, you can bake it before the first use.

