 Meeting potential marital partners can happen when we least expect it. It can be at school, work, church, bars, or even a funeral. The important factor, however, is that the basis of the meeting should be friendship. If it is anything other than this such as trying to see if you can pick-up women/men then you are setting yourself up for regret. The meet should be based on certain commonalities.


The initial meet should be a basis of finding out who the person is and why they find themselves in the place that they are in. Note, physical attraction is at the forefront of relationship disasters. Stay away from meeting a potential partner based on physical attributes; instead look for personality and character qualities.





;
, In time, get to know the person, and if you 'roll in the same circles', have a similar or common vision and feel that you can submit to one another then it's time to make known to that person that you think of them as a valued partner. A marriage is a business partnership.
 Find out things about each other that you must learn to deal with and live with. All this while, refrain from physical contact! Tough. The single most biggest destroyer of relationships is that it is based and founded on physical contact, getting busy, hanky panky... After ten years of the physical, which was surely great, what then does the relationship cling to?

, After figuring out the hard stuff, now it's time for the harder stuff. Working together towards common goals that you established as part of your vision statement, achieving these goals together in unison, and laying down a solid foundation for the continuation of the partnership. Sex and the awesome physical should be the benefit of the business partnership. The physical won't necessarily fall away in this kind of partnership as the main focus will be on the common course and not the physical. And even if it does, the glue that holds this team together is the vision that they have and are working towards.
 The most awesome thing that you can do to strengthen the bond and partnership in a relationship (that no-one should ever come between), is that you should be loyal to one another and do what's best for the partnership.

