 Try to keep it small—this will work better with a couple close friends than with 20 or more people.;
, You can make your own invitations, tell them by email, or you can phone your guests. Ask them if they can come, giving them at least two days notice. Then tell them where to go, when it is, what to bring, the time, and your theme.
 Make sure your room is tidy and smells nice before friends arrive. Split it into different sections to have separate work stations. For example:


your desk - face area
table - manicure and pedicure area
beds - massage area

, Make some face masks out of certain foods like strawberries, oatmeal, avocados, cucumbers, or bananas. You can also buy some at your local drugstore. Then store them in the fridge until your guests arrive.

Make sure you have all your lotions and potions.
 For instance, if your name is Sophie: 'Sophie's Superb Spa' and decorate it with images of face masks and nail polish and lots of sparkles!

, Some snacks to try: Sandwiches, crackers and dip, fresh fruit and veggies, yogurt, maybe even a few chips or lollies, and popcorn for the movies.
 You can either rent them beforehand, or get your guests together and let them all choose.


Pick out some girly films like Mean Girls or Legally Blonde.
, Have the spa treatments in goody bags for each guest. All the spa treatment e.g face masks, make-up, jewelry, hair spray, fake nails and eyelashes can all be in goody bags for each person. To make it more interesting for guests, make sure that everyone has a robe and headband. You want them to be comfortable and keep whatever stuff they have on their faces out of their glamorous locks.
 Pretty clothing should be protected with a larger shirt or apron.
 Wash your faces with cleanser or water and dry with a towel. Get a bought face mask or a homemade one (suggestions are in tips box) and put onto face avoiding near eyes, mouth, and ears. Then place some hair treatment or conditioner in your hair and wrap in a towel. After that put on a movie, you and your guests can indulge with snacks. Be careful of your face masks while eating though! Comedies and chick flicks are recommended and are the best choice, but make sure to choose age appropriate ones


Wash everyone's skin. Do the steps from How to Have Perfect Skin for School


, If it's sunny outside, go outside and dry your hair a little bit, and if there isn't, dry with a hair dryer, while watching the movie. Make sure to attach the diffuser!

, Brush for a full 3 minutes and then floss and use mouthwash. This will make you and your guests feel super clean!

, Don't rush! You have all the time in the world. Soak your hands and feet in water, then remove any old nail polish. Now go paint each others nails. You should tell the girls to bring all of their polishes before the party so you have a wide variety. Ten should be enough, but try to have as many as possible.
