 As a precaution, speak to a friend or family member about periodic check-ins during your journey. Since you’re travelling solo, it’s important to have someone back home aware of where you are and how things are going, just in case something happens. You can do this via Skype, email or any other communication platform you prefer.For example, you could let them know to expect an email from you every two days and a Skype session once per week.
Come up with a plan for how they should proceed if you miss one or more scheduled check-ins.
 Avoid taking heavy sleeping pills or anti-anxiety medication when you’re travelling alone. Unfortunately, you can be robbed (or worse) if you make yourself vulnerable in this way. If you find yourself unable to sleep or feeling stressed out, try to do some simple deep breathing exercises to calm down. Inhale slowly through your nose as you count to five. Then exhale slowly through your mouth as you count to five.Take the medication if you absolutely need it, but take the smallest effective dose that you can. Make sure none of the other passengers see you taking this kind of medication, just to be safe.
Many trains offer alcoholic beverages, but it’s unwise and unsafe to get intoxicated on a train by yourself.
 Unfortunately, drugging is always possibility and travelling solo puts you at slightly higher risk. For your own safety, always evaluate everything that you’re offered. Look closely for evidence of food tampering and discreetly smell beverages for unusual odors. Trust your gut – if something feels off about a situation, smile and politely decline the food or beverage being offered to you.


It’s better to err on the side of caution and you definitely don’t want to wake up with all of your belongings missing.You’ll probably be sharing meals with the other passengers in a common area of the car, so drugging is not outside the realm of possibility., Scan a copy of your passport, ID and any other important documents before you leave. Email these scans to yourself or upload the documents to a locked site like DropBox, which you can easily access from any computer. If anything is stolen from you or if anything else happens on your journey, you will still be able to access these important items.