 Excel has an embarrassment of riches when it comes to charts and graphs. This is usually a great thing, but it can also paralyze the user with choice. Which graph should I choose? the user asks herself. Here's a breakdown of the basic kinds of graphs or charts you can use in Excel:Column charts. These charts compare values across categories. Great for comparing sales and expenditures, for example, during a period of time.
Bar chart. These charts compare multiple values. They're similar to column charts, except their "columns" are twisted 90° and stick out to the side instead of up and down.
Line chart. These charts display trends over time. Use a line chart to track global production of steel from 1930 to present, for example.
Pie chart. These charts depict the contribution of each value to a whole. Use these charts to display the percentage breakdown of ethnicity in a given population, for example.
Area chart. These charts display differences in data sets over time. Use these charts to show how revenue and profit are linked for a year, for example.
Scatter plot. These charts compare pairs of values. Use these charts to plot the relationship between a person's weight and their height.
 Click on the "Chart Title" button in the Ribbon tab and select whether you want your title to overlap the graph or to sit solidly above it. Give your graph a useful name while still keeping it pithy. "GDP in Cuba, 1901-1945" is useful, while "The economic state (GDP) of Cuba, from 1901 to 1945" is probably a little too wordy.
 What does your x-axis represent, and how about your y-axis? If you don't pay attention to labeling your chart's axes, it's like you're creating a novel without chapters or an instruction manual without pictures. Either way, it will be very hard to interpret your graph.
 The legend is the sort of glue that holds a chart together. Without a legend, you're unlikely to know what the graph means because you won't know what information is plotted on the graph.


When you create a chart, Excel creates a legend by default, unless you specify not to. Your legend will be the column and row headers that you highlighted in the beginning while creating your graph.
Changing any column and row headers in their cells automatically changes their representation in the legend.
 Maybe you've accidentally input your information into the cells wrong, and your rows are mixed up with your columns. Instead of inputting the information all over again, simply find the "Data" subsection in the Charts tab (in the Ribbon tab) and press either "plot series by row" or "plot series by column."

