 Ironing on patches is one of the easiest ways to monogram, but you will still need a few special materials and tools to complete your project. You will need:

Shoes to monogram. Check the materials listed on the tags of your shoes to ensure that a patch will stick. Polyester and/or cotton work best for iron-on patches. Materials to avoid usually include rayon, nylon, tri-cetate, and waterproof materials.Iron-on patches that will fit on the part of your shoe that you want to monogram, preferably with adhesive backing. You can find patches at a local arts-and-crafts or fabric store or online. Look for iron-on patches for each initial in your name and be sure to buy two patches for each initial: one for each shoe.Iron.
Ironing board (optional).
Tape (optional).
Paper, socks, or other filler (optional).
 Start with your middle initial if you have one, which will make centering your monogram easier. Peel off the backing to the patch’s adhesive side. Center your middle initial in the middle of the target area on your shoe and stick it in place.If you don’t have a middle initial, line up the rightmost edge of your first initial with the middle of your target area, or the leftmost edge of your last initial.
When you stick the patch on, insert one or more fingers into the shoe behind the patch so it has a strong backing when you press it on. This helps ensure that the adhesive is firmly attached.
 To ensure that your patch doesn’t move out of place (especially if it only has a cloth backing), give it a quick heat-seal treatment with your iron. Set the iron to high heat. Then use the iron’s tip to press either the patch’s edges or center for a second or two, without using steam. Only use the iron’s tip so you have room to hold the patch in place with your fingertip as you press.Since your iron will be directly touching your patch and shoe, keep the contact brief so you don’t scorch either one.
If you’re monogramming the tongue, remove the shoe’s laces and free the tongue from the shoe. Then stretch the tongue flat over an ironing board and tape the edges down to keep it in place.
If you’re monogramming anywhere else, stuff the shoe with paper, socks, or whatever else to keep it firm as you apply light pressure.
 Repeat the process with each remaining initial for your monogram. Situate each one where it should go. Then secure it to the shoe with a quick press from your iron before moving on to the next.You can then either do the same for your other shoe or finish ironing your first one before moving on to the second.
 Place a sheet of fabric (or a handy piece of cloth like a towel or pillowcase) over your patches to protect them and your shoe from prolonged contact. Finish heat-sealing the patch to the shoe by pressing it through the fabric without using steam. Refer to the patch’s instructions for exactly how long you should press since times may vary, but expect it be around 30 to 45 seconds.If you’re monogramming the tongue, flip it over when you’re done and do the same to the back side.
Pressing both sides helps create a stronger seal. Unfortunately, the design of your shoe probably won’t allow you to do this anywhere else.
Pressing (pushing straight down) works better than swiping the iron back and forth.

