 Dip the gauze sponge in warm water to moisten it. Then roll the gauze repeatedly over a pile of ground salt as this helps to salinate the water that has been absorbed in the gauze.


The sponge should be rolled until the salt has stopped dissolving into it. The sponge is then rubbed over the tattoo for approximately 30-40 minutes until the skin is red.
Ground salt is a good exfoliating agent when it is rubbed on the skin - it removes several layers of the skin, which helps to fade the tattoo.
 After scrubbing, allow the tattoo to sit for two hours without washing the salty scrub off. Once the two hours are up, you should wash it thoroughly with cold water for 5-10 minutes. You may notice some ink being washed away as the area is rinsed with water.


In case there is any bleeding, it is recommended that you soak a fresh, clean hand cloth in hydrogen peroxide and then press it against the broken skin. This helps to disinfect the area and prevent any infection.
It is also advisable to apply a small amount of vitamin E over the area as this helps to promote healing and prevent the formation of a scar. Vitamin E also helps to reduce inflammation and pain.
 Use a clean hand cloth to dry the skin and then an antibiotic cream can be applied on top. Use sterile gauze to cover the area, which can be held in place using tape from a first aid kit. This helps to protect the area and prevent infection.
 The dressing can be taken off after three days and the area assessed. If the skin is painful or reddened, it may be infected. If this is the case, it is advisable to see the doctor or visit the nearest hospital.


There is also a likelihood of a scab forming on the tattoo after scrubbing - this should be left alone and allowed to fall off. When this happens, the inked area should appear lighter than it did before.
This process can be repeated until the tattoo has faded to your liking. This process works for old and fresh tattoos as well as the white, black and colored tattoos.
 There are also a number of creams on the market and that can be used to fade tattoos .It is advisable to do some research on these creams before you make a decision on which to buy.


The creams that are used for the removal of tattoos work by sinking deep into the skin and disintegrating the pigments that make up the tattoo.
Be aware that while some people have experienced positive results after the use of these creams, others didn't see any changes in the appearance of their tattoo.

