 Dividend stocks are shares that you own in a company. The company pays you your share of the profit in dividends. Some companies pay a fixed amount per accounting period, and many pay either quarterly or annually. Once you are paid your dividends, you can either cash them out or choose to reinvest them, allowing you to own more shares and therefore earn more dividends.A common way to choose dividend stocks is to invest in them through mutual funds or exchange traded funds (ETF’s).
You want to research the companies in which you invest. Purchase dividend stocks that have a history of paying high yields. But also consider market trends and think about investing in companies that may pay high yields in the future., Peer to peer lending means lending money to borrowers who don’t typically qualify for traditional loans. Popular P2P lending platforms include Prosper and Lending Club. These platforms act as a middleman between you and the borrower. They vet the borrower to make sure that they are borrowing money for legitimate reasons. Then, you can choose the borrowers to whom you want to lend. You can hedge your risks by lending small loans to many different borrowers with different credit backgrounds.With Prosper, the interest rate you can earn ranges from 5.48 percent for low-risk loans to 10.78 percent for high risk loans., Consider buying into certificate of deposit (CD) ladders and/or a variety of corporate or government bonds. This would involve buying into a bonds or CDs that mature at different years in the future, maybe some in 5 or 10 years and others in 20 or 30. This strategy protects your principal because the risk from fluctuations in the interest rate is spread out over time.


A CD ladder is an investment strategy in which you divide the amount you want to invest into equal amounts and you purchase several CD’s with different maturity dates. It provides you with a steady income as the CD’s mature at different times.The maturity date is the date on which the interest payments stop and the principal plus interest is paid back to you.For example, you can have CD’s that mature in 6 months, one year, two years, etc.
For more on bonds, see how to invest in bonds.
 The goal of an annuity is to give yourself a reliable stream of income during your retirement. To set up an annuity, you can purchase them from an insurance company. You can make a lump sum payment or a series of payments. Then the insurance company repays you in regular disbursements that can begin immediately or at some point in the future.Your gains on your contributions (the growth portion of your investment) is tax-deferred, meaning you don’t pay income tax on it until you receive disbursements during retirement.
Your contributions may be pre-tax as well if your annuity is an IRA or 401(k). However, you will pay a penalty for withdrawing from this type of annuity before the age of 59.5.
You can receive disbursements for a fixed amount of time, or you can choose to receive them until your death.
Fixed annuities earn a modest amount of interest. The amount of your disbursement is a guaranteed fixed amount based on the balance in your annuity.
Variable annuities are higher-risk. Your contributions are invested in a mix of mutual funds, and your disbursements are based on the performance of your investment.
Indexed annuities are a hybrid of fixed and variable annuities. You receive a guaranteed minimum payment. But a portion of your disbursement is linked to the performance of the market.

