 If you believe that you suffer from a sulfite allergy, the first thing you should do is check in with your medical care provider. In order to properly diagnose the allergy, you doctor may suggest a “challenge” test in which you ingest small amounts of sulfite. Your doctor or allergist will then monitor your vital signs and look for a drop in lung function, which signals a sulfite allergy. This test can be dangerous and should only be performed under the guidance of medical professionals.You may also want to keep a food diary and document the meals you believe caused an allergic reaction. This will help the doctor give you a diagnosis.
 Once you receive your diagnosis, it is important to create a medical plan in case you experience a severe allergic reaction. Your friends and family members will need to know how to take care of you in the event of an emergency. Tell them where your medications are and how to find them. Everyone will need to trained and capable of giving you an epinephrine injection if you experience anaphylaxis.Consider wearing a Medic Alert bracelet to let first responders know that you have a sulfite allergy., If you suffer from a sulfite allergy, it is important that you always have your medications on you. You should never leave your home without your inhaler or your epinephrine pen. Consider keeping them in a bag or backpack where you can access them easily. Having these items on you at all times could save your life in the event of a severe reaction.Some inhaled medications used to treat asthma contain sulfites. Make sure that you use an inhaler that is sulfite-free.
You may also want to carry an antihistamine medication along with you in case you develop a rash.
 Because there is no known cure for a sulfite allergy, the best course of action is to be proactive about avoiding them. Learn how to cook foods that are low in sulfites and become familiar with sulfite-free products. Find stores and restaurants that specialize in sulfite-free products. In general, try to look at your allergy as less of a burden and more of a unique lifestyle.If you will be dining at a guests home, be sure to let them know that you have an allergy so that they can plan accordingly.
Sulfite allergies do not decrease with time.

