 Summer is a great time to get more fresh fruits and vegetables into your diet because they are more plentiful during this time. Try visiting your local farmers’ market or a farm stand once per week to find fresh, seasonal produce.


Fresh fruits and vegetables are usually cheaper when you buy them from a farmers’ market or farm stand.
 Use an app or another resource to help determine how much you need to eat to maintain your ideal weight. For example, you can put together a personalized plan using the US Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Super Tracker: https://www.supertracker.usda.gov/default.aspx


You can also keep a written food journal. Try using the one offered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): https://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/pdf/food_diary_cdc.pdf


, From sweetened ice tea to margaritas, high-calorie summertime drinks tempt people of all ages. Make water your go-to beverage to keep your calorie count in check. Staying hydrated is also vital during the summer heat and helps offset salty summer staples, like hot dogs and chips.Drink unsweetened iced tea or water with lemon instead of high-calorie drinks.
 If you do go for alcoholic beverages, choose lower-calorie items, like dry wine, light beer, or cocktails made with no-calorie mixers, like a vodka with club soda and lime. Alcohol also lowers your inhibitions, so the more you drink the more likely you’ll be to eat unhealthy foods.Try not to drink before 5 pm, even if you’re on vacation. Drinking too early will make you more likely to laze around all day.
 When you attend summer barbecues, don’t hang out near the food table. Sitting or standing close to the food will encourage you to keep eating as long as it’s out, which, during a barbecue, is typically several hours. Do your best to find a seat facing away from the buffet and keep it out of sight as much as possible.Keep in mind that it is fine to load up on fresh fruits and grilled veggies. These are some of the healthier choices that you might find on a barbeque buffet.
 Burgers and hot dogs are barbecue standards, but they’re not lean and come with high calorie buns and condiments. Instead, look for grilled seafood, like shrimp or salmon. If no seafood is available, or if you don’t like it, look for leaner meats, like grilled chicken breast and turkey dogs.Try grilling seafood and other lean meats for a healthy barbeque option.
 Do your homework before eating out, whether you’re out of town or want to enjoy the patio of your favorite neighborhood eatery. Find their menu online, and look for choices that are consistent with your dietary goals. Knowing your healthy options ahead of time will help you avoid the temptation of a richer meal.Go for restaurants with menu sections that list healthy choices. Avoid fast food and all you can eat buffets.
 Designate a day or two every now and then to splurge. Sample local cuisine if you’re out of town or have an ice cream cone with sprinkles. Try not to completely abandon your dietary goals, but give yourself permission to let loose a bit.Giving yourself a limited opportunity to splurge can help you avoid overdoing it the rest of the time.

