 If the rabbit is new to your home, keep it inside the cage when unsupervised, and give it access to just one room. Choose a small room without much foot traffic, to avoid scaring the rabbit.Rabbit proof the room by moving electrical cords and houseplants out of the rabbits' reach.The cage should include some place for the rabbit to hide, so it feels safe. It also helps to keep one side of the cage against a wall.;
, If you just bought a rabbit, it's a good idea to leave it alone for at least three days. Provide food, water, and a clean litter box, but don't try to pick it up or play with it.


Some rabbits may take weeks to get used to the new home, especially if they've just been neutered or spayed.
 Many rabbits dislike walking on hard, slippery floors. If your rabbit is reluctant to leave its cage, try putting down a towel or rug for it to walk on.Stick to natural, cheap materials, since the rabbit may try to chew through it., Make sure all doors and windows are shut, and no pets or other people are in the room. Open the rabbit's cage door, then back away. Let the rabbit hop out when it wants to.


Shy rabbits and old rabbits may not want to leave the cage. Places boxes or other hiding spaces nearby so they can run out without staying in the open. Once these are set up, it's just a matter of patience.
 Sit quietly on the floor near the rabbit, but not right next to it. Talk to it in a calm, encouraging voice., Hopefully, this will make you seem small and nonthreatening. At this point, you're just waiting for the rabbit to approach you. This might take several long sessions if the rabbit is shy, so get comfortable.If possible, spend an hour or more with the rabbit.
 Put a sprig of parsley, a tiny piece of apple, or another treat on the floor, halfway between you and the rabbit.Leave them there for the rabbit to investigate.


Stick to one or two tiny treats. Rabbits have delicate digestive systems.
Once the rabbit is curious or brave enough to approach and eat the treat, move it closer on your next visit, or put it in your pocket for the rabbit to find. Pretty soon, you can hold one end of the treat and let the rabbit nibble the other.
 Once the rabbit finally approaches you, don't move or try to pet it. Let the rabbit sniff and explore as much as it wants. This is how the rabbit checks you out and decides you're friendly.
 When the rabbit finally approaches you and is done sniffing you, gently stroke the top of its head with two fingers.Avoid touching its ears.


Don't start by offering your hand, as you would with a cat or dog. The rabbit may get scared and bite you.
 If the rabbit grunts at your hand or runs away, don't chase it or try to keep petting. Once it comes back, try slowly moving your nose toward its forehead, while humming in a deep, soft tone. Some rabbits will let you do this even if they're scared of your hand., As the rabbit gets to know you, it will gradually get used to your petting. try gently cuddling the roots of the rabbits ears, or the top of the rabbit's back.


Stop whenever the rabbit runs away, gives a startled hop, grunts, or tries to bite you. Grunting may sound cute, but it's a sign of an angry rabbit.Win it back with a pellet or treat, while speaking in a calm, reassuring voice.
Avoid the rabbit's feet, chin, and nose until it is very friendly with you.Some rabbits are nervous about their ears being touched as well.
 The more you feed your rabbit and pet it, the more comfortable it will get. Once it's your friend, your rabbit will run to you for a treat or attention every time you open the cage.


Stay patient. Some rabbits are extra-shy or have had bad experienced with humans. These can take months to befriend you.

