 Although it may be enormously difficult to sit and talk with the other parent, especially during a divorce, you should nevertheless try to come up with a custody agreement on your own. Doing so will allow you to avoid contested litigation which could be protracted.


Experts recommend that you try to remember that the divorce was about you, but custody is about the child.Reach out and set up a time to talk. Try to meet when the children are not around.;
, Joint custody means that the child will live equally with both parents. You will still have "full custody"; that is, you will have decision-making power and the ability to live with your child.


Many states prefer joint custody.If you and the other parent could voluntarily agree to joint custody, then a court would more likely than not approve the plan.
 Labels like "primary" and "secondary," or "full-time custodian" and "part-time custodian" can alienate the other parent, who may believe you are trying to demote him or her in importance.Instead of using labels, discuss specifics. For example, you could propose having the child live with you Monday through Thursday and then having the child live with the other parent the remainder of the week.
 You will need to show the court a written (and signed) custody agreement. Try to be as detailed in possible. For example, a child custody agreement should consider the following at a minimum:which parent will have custody during holidays
the regular, non-holiday schedule
responsibility for medical care
the child’s religious upbringing
where the child will go to school
how the parents will communicate
how the agreement can be amended

, If you are successful in agreeing to a custody arrangement, be sure to revisit it every 5 years or so. People’s lives change—former spouses remarry or move. You will want to make sure that your agreement still suits you.
 A lawyer can be a stable sounding board during a confusing and turbulent time. Even if you can’t afford a lawyer, at a minimum you should meet with a lawyer for a free consultation. Custody determinations are complicated and important.A competent attorney is invaluable.


Even if costs are concern, some attorneys provide “unbundled services,” which means that they will provide limited services such as document preparation, legal advice, or coaching for a flat fee.
If at any time you are confused about how to proceed, you should seek out a lawyer’s assistance. To find an experienced, local family lawyer, search your yellow pages or perform an internet search for “child custody attorney” and your city or county.
 Generally, you will file your petition in the county where your child lives.This is true even if you live in a different county.
 To initiate custody proceedings, you need to file a petition with the court. Your courthouse should have preprinted, “fill in the blank” forms for you to fill out. Stop into the courthouse or look on this website.


The form will differ depending on whether you are seeking an initial custody determination along with a divorce, or whether you are attempting to modify an existing custody order.
 Fill out the forms accurately and completely. The forms may request financial information, such as how much you make in a year and the present cash value of life insurance or retirement accounts. Give yourself plenty of time to fill out the forms.


Some states require an online interview, which helps generate the appropriate forms. You may have to create a username and password in order to access this program.
 Once you have completed the appropriate forms, you may need to sign them in front of a notary.


You can find a notary by visiting your state’s Department of State website. Also, many banks have notary services available for a fee.
You must bring sufficient personal identification to prove to the notary that you are who you say you are. Acceptable identification includes a driver’s license, a passport, or a state-issued personal identification card.
 File the original set of documents with the clerk of court. Keep several copies for your records as well as to mail to the other parent. You will probably be asked to pay a filing fee. Ask the clerk to stamp your copies with the filing date.


If you cannot pay the fee, ask for a fee waiver and complete it. Do not be embarrassed to ask for it if you cannot pay.
The clerk will also need to sign your summons, which will be returned to you.
 Attach the original summons to the copy of the documents for the other parent. Depending on your state, you can serve them in a variety of ways:


You can pay the sheriff's office to serve them.
You can pay a private process server to serve them.
You can arrange for a friend or relative (not involved in the case and over the age of 18) to serve them. This person must complete a “Proof of Service” form as well.
Arrange for a friend to mail the papers registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, with delivery restricted to the other parent only.
You probably cannot serve them yourself. If you have questions about acceptable methods of service, ask the court clerk.
 The other parent will have to answer your petition. You should receive a copy. If you don’t, then call the clerk and ask if it has been received.


If the other parent declines to file an answer, you could file for a default judgment.
A default judgment cannot resolve all issues, however. For example, the court can modify visitation if the child is in your state but the other parent lives out of state. But the court probably cannot modify an order for child support from the out-of-state parent.
 If you want to avoid going to court, then you can request mediation. Alternatively, the judge may order it. At mediation, both parties meet with a neutral third party and work together to come up with a result that is acceptable to both parties.Mediation can bring emotional closure and healing.


Mediation often involves giving something up. Each party must make concessions in order to find a middle ground position each can endorse.
Mediation may happen earlier. For example, if no initial custody determination has been made, then the court may order mediation before deciding initial custody. If you are attempting to change a prior custody order, then you could propose mediation after filing the lawsuit.
 Since you are asking for full custody, the court will look to a variety of factors to determine what is in the child’s “best interests.”These factors will differ by state. They will be listed in either a statute passed by the legislature or in a court opinion issued by your state supreme court.


Courts will look at different factors, depending on state. Michigan, for example, considers: the love and affection existing between the parties and the child; the ability and willingness of the parties to provide food, shelter, clothing, and medical care; moral fitness of the parent; stability of the custodial environment; and mental and physical health of the parties, among other factors.Among a variety of factors, Kentucky considers the wishes of the child; the child’s adjustment to home, school, and community; the mental and physical health of all individuals involved; as well as the interaction and interrelationship of the child to each parent and to siblings.To find the specific factors for your state, search online for “best interests of the child” and then your state.
Understanding what you must prove at court will clarify the kinds of evidence you should seek during the discovery process. For example, you will need to prove your physical health, your willingness to provide food and medical care, as well as a stable home environment. You will also need to fend off attacks to these same characteristics.
 After a lawsuit has been filed, the parties may engage in a process called "discovery," where each party requests documents in the possession or control of the other party. They may also request that the other party answer questions under oath, either in written or oral form.You should think about what documents you want. Revisit what you need to prove in court. If you need to show that the other parent’s home is a poor “custodial environment,” then you will need evidence that the home isn’t stable or loving, or that the custodial parent cannot meet housing and health care needs.
To prove that it is in the child’s best interest to live with you, you will need evidence that shows your ability and willingness to provide parental affection and a stable home. You also will need proof of your mental and physical fitness.
You also should think about what evidence you will need to rebut the other parent’s arguments. If the other parent claims you have an inconsistent work history, bring pay stubs or a work contract that shows regular employment.
 The other parent may want to depose you. This can be a stressful experience, especially if communication has broken down with the other parent and you anticipate his or her attorney will be hostile. You will also be asked potentially embarrassing questions about your finances, your job, as well as your home environment and criminal history. The attorney will be gathering evidence to use at trial.


A lawyer can help relieve some of the stress by preparing you for the deposition. You should meet and raise areas of concern, particularly aspects of your life that would suggest you are not a fit parent. Examples include felony convictions, domestic abuse allegations, as well as the lack of a permanent, stable home.
Your attorney should sit down for a mock deposition, during which she peppers you with questions. Afterwards, you can discuss how to refine your answers. Just the experience of going through one deposition prep could settle your nerves as you approach the real thing., In many states you may have to participate in psychological testing or a psychiatric evaluation.The purpose of the evaluation is to assess your overall personality, including any disorders.


Try not to worry too much about the evaluation. It is only a tool, and only one piece of evidence that the court will consider.
 You will be required to voluntarily disclose various sorts of information: financial affidavits, a list of witnesses you intend to call at the trial, and any exhibits you intend to use.


Failure to make timely disclosure can result in the court disallowing the evidence at trial.
If the other parent has an attorney, then make disclosures to the attorney.
 Before the court can decide custody, both parents might have to meet with someone who evaluates their fitness to parent. The evaluator does not decide custody. Instead, the evaluator gathers evidence to help the judge determine what will be in the child’s best interest.You may be called to meet jointly with the other parent or separately. If there has been a history of domestic violence, the evaluator will schedule separate interviews.The evaluator will ask questions based on each factor used in determining the best interests of the child. For example, you may be asked, “How do you show love for the child?” You may also be asked how the other parent shows love for the child., The evaluator may want school records, such as disciplinary violations, or a record of the community activities the child participates in. You will need to sign a release for the evaluator to access them.The evaluator may also want a “home record.” This consists of information about the child’s behavior (outgoing or withdrawn), as well discipline problems and relationships with siblings., If the other parent contests the quality of your home, the evaluator may need to visit your home to inspect it.Home inspections may be announced or unannounced. You should ask the evaluator which one you will be subject to.To prepare, clean up the house as best you can. Get rid of trash, garbage, spoiled food, and animal feces. Hide racy reading material and firearms. Also address any hazards, such as exposed electrical wires or broken railings on stairs.Have one fire extinguisher on each floor and keep prescription medicines out of the reach of children.Stock your refrigerator and pantry with healthy foods., If possible, try to take notes during the evaluation. Jotting down the kinds of follow-up questions that are asked can provide insight as to any concerns the evaluator has about your fitness as a parent.
 If mediation fails—or if one party refuses to participate—then you should prepare for trial. You need to think about what the other parent will argue as well as how best to make your case. To find out the other parent’s strategy, take out a copy of the answer that was filed and read it. In the answer, the other parent will list why you shouldn’t have full custody.


Honestly self-assess. This may be the most difficult part of seeking full custody. In a contested custody case, the other parent will use anything potentially embarrassing or damaging against you. If you’ve had drinking, money, or anger management problems in the past, you should expect that those issues will be raised in a contested child custody hearing. You should think about how you can prove that you are able to provide a stable home environment for the child.
If you have had charges (or convictions) for domestic violence, alcoholism, or drug use, then you should seek a lawyer’s assistance. A lawyer will know best how to prove that you have rehabilitated yourself.
Look at the notes you made when you met with the evaluator. The evaluator’s questions may tip you off as to what the judge will consider most important. For example, if the evaluator continually circled back to ask questions about your patchy employment history, you can safely assume that this will be something you need to address in front of the judge.
 In court, you will need evidence to prove your assertions. Effective witnesses in child custody cases include anyone familiar with your care of the children, such as childcare workers, neighbors, or teachers.Match up everything you need to prove with at least one piece of evidence. For example, if you need to show that you are no longer an alcoholic, then you will need someone to testify that you have completed AA or another program.
Likewise, you will need evidence to rebut any claim made by the other parent. For example, if she claims to have provided health care for your child, then you should have evidence of the time she didn’t pay to have a tooth fixed or of other health needs that went unaddressed.
 To assure that your witnesses attend court, you need to issue them a subpoena. You can get the subpoena from the clerk of court.


Serve the subpoena using an acceptable service of process, such as mail or personal service from the sheriff.
If you know the witness and are on friendly terms, also be sure to call them and remind them as the court date approaches.
 Contact the court clerk and ask to schedule your hearing; provide an estimate of the amount of time you anticipate needing. The clerk may schedule an initial conference, during which the judge will ask questions to make sure all issues are ready for trial.


Provide a Notice of Hearing to all parties. The other parent must be served notice in the same manner that you served him or her a copy of your initial complaint.
 If you do not have an attorney, you should try to find the rules of evidence for your state. They should be online. Although you will probably not understand all of the rules, you should nevertheless read them.


Some states have special evidence rules for family court. You should also read them.
 Give yourself enough time to get to court. If you are unfamiliar with the courthouse or the parking situation, give yourself an extra hour.


You may have to go through a metal detector at the court. Prepare for this by not wearing a lot of jewelry.
 Since you are asking the judge to give you full custody, you should look as professional and pulled-together as possible.


If you can wear a suit, then do so. If you can’t, then wear clean dress pants and a dress shirt. If you can only wear jeans, then make sure that they are clean and in good repair. If you need to borrow an outfit from a friend, then do so.
Under no circumstances wear shorts, flip flops, tank tops, mini-skirts, or T-shirts with foul language written on them., You or your lawyer will need to give the judge a roadmap of what the evidence will show. The opening statement should be brief, but should summarize what evidence will support your claim to full custody.


Do not engage in argument. Emotions can run high in a custody hearing, but there is nothing to argue about during the opening statement because no evidence has been admitted into court yet.
 As the petitioner (the person seeking full custody), you will present witnesses first. The respondent (the other parent) will then have an opportunity to cross-examine each witness.


Do not ask leading questions.A leading question states a fact and then asks the witness to agree. For example, “You never spank your child, do you?” is a leading question. Instead, the lawyer should ask a series of questions such as “How often does your son misbehave?” “Do you punish him?” “How do you punish him?” Then the attorney can ask, “Have you ever spanked your son?”
Ask witnesses to identify any documents you want introduced into evidence. You must first elicit testimony that a document is what you claim it is before it can be admitted into evidence.
 The purpose of cross-examination is to either discredit the witness or to minimize the testimony by showing that the witness is biased or lacking in sufficient knowledge to testify about the matter.


You can impeach a witness with a prior inconsistent statement. If a witness ever praised you as a parent, then that statement can be introduced if the witness now claims on the stand that you are a bad parent.
If someone testifies that you and your child fight, then you can minimize the damage by highlighting how infrequently the witness sees you with your child.
Always try to remain calm. If you feel anger overwhelming you, close your eyes for five seconds and breathe deeply.
 You or your lawyer will summarize your case, explicitly linking evidence to the best interest of the child factors provided in you state’s statute.


Counter bad facts as best as you can. If you don’t have a clean criminal record, then concede that fact before highlighting the evidence that shows you have lived responsibly for the past several years.
 If you prevail, then you or your lawyer will have to prepare an order. Locate the appropriate blank form and complete it. Make two copies.


If you disagree with the ruling, you can file an appeal. You will have to move quickly since all states limit the amount of time you have to appeal. Typically, you will have 30 days or less.
If you lose, immediately ask for a Notice of Appeal form. Even if you change your mind, you can decline to file it or withdraw the appeal at a later date.

