 Let your friends know about the event at least one week before it occurs. If mailing out invitations, make sure that they are in the mailbox 10 days before the party. An easy way to invite college friends is by creating a Facebook event. Tell those invited to bring friends. This is a good way to meet people and to make your guests feel comfortable. Have a few close friends help you host the party so that they can invite their other groups of friends as well. This can also work with roommates.;
, Themed college parties allow guests to get dressed up and excited for the event. Cheesy sweater parties are popular at Christmastime. Guests can find sweaters at resale shops, cheaper retail venues, or even in the closet of a friend or parent. Painting sweatshirts is another option for the more creative guests. To avoid awkwardness, make sure that everyone knows the theme of the party.
 Before setting up anything for your party, turn on some Christmas music and get into the spirit of the season. Wrap trees and shrubs in the front of your house with indoor/outdoor lights. This is not only festive, but will make it easier for guests to find your house in the dark. If possible, add a wreath to the front door. If not, tie a large Christmas ribbon around the door to look like a gift. Inside the house, place garlands on any mantles or unused countertops or on top of high cabinets. If a stair rail is present, twist garland around it in a candy cane-type pattern. Decorate each garland with gold beaded garland, ball-shaped ornaments and candy canes. Tie a bow at each end of the banister. On the main table in the house, place a Christmas tablecloth and centerpiece.
 When preparing food for your party, be sure to make it at the right time. Give yourself plenty of time to get the dish ready, but not enough time for it to get cold or melt. Start by preparing foods that will take some time to make. Cookies can be baked up to one day ahead of time and still taste fresh. If you do make them early, remember to keep baked goods covered so that they don’t become stale. Put chips and crackers into decorative bowls or baskets near the dips with which they will be eaten. Keep cold dips chilled until the last minute, and wait to make hot dips until a few minutes before the party. Fruit and vegetable trays should also be kept cold until just before the party begins. Individually wrapped chocolates can be placed in decorative bowls and mugs throughout the room as decoration and for eating.
 Chances are, not all of your guests drink alcohol and some of them will not even feel comfortable around it. To avoid offending any party-goers, consider eliminating alcohol completely from the menu. Use alternatives such as punch, hot cocoa, and soda. Be sure to keep an ice chest near the punch and any other cold drinks being served in case guests want their beverages iced.
 Music is an absolute must at the party. Be sure to make a lively Christmas mix ahead of time that can be played through a CD player or off of an iPod.
 When guests arrive, greet them each individually. If you do not know the guest, try to spend a few minutes getting to know them. Offer guests something to drink and tell them to make themselves at home. Introduce your friends to someone you think they do not know and help get conversations started. Wait until the last guest leaves to start cleaning up so that they don’t feel unwelcome. When everything is cleaned and put away, sit back, relax, and smile because your party is a success!

