


You never want to begin repairing a laptop or any electrical system while the power is still on. It could shock you and/or damage the internal components.;
,

It is located at the bottom of the laptop. It will have two spring loaded tabs that you pull out while taking the battery out.


This will discharge static electricity that can damage your laptop's sensitive components.



Some screws will not come off, they are simply unscrewed, but remain attached to the hole that it is in, when you take the door off.
 Take a picture.



The RAM card is a small rectangular circuit board, held in to a silver housing.
Where you see the screwdrivers touching, you must push those tabs out and the RAM card will pop up.
When pulling these out you want to push the tabs out on each side and the RAM card will pop up and you can pull it out very easily.
You should never have to force the RAM cards out.
 Take a picture.


Easily pulled out from its connection.
 Use the computer chip lifter.

You can pop the edges out, when running the computer chip lifter by the joints.
 Take a picture


Unscrew the screws that are holding it to the laptop.
The is a strip connector in the motherboard that can break if yanked.
There will be a plastic lock that has two locking tabs you must pull those out in order for it to let the strip loose.


screws are not connected to the keyboard itself, but to the face-plate directly under where the keyboard was.
,


Unscrew its screw.
Put a paper clip in its manual open hole and the DVD drive will be able to be pulled out.
 Take a picture.


Cords from the power button and the touch pad will be attached to the motherboard. These need to be pulled off before you can pull it off entirely.
Once those have been disconnected pull off the top plat by its edges.
Once that is off the motherboard will be exposed.
 Take a picture.
 Take a picture,, Take a picture, possibly more than one in order to get all of the details.


The DC jack will look like this.
 Take a picture.
,

The motherboard will have to be played with a little in order to get it in. It will go in in the exact same way it was taken out.
Sometimes, depending on the laptop that you have, the headphone and mic jacks, the ethernet cord port will have an opening in the chassis that you can fit in.
During this process, try not to flex the motherboard too much.


This usually includes: touch pad, keyboard, power button, usb cords, Wired internet cords, wifi adapter. Anything that you unplugged while taking the motherboard out.
Reference the pictures you took during dis-assembly

,

The fan will go in same way it came out.


Be sure to plug in its cords while connecting it.
The joints will be connecting to eachother and slicking when they have been connected. That is how you know the chassis and face-plate are connected.


Be sure to plug in its strip to the motherboard before laying it flat and screwing it in.
This goes in, in the opposite of its removal. You will have to connect the strip to the locking tab.
After you connect the strip connector to the locking tabs. Give it a very light tug to make sure it is locked in.
,

It will slide right in to the slot.
There is a screw that holds the DVD drive to the bottom of the laptop, it will be a small screw. Screw that in now.


Slide Ram into its port the opposite way that it was removed and when you hear a click, its in.


The hard drive will slide in very easily just as it was pulled out.
, Before beginning the repair search the type of DC jack within your specific laptop.
If some screws don't go back in, you may have gotten confused with the screws. Different parts of the laptop carry different sized screws.
Most times the laptop doesn't need half the screws in it, the screws make it stronger against drops. You can purchase the screws in most electronic and/or computer repair stores.
If after the repair is complete and the laptop still does not charge or turn on, you may have had another problem. Take a look at the Related Article about diagnosing this problem. The problem could have a simple fix.
If the keyboard is not working, you will have to remove the keyboard and make sure that the strip connector is locked in.
If the DVD drive doesn't slide into its slot smoothly, don't try to jam it in that could damage a cord. Use the computer chip lifter to move the cords out of the way of the DVD drive.

