 To keep kids entertained during the wedding, set up a scavenger hunt involving disposable cameras. Write out a list of several items the kids have to locate and snap on their cameras during the wedding. The first kid to get all the items on the list will then win a prize.For example, you may write, “Find a white flower” or “Get a picture with the groom.”

, If your wedding is going to be outdoors, set up a sports center for the kids to play in during the reception. You could set up sports games like lawn bowling or mini golf. Or you could put out soccer balls, basketballs, and softballs for the kids to play with.You could also arrange old fashioned races at the reception to wear out the kids and keep them busy. For example, you may set up three legged races, a sock hop, or a relay race.
 You can also encourage the kids to get into the craft area at the wedding by holding a contest where the winner’s craft is displayed at the bride and groom table. This can help to motivate the kids to work hard on their crafts and reward them for being diligent in the craft corner during the wedding.


For example, say to the kids, “We’re holding a craft contest. Whoever makes the most detailed craft will win a chance to display it at the bride and groom table.”
Alternatively, you could reward all of the kids by displaying all of their crafts at the bride and groom table. This may be a better way to be inclusive and encouraging to all the kids at the wedding.
 Another fun way to keep kids entertained is to have a dance off just for them. Maybe you have the wedding DJ invite all the kids to the dance floor and encourage them to dance to kid-friendly songs in a big circle. This could be a fun way to get the kids to feel special and included. It will also help them to burn off energy and keep them occupied while the adults are interacting.Hiring a good DJ will make having the dance off much easier. Look for a DJ who can cater to adults and kids. Make sure the DJ has kid-friendly songs on their playlist.
 If you do not want to stress about creating activities for the kids yourself, hire professional kid entertainment for the wedding. You may hire a magician or a clown for the kids. Or you may look for a professional balloon animal maker or a professional all around kid entertainer.Ask your wedding planner for recommendations for a professional entertainer. You can also search for kid-friendly entertainers in your area online or through bridal magazines.

