 For your first book, cardboard is easy to work with. Once you get the hang of it, you can move to wood or game boards.









The cover needs to be 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) wider and ½ inch (1.25 cm) longer than the inside pages. If you are using printer paper, it should be 8 ¾" x 11 ½" (22.2 x 31 cm).;
, Then, sew them together at the crease in a figure-8 pattern. Make sure you start and end at the same point and the knot faces inside. This will create a spine.









1/4" (0.6 cm) is an adequate width.
 Make sure they are properly aligned. Press them down between some heavy books and measure the width of the spine.









Once they are flattened, sew the stacks together using the same formation.
 It should be as long as the pages and ¾" (2 cm) wider than the spine.
 Use plenty, but not so much that it drips. Stick the fabric to the spine of the pages. Pull it tight. Run a ruler along it to smooth out any bubbles.









Place the book between sheets of wax paper and underneath a heavy book or two. Wait for the glue to dry. Allow it 20 minutes or so.
 Before you do this, make sure the glue from the fabric is dry. Also, be sure the pieces of cardboard are aligned with each other and also with the spine.
 They should be as long as the cardboard pieces and ¾ of an inch (2 cm) wider than the piece of fabric holding the pages together. Glue these to the spine on top of the cardboard and press them into the first piece of fabric.









Again, place the book between pieces of wax paper and underneath the heavy books. Wait to dry.
 It should be 2 inches (5 cm) wider than both the covers and the spine combined, and two inches longer than the cover.
 Make four slits in the paper to allot for the spine (which cannot be folded over upon), removing any excess.









Cut the paper so the spine is covered but so there is no paper directly above or below it. You should now have four flaps — two above the book and two below.
Fold these flaps down and glue them to the inside cover.
 They should be 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) narrower than the cover and ½ inch (1.25 cm) shorter. Glue it to the inside cover so that it covers what the cover paper doesn't, and so that it sits flush to the spine.









After all of it is dry, decorate it however you want!

