 You could just be a plain old "Star Trek fan", but it's helpful to know that Star Trek fans have two names: Trekkies or Trekkers. There is some debate as to the appropriate term, however, and some Star Trek fans can take offense at having the "wrong" term applied. This article carries the title of "Trekkie" because it's more commonly used but the term that you choose is really up to you to decide, with a little help from knowing the following:


A Trekkie is sometimes viewed as a fan who devotes their entire interest time to Star Trek and does little else.A trekker is viewed by some as a very keen fan of Star Trek who manages to balance other interests in their life as well.The creator of Star Trek, Gene Roddenberry, referred to fans as trekkies.Leonard Nimoy, who played Mr. Spock, prefers fans to be known as "trekkers".;
, Even if you're already an avid Trekkie, if there are holes in your viewing, now is the time to catch up!


Watch the first Star Trek series. The Original Series (TOS) are still aired on TV on some channels, depending on where you live. It is recommended that the best way to catch up on the entire original series is to watch them on DVD because this will ensure that you see them in the correct order. Keep in mind that the special effects are bad compared with what we're used to nowadays because it started as a low-budget show back in late 1966! Be kind in your criticism!

There were three seasons of TOS. All three seasons can be found for free at the CBS website under the tab "classic shows".


Watch The Next Generation. Once again, watching them on DVD is best, so you can see them in order. There are 178 episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation!
Watch the movies. The movies are:


Star Trek I-VI (1-6)
Generations
First Contact
Insurrection

Nemesis; and
The newest Star Trek movie (2009), it's sequel "Star Trek Into Darkness" (2013), and "Star Trek Beyond" (2016). Even if you do not agree with the new movies, it still bears the label of Star Trek, but is actually an alternate reality and thus is still canon. That means it's a new timeline, and thus they are NOT prequels.


Continue watching the spin-offs. Deep Space 9, Voyager, and Enterprise. Be sure to pay attention to technology, terms, creatures, and characters.
 They are still being published and there are hundreds to choose from. Maybe at first just focus on the books to accompany your favorite series. To consider yourself a true Trek fan and not a 'dabbler', you must have read some of the books.


One book that is a complete must-have is The Star Trek Encyclopedia. This contains detailed information on STV (or VOY), TOS, TNG, and DS9, as well as the movies. It is the Star Trek "bible". And if you're going to be a fully fledged Trek fan you're going need a reference book, for those times in the middle of the night when you absolutely need to go check what episode a certain ship was in, or what year Harry Kim was born.
Search for used copies of books in the science fiction section of your local bookstore, or check an online auction site.
 Memory Alpha aims to be "the most definitive, accurate, and accessible encyclopedia and reference for everything related to Star Trek." It can be found at: http://memory-alpha.org/wiki/Portal:Main. This wiki contains more information than the encyclopedia because it is constantly updated as new information is created. You'll need it if you want your knowledge to extend further than Voyager's fifth season, and being a part of the wiki means that you can collaborate with other Star Trek fans if wished.


On the internet generally, consider always using Trek themed usernames. For example, Klingonscienceofficer7777777.
 This is a must for the avid Star Trek fan! Trekno-babble is the fast "techno-babble" conversation that people on Star Trek always have that only a true trekkie could understand. You will be expected not to get lost just because they talk about all this future stuff. Some of the key phrases to pepper your conversation with include:


"Beam me up Scotty!"
"Make it so."
"Live long and prosper."
"That is illogical."
You're late to work because you had to go to the optometrist. On your way in, you happen to run into your boss and he/she asks you where you were. You can inform him that you had diagnostics performed on your malfunctioning visual sensory organs and the proper corrective measures have been implemented. You'll leave a lasting impression on his/her mind.
Know series abbreviations like STV (or VOY), TOS and TNG, etc. – these are musts. It would be so un-trek like of you to say, "I got lost in all that high future stuff talk." Instead say, "The trekno-babble threw me off."

Be smart and say long run-on sentences like Data.
Learn stardates. That way, if someone asks "when is the movie opening?", you can weird them out by telling them the stardate. See "Tips" on how to use a stardate.
Get into the habit of saying "universe" instead of "world". Instead of saying you're the "best mom in the world", say "you're the best mom in the "universe"!
There is a Klingon language, and it is helpful to learn it. Do not make up your own version of Klingon. There is a Klingon dictionary by Mark Okrand which teaches you the basics - it's a great way to be able to weird-out those people who are oddly curious yet skeptical about Trek fandom.
 Read wikiHow's article on how to do make the Vulcan peace sign.
 Any Trekkie worth their salt should know the Enterprise inside out!


Know what a Jefferies tube is.
Know how a warp core works.
 There are games you can play by yourself, with a friend, or in a party setting, all themed around Star Trek:



Memorize how many ways Dr. McCoy says "I am a doctor not a...". A good exercise in observation and memory improvement!
Memorize Star Trek trivia then have trivia contests with fellow fans. This can make for a great party!
Memorize the movies line by line. For fun, you may challenge another Trekker to a quote war. The first person to be unable to name a quote loses. You also should know which episodes certain famous quotes come from.
Same goes for episode names. Learn all the TOS names first as there aren't so many of those. Then try TNG. It isn't that hard, and it makes things so much easier in conversation if you know exactly what goes on in an episode from its name.

Play Rock Paper Scissors Lizard Spock.
 Look online for patterns if you can't reverse engineer or fashion a design template of your own.


Purchase a kit if you're not keen to make a starship or other Star Trek model from scratch.
Try to build a phaser or another piece of trek equipment. (Wear protective gear though!)

Make a Starship Enterprise out of a floppy disk.
 Star Trek memorabilia can be purchased online from hobby sites, fan sites, or online auctions. You can probably also find Star Trek memorabilia in real auctions and even in the attics of friends and family! Always be on the lookout for finding great objects to add to your collection.


Put Star Trek pictures all over your walls.
Create a shelf space to place models and other Star Trek memorabilia out on display.
Consider starting your own website with photos of your Star Trek collection for other Trekkies to drool over.
 Attending conventions which feature Star Trek, or include Star Trek fans generally, can be a fun way to meet other Star Trek fans and to really enjoy the spirit of appreciating Star Trek.



Go in costume. This is a must. All real fans have uniforms or other relevant costumes. Check online costume stores or auction stores for ready-made versions, or aim to make your own.
Be in character. For example, read wikiHow's articles on how to act like Mr. Spock, act like Deanna Troi, and act like Julian Bashir.
 If you're good at baking, creating cakes and cookies in the shapes of Star Trek characters, symbols, equipment, and ships can be an enjoyable pastime. Upload your photos to a fan site or a photography site to share with others and inspire them.

