 Caring for a disabled rabbit is a major commitment and involves major changes to your routine. It might be overwhelming to think about what adjustments you will need to make to care for your disabled rabbit. Taking him to your veterinarian will give you a better understanding of your rabbit’s disabilities and help you learn how to manage the disabilities at home.


Causes of disability in rabbits include injury, arthritis, and genetic deformities.Your veterinarian can identify the disability and explain complications of that disability (e.g., lack of bladder control, limited mobility).
Your veterinarian can make specific ‘lifestyle’ recommendations based on the type of disability.;
, Caring for a disabled rabbit takes a lot of work. The work can be rewarding, of course, but you must determine if you are ready to make that level of commitment. Consider your current life obligations and financial picture: do you have the time to provide extra care, and can you afford it?


Do not feel bad if you decide that you cannot make the full commitment to care for your disabled rabbit.
Contact local rabbit rescue groups in your area to ask if they can take in disabled rabbits.The rescue group could then work on finding someone who could give your disabled rabbit the care he needs and deserves.
 When a pet is disabled, its quality of life may be affected as well. As you think about your options for caring for your disabled rabbit, consider how much pain he is in (if any) and how much he seems to be enjoying life. Fortunately, your rabbit can still have a good quality of life with his disability, provide that you give him dedicated and proper care.Keep in mind that not all disabilities can be treated. If the disability cannot be treated or managed well, it may negatively affect your disabled rabbit’s quality of life.It can be difficult to see your rabbit suffer from a disability. Talk with your veterinarian if you are concerned about how your rabbit’s disability is affecting his quality of life.
 If you have decided to take on the responsibility of caring for your disabled rabbit, you will first need to create a comfortable place for him to eat, rest, and play. There are several housing options: an exercise pen, a human crib, a dog crate, and a cage. Each option has its benefits, so it will be up to you and your veterinarian to decide which option will work best for your rabbit.


Factors to consider when deciding on a housing option include your rabbit’s mobility and his ability to control his bladder.Your rabbit’s housing should be free of obstacles and allow you easy access to him.Exercise pens work great for disabled rabbits, since the pens have a natural openness and provide your rabbit with freedom to move around. Pens can also be manipulated to fit different spaces. For a disabled rabbit, the pen should be low enough so you can easily reach down and access him.Human cribs are also good choices. In addition to being open and easily accessible, a crib has built-in supportive bedding and keeps your disabled rabbit off the floor where he could become cold. If you can, find a crib with wheels so you can move it closer to where you are.Medium- to large-sized dog crates work well for disabled rabbits who should live in a more restricted space. Crates are also very portable and provide easy accessibility.Rabbit cages are generally not suitable for disabled rabbits, but can be useful to restrict a rabbit’s movement shortly after an injury. Fortunately, accessories such as food and water bowls are designed to work well in cages., Where you decide to put your disabled rabbit’s housing can play a large role in his overall care. Despite his disability, your rabbit will still want to feel like he is a part of your family.Pick a common area of your home where you and your family members tend to gather, such as the family room.


Even though your rabbit will be confined to an area of that room, he will likely appreciate feeling like he is still being included in your life.
Make sure the area where you house your rabbit is not loud.Your rabbit's housing should be in an area where the temperature is constant and not too hot. The area should also be free of drafts and out of direct sunlight., Comfortable bedding is essential for your disabled rabbit. Provide him with multiple layers of bedding. The bottom layer should be something thick and absorbable, such as a small area rug or bath mat with a rubber bottom. This layer keeps the floor from getting wet and provides extra cushion.The next layer should consist of some padding, such as disposable puppy pee pads, to absorb moisture.Washable pet pee pads are also available.Make sure the pads are fragrance free.Place several white towels on top of the padding to absorb moisture. The white color allows you to see when your rabbit goes to the bathroom.The very top bedding layer should be a synthetic wool or fleece, which will wick away wetness and provide your rabbit with some warmth and orthopedic support.Synthetic sheepskin is also effective at wicking away moisture.For the items that are washable, keep a large supply so you can still maintain your rabbit’s bedding while washing what has become soiled., If your disabled rabbit is still able to use a litterbox, it will probably be more difficult for him to do so. When you go to your local pet store, choose a litterbox that is large, has a low front, and has a shallow tray. In addition, select a litter that has some traction, such as paper pulp litter, so your rabbit does not lose his footing in the litterbox.Litterboxes with low fronts are ideal for rabbits with limited mobility. If you are not able to find a litterbox with a low front, you can make one by cutting down the long side of a regular, rectangular litterbox. Cover the cut edges with tape so your rabbit does not cut himself trying to get in or out of the litterbox.You could also place a washable pee pad or rubber-bottomed bath mat in the bottom of the litterbox for more traction., Since your rabbit may not be able to move around very much, it is very important that you accessorize his housing in a way that is convenient for him. For example, place his food and water bowls near his favorite spot so he does not have to move very far to eat or drink.Choose shallow food and water bowls, such as low ceramic dishes, that your rabbit can easily access.Although rabbits can drink from sipper bottles, your disabled rabbit will likely find it much easier to sip water from a bowl.Make a house out of a large cardboard box that your rabbit can easily get into and out of. Cut off the flaps and cut dome-sized openings on different sides of the box.Your rabbit may not be able to move much, but he should still have some toys to play with. To accommodate your rabbit’s disability, stay away from toys that are large, difficult to manipulate, and have sharp edges.Good examples are toys are ring tosses and a small ball with a bell.If your rabbit cannot have a cage mate, consider buying him a doll that resembles a rabbit. This doll can provide companionship and comfort for your rabbit., A balanced diet is important to the health of any rabbit, but even more so for the health of a disabled rabbit. Your rabbit’s disability may have a negative effect on his weight and health,so he will need a constant supply of healthy food. Components of a healthy diet include hay, pellets, vegetables and fruit.


Feed your rabbit an unlimited amount of fresh, high-quality hay. For disabled rabbits, hay’s high fiber content helps prevent digestive problems like gastrointestinal stasis. Of the different types of hay (e.g., timothy, alfalfa, orchard grass) alfalfa is great for disabled rabbits because it has a sweet taste and helps with weight gain.Select high-quality rabbit pellets. The pellets should about at least 20% fiber, 12 to 14% protein, and 1 to 1.5% fat. Alfalfa-based pellets are tasty and high in protein, which makes them ideal for disabled rabbits.Vegetables not only provide important nutrients, but also provide moisture that is important for bladder and kidney health in disabled rabbits.Fruits, although high in sugar, can be good if your disabled rabbit needs to gain weight. Fruits can cause digestive upset, so add them to his diet very slowly and watch for diarrhea.Provide your disabled rabbit with unlimited access to fresh, clean water.
 In addition to the staples of your disabled rabbit’s diet, it may be good to feed some extra herbs and supplements to boost his health. Fresh herbs include basil, fennel, and peppermint leaf.Examples of supplements are rolled oats, pumpkin, and flaxseed.Another good herb is blackberry leaf, which could help stimulate your rabbit's appetite.If your rabbit's disabilities are causing him stress, try feeding him lemon balm or lavender to relieve the stress.Rolled oats can help your rabbit increase or maintain his weight. Pumpkin is good for relieving digestive upset.Talk with your veterinarian before adding herbs and supplements to your rabbit’s diet.
 Your disabled rabbit’s ability and willingness to eat are good indicators of his quality of life. It’s a good sign if your rabbit still has a good appetite and is able to feed himself despite his disability.If your rabbit wants to eat, but is having trouble feeding himself, you can feed him softened food (e.g., softened pellets, baby carrots, applesauce) through a syringe.If you have to hand feed your rabbit, place the syringe on the side of his inner cheek and slowly dispense the contents. Give your rabbit a chance to swallow the food in small amounts.If your rabbit does not want to eat, your veterinarian may recommend appetite stimulants to encourage your rabbit to start eating again.
 Although healthy rabbits rarely need baths, your disabled rabbit will have trouble grooming himself and keeping himself clean. He may get urine, feces, or food stuck in his fur,and will probably get stinky from time to time. Your rabbit will appreciate your time and effort to keep him clean.


To give your disabled rabbit some traction during the bath, place a rubber mat in the bottom of a sink or tub. Place about one inch (2.5 cm) of lukewarm water in the sink or tub and gently lower him in hind end first.Use rabbit-specific shampoo to wash only the dirty area (most likely his hind end).You may want to wear some gloves so you do not come into direct contact with your rabbit’s urine or feces.
Baths can be stressful for rabbits,so talk to your rabbit in a soothing voice to keep him calm during the bath.You can also feed him treats.Rinse and dry him off completely.If your veterinarian has prescribed an ointment or cream for your rabbit’s skin, apply it to your rabbit’s bottom to prevent it from becoming raw or infected., In addition to keeping your disabled rabbit clean, you will also need to keep his coat healthy and free of tangles and mats. It is best to brush your rabbit every day.If you do not have one already, purchase a basic pet comb at your local pet store. Position your rabbit comfortably in your lap and comb him gently from front to back.Carefully use the comb around your rabbit’s eyes.Part of grooming your rabbit involves cleaning his scent glands, which are located near his genitals. To find them, look for two slits on either side of his anus. Use a Q-tip moistened with either petroleum jelly or warm water to gently swab away any build up or discharge.It will be easier to clean his scent glands when he is on his back, so you will want someone to help you with this.Do not groom your disabled rabbit’s feet, since they are very sensitive., Rabbit nails can become very long if not trimmed regularly. About once a week, check your rabbit’s nails and trim them if they are looking a little long. Trimming a rabbit’s nails usually takes two people, but, since your rabbit probably cannot move around very much, you may be able to trim his nails on your own.To trim his nails, you will need a pair of pet-specific clippers (guillotine style, preferably) and some styptic powder to stop any bleeding.Cornstarch can be used instead of styptic powder.
Before clipping, find the quick, which is the blood vessel running through each nail. Trim a little bit at a time to just above the quick.If you cut the quick on accident, dab the nail in the styptic powder or cornstarch.Take your rabbit to your veterinarian if you are not comfortable trimming the nails.
 Since your rabbit’s disability might make it difficult for him to clean his ears, you will also need to do this for him. You will need a few long-stemmed cotton swabs. Lightly dampen a swab with warm water and gently rub it around the inner part of his ear, focusing on areas where there is wax buildup.Use a gentle sweeping or scooping motion to get the wax out of the ear.Do not push the swab so far down in his ear that you cannot see the tip. This can push wax further down his ear, and possibly damage his eardrum.
 Although your rabbit will appreciate all of the things you do to care for him, he wouldn’t mind having some time to rest and relax with you. For example, hold him in your lap when you are watching TV or doing another quiet activity on the couch, such as napping or reading a book. If you have a yard, let him lay on the grass in the yard on a warm summer day., With a disability, your rabbit will not be able to move around as much, and may not have much energy to play. Even still, he will want your attention and interaction, so lay on the floor with him and help him play with his toys.Your interaction could be as simple as moving his toys closer to him so he can reach them more easily.
 Your rabbit’s disability may be painful and cause him distress. Giving him a massage could give him some much-needed relaxation, as well as improve his circulation and strengthen your bond with him.Other benefits of massage for your rabbit include improved mobility and muscle tone, pain relief, and better joint flexibility.There are different massage techniques you can use, such as effleurage (long, gliding strokes) and petrissage (kneading). You can even massage your rabbit in different ways according to his disability (e.g., arthritis, paralysis).Talk with your veterinarian to determine what type of massage would be best for your disabled rabbit.
Use pillows and blankets to prop up and support your rabbit during the massage.Whichever massage technique you use, massage your rabbit in a quiet area and keep a close watch on his body language. If he indicates that he doesn’t like the massage (muscle tensing, nipping), then stop the massage. On the other hand, keep on going if he is content (e.g., eyes closed, deep breathing).Do not use deep pressure when massaging your disabled rabbit.Avoid any type of pressure or kneading on your rabbit’s inner thighs, since there are major blood vessels in that area.