 Starting a cheer squad takes lots and lots of hard work. But it is all worth it in the end when you see the end result of your squad.;
, In cheerleading, your teammates will become like a second family to you and the memories you make will last you a lifetime. All squad members will share in the excitement of when you win and the disappointment of when you lose. As a cheer group, they will laugh together, sweat together, and probably even cry together. And as your cheer squad grows and grows together, they will find themselves thinking and reacting as one. There is nothing in the world that can compare to the bond that a cheerleading squad has. Of course, there's going to be fighting and arguing. Just try personally not to talk about people behind their backs, and all of that drama stuff, and it will help to improve the squad.
 There is a lot to consider when you decide to become a cheerleader. Cheerleading is a very time consuming sport. There is also the financial side to cheerleading. Sometimes you or your parents will have to pay for camps, lessons, competitions, or even cheer supplies.
 More and more schools are getting into competition cheerleading. But what if you aren't fully prepared for a competition squad? For some people it takes years to master the fundamentals of cheerleading. And there aren't a lot of websites or information on the internet to help you get prepared for tryouts, or if you are an experienced cheerleader, that will give you that competitive edge to blow your competition out of the water. If you're a veteran cheerleader who has dreamed about having a competitive edge, or if you’re a newbie thinking about trying out for the first time, then you owe it to yourself to go to the site below and get the latest and hottest cheerleading secrets.
 Make sure before you do this, that you're a good cheerleader and capable of doing all the requirements perfectly.
 Do not be rude about it or make yourself look like you think you are better than everyone.
 For example, to do tumbling if you don't already, or do more chants and cheers and bigger stunts.
 Make sure to meet your group somewhere privately, such as at someone's house. Use a place that has plenty of space to practice and teach new routines (this would also be a good time to bond and have a sleepover or something).
 Don't be rude to your teammates. Instead, try being as nice and as helpful as possible when teaching them something new.

