 CMOS or Chicago utilizes two different of reference styles: Notes and Bibliography, and Author Date. Your in-text citation depends on which style of citation you’re using.


For Notes and Bibliography, you will use a superscript at the instance of each quote in the text with a corresponding footnote at the end of the page. All footnotes are compiled into endnotes at the end of the work, on the bibliography page.For Author Date, you will use parenthetical in-text citations that include author last name and year published, using no punctuation between name and year. The full version of each parenthetical citation is listed alphabetically on the references page. For example: (Simon 2011) Simon is the author last name, and 2011 is the year.
You will need a citation directly after every sentence containing information you didn't think of yourself. These include: paraphrases, facts, statistics, quotes, and examples.
 As you do research for your essay, take note of all bibliographic information that you see. This means title, author, publication, year, volume and issue number, location of publication, website, even the date you access the material if it’s online.


If using a book, write down all pertinent information found on the copyright page, including the name of the publisher and the city and year of publication.
For other sources, look for this information near the title of the piece you’re looking at. Publication date is often at the bottom of webpages.
 The Notes and Bibliography (NB) method is preferred by scholars in the humanities (literature, history, arts). NB is conducive to recording a wide range of sources in detail, which the Author Date system doesn't allow for.Title your references page “Bibliography” centered at the top of the page. Leave 2 blank lines between this title and the first entry, and one blank line between entries.
Notes and Bibliography style uses footnotes and endnotes. The bibliography page will be an alphabetized list of all sources in hanging indent.
An example format for a book is as follows: Last name, First name. Book Title. City: Publisher, Year.
An example format for a chapter in a print scholarly journal is as follows: Author last name, first name. "Title of Chapter or Article." Book or journal Title Issue Number (Year): Page number range. (For an online scholarly journal article, tack on the following at the end: Date accessed. URL address.)
An example format for a website is as follows: Name of Website. "Page Title." Date last modified. Date accessed. URL address.

When there is no known author, the entry should begin with the title of the document, whether it's a webpage, chapter, article, and so on.
When there are multiple authors, the first listed author appears last name, first name, so that the citation is alphabetized by this author's last name. Subsequent authors are listed by first name, like this: Alcott, Louisa May, Charles Dickens, and Elizabeth Gaskill.


Always end a citation with a period.
 The Author Date style is preferred by those in the sciences, i.e. physical, natural, and social sciences. Author Date is a more concise style of documentation.


When using Author Date style, title your references page “References” centered at the top of the page. Leave 2 blank lines between this title and the first entry, and 1 blank line between entries.
Author Date style bibliographies should be organized alphabetically by last name (or by title if no author) in hanging indent.
An example format for a book is as follows: Last name, first name. Year. Book Title. City Published: Publisher.
An example format for a chapter in a print scholarly journal is as follows: Author last name, first name. Year. "Title of Chapter or Article." Book or journal title issue number: page numbers. (for an online scholarly journal article tack this onto the end: Date accessed. URL address.)
An example format for a website is as follows: Name of Website. Year. "Page Title." Date last modified. Date accessed. URL address.

