 Most experienced travelers automatically base their travel plans off of their intentions and priorities for vacation: for example, experienced senior citizen travelers know they’re going abroad for some rest and relaxation, so they choose low-key destinations with plentiful amenities. Take a page from these seasoned ramblers and ask yourself what you want out of your first big destination. If you automatically think about relaxing on a beach, sipping margaritas, and getting spa treatments and massages, chances are you’re looking for some relaxation out of your vacation.


Cruises, resorts, and sea-side hotels are all great options for the traveler seeking respite. If you need help deciding what soothing option is your best one, consult a travel agent regarding the relative comfort and services offered at a variety of restful resorts and locations.Don’t forget to factor distance and travel time into your plans. You might have found the most relaxing island halfway across the world, but, if it requires a twenty-hour flight and multiple stopovers, you might not return home as rested and refreshed as you had hoped.
 While popular travel shows such as Anthony Bourdain and Andrew Zimmern assume authentic cultural interaction is a priority, not all people really want this from their travel destinations. Travelers wanting to sunbathe by the Mediterranean or stroll around a cruise ship, for example, probably don’t want a dose of culture shock mixed into their relaxation remedy.


If you’re interested in the people, politics, or native arts scene, though, you should place cultural exposure high on your list of priorities. Cross off cruises, tourist resorts, guided excursions, and kitschy commercial districts such as Times Square in Manhattan or Puerto Vallarta in Mexico as viable options and look for more off-the-grid destinations.Remember that your history-heavy itinerary—especially if it’s guided by an agency or official group—probably won’t offer much genuine cross-cultural exchange. So, if this kind of exchange is important to you, make sure you carve out some independent time to roam the local markets or talk to some locals at a café.
 Massive metropolises such as New York City, Mumbai, and Moscow offer plenty of options for physical activity—for example, urban hiking, indoor laser tag, and even urban bungee-jumping—but your access to the wilderness and associated activities such as camping, hiking, and fishing will be restricted. If daily activity, fresh air, and exposure to the wilderness are important to you, choose a rural destination with proximity to natural landmarks such as mountain ranges, lakes, rivers, forests, and canyons.


Since you’ll be traveling in a remote location while engaging in vigorous physical activity, you should take the risk of getting injured seriously. Have your doctor give you a thorough check-up before you embark to make sure you’re fit enough to handle the potential hazards of your travel adventure.Yearning for some natural landscapes doesn’t mean you have to forego the city experience entirely. Many smaller cities such as Belfast, Denver, and Lucerne are just minutes away from impressive landmarks and wild terrain which you can explore.
 Depending on your age and your daily habits, you might think that eating, drinking, and dancing constitute an important part of traveling. If you’re excited about getting dressed up and going out on the town, consider choosing a major urban center or a mid-size town with a reputation for serious recreation and nightlife. If you plan on curling up by the fire with a book by 9 pm every night and rising early every morning, you might want to avoid big party destinations in order to avoid the crowds and noise attendant to these places.


Dubrovnik in Croatia, Amsterdam in the Netherlands, Bali in Indonesia, and Dubai in the United Arab Emirates are some of the most renowned international hot spots for late night—and all-day!—partying.