 When you train your pit bull, focus on teaching him rather than the result. It will take him some time to catch on to your training. Give your dog a simple command when he's ready, and if he follows your orders, then reward him with praise or his favorite treat. Rewarding him with positive reinforcement instead of punishing him when something goes wrong is the way to earn his trust on to tame his aggression.When you use positive reinforcement, be consistent. Just as you would discipline a child, if your dog does something right, you should reward him every time (even if it's just by petting him and giving him kind words), or he will get confused by your mixed signals.
Always be firm. Don't give in, even if your dog looks particularly cute. This will only cause him to be more confused -- and more likely to act up in the future.
 Your dog should realize that you are the leader and that the dog must obey you. Pit bulls need a leader or they will try to become the dominant, alpha dog. Here are some ways to establish dominance over your dog while keeping his loyalty and respect. To show the dog that you are the leader of the pack your should be able to both give him permission to do the things he wants to do, and deny him permission to do the things he shouldn't.Give your dog praise so he knows that you own him. Give him this praise quickly but don't drag out the praise.
If your pit bull does something wrong, quickly correct him without dragging it out. Dogs have a memory attention span of 5 seconds; they live in the now moment.
Give and deny your pit bull permission to do things like eat, jump on the bed, or go outside. You do this to demonstrate your dominance.
When entering the house, your dog should follow you, allowing you to go first.
Your pit bull should obey you on your first command if you have established dominance.
 Train your pit bull to obey you even when the leash is loose rather than pulled tight. This allows your dog to have the freedom to explore and go to the bathroom, but the dog is still within your reach. Using the leash with your dog, especially when you're outdoors, will keep him from getting out of control. Here are some other things to keep in mind as you leash train your dog:


To train, the dog must learn that the leash should be slack at all times. If he puts tension in the leash, turn around and pull him the opposite direction. This will teach him to follow you and to not try to lead the way.
If your dog is keeping the leash slack, praise him or give him a treat so he knows he's doing what he is supposed to.
 If you want your pit bull to know that it's wrong to bite people, then you have to start when he's small. Sure, his nips may be cute when he's just a tiny pup, but his bites will have serious consequences when he's all grown up. Whenever he bites you, move your hand and cry out like you're in pain; this will trigger an alarm bell in your dog's head and will let him know that something is wrong.


Another way to prevent your pit bull from biting is to have lots of chew toys for him. This will channel his aggression in a playful and productive way. If he has no toys to bite, he's more likely to aim for your body.

