 This might help you out in the long run and possibly have you and your best friend not get into so many "fights," but it really depends on how good your friendship is.;
, You know that they are making you "third wheel" if they they constantly start leaving you out of the conversation, your best friend's new boyfriend/girlfriend is going to their house or hanging out with your best friend more than you do, or they just start "ditching you."

,,, When your best friend starts doing this, you may start feeling that you just aren't as close as you were before, and that can be upsetting!

, And besides, depending on the age they are (ex.13-17), they will most likely just break up anyway so you know that the relationship is most likely not going to last if they are in between those ages! Thinking you're in love when you're in between those ages may sound "awesome" to you at the time, but in reality that's just "puppy love."

, They will probably make you a lot happier and won't make you feel left out! You can also try hanging out with a guy/girl of your opposite sex that you know is third wheel! Who knows, maybe you will make a new close friend or even score a boyfriend/girlfriend!

, Although a lot of people have a fear of being "forever alone," you're not going to be! You need to put put yourself out there and have fun! Don't let the thought of not having a boyfriend/girlfriend ever get you down! Also, never be desperate, because you will settle for someone who you're not actually interested in or like, and might get the impression that you're not into them or that you are only into them because you seem desperate! You also might gain a reputation for being a "player."

, Try being interested in what others find interesting, and you will probably make more friends!

, And, when you get a boyfriend/girlfriend and you have a best friend, just remember how you felt when you were third wheel, and, would you want your best friend to feel like that? Go out and have fun, your best friend and his/her boyfriend/girlfriend can go out and be boring and only want to hang out with each other, and not socialize. Beside you are single, and there are many people who are available! And, don't worry about being single! Single life is amazing, especially when you know how to live being single.

