 As you begin to research organizations that you’d like to participate with, you will find that organizations are typically split between providing guide dogs and service dogs. The general name for guide and service dogs is assistance dogs.


Guide dogs assist individuals who are blind and visually impaired navigate in their daily lives. These dogs help their owners by leading them both outside and inside, communicating sources of danger, and following commands.
Service dogs assist individuals with disabilities that are physical and psychiatric. They can be trained to work with individuals who have mobility impairments, are in wheelchairs, have autism, have PTSD, have diabetes, and more.The most common breeds for guide and service dogs are Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, and German Shepherds.;
, Many service and guide dog organizations use puppy raisers to raise dogs that will become service and guide animals. Depending on your country, there may be dozens of organizations to choose from.


Puppy raisers work as volunteers with a variety of organizations that provide assistance dogs to individuals with physical and psychiatric disabilities.
If there is a particular cause that you are interested in, such as helping individuals with visual impairments or veterans who suffer from PTSD, you can identify organizations that provide service animals to these individuals.
If you are willing to support different causes, you may find that there is a larger variety of organizations for you to choose from.
 In order to be accepted as a volunteer, you will need to meet the requirements of each specific organization.


You must be 18 years old to become a puppy raiser. If you are under the age of 18, you must have a parent or legal guardian co-sign the puppy raiser application.Many organizations prefer that you reside within a certain geographical area to volunteer for the organization. For example, Hero Dogs, which provides service dogs to veterans, requires that puppy raisers live in the greater Baltimore/Washington D.C. metropolitan area to qualify.Most organizations will prefer to see that you’ve raised dogs in the past. If you have never had a dog as a pet before, or have never raised and trained a dog before, puppy raising may not be right for you.
 Organizations that are accepting applications for puppy raising volunteers will ask you to provide background information about you, your familiarity with raising dogs, and your home life.


There may be a waitlist for volunteers who want to raise puppies for the organization. Raising and training a service animal is very expensive, some organizations estimate that it costs upwards of $30,000 USD, and the organization may not have full financing in place to complete training. The organization also works carefully with breeders, so there may not be a litter of puppies available yet.Some organizations will ask you to complete a self-assessment before submitting an application. This assessment will ask you to consider whether you are prepared to raise a puppy by asking questions about your finances, occupation, home life, family, training abilities, and familiarity with dogs.Most general volunteer applications will ask background questions about you, your ability to train dogs, and your expectations of the program.
Once you apply, you may have to complete in-home interviews with organization representatives.
 If you have applied and been accepted as a puppy raiser, you can begin to share the news with people that are close with you. If you are a parent who has kept this decision from your children, now is the time to tell them.


You may have made the decision to become a puppy raiser with your children. Some parents decide to wait so their children aren’t disappointed if their application isn’t accepted. This is a personal choice that should be made with your family in mind, but you will need to prepare your children for the arrival of the puppy if you are accepted.
Let your family and friends know that you are raising a puppy for an assistance dog organization. If they have raised dogs before, they may have invaluable advice to share, gently used items they can give you, or they may want to help financially support you in your decision.
 Puppy raising takes a tremendous commitment of your time, resources, and energy. If you don’t think that you can commit to being a full time puppy raiser there are other ways you can participate in the dog’s training with an organization.


You can volunteer as a puppy sitter. Puppy sitters interact with puppies in the organizations when their foster families are out of town or temporarily unable to care for the dog.
You can sponsor a puppy by providing resources to the family that is raising the puppy and support its training.
You can provide a scholarship to a puppy, which covers the cost of its official training.You can support the organization financially. You may not be able to interact with the dogs but you will know that your donation has a positive impact on the lives of others.
 The goal of the puppy raising program is to socialize, train, and ready a puppy to go through formal service dog training. You may have this puppy in your home for over a year, but you must give the puppy back to the organization.


You will form strong attachments to this puppy. It can be difficult to give the puppy back to the organization after having it in your home for so long.
Many organizations will ask you to sign a form stating that you will return the puppy before you receive the dog. This is to protect the organization and the investment that they have made in the puppy and its training.
Once you have been selected to raise a puppy, you will need to begin to prepare for the puppy’s arrival.
 Like small children, puppies are curious and can get into a lot of trouble if they are left free to roam. Pet proofing your home will keep the dog and your belongings safe.


Put child locks on low cabinets, especially those that contain food and medicine that can be harmful to your dog.Buy child gates that you can use to block off certain areas of your home. For example, it can be helpful to buy a gate that keeps the puppy on the lower floor of your home or in an area that does not have carpet.
Move electrical wires, clothing, children’s toys, shoes, and household plants out of reach. Puppies like to chew on whatever they can and by keeping commonly chewed items out of their reach, you can help to lessen the temptation to chew.
 Puppies are a financial investment and can become expensive, especially if you are already on a tight budget. Check with your organization to see if they provide financial support to volunteer puppy raisers.


Check to see whether your organization sponsors puppies and if they provide for medical expenses. They may or may not provide you with a stipend for the items the puppy needs like food and medicine.
Some organizations collect donations from individuals who want to participate in the dog’s training but are unable to care for the puppy. They may offer “scholarships” or “sponsorships” where individuals will give money to help raise the dog. If the organization does not provide you with a stipend during your time raising the puppy, you will need to budget accordingly to pay for the dog’s food, any items you need, veterinary expenses, and transportation costs to and from training.
 If you have another dog at home, you may not need to purchase as many items that you would if you have never had a dog before. The organization may provide you with some of these items, but you will most likely need to purchase them.


Purchase food, grooming items like shampoo and a brush for their coat, dog collar, a puppy crate, dog bed, toys, and bowls for their food and water.
Ask your friends and family that have dogs if they have any gently used dog items that you can borrow or have. Items like dog beds and toys can be cleaned and reused with a new puppy. This can lessen the financial impact of the new puppy.
Some items will need to be replaced as the puppy grows. For example, puppies will typically need a special puppy collar that is much smaller than a regular dog collar. As the dog grows, you will need to purchase a larger collar., Many service dog organizations will encourage you to take your puppy to work so that it can be socialized. You should let the homeowner know, if you do rent your home, that you will have a new pet living there.


If you are renting your home or apartment, you should let your landlord know that you are fostering a puppy. There may be a small increase in your rent that your landlord will use if there happens to be any damage caused to the rental by the puppy.
Share with your employer that you are fostering a puppy for a service dog organization. Your new puppy is not a service dog yet, so your employer has the right to deny your request to have the puppy accompany you to work. If they do allow you to bring the puppy to your workplace, you should consider bringing the dog a few times a week to socialize it.
Many service dog organizations will prefer that there is one individual in the household that works from home or is a stay at home parent. This is so the puppy is not left alone for significant amounts of time. If you are unable to accommodate this, you may be able to request a puppy sitter to come spend time with the puppy while you work.
 When your application to be a puppy raiser is accepted, the organization may not have a new litter of puppies available to give to puppy raisers. You may have to wait several weeks or months before your puppy arrives.


If you do have to wait, you have an opportunity to educate yourself on training practices, to purchase items, save money, and to puppy proof your home.
Service dog organizations work closely with breeders to get puppies that are the right breed and temperament for service work. They may have a litter of puppies available almost immediately, which will speed up the process.
Most organizations will give puppies to raisers when they are at 8 weeks old. The organization will ask you to raise the puppy for a certain length of time, usually around 14 months, before returning the dog. This timeline may be longer or shorter depending on how well you are able to train and socialize the dog., Your service dog organizations may or may not provide for veterinary care, but it is important to take the new puppy to the vet right away. This is to ensure that the puppy is healthy and is up to date on their vaccinations.


Establish a good relationship with your veterinarian. This individual will be an important contact for your and your puppy throughout the puppy raising process. If you are having trouble finding a vet in your area, ask the organization for any referrals or recommendations that they have.
Let them know that the puppy is part of a service dog training process. They may have recommendations for training classes in your area or know of other patients who are part of a similar program that you can connect with.
 Like all puppies, your new puppy will need to be taught to refrain from urinating and defecating in the house. House training can be a frustrating process, but it is essential to ensure that the puppy is house trained as soon as possible.


The American Kennel Club emphasizes that a regular feeding scheduling, regular trips outside, regular exercise, and positive reinforcement for good house trained behaviors are all helpful in house training.Regular feeding is important both for your puppy’s health but can also help you to schedule their bathroom trips outside. When you consistently feed your puppy at the same time each day, you will notice that the dog will need to defecate a few hours afterwards. This can help you plan when to take the dog outside.
Positive reinforcement is an important step in training to reinforce good behaviors. Praising the dog, giving them pets, and giving them treats are all good ways to encourage them to continue going to the bathroom outside.
Accidents will happen. It can take a few weeks, or longer, for a puppy to become fully house trained. Purchase cleaning products that will remove urine and feces from hardwood and carpet flooring. Clean the spot where the dog has an accident very well and try to prevent it from happening again.
 Obedience training is absolutely essential in potential service dogs. If your puppy fails to understand and respond to basic commands, it won’t pass any of the formal training that the organization requires. Set aside 15 minutes a few times a day to devote to formal training exercises.


Teaching a puppy to sit is a good first obedience command. Bend down on your puppy’s level and hold a small treat in your hand. Raise your hand with the treat in it. The puppy’s head will raise as their bottom lowers to the ground to follow the treat. Say the word “sit” so the behavior is paired with a verbal command. Give the dog the treat and continue to repeat the exercise over time until the dog is able to sit on command.Teaching the puppy to stay is another good command for them to master early on. Staying can be difficult for puppies and young dogs to follow so it may take more repeated practice than other commands. Have the dog sit down with you in front of them. Tell the dog to stay, and take a few steps backwards. Do not allow the dog to follow you forward and give them a small reward for staying put.
You will need to teach the puppy to master basic commands like sit, stay, down, and to walk on a leash before you can move on to more complicated training tasks.
 If you have less familiarity with training dogs, or feel that you would like more help in training this puppy, obedience classes can be a great way to reinforce your training.


The organization may require that you attend weekly training classes for the puppy. This is one reason that the organization may require that you live in a certain geographic area, so you will need to plan to take the puppy to these classes regularly.
Sign up for an obedience class through your local pet store or shelter. This can be a great way to supplement your training at home and to get the advice of a professional dog trainer. This is also a good way to get the puppy used to interacting with unfamiliar dogs and people.When the puppy has learned basic commands, it is helpful to practice these commands in environments that are louder and have more distractions present. Service dogs will need to obey commands consistently and reliably in environments that can be very distracting, so practicing these behaviors early on can be very helpful.
 The organization will have certain standards for the training of their puppies so it is important to follow the schedule or command checklist that they give you.


Assistance Dog International (ADI) is one of the largest and most reputable organizations that acts as a governing board for member organizations and advocates for the legal rights of individuals with assistance dogs. They set quality standards for the training of assistance dogs.According to the ADI, assistance dogs must follow the commands of their owners 90% of the time. You should expect to spend several hours each week training your puppy or taking them to training classes so they can begin to reach this standard.
Many organizations will require puppy raisers to attend monthly meetings with an organization representative to keep everyone engaged in the training process.
 Puppy raisers do not have the same legal access rights that service dogs do. This means that you cannot take the puppy everywhere that a service dog is allowed. Despite this, socializing the puppy is an important part of raising a service dog.


Take the puppy with you to areas where dogs are allowed. Let the dog interact with other dogs, children, and adults. Reinforce positive behavior when the dog acts appropriately with others and make sure to correct for negative behavior.
Spend as much time as possible with your dog. Future guide dogs must become used to spending nearly all of their time with people. The more comfortable they are with other people, the better chance the dog has of becoming a service dog.
Expose the puppy to new experiences so they become used to new people, new distractions, and new environments. Puppies are explorative and curious by nature, so your puppy will probably enjoy the socialization process.
 After a set amount of time, you will have to return the puppy to the organization so the dog can go through more formal training. This can be a challenging thing to do, but you will know that you have been an integral part of preparing this dog for a life as a service animal.


Not all puppies raised by volunteers will complete formal training. In fact, a significant percentage of dogs selected by the organization will not become formal service animals. This can be for a variety of reasons like lack of training, a health issue, or poor temperament.If the dog is not selected for guide dog service, you may be able to ask the organization if you can adopt the dog as your pet. This will depend upon the organization, and you should not go into the process assuming that you will be able to keep the dog.

