 Get thee Cannon cards with codes in alphabetical order; for example: A,B,C; B,C,D, etc. To raise it to Zeta Cannon 2 or 3, use Hi-Cannons or Mega Cannons instead, respectfully.

The Zeta Cannon allows you to use a powered-up version of the cards that you were using for a limited amount of time. During this time, however, you can use it as many times as you want.;
, Get three Spreader cards with codes in alphabetical order.  The Zeta Spreader allows you to use a powered-up version of the Spreader repeatedly for a limited amount of time., Get three Ratton1 cards with codes in alphabetical order.  To raise the power, use Ratton2 or Ratton3 instead.  When you use the Zeta Ratton, you can repeatedly throw a Ratton1 (or 2 or 3, depending on what you use) for a limited amount of time., Simply use three Arrow (or Spear/Lance) cards with codes in alphabetical order. Like the other Zeta Weapons, you can fire it as many times as you want within the time limit., To use Omega Weapons, simply follow the same instructions, but use five cards instead of three., Get three cards that are grouped together. For example: Little Bomb B, Cross Bomb B, and Big Bomb B; Sword S, WideSword S, and LongSword S, etc. These cards must also have the same code. The Beta Weapons allow you to use the weapon that you chose six times. The type of Weapon that you get is random., Do the same as you did with the Beta Weapons, except put them in this order: Weakest, Weakest, Weakest, Medium, Medium, Strongest.  Yes, you do need six cards instead of three now., Simply use these cards in this order: Shotgun K, CrossGun K, Spreader K, and Mega Cannon K.  The Powered Cannon acts like a Spreader, damaging the area around the target., Use these cards in this order: Gaia1 C, Gaia2 C, Gaia3 C, and Quake3 C.  The attack works like a Quake would, with MegaMan using one foot to stomp on 1 foe, making the screen quake., Use these three cards in this order (make sure they all have the same letter code): Guts Punch, Cold Punch, and Dash Attack. This attack sends out several punches in front of MegaMan., Use these cards in this order: Drain1 A, Drain2 A, Drain3 A, and Wave A.  This attack sends out three injections.  All enemies are damaged, while MegaMan restores health., Use the following cards in this order: Typhoon G, Hurricane G, Cyclone G, and Repair G.  This attack strikes all panels and enemies with 200 points of damage!, Use the following cards in the order they are shown: MetGuard G, Dash Attack G, and GutsMan (V1, V2, or V3) G. This attack shoots MegaMan forward to deliver 500 damage. This attack cannot cut through barriers and can't go through solid objects.,  This isn't really an attack, but what it does is heal all of your HP and gives you an invincible barrier that lasts 30 seconds.,  This attack blankets the field with charge Buster shots and and Proto sword slices.  All enemies take 400 damage.