 If you're thinking about suing your former partner for custody of your pet, you need to first figure out what court has jurisdiction over both your former partner and your dispute.If you and your former partner were married and are seeking a divorce, the issue of who gets the pet will bewared up in your divorce case.
If you were not married, however, you'll have to file a lawsuit on your own. In most cases, small claims courts are equipped to handle a pet custody issue.
However, keep in mind that small claims courts only award monetary damages. If you file a lawsuit in small claims, you run the risk of winning your case but being awarded the monetary value of your pet – rather than the pet itself.
Your county court typically also has jurisdiction over these sorts of claims, and can order your former partner to give your pet back to you if they currently have possession of the animal.
 If you intend to pursue custody of your pet in the courts, you'll have the best chance of success if you have an experienced animal law attorney on your side. Even if you have a family law attorney for your divorce, an animal law attorney will understand more about the ins and outs of animal law in your state.Keep in mind that animal law is a relatively new area of law. It may be difficult to find an attorney who specializes solely in animal law unless you live in or near a fairly big city.
However, because animal law is relatively new and is rapidly changing, it's important to find someone who has experience litigating cases similar to yours.
Your local humane society or other nonprofit groups dedicated to animal rights may be able to connect you with an attorney who can help you.
 After consulting an attorney, if you want to sue your former partner for pet custody, you should do so as soon as possible. You can initiate a lawsuit by filing a complaint with the clerk of the court you've chosen to hear your case.If you're not using an attorney, check with the clerk's office or on the court's website for forms you can use to draft your complaint.
The complaint lists factual allegations which you believe, if proven, entitle you to custody of your pet. Keep in mind that this is a legal argument, so you must have facts that tend to indicate you are the rightful owner of the animal.
When you file your lawsuit, you'll have to pay a filing fee – typically amounting to several hundred dollars. If you can't afford this fee, ask to apply for a fee waiver. If your income and assets are below the court's threshold, your court costs will be waived.
Take your complaint forms to the clerk's office along with at least two copies. The clerk will stamp all of them "filed" with the date, and assign a date for the next time you have to appear in court. They will then give your copies back to you.
 One of the two copies of your court documents is for your own records. The other copy must be delivered to your former partner using the correct legal service of process.Technically you can get anyone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in your lawsuit to hand-deliver the documents to your former partner. You might choose a trusted friend or relative.
After service is completed they must sign a proof of service form for you to file with the court.
You also can hire a sheriff's deputy to hand-deliver the court documents to your former partner, or mail the documents using certified mail with return receipt requested.
 When your former partner receives your court documents, they have a limited period of time – typically only a couple of weeks – to file a written response to your lawsuit.If your former partner does not respond to your lawsuit, you may be eligible to win your case by default. However, you still must show up on the date your hearing is scheduled.
If your former partner does file a written response, it will be served on you using a process similar to that which you used to serve your former partner.
It also is likely that your former partner will contact you seeking to come to an agreement rather than go through a trial.
The other option is that your former partner will decide to fight you every step of the way, perhaps even filing a motion to dismiss arguing that you have stated no legal claim to ownership of your pet.
 Lawsuits are won or lost based on the weight of the evidence. In your lawsuit, you must show that it is more likely than not that you are the rightful owner of your pet and should therefore be granted custody.Depending on the court in which you filed your lawsuit, you may share evidence with your former partner through the discovery process.
Unless your former partner has decided to fight you every step of the way, however, you shouldn't expect this to be an extensive process.
Evidence that will support your claim for pet custody in court includes things such as proof that you adopted the pet, state registration or veterinary records that list only you as the owner, and even receipts for pet food and other pet supplies.
 When your hearing date arrives, you will have the opportunity to tell the judge your story and present your evidence to show that you deserve full custody of your pet. If you have an attorney, your role in the actual proceedings may be limited, but you still should expect to take the stand.Try to show up at the courthouse at least 30 minutes before your hearing is scheduled, but keep in mind that the judge likely will be hearing several cases on the same day.
Once you've passed through courthouse security, take a seat in the courtroom gallery until your case is called. Then you (and your attorney, if you have one) can move to the front of the courtroom.
As in any trial, you can introduce evidence and even call witnesses if you want to support your arguments. For example, you may call a friend to testify regarding your relationship with your pet.
Your pet's veterinarian, or a veterinary assistant in their office, also can be a good witness if you were the only one who ever took your pet to receive veterinary care or treatment.
 Once you've presented your side of the story, your former partner will have the opportunity to respond. Just as you did, they may introduce evidence or even have witnesses testify on their behalf.When your former partner is speaking, watch your body language and try to pay attention. Avoid shouting out or interrupting your former partner – even if they interrupted you.
If your former partner calls any witnesses to testify on their behalf, you will have the opportunity to cross-examine them (through your attorney, if you've hired one). Pay close attention to their statements and draw on your own knowledge of the person called to question their reliability and the trustworthiness of their statements.
 After the judge has heard from both sides, they will enter an order deciding who gets custody of your pet. You may learn the judge's decision immediately after the end of the hearing. However, it may be a few days before he written order is ready.Keep in mind that if the judge rules in your favor, the court isn't going to enforce the order for you – you must do this yourself.
An attorney can help you determine what you need to do if your former spouse does not immediately comply and deliver your pet to you.
If you filed your case in small claims court, your ability to appeal a decision that wasn't in your favor may be limited.
In any case, if the judge doesn't rule in your favor, you have a limited period of time to file an appeal – typically 30 days or less.
Talk to an attorney immediately to find out if you have a possible case for appeal.

