 Visit your local hardware store and talk to an employee about adding a silicone coating to your roof. Coating your roof with silicone is an environmentally-friendly way to repair and restore your roof. The silicone coating can protect against water damage and ultraviolet light, and its reflective surface can help you cut back on energy costs.A 5-gallon (19 L) bucket of silicone coating can cost between $80 and $200.To cover an area of 100 sq ft (9.2 sq m), use about 1.5 gallons (5.6 L) of the silicone coating., This product works best on flat roofs or roofs with a gentle slope. Do not coat a steep roof with an incline of 20° or greater. The coating could make the roof slippery and dangerous., Before applying the product, clean the roof to remove dirt and debris. Be sure to clean the gutters and remove any plants that may be growing on the roof. Rinse the roof with water using a pressure washer or a hose. Allow it to dry completely., After washing your roof, repair any cracks, splits, or blisters to make the roof water-tight before applying the silicone coating. Use a roof sealant and apply the product directly to the damaged spot with a paintbrush.Cement, rubber, silicone, or fibered roof sealants can be purchased online or at hardware stores and range between $10 to $50., Use the sealant to secure any curbs, transition areas, or areas where different materials meet. Sealing these areas can help ensure that the roof is water tight., Use a paint-mixing drill or a wooden paint stick to thoroughly mix the product.This will blend the product and remove and clumps that may have formed. When you are not using the product, keep the container sealed.
 For the best results, apply the silicone coating to your roof on a warm day in the morning. The ideal temperature should be around 65° F (18° C) and no higher than 90° F (32° C)., Pour the product into a paint tray and use a paint roller to lift some of the product onto the roller. Opt for a 1 to 1.5 in (2.54 cm to 3.8 cm) lint-free paint roller. Try to work quickly as the product may dry or collect moisture.On rubber surfaces, apply a primer coat to create a consistent thickness. , If you apply multiple coats to the roof, allow it to dry for at least two to six hours between coats. The coat will fully cure in 48 hours. If you wait 48 hours to apply another coat, you may need to wash the roof again before application.