 The kinds of people who have good credit and keep good credit are the ones who pay attention to it. Everyone in the US can get a free credit report from each of the credit bureaus once a year (meaning up to three different occasions). Since this is a report for you and not an inquiry from a creditor, it won't affect your overall credit rating. The report is a complete account of your credit history—what you’ve paid and when you paid it, what your debts are, and when you applied for new lines of credit. Your score is an estimate of how risky it might be to lend you money. They’re two related but different gauges of your financial well-being, and it’s important to know both.Check your credit report at https://annualcreditreport.com.
Check your credit score (for free) at https://www.creditkarma.com.
 Since everyone gets one free credit report per year, everyone should examine theirs for mistakes. As many as one in five Americans have an error on their credit report, so check diligently. Sometimes they’re serious mistakes and sometimes they’re not, but there’s only one way to know.If you find a mistake, do the following:First, notify the credit bureau of the error. Send a physical letter via certified postal mail, enclosing a copy of the credit report, the error, and any documents supporting your claim. Look at a sample letter at http://www.myfico.com/crediteducation/rights/sample-credit-report-dispute-letter-of-explanation.aspx to get a better idea of the format.
Repeat the process with the creditor (not the credit bureau) who has filed the incorrect information. Request that the creditor send you courtesy copies of any correspondence they initiate with the credit bureau.
It's always best to put everything in writing when you're dealing with creditors or credit bureaus. Writing makes them accountable for their words, and ultimately, for their claims to you.
 Even though your overall credit limit might be $9000, it will hurt your score if more than about $3,000 of that limit is being used. This is called the “amounts owed” section of your credit score, which isn’t the most straightforward name. It means the amount owed relative to your credit limits, and not the entirety of the amount of debt owed.

