 Preheat your oven to 350 °F (177 °C). In a large mixing bowl, combine 2  c (470 mL) of softened butter, 1  c (240 mL) of white sugar, and one teaspoon of vanilla. Whisk them together until the mixture becomes creamy. Add 3.5  c (830 mL) of all-purpose flour slowly, continually mixing as you add a little bit at a time. Slowly mix in 1.5  c (350 mL) of crushed potato chips.Spoon the mixture out into small balls on the baking sheet and place it in the oven. Bake for approximately 15 minutes, or until the cookies become golden brown.
Let the cookies cool and then serve.;
, Preheat your oven to 350 °F (177 °C). In a large bowl, combine two sticks of melted butter and 10 oz (280 g) of bittersweet chocolate chips. Whisk the mixture until the chocolate chips have melted. Add in 2  c (470 mL) of granulated sugar, four eggs, and one tablespoon of vanilla. Once all of these items are smoothly whisked together, add 1  c (240 mL) of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder, and three tablespoons of cocoa powder.Spread half of the batter in your baking dish, covering the bottom. Then add a thick layer of potato chips on top and cover this with the remaining brownie batter.
Bake in the oven for 45 minutes and let cool completely.
Cut the brownies into squares and serve.
 In a large mixing bowl, combine 1⁄2  c (120 mL) of whole milk, 1⁄3  c (79 mL) of sweetened condensed milk, one large egg, and two tablespoons of melted unsalted butter. Mix all of these ingredients together until there are no clumps remaining. Pour the mixture over 2  c (470 mL) of unseasoned potato chips in a mixing bowl. Toss the potato chips periodically for five minutes while they absorb the liquid, being careful not to break the chips.Spray the bottom of a 9-inch pie pan with non-stick spray and line the chips around the edge of the pan. Make sure you place them all the way up to the rim of the pie pan.
Fill the pie with your favorite filling.
Consider using chips with ridges because they look nicer and are less likely to break.
 Use your leftover potato chips to make a sweet and savory chocolate-covered treat. Melt 12 ounces of high-quality melting chocolate in the microwave – use low heat for about 90 seconds (or until completely melted). Dip the chips into the melted chocolate, and then place them on a piece of wax paper. Sprinkle with a bit of sea salt and let the covered chips sit at room temperature for about two hours.If your potato chips are broken into smaller pieces, you can drizzle the melted chocolate over the chip shards instead.
If you are in a hurry, you can put the chocolate-covered chips in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes, instead of letting them sit at room temperature.

