 Sometimes an insurance company may only cover certain geographical regions, help cover basic costs like check-ups, or only catastrophes. If you are someone who travels a lot with your cat, you'll want a policy with a larger coverage area. Also, you'll need to evaluate your financial situation to know what instances you'd need help most.


Accident only policies. These plans generally cost less, but only cover accidents the pet may incur that require vet treatment. These typically have a certain time period you'll have to make your claim within and a fixed amount for specific types of accidents. Make sure you get a plan that is worth the cost and will offer help for common accidents (e.g. a broken bone, being hit by a vehicle).Plans that help with routine care. These types are usually add-ons to comprehensive policies. These plans will pay toward your annual visit, vaccinations, microchipping and, other routine health tests. Typically it is not worth it to buy one of these as stand alone policy as you will pay more in a yearly premium than the cost of routine care. But if you are already buying a plan for your cat for other issues, this could be an add-on to help with routine costs on top of other treatments., Some cat breeds can commonly have problems, such as kidney disease in Persian cats. You will want to make sure those common diseases are covered in your plan. Also, older cats are more likely to have health problems needing care.


In terms of age, there are usually restrictions. Kittens under a certain age cannot usually by insured for the first time and similarly older cats will usually need a pre-existing policy from when they were younger. Don't wait until you have an elderly cat with deteriorating health problems to look for a policy.
 Most people choose the traditional vet route, but natural health care is becoming increasingly popular with cat owners. There are insurance plans that will cover holistic treatments to combat life-long or hereditary diseases whereas others will only cover traditional healthcare through a vet's office. If you intend on using only holistic and natural options, make sure you choose an insurance provider that can help.