 Some airlines do not transport pets, others only do so in cargo approved crates, and some will allow dogs of a certain size to be properly secured in a carrier and placed underneath the seat. Check with your airline to see how your dog will need to travel and make the appropriate accommodations.


Most airlines have a weight limit of 20 pounds for in-cabin dog carrying and charge a fee of $125.If your dog is above your airline’s weight limit restriction your dog will need a cargo approved crate to travel in the cargo hold., Call your airline to reconfirm your dog’s travel and double check your airline’s pet policies at least 24 hours before your departure. Airlines can also refuse to transport your pet if there are extreme weather conditions of if your dog has an illness.
 Feed your dog four to six hours before crating to help them remain comfortable during travel and also avoid motion sickness. Be sure to pack their normal food with you during your trip and provide water up until they board the flight.


Don’t leave anything, including snacks, in a dog’s cargo approved crate.
Do not give your dog tranquilizers, unless prescribed by a vet, before a flight as this can cause health issues., Your dog’s crate will have to go through security screening, so be sure to bring a harness that can safely secure your dog while they are out of their crate., Although many animals are completely fine being shipped in the cargo hold, there are still a few animals that die or are injured each year.Try to fly direct in more moderate months, like during Autumn or Spring.
Fix a label to your dog’s cargo crate and make sure they are wearing a collar that cannot get caught and cause injury., Pick up your dog at baggage claim if they were traveling in the cargo hold of the plane. Once claimed, let your dog out of their crate, give them drinking water, and provide them with a small snack. Like people, your dog may need time to acclimate and adjust after a flight.Be sure to let your dog out of their crate in a controlled area, like outside baggage claim, and keep them on a leash or lead.

