 Keep your face clean, shower or bathe daily, brush and floss your teeth twice daily, shave, and use deodorant. Remember to stay as hygienic as can be, because bad breath is a huge turn-off.;
, You have to talk and befriend them in order for them to really notice you. You can flirt or reflect what the guys at your school like. For example, if they like card games, play with them! If they like to work out at the gym, go with them and laugh a bit. Ask for their phone numbers once you get to know them and invite them over to create good relationships.
 It's no secret that stylish and cute clothes can get you far out into the girl world. Basically, you can wear whatever you like. Skinny jeans, belts, flowing tops, jean skirts, shorts, tanks, layering tops, flirty skirts, and hoodies are some ideas. Don't wear skanky clothes, though (everyone will just roll their eyes). Wear clothes within the dress code of your school. Some stores that sell great items for any girl's style include Forever 21, Abercrombie, Hollister, A'GACI, American Eagle and Target. Also, wear really cute shoes like cute boots, Uggs, T-strap sandals, canvas shoes, and flats.
 We all have something that is seen as "attractive". Try asking your friends what they think is your most attractive feature. You can use light makeup or bright clothes to help bring out what you've got. If you seem to know what you have, others will see too.
 Show them that you can be one of their friends! When you hang out with the guys, they might push you around a little. Let them do this. If they poke you, don't turn around and get all rude; just twitch a little and laugh a bit. This will make them comfortable around you and will make you look like a fun and harmless girl-friend.
 When a gorgeous girl flashes a smile, it totally melts guys' hearts. One positive glance can make a difference in how they think of you.
 Keep it natural. When choosing makeup, ask your friends what light colors look best on you. If you want to look even more put together, keep lip gloss in your bag at school. Put some on when you're in the bathroom, and you'll look fresh throughout the day.
 It's a real turn-off for guys. Guys feel most attracted to the loving, friendly, caring girls in comparison.
 Aim to get your hair cut every two months so you can keep your hair looking beautiful with no split ends. You should also use a good shampoo and conditioner (TresSemme, Herbal Essences, and Aussie have great inexpensive hair products) to keep your hair clean. If you want, use hairspray, straighten, curl, add waves, dye, or put highlights in your hair (just be sure not to go over the top). Put your hair up in a ponytail, a braid or bun when it's greasy, it'll look amazing.
 That's stupid. Also, don't act you're too good for everyone. All of these make you unattractive to guys.
 Some girls back in elementary school, some in middle/high school, and all after school (where you'll be in the real world). The best thing you can do, is to not be envious of others, accept yourself, and be yourself.

