 Trim and file your nails to a shape that suits you. Push back your cuticles and wipe your nails clean with rubbing alcohol. Apply some petroleum jelly, liquid latex, or white school glue to the skin around your nails. This will make cleaning up at the end much easier.









If you choose to use liquid latex or white school glue, let it dry before moving on.
 This will protect your nails against stains. It will also help the polish last longer.









This method uses regular polish. If you are using gel polish, cure it under a UV light for about 30 seconds.
 Black polish would work the best, but you can also use white instead. This is your base color.








If you are using gel polish, cure the polish under a UV light., You can apply these drops using a tin brush, your nail polish's brush, or even a toothpick. White and black are a great combination, but you can also use a bright color instead.








One of the colors must be the same as you base color.
If you are using gel polish, you can do all of your nails at once. If you are using regular polish, do just one nail for now.
 You could even place your fingertip against the plastic wrap and wriggle it in circles. This will swirl the nail polishes together and create a smoky effect.
 Because of the plastic wrap, you have very little control over how the two polishes swirl together. This is a great way to get a very natural and organic look. If there is not enough smokiness for you, however, add another drop or two of nail polish, and pat it again with more plastic wrap.
 Once again, if you are using regular polish, you need to work one nail at a time. Be sure to use a fresh patch of plastic wrap for each nail.








If you are using gel polish, you will need to cure it at this point.
 You can use matte or glossy top coat, the choice is up to you.








If you are using gel polish, you will need to cure it under a UV light.
 Wipe away the petroleum jelly using a q-tip. If you used liquid latex or white school glue, simply peel it away instead. Inspect you manicure. If some polish got on your skin, use a thin, angled brush dipped in nail polish remover to wipe the polish away.








