 Now,this shouldn't be a tiresome challenge that reduces you to a sobbing wreck as you don't know what to choose! Remember, there will always be other discos and parties so if you can't decide over what top or jeans to wear, then you can simply save one pair for another time. Consider what you want to look like on the night. A pretty girly girl? A rock princess? A relaxed chick? All are great looks! Here are some ideas:


Girly girl
A mini-dress and bright tights.
A pretty skirt
Shorts with some black tights (or even brightly coloured ones!)
Slogan or cool top
Denim skirt or jeans with leggings
Converse or flat trainers
Relaxed chick
Wide legged denim jeans
Sweet top
Flat trainers
Mini pencil skirt;
, Dark, light or black denim, pink, black, purple and blue all look attractive and some of them mix fantastically together to create a coordinated outfit.
 There are loads of great looks and ideas to try. Hair that looks loose and carefree is best for a disco,and the trick is to not look like you spent hours trying to achieve one style. Some good ideas are:


Straighten your hair and accessorize with a headband, clips or putting hair up into a natural bun, plaits or tie half of your hair up and leave half of it down. (Remember to use heat protection spray or cream, as not to burn or frazzle your style when using heated styling tools).
Put your hair up and curling the ends to a cool, relaxed look that has a big impact.
If you have short hair, a light curl is pretty with a bow or flower depending on your outfit
Leave your hair down and curl the ends to create beautiful, heavenly curls.
Remember that if you need anything like gel to keep a do in place that you do not use too much. Having over-slicked or greasy hair doesn't look nice at all.
 Coordinated bead bracelets look amazing if arranged in the correct way, Long necklaces (but not too long) with dangly bits look lovely, fancy earrings or cute studs and charm bracelets will all top of your look.
 Bright colours and colourful shades are real attention grabbers! Greens, blues, purple and pink look great on your eyes. Add a smoky eyeliner to line and define! Mascara will extravagant your lashes. A lip gloss with a pinkish shade is good.
