 Although rare, these cheats can create bugs or destroy your save file.Copy your save file before you begin, just in case:Go to Documents → Electronic Arts → The Sims 3 → Saves.
Right-click the Saves folder and click Copy. (Or select the folder and use the Copy shortcut or top menu option.)
Right-click on the blank space inside a different folder. Click Paste to make the copy.
If you need to restore your old save, drag this copy back to the Saves folder and delete the new one.;
, Hold down Ctrl + Shift + C. A box should appear in the top left corner.


Some Windows Vista users may need to hold down the Windows button as well., Type in TestingCheatsEnabled true exactly as it appears here, then press Enter. This is the Sims 3 version of the boolprop cheat from older games. It enables "cheats" that are actually game developer testing tools.
 Now that you've enabled the testing cheats, hold down Shift and click anywhere on the ground. Select Teleport to appear in that spot.
 Hold down Shift and click on your Sims' mailbox. You should see these options on the new mailbox menu:Make Needs Static: Your Sim's needs bars fill to maximum, and never decrease.
Make Friends For Me / Make Me Know Everyone: The Sim makes a few random friends / gets to know every other Sim in town. (Your game may freeze for a minute.)
Make All Happy: Fills the needs of all household Sims on the lot.
Set Career...: Give your Sim any job, including promotions.
Force Visitor / Force NPC: Select another Sim or NPC to arrive at the lot.
 Shift-click a Sim you control for more adjustment options:


Modify Traits for Active Sim
Trigger Age Transition: Careful! There's no cheat to undo this aging.
Favorite Music

, Taking control of NPCs is fun, but it's also very dangerous to your game. Before altering an NPC, look up its name online to find out whether this can cause crashes.When you find one that seems safe, Shift-click it and add it to your household.


This works on Sims in other households as well.
 Some console cheats only work once testing cheats are enabled. Here's the key to even greater riches and fame than the "normal" cheats can provide:FamilyFunds Douglas 5000 would give the Douglas family 5000 Simoleans. Replace Douglas and 5000 with your Sim's last name and any amount of cash.

FreeRealEstate makes all lots free.

BuyDebug, RestrictBuildBuyinBuildings off and EnableLotLocking on unlocks more items to purchase and more construction options. This is only relevant with some of the expansions.

DiscoverAllUnchartedIslands unlocks all islands in the Island Paradise expansion.
 Here are a few catch-all cheats you've enabled:Click and drag needs and relationship bars to adjust them however you like.
You can now edit existing Sims in Create-a-Sim.
Shift-click a workplace to trigger career events.
Hold control and click Moodlets to remove them.
 To avoid accidental, permanent changes, open the cheat console again once you're done. Type testingcheatsenabled false and hit Enter. This will disable the boolprop cheats.
 Create a backup save just in case. These cheats can cause bugs or crashes.


Enabling cheats will disable trophies and challenges.
 You can only enter the following cheat from the pause menu.
 Hold down the following keys to turn on cheats:On Xbox, hold down both bumpers and both triggers.
On Playstation 3, hold down L1, L2, R1, and R2.
If prompted by a popup, confirm that you want cheats.
 Enter buy mode and go to Decor → Miscellaneous Decor. Purchase the pink llama statue named Spoot. Place it anywhere on your property.
 Have an adult or young adult Sim interact with Spoot. The interaction menu provides the "normal" (non-Boolprop) Sims 3 cheats. For instance, there are interaction options that give your Sims more money and karma., Holding down one of these buttons, depending on your console, unlocks extra cheats. These are similar to the "boolprop" cheats on the PC version.
 While still holding down L2 or LT, try the following cheats:Click on the ground to teleport the selected Sim there.
Click on the mailbox to force another Sim to visit, change the Sim's career, or reset the Sim to its original state.
Click on a Sim to change its age, family, and traits.

