 Just about every artist out there uses reference images when they draw. In this case, since you're going to draw a replica of a pre-existing character, it's pertinent to find images of Selena. You can use online image-search engines, such as Google, Bing, Pinterest, etc. You want to see her from head-to-toe.;
, In the end, you want Selena's body proportions to be correct according to her design. If you start off drawing her eyes, hair, or other details, you run the risk of proportional errors later on that may require lots of erasing and/or redrawing. The basic goal here is to start simplistic and slowly add more details as the image progresses.


Draw a circle. This circle is going to eventually become Selena's head. Don't worry if it's not an exact circle or if the lines are sketchy. You're going to erase portions of this later, so keep the line-weight light.
 Ever seen a map with the scale bar generally at one of the bottom corners? A shorthand version of that concept will be employed here. Here, the scale bar is going to be Selena's head. However, all you have to do is image 6 of the image collage posted above. The following bullet points will merely explain how image 6 was conceived:


1) The green circle is the reference to the circle that was made for the head.
2) Taking "image three" from the reference images of Selena, image 2 shows how the circle compares to her head. This reference image was picked because it was the best one found that showcased her full height.
3) Identical circles were added until her feet were reached.
4) Removing the background image, you should be able to see more clearly that a total of three circles (of the size of her head) is equivalent to her height.
5) For the sake of simplicity, remove the curve and--instead--stack the circles as you would a snowman.
6) Now that you've seen the relationship between her height and the drawing thus far, go ahead and draw two more circles as done in image 6. In this image, the circles are labelled as what will become the "head", "torso", and "legs". You're welcome to label them as well, though it's better not to since they'll get in the way later.

