 Orange is opposite of blue on the color wheel, so using orange-tinted eyeshadow will make your blue eyes even brighter. This does not mean that you have to wear bright orange eyeshadow, however; you can also wear copper and gold. Here are some color suggestions for you:Warm metallics, such as gold or copper
Fall colors, such as orange or brown
Dark blue or purple can make blue eyes appear deeper.
Blue eyeliner in the waterline can help bring out the blues as well.;
, Brown-eyed girls are lucky in that almost any color of eyeshadow will look good against their eyes. There are certain colors, however, that will look better than others. Here are some colors that will make brown eyes stand out even more:Cool colors, such as: purple, blueish purple, blue, and green
Metallics, such as: bronze, copper, and silver
Silvery browns (such as taupe) and peachy browns
Use gold with care; it will make your eyes look more yellow.
Neutral browns tend to blend in with brown eyes. If you want to wear brown eyeshadow but make your eyes stand out, try adding a little bit of purple, teal or green on lower lash line or waterline. This will make the color pop.
 Red is opposite of green on the color wheel, so any red-tinted eyeshadow will make green eyes appear brighter. You can also try wearing some purple-tinted colors as well. Here are some suggestions to get you started:Reds and pinks (especially dark or warm pinks)
Plums and purples
Darker greens
Consider wearing some peach blush on your cheeks.
 Gray-eyed girls are lucky in that they can make their eyes look more gray, green, or blue depending on what color eyeshadow they wear. Here are some ideas to get you started:To bring out the grays, choose gray tones, such as silver, gray, charcoal, or black.
To make your eyes look more blue, choose orange tones, such as: brown, copper, coral, peach, salmon, and melon.
To make your eyes look more green, choose red or purple tones, such as: red-brown, pink, wine, maroon, plum, and purple.
 Hazel eyes are a combination of green and brown. As such, hazel-eyed girls can choose which color in their eyes they want bring out. Here are some suggestions to get you started:Metallics, such as gold and bronze, will bring out the gold/brown flecks.
Purple and eggplant will make your eyes appear brighter.
Green, warm green, and army green will bring out the green flecks.
Warm, neutral brown/earthy brown will also make your eyes appear brighter.

