 There are three presentations of ADHD. In order to qualify for a diagnosis, you must exhibit at least five symptoms in more than one setting, for at least six months. Symptoms must be inappropriate for the person’s developmental level and be seen as interrupting normal functioning on the job or in social or school settings. Symptoms for ADHD (inattentive presentation) include: Makes careless mistakes, is inattentive to detail
Has trouble paying attention (tasks, playing)
Doesn’t seem to be paying attention when someone is talking to him or her
Doesn’t follow through (chores, jobs)
Is organizationally challenged
Avoids tasks requiring sustained focus (like projects at work)
Can’t keep track of or often loses keys, glasses, papers, tools, etc.
Is easily distracted
Is forgetful;
, Some symptoms must be at the level of “disruptive” for them to count in a diagnosis. Track if you have at least five symptoms in more than one setting, for at least six months: Fidgety, squirmy; taps hands or feet
Feels restless
Struggles to play quietly/do quiet activities
“On the go” as if “driven by a motor”
Excessive talking
Blurts out even before questions are asked
Struggles to wait for his turn
Interrupts others, inserts self into others’ discussions/games

, The third presentation of ADHD is when the subject meets criteria to qualify for both inattentive and hyperactive-impulsive criteria. If you have five symptoms from either category, you may have combined presentation of ADHD. , As you determine your level of ADHD, seek the guidance of a mental health professional to make an official diagnosis. This person will also be able to determine whether your symptoms can be better explained by or attributable to another psychiatric disorder.
 Talk with your doctor or mental health professional about other disorders or conditions that might have symptoms that are similar to ADHD. As if having an ADHD diagnosis isn’t challenging enough, one out of every five with ADHD is diagnosed with another serious disorder (depression and bipolar disorder are common partners).


One-third of children with ADHD also have a behavioral disorder (conduct disorder, oppositional defiance disorder). ADHD tends to pair up with learning disabilities and anxiety, too.