 Eid al-Fitr means "Festival of the Breaking the Fast," and occurs on the first day of the lunar month Shawwal, after the fasting month of Ramadan. In some regions, Muslims gather on hillsides to watch the moon, and celebrate once the local religious figures declare that Eid has begun. This sometimes take two or three days of watching, but individual Muslim countries may have an official three-day government holiday planned in advance to cover all possibilities.


Because Eid is based on the Islamic lunar calendar, it does not fall on the same day each year on the Gregorian (Western) calendar. Search online or ask a Muslim to find out when the holiday occurs this year.;
, Buying new clothes for Eid is a widespread tradition, and those who can't afford to will still make an effort to look their best. Muslim women in South Asia often decorate with henna the night before Eid. Men are encouraged to wear perfume or cologne.


Many people perform ghusl by taking a shower or bath on the morning of Eid.
 Muslims are not allowed to fast on Eid al-Fitr, since they are celebrating the end of fasting. Eating food before you attend prayer is encouraged. Sometimes, celebrants follow the prophet Muhammad's example by breaking their fast with an odd number of dates (usually one or three).


Perform Takbir before sunrise is also recommended if you are Muslim. Do this by raising their hands and saying "Allahu Akbar" (God is great). If you attend a prayer, as described below, the congregation will do this several times during the event.
 Imams hold special Eid prayers in the early morning of the holiday, usually at a large central mosque, an open field, or a stadium. In some regions, all Muslims attend this event. In others, women are encouraged but not required, and in others, the event is male-only. After the prayer is completed, worshippers embrace each other and say "Eid Mubarak," or "Blessed Eid," to wish each other good will. The event ends with a sermon by the imam.
 Eid al-Fitr is sometimes called the "Sweet Holiday," since sweet foods are usually eaten in celebration of the end of Ramadan fasting. Mosques may provide sweet food before or after the Eid prayer, but many people also cook desserts themselves and celebrate at home.


There are no requirements for the food you eat (other than following halal), but regional traditions include dates, halwa, falooda, cookies with milk, baklava, and vermicelli noodles.
 Adults usually give children and young people money or gifts on Eid, and occasionally trade gifts between each other as well. Families will often visit their neighbors and extended relatives after the morning celebration to wish them a happy holiday and exchange these gifts.
 "Zakat al-fitr," or the duty to give to the poor on this day, is a requirement for every Muslim who has the means to do so. Typically, each individual's contribution is about the cost of a meal, and may take the form of money, food, or clothing.
 Many people eat a family lunch and/or dinner of meat, potatoes, rice, barley, or any food you like. Some rest in the afternoon to recover from a day that began at sunrise. Others attend fairs and events organized for Eid, party with their friends in the evening, or visit the graves of deceased friends and family.


In many regions, Eid is celebrated for three days, or celebrated on different days by different Muslim groups. If you like, you can wake up early to repeat the celebration and prayer tomorrow.

