 How your doctor and you choose to treat the ectopic pregnancy will depend on your health, the location of the ectopic pregnancy, and the extent of existing damage to your reproductive organs.


Some ectopic pregnancies are eliminated by the woman’s body. If your ectopic pregnancy is very early and you have no negative symptoms, your doctor may recommend “expectant management” or “active monitoring.” With this process, you wait for approximately a month, with frequent doctor supervision, to see whether your body can resolve the ectopic pregnancy without additional treatment. In general, this approach only makes sense when your hCG (a hormone produced during pregnancy) levels are low and declining, and when you have no symptoms.If the ectopic pregnancy has been diagnosed very early and you do not have internal bleeding, your doctor may suggest an injection of methotrexate. Methotrexate will stop the growth of rapidly dividing cells, including pregnancy tissue (so it's important to rule out a normal pregnancy). It could take a couple of injections for this method to work completely.A laparoscopic salpingostomy is a procedure that removes the pregnancy tissue without removing any portion of the tube. This treatment is generally appropriate for early ectopic pregnancies where the fallopian tube has not ruptured. Most surgical treatments of ectopic pregnancies use laparoscopy, which is done under general anesthesia and involves using a small tube with a camera and light inserted through a small incision.A total salpingectomy may be necessary if the fallopian tube is very damaged, if you have very heavy bleeding, or in the case of a large ectopic pregnancy. In a total salpingectomy, the fallopian tube containing the ectopic pregnancy is removed.
A laparotomy is an abdominal surgery that is usually required in emergency cases of ruptured fallopian tubes or heavy bleeding. Laparotomies involve larger incisions and longer recovery times than laparoscopies.;
, Recovery time depends on the specific type of procedure that was used. In


With laparoscopic surgeries, you will usually be able to go home the same day as surgery. Recovery is fairly quick, with most women being able to resume walking. You can usually resume your regular activities within 7 to 14 days.It can take about a month to fully recover from laparoscopy.Surgeries done by laparotomy usually require several days in the hospital. This is because the incision is more extensive, and it will interfere with the functioning of your intestines. You will get clear liquids the morning after surgery and start solid foods within 24-36 hours. Laparotomy incisions may take up to 6 weeks to heal.
While there may be little physical recovery necessary for early ectopic pregnancies that don't require surgery, your doctor will carefully monitor your health to ensure the ectopic pregnancy resolves on its own.
 You may begin to feel better within a few days after your surgery. Do not push your body by exercising or doing too much physical activity. You also want to avoid any movements that may stretch or put strain on your incisions.Do not lift anything that weighs more than 20 pounds for the first week.
Climb stairs slowly, pausing after every few steps.
Walk around whenever you feel able to. Do not try to jog or run.
 Abdominal surgery can interfere with the functioning of your intestines and cause constipation. Your doctor will provide you with instructions on how to treat constipation. Some things you can do on your own include:Eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
Drink plenty of water.
Use laxatives or stool softeners (as recommended by your doctor).
 If you had a salpingostomy or were treated by methotrexate injection, you will need to have regular tests to determine if the hCG levels in your blood return to zero. If they do not, you may need additional treatment with methotrexate.
 There are many possible reasons why you would experience pain after an ectopic pregnancy. The incisions can take time to heal, and the resulting scar tissue may cause pain as well. If the pain becomes persistent, severe or unmanageable, contact your doctor.Pain may also be due to your body trying to resume its normal menstrual cycle. Your body may resume its normal cycle between 4-6 weeks after treatment, although it could take longer.Some women report that they are more aware of ovulation following an ectopic pregnancy. They may experience pain when ovulating., Pain is usually your body’s way of telling you to rest. However, if you have any of the following symptoms along with pain, you should contact your doctor:Fever (above 100F or 38C)
Vaginal discharge, especially if it smells “fishy” or ”funky”
Lumps or bumps around the incision or scar that are red or hot to the touch
Discharge from the incision site
Nausea and/or vomiting
Dizziness or fainting

, After an ectopic pregnancy, you may not be able to use some contraception methods. You should discuss your options with your physician to determine what will work best for you.IUDs and progesterone-only contraception are usually not recommended after an ectopic pregnancy.You should also speak with your doctor to determine when it is safe to have sexual intercourse again.The treatment you received will largely determine this., If your ectopic pregnancy was treated with methotrexate, your doctor will advise you on how long you should wait before trying to become pregnant again. This is generally about one to three months, depending on the dosage you received. Methotrexate can cause problems for an early pregnancy by reducing the availability of folic acid to the fetus, so you need to wait until the drug is out of your system.