 Dresses are always a nice touch at a formal party. If you love going in a dress, do so for a fancy holiday party.


A black dress is great for more formal occasion, and can be easily paired with colorful shoes and accessories. If a black dress has a little shimmer, this can work great for a holiday event., If you're not the type for a full-length dress, opt for a dressy blouse. Pick something somewhat formal, as this is a fancier party.If you're wearing solid colored pants or a solid colored shirt, a patterned blouse would work nicely. You can see if you can find patterns that fit with the holiday season. Something like polka dots can look festive. For an early fall holiday, like Thanksgiving, leaves may be a nice touch.
If you're wearing patterned pants or a skirt, opt for a solid colored blouse. Try to find festive colors, like golds and silvers, for a nod to the season.
 Dress pants can pair great with a blouse or formal top. You can try conventional black dress pants. However, if you're trying to capture the holiday spirit, go for something like colorful dress pants. Reds, greens, and silvers would work well.You might also choose to wear a knee-length (or longer) skirt in a material like wool or silk.
 Jeans are not out of the question for a fancy party. If you're the type who loves the comfort of jeans, choose slightly more formal jeans for a fancy party.Jeans with wider legs generally look more formal than skinny jeans.
If possible, opt for white jeans as this may look more festive than traditional blue or black jeans.
Jeans work best when paired with a fancier top.
 Make sure you do not neglect your foot wear. Do not wear casual shoes, like sneakers, to a fancy party. Opt for dressy shoes to match your outfit.


You can choose heels or fancier slip on shoes for a formal occasion. If you want to add a holiday-vibe, go for shoes with sequins or sparkles to bright up your outfit., The holidays are a time for sparkle and light. This is easy to incorporate into your jewelry choices, making your outfit look appropriately festive.Try dangly earrings that sparkle. Long, dangly sequined earrings can work, as can earrings dotted with bright jewels.
Opt for brighter necklaces, with beads, jewels, and other embellishments, over plain gold chains, which may come off as boring.
If you want, incorporate the colors of the season into your jewelry options. Go for something like emeralds or rubies, which are red and green, or silver and gold jewelry choices.
 A small beaded clutch bag or purse can sparkle, making it appropriate for the holiday season. Try ditching your regular regular bag in favor of something more colorful. This can help your outfit look fancy and festive.Again, you can try to accessorize with the colors of the season. Look for purses in jewel shades, like deep blues and greens, or bright primary colors like red.

