 If you want to impress a guy, then you should be charismatic and be able to charm everyone in any room you walk into. This doesn't mean being overly loud or dramatic -- just act natural, and be happy to walk into any room, even if you don't know anyone there. A truly charismatic person can talk to almost anyone and make him feel at ease, whether it's an eight-year-old boy or an eighty-year-old woman.


When you talk to people, use their names. Make people feel good about themselves and keep things positive.
 Guys are always refreshed and pleased by a girl with wit. To impress a guy with your wit, work on being clever, being able to keep up a flow of intelligent and sharp banter, and to wow him with your word play, insights, and quick reactions. Being witty means looking at the world in an original way and being funny and creative at the same time.


If the guy says something funny, don't just laugh -- respond back with an equally funny comment.
 Guys are impressed by confident women, because this shows that they have a natural ease with themselves and are happy with who they are. Confident women are fun to be around, add positive energy to any situation, and make other people around them feel good. If you really want to impress a guy, then you should be happy with who you are, what you do, and where you're going.


If you're feeling confident and the conversation is going well, you can even reach out to touch the guy.
Building confidence doesn't happen overnight -- it can take a lifetime. But making a goal of being happier and more pleased with who you are can help you feel more proud and happy to be sharing yourself with others.
Fake it until you make it -- walk with your head high, your shoulders back, and with your eyes looking straight ahead, not at the ground. You'll already begin to exude confidence through your body language.
 Guys love girls who stand out from the pack and aren't like everyone else. Don't be afraid to be original, even if it means to dye your hair pink, dance like a maniac, or to learn how to make your own sushi. Whatever you really want to do, go after it, and you will be rewarded. Guys are impressed by girls who aren't like everyone else because they're worth knowing.


Being original will not only help you impress guys, but it'll also lead you to make more friends and to be friends with more interesting people.
 Guys love girls who are independent and who love to do their own thing. The last thing a guy wants is a clingy girl who wants her life to revolve around his -- instead, guys want a girl who is happy being on her own and hanging out with him. To be independent, you have to not only be comfortable pursuing your own interests by yourself and generally having some "me time," but you also have to avoid conforming or doing whatever everyone else is doing just because that's what's cool right now.


Being an independent person also means being an independent thinker. You should learn to act and think on your own.

