 Coal tar is the oldest treatment for scalp psoriasis. However, when it is used alone, it's only as effective as a mild to mid-potency topical corticosteroid. They are effective as additions to combination therapy, though. It can help slow the growth of the flaky skin cells on your scalp and help restore your skin's health. The strength of the coal tar varies from product to product, but check the concentration of it in the shampoo. The higher the concentration, the stronger the effects.


Some common brands of tar shampoo that help patients with scalp psoriasis are Zetar, Sebutone, Pentrax, and T-Gel.
This product may be very smelly. It can also cause irritation, dryness, and reddening of your scalp. Before you use it, try it on a small patch of your skin to see if your react poorly to it.
Coal tar shampoo also makes you more sensitive to the sun for at least 24 hours after you use it. Avoid the sun when possible after you use the shampoo, or if you have to be out in the direct sunlight, use sunscreen, a hat, or other head covering.;
, Coal tar shampoo products have been FDA approved to treat scalp psoriasis. These shampoos help relieve inflammation and itching, reduce scaling and dryness, and help flaking skin.The coal tar kills off the bacteria that causes scalp psoriasis.


It also helps soften the scales and crust caused by your scalp psoriasis.
 There are certain situations where you should not use coal tar shampoo. In these situations, the side effects of the tar shampoo could cause problems. Talk to your doctor before using coal tar shampoo if:


You are pregnant, nursing, or may become pregnant
You are taking any other medications for psoriasis. Ask your doctor if coal tar shampoo will interact with your other medications
You are taking herbs, supplements, or non-prescription medicines unless you've been cleared by a doctor
You have open sores or cuts on your scalp
You are allergic to any of the ingredients, When you start using coal tar shampoo, pour the recommended amount in your hand and apply it to your hair and scalp, moving it all through your hair and all along your scalp.


Once it has been distributed through your hair, massage it all over your scalp until it lathers well. Leave it in for 10 minutes.
Add water. Shampoo gently for several minutes to remove scales.
Combine this process with an overnight application of a moderate-strength topical steroid solution to get the best possible effect.
The exact number of times your need to use the coal tar shampoo will depend on the concentration of your shampoo. Read the instructions on the bottle to find out how often you need to use it.
On days where you don't use coal tar shampoo, you can use any shampoo that you would normally use., Once your whole head is lathered, leave the coal tar shampoo on your scalp for 10 minutes. This allows your coal tar shampoo to work on your scalp. After this, rinse the shampoo completely from your hair.


Once it is completely rinsed out, repeat the whole process if necessary.
Avoid letting the lather get in your eyes. If it does run into your eyes, rinse them with water for five minutes.
If you accidentally swallow any of this shampoo, contact your local poison control center or the emergency room right away.
 Once you have washed your hair with coal tar shampoo, do not use any other shampoo for at least 24 hours afterwards. You should also avoid being in direct sun for any period of time after you use it.Your hair may feel slightly gross after using coal tar shampoo since you do not use conditioner. If you need to help treat hair dryness, find a coal tar shampoo that also includes coconut or other oil in addition to the coal tar.

