


Place the package of phyllo dough in the refrigerator. Refrain from opening the package of dough before putting it in the refrigerator.
Allow the phyllo dough to defrost in the refrigerator overnight.
Ensure that the phyllo dough is completely thawed before removing it from the refrigerator.;
, Use a savory filling, such as spinach and goat cheese, or a sweet filling, such as sweetened nuts, in phyllo dough.


Prepare the filling you will place inside the phyllo dough.
Allow the filling to cool thoroughly before you begin working with the phyllo dough.
Chill the filling if possible before working with the phyllo dough.
Ensure that the filling is not overly moist.



Prepare a workspace that is large enough to spread out the roll of phyllo dough and to work with individual sheets of phyllo dough.
Gather a pastry brush, melted butter and any other utensils and ingredients you will be using with your phyllo dough.
Preheat the oven if you will bake the phyllo dough once you have prepared it.



Remove the thawed phyllo dough from the refrigerator.
Take the roll of phyllo dough out of its box.
Use your fingers to unroll the phyllo dough onto your workspace.



Take 1 sheet from the unrolled stack of phyllo dough.
Place the sheet of phyllo dough on a free area of your workspace.
Cover the unrolled stack of phyllo dough with a damp cloth or plastic wrap.



Use a pastry brush to cover the single sheet of phyllo dough with butter.
Spread the butter in a thin layer from the outer edges of the sheet of phyllo dough to the center of the sheet. Cover the sheet with melted butter quickly.
 Use a knife to cut the buttered sheet of phyllo dough to the desired size.



Place the filling inside the cut portions of phyllo dough.
Press the ends of each cut and filled portion of dough together to hold the filling inside.



Bake the filled phyllo dough for as long as called for in your recipe.
Refrigerate the filled phyllo dough if you will not bake the dough immediately.



Wrap the unused sheets of phyllo dough firmly in plastic wrap.
Return the phyllo dough to its original box.
Repackage and return the dough to the refrigerator as quickly as possible.
