 Shut off the power supply in the back. Even if you can access the inside where it stands, you need to unplug the computer. Otherwise, unplug the computer and place it somewhere that allows you to get inside.;
, You may need a Phillips head screwdriver, but most newer computers have thumbscrews. You will need to remove both sides so that you can screw the hard drive in on both sides.
 Touch a metal object (other than your computer), such as a doorknob, to discharge any existing static electricity that you may have.
 If your computer is still plugged in (but the power supply is switched off), you can ground yourself by touching any metal part of the case. Otherwise, make sure that you are grounded before starting to work on the inside of the computer. This will prevent electrostatic shock from damaging the components of your computer.
 If you are removing an old hard drive, make sure all of the cables are disconnected from both the motherboard and the power supply. Unscrew all the screws on both sides of the hard drive, and then slide it out of the housing.









You may need to remove more cables or cards in order to access the hard drives in a tight case.
 Remove it from the antistatic packaging and slide it into an open space in the hard drive housing. The drive should slide directly in, and the holes on the side of the drive should line up to the screw guides on the housing.









If you can, use a slot that has some space around it. This will improve airflow and lead to a cooler system, but is not a critical concern.
 Once the hard drive has been inserted, use the screws that came with it to secure the hard drive in the housing. Ideally you should use two screws on each side of the hard drive. If the hard drive is loose, it can rattle and cause more noise and lead to physical damage.









Tighten the screws to a firm tightness, but don’t overtighten as that may cause damage as well.
 Newer hard drives will use SATA cables, which are thin and resemble USB cables. Use a SATA cable to connect the hard drive to the motherboard. SATA cables can be connected in either direction.


If you are connecting your primary hard drive, the SATA cable should be plugged into the first SATA channel. This may be labeled SATA0 or SATA1. Refer to your motherboard documentation for detailed information for your motherboard.
Secondary drives should be connected to the next available SATA channel.
 IDE drives are older model hard drives that can be identified by the long rows of pins on the back. IDE Drives are connected via an IDE cable, which is wide and flat. The cable is usually gray in color.









The blue end of the cable plugs into the motherboard. The black connector plugs into your primary (Master) drive, while the black connector plugs into the secondary (Slave) drive if applicable.
Set the jumper for your primary drive to Master. The jumper diagram should be printed onto the hard drive. If you are installing a secondary drive but it is the only drive connected to the cable, it should be set to Master as well.
 Most newer power supplies have SATA power connectors, though older power supplies typically only have Molex (4 pin) connectors. If this is the case, and you are installing a SATA drive, you will need a Molex-to-SATA adapter. IDE drives will use the Molex connector.









Make sure that all of your connections are secure. Ensure that none of the cables can come undone by wiggling them a little bit.
 Replace the case sides and reconnect your cables if you had to move the case to work on the inside. Turn the power supply back on and then turn your computer on.
 Once you’ve got everything connected and the computer turned back on, you’ll need to finish the installation of the hard drive from your computer. If you are replacing your primary drive, you’ll have to reinstall your operating system. If you are adding a new drive, you'll need to format the drive before you can use it.


To reinstall Windows, follow the guide that matches your operating system:

Windows XP
Windows Vista
Windows 7
Windows 8


To reinstall OS X, follow the guide that matches your operating system:

Leopard
Snow Leopard
Mountain Lion


To format your hard drive, follow this guide for all systems.

