 In the state of Louisiana, every real estate salesperson licensee must be at least 18 years old and have obtained a high school diploma or an equivalent degree.You must also be able to pass a criminal background check.If you have an arrest or conviction in your past, you can still request permission from the Louisiana Real Estate Commission (LREC) to sit for the licensing examination.;
, To obtain a license, you must be sponsored by a real estate broker. Essentially, finding a broker is much like applying for a job. You look for listings on job sites, then you contact local real estate brokers with your resume. Like a job, you may or may not be called back for an interview.Technically, you won't be "sponsored" until after you take the exam, but most real estate brokers will help you with the process of getting your license. Then, they will sponsor you if you pass the exam.
In fact, many real estate brokers will sponsor your education, meaning they offer scholarships to help you pay for school., Prior to applying for a salesperson license, you must complete 90 hours of real estate education courses, including those on real estate principles and practices, the Louisiana Real Estate License Law, and civil law pertaining to real estate.Other courses needed for the pre-licensing educational requirement include courses on the rules and regulations of the LREC and the Law of Agency, a real estate-related statute.
Classes can be taken at state-certified real estate schools, colleges, or universities. Many brokers have a preferred school or recommendations for you, but you can check for programs at your local community colleges and universities. Many will have real estate programs.
Some credit may be available for courses completed in jurisdictions other than Louisiana. Contact the LREC for more information., In addition to submitting the paperwork certifying that you have completed the pre-licensure educational classes, you will have to complete the information allowing for the criminal background check. Additionally, you will need to pay a fee of $90 to LREC to apply..


Your completed application and fee can be mailed to the Louisiana Real Estate Commission, PO Box 14785, Baton Rouge, LA 70898-4785.
Once your application has been approved, you will receive approval to take the licensing exam. At this time, you will receive an Examination Authorization Form, which is effective for 90 days from the date of issuance.

