;
, It is very important to attend the practices.
, Don't suppose you know better or are above following the rules. They are there for your safety and your success.
 If you can, consider wearing your team colors. Wear something simple like a t-shirt and shorts or sweats. Also wear comfortable, sturdy athletic shoes.
, Before you go in to audition make sure you stretch really well and drink some water.
 Take some deep breaths and if you're nervous, tell yourself you can do it. Go into the room you're supposed to try out, and go for it!

, Practice is the key to success, so draw up a comprehensive practice schedule to ensure that you set aside time each day to work on various aspects of the routines in the time leading up to the tryouts.
 The best way to calm your nerves is to gather a clear idea of exactly what is going to happen. Then you can relax and focus on getting better. Ask them to help you review your routine, too.
 This will give you invaluable feedback on your appearance and positioning. And also make sure someone else is watching you, so you can ask their opinion on how you did.
 It will help to make you less nervous, hide your errors, and make you a better performer. Make big, intentional moves, smile, make sure your moves are sharp, and when saying a cheer, say it loudly and clearly.
 You may be so nervous or excited that you don't take the time to stretch properly or to get your blood pumping, but be sure you do so.
 One option is to come dressed in your team colors, which is always a nice touch. If not, then consider black shorts and a white top (it makes it easier for the selection committee to see your basic form during routines).
 Often, people can focus so much on remembering steps that they will look lost or introverted -- not a good thing in cheerleading. Keeping your chin up and your posture tall will help a lot.
 If you get nervous, you need something to fall back on, and yelling, "Go team!" can make you look spirited. and fill in for a moment while you come up with something else.
 It's tempting to stare into the middle distance so that you are not distracted by external things, but again, cheerleading involves making a connection with the crowd. A great way to do that is to look people in the eye.
 Tie it back in a ponytail or bun if this is a potential problem.
 This is key and we shouldn't have to explain. You're trying to be a cheerleader for goodness sake.
 That doesn't mean shrieking or screaming, but project from your diaphragm. You'll have to cheer really loudly to be heard in competitions and games, so practice projecting your voice and not singing the cheer!

,, A lot of people feel silly cheering away like a freak in front of a small tryout committee. Cheerleading involves a lot of acting (for instance, acting like you care who wins the football game, or still smiling when your team drops a stunt twice in a competition). The tryout committee will want to see that you can turn on the juice, no matter what the circumstances are. If you hold back because you're afraid of looking dumb, then you will look dumb. Just go for it.
 If you happen to misstep, recover as quickly as possible and proceed as though nothing happened. Don't stop, don't slap your forehead, don't pause and look confused or nervous. The only thing worse than making a mistake is drawing attention to it. For example, if you fall on your knees doing a back handspring, just hit a high V, look at the judges, and smile.
 However, if you're trying out for an all-star team, they will place you in a level according to the things you can do (for example, if you have a round-off back tuck but not a standing tuck, you'll probably be placed in level three). Remember to be tight at all times.
, It's contagious.
