 Some eyeliners say on the label that they are safe for contact wearers or are hypoallergenic. This, however, is not a guarantee that the eyeliner will be comfortable for sensitive eyes. Make sure eye makeup is formulated without sulfates or parabens, which can cause skin irritation. Talc and kohl should also be avoided to prevent irritation. Fortunately, numerous makeup products are now formulated without these potentially harmful ingredients., If you have sensitive skin, it’s important to test a potential eyeliner on your hand before applying it to your eyes. The skin around your eyes is thinner and more sensitive than other areas, so this test is not foolproof, but if you have an allergic reaction, you will know not to apply the product to your eyes.


Check for contact dermatitis. Although people experience allergic reactions differently, cosmetics may cause contact dermatitis, typically in the form of a red rash. This can happen right away.
Watch for the symptoms of an allergic reaction. You also may develop a reaction in a different area of your body. If you have had reactions in the past, it may be a good idea to talk to a dermatologist before starting to use a new brand. It may take up to 24 hours for a reaction to develop, so wait at least a day before applying a new eyeliner to your eyes., Having to press down or stretch the eyelid can cause your eyes to water when applying eyeliner. When testing different eyeliners, be sure to choose one that provides enough color with a light touch. You shouldn't need to press too hard to get a smooth line.
 Long-wearing eyeliner pencils stay put and tend to be easy on sensitive skin. They are less likely to smudge or run, and they are easy to sanitize to prevent infection or irritation. NARS and Urban Decay offer excellent, smooth pencil eyeliners., Gel eyeliner is applied with a brush and is generally long-lasting. A brush liner may require less pressure than a pencil to apply. Bobbi Brown Gel Liner is easy to apply, and L'Oreal Lacquer Liner is also a good choice for sensitive eyes.
 With liquid eyeliners, you run the risk of smearing if you flinch or blink while applying the product. However, liquid eyeliners with a felt tip are easier to apply lightly while avoiding smudging rather than liquid liners with a brush. They also are less likely to run and drip into your eyes because nothing is worse for sensitive eyes that getting makeup directly in them. Lancome, Kat Von D Cosmetics, and Stila make liquid liners with felt tips that don’t budge.
 If applying makeup causes your eyes to water, you may be tempted to try waterproof eyeliner. However, this style of cosmetics is more difficult to remove and may require you to rub harder upon removal, which may cause irritation.
 Eye creams and natural oils can make the eyelids greasy, which prevents eyeliner from staying put all day. You can use a makeup wipe, such as the ones sold by Aveeno, Olay, or Simple, to prime your eyes. If you prefer liquid makeup remover, choose an oil free brand, such as Lancome or Clinique., Put on eyeshadow before applying eyeliner. However, if you are just learning to apply eyeliner, it may be best to skip the eyeshadow until you get the hang of it. It may be more difficult to apply eyeliner on top of eyeshadow, but doing it in reverse will cover the eyeliner.
 The waterline is the inner edge of the eyelid. It’s easy to transfer makeup into the eye, and the proximity to the eye can cause irritation. Plus, it may not last long if applying it causes your eyes to water. Instead, stay outside the lash line on both your upper and lower eyelids. Aim for just underneath the eyelashes on the lower lid. Nearly any style can be applied this way, including a cat eye or a simple line., Try not to drag the eyelid because it can distort the line when you’re done, and it also may increase irritation. With a gel liner or liquid eyeliner, you may be able to just wink your eye shut without pulling your eyelid.
 Start the line just away from the the inner corner to minimize discomfort from wearing makeup. Move the line outward toward the outer corner.
 Some beauty websites recommend using tape as a makeshift stencil for a classic cat-eye look, but this may not be the best idea for people with sensitive eyes. Instead, you can hold a business card up to the corner of your eye to make a sharp, straight line. This also helps you avoid apply a too-thick line or spreading eyeliner outside the area you intended to apply it., If you accidentally get eyeliner in your eye, thoroughly rinse it. If you wear contacts, take them out and clean them. Do not put contacts back in while your eyes are still irritated., Although it may seem like a no-brainer, be sure to remove your eye makeup before going to bed because it can lead to irritation otherwise. Because the eye area is prone to sensitivity more than the rest of the face, be sure to choose a gentle makeup remover that won’t cause discomfort., If you use eyeliner pencils, be sure to sharpen them before every use. Not only does this help you get a cleaner line, but it removes the outer layer of the pencil, minimizing the potential for irritation in case any debris has settled on the tip. This also helps the product last longer.
 If you use gel eyeliner, rinse excess eyeliner off the brush after use or before using again. Wash them once a week to prevent eyeliner from building up. Although commercial brush cleaners are available, you can use water and a small amount of baby shampoo to scrub the tips. Let them dry before using again., Eye makeup is prone to collecting bacteria. Pencil and liquid eyeliner can be used for up to year unless the pencil is stubby. However, for sensitive eyes, you may want to replace more frequently. Replacing eyeliner every two to three months helps you avoid eye infections., Avoiding bacterial buildup is especially important if you have sensitive eyes. Although sharpening essentially sanitizes pencil liners, you can buy a sanitizing mist for other types or use a small amount of rubbing alcohol in a tissue to gently rub the tip.

