 When you're dieting it's important to have a positive view on food and diet. Try to think of food as the fuel and energy for your body instead of something you need to avoid or restrict to lose weight.


Food is something your body needs. It provides you with the energy and nutrients to fuel you through the day and nourish you from the inside out.Try to keep this in mind when you're dieting.
Overly restricting foods or thinking foods are "bad" or "unhealthy" can lead to negative thoughts about your diet or what you choose to eat.
All foods are good in moderation. However, focus on nutrient dense foods to provide your body with the most nutrition. Think about all the great vitamins, minerals or antioxidants that your body is getting every time you choose a nutritious food like fruits, vegetables or whole grains.;
, Diet plans or diet foods are not always the tastiest or the most satisfying. That's why many people ditch their diets and go back to their typical way of eating.


Choosing foods that you actually enjoy and that are nutritious is the best bet when you're trying to lose weight. If you don't like your diet or the foods you're choosing for your diet, you won't stick to it very long.
Diets don't have to be boring or tasteless. Choose flavorful, creative, enjoyable foods and recipes for your weight loss plan.
 Many times, extra weight gain is caused by emotional or stress eating. When you're not aware of when or how often you're doing this, it can cause some stumbling blocks to your long-term weight goal.


Emotional or stress eating is when you snack, graze or over eat when you're not truly physically hungry. It's fueled by some emotion like stress, anger, depression, boredom, sadness and loneliness.If you're not experiencing physical hunger when the desire to eat or food craving hits, think about why you have the urge to eat. Did you have a stressful day? Is there an on-going stressful situation at home? Are you bored? These types of questions can help you figure out why you're eating.
If you think you're having difficulty with emotional eating, consider seeing a behavioral therapist for additional help.
 Extreme exercising means that you're working out for an excessive amount of time or at excessively high intensities. Although you may think this works to your benefit, this is also considered an unsafe method of weight loss.


Exercise at this level may lead to injury and an inability to eat enough to support a high level of exercise.
A recent study showed that extreme exercise has been linked to higher levels of atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries.In addition, extreme exercising, especially after a large or high calorie meal may be considered exercise bulimia where you're using exercise to "purge" your body of the calories you've consumed.It's typically only recommended to do about 150 minutes of cardiovascular exercise each week. There are benefits of increasing this amount to 300 minutes weekly, but you do not need to exceed this amount., Even if you think you're following a diet, there are some eating patterns or styles that are more than likely an eating disorder or considered a disordered eating pattern.


If you are eating very few calories daily, skipping meals regularly, avoiding large amounts of foods and/or several food groups, you may be dealing with an eating disorder.If you feel the need to exercise excessively after eating a large meal, need to throw up or take laxatives to reduce how many calories your body absorbs, this is another form of an eating disorder.Also, believing you have a variety of food allergies without an official diagnosis, food sensitivities or follow an overly restrictive diet may be caused by an underlying eating disorder.
If you are struggling with disordered eating patterns, speak to your doctor immediately so that you can seek the appropriate treatment.
 Fad diets or crash diets are very popular today. They promise quick weight loss results with little effort. However, most fad diets don't work and many may actually be unsafe.You need to be able to recognize a fad diet, so you don't end up following an unsafe or extreme diet without knowing. Even if it sounds like a great plan or a good deal, it still may not be an appropriate method of weight loss.
If a program promises large quantities of weight loss, weight loss in very short periods of time, or weight loss without you having to change your diet or exercise, you can almost be 100% sure this is a fad diet.Many fad diets promote a method of eating that can make you ill or interfere with current health conditions or medications. In addition, if you do lose weight, you'll typically gain it back very quickly once you discontinue the diet., Some diets may promote skipping meals or eat meals that are much too small for your body. This is not only extreme, but can be unsafe as well.


If you're skipping meals regularly to try to lose weight, you're actually working against your body. When you skip meals your body's metabolism naturally slows and burns fewer calories. Overtime, this may be less weight loss overall.
In addition, by skipping meals, you may end up being overly hungry at your next eating session. You're more likely to overeat and eat higher fat foods when you skip meals.It's important to eat at least 3 meals daily. You may do better with 5 or 6 small meals a day or the traditional 3 meals with a snack or two. Whatever you decide, you should consume something every 4-5 hours.
 Other diets suggest following a very, very low calorie level to lose weight. This is not only unsafe, but you typically feel tired and fatigued during these types of diets.


Very low calorie diets are any program suggesting you eat less than about 800 calories daily.When you do not eat enough calories daily, you typically feel ill, tired and your body is not able to function normally. These types of diets are generally unbalanced as well which can lead to long-term health problems.Cutting out some calories is important when you're trying to lose weight. However, never eat less than 1200 calories total each day., There are also many diets and diet programs that advise avoiding entire food groups or many specific foods in order to lose weight. This is not balanced and is an extreme method of weight loss.


When you're diet is unbalanced due to a lack of a variety of foods or food groups, you're missing out on key nutrients that support a healthy body and weight loss. Again, this could lead to long-term health problems.Even if a diet says that certain foods cause inflammation, bloating or weight gain, you shouldn't avoid entire food groups or a large variety of foods unless you have a diagnosed food allergy or intolerance.
On the flip side, a diet that suggests eating large quantities of only a few foods - like bananas or cabbage soup - are also unfounded and unsafe.
Always strive for a balanced diet by including a large variety of foods from each food group: protein, dairy, grains, fruits and vegetables.
 A very trendy fad diet is a liquid diet or cleanse. Whether you're only drinking juice or a concoction of lemon juice and cayenne pepper, these diets are very unsafe and ineffective for weight loss.


Liquid diets and cleanses are unsafe for a whole host of reasons. However, they're mainly nutritionally inadequate and way too low in calories. Again, this can result in nutrient deficiencies, poor functioning overall and a high likelihood of regaining any weight you lost.If a diet suggests using a cleanse, juice diet or other liquid diet, this is an extreme and unfounded method of weight loss. Skip these at all costs.
Diets advertising their detoxifying effects have no scientific justification. There is no evidence that toxins accumulating within our bodies can be removed through any cleansing diet. These diets are effective at weight loss because of calorie restriction, but they are actually a type of fasting.
 You may see commercials or internet ads for dieting pills or supplements. The idea being you take these supplements and it'll lead to weight loss.


Diets that suggest using these types of pills or supplements may be even more dangerous than a juice cleanse or overly low calorie diet. These pills and supplements are not regulated by the FDA for safety or efficacy which is why these are very dangerous.In addition, you will not know how these supplements will make you feel, interact with any medications you're taking or health conditions you have.
These supplements are often released into the market without having been through legitimate clinical trials. Some contain substances that have never been associated with weight loss through research. It is unlikely that these will help you.
You should never take a diet pill or supplement for weight loss (even if it seems like a natural herb or a vitamin or mineral). These should always be avoided at all costs.
 Whenever you're trying to lose weight, it's a good idea to meet with your doctor first. They'll be able to help you decide how to lose weight safely and effectively.


Make an appointment with your doctor to discuss your desire to lose weight. Ask them how much weight they recommend you losing and if they have any resources or a diet they recommend.
You may also consider asking for a referral to a registered dietitian. These are nutrition and weight loss specialists that can help you design a personalized diet to fit your lifestyle and goals.
 Don't be discouraged if it takes you a long time to see visible results. Weight loss of ten pounds may be enough to result in noticeable health benefits for you, such as improved energy level and better sleep

Look for other people who are trying to lose weight with similar methods to yours. Keep each other motivated by sharing tips and experiences as well as discussing your progress and setbacks.
Set mini-goals for the week or month. Celebrating small achievements can boost your motivation and help you track your progress.
Accept your setbacks. Every day will not yield results. There will be some days when your program is disrupted for reasons out of your control, but the most important thing is not to allow one day or one week to break your weight loss journey. Get back on track at your earliest opportunity and problem solve if possible to prevent deviation in the future.
 Although following a very, very low calorie diet is considered extreme, you'll still need to cut out some calories in order to induce weight loss.


It's typically only recommended to cut out about 500 calories daily from your current diet. This generally results in 1-2 pounds of weight loss per week.Try keeping a food journal for a few days prior to making any changes to your diet. Tally up your total calorie intake to get an average idea of how many calories you typically eat. Subtract 500 from this amount to get a new goal to help you lose weight.
Again, make sure to never go below 1200 calories daily. If you do the above calculation and get a value under 1200, you should use 1200 as your lowest level of intake.
 When you're attempting to lose weight, it's important to eat adequate amounts of protein each day. Protein is essential to weight loss and maintaining your health.


Protein is important for weight loss because it fuels and supports your metabolism. Plus, its more satisfying than other foods so you'll feel less hungry throughout the day when you're meeting your daily protein needs.Aim to include 1-2 servings of lean protein at each meal or snack. Measure out about 3-4 oz or a piece about the size of your hand.Include lean protein as these sources are lower in calories. Try: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, legumes, tofu or low-fat dairy products.
 Both fruits and vegetables are integral to any balanced diet, but especially in a weight loss diet.


Fruits and vegetables are naturally low in calories, but high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. Filling up on these foods helps you stick to a lower calorie diet while allowing you to meet your daily nutrient needs.
Include 1-2 servings of fruits and vegetables at each meal to help you meet your daily recommended intake. Measure out 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of salad greens and a 1/2 cup of fruit per serving., Another food group that provides health benefits and supports weight loss is the grain group. These foods are filling and satisfying which can help you stick to your diet.


Whole grains are preferable to refined grains as they are less processed and contain more fiber, protein and other minerals. Refined grains have these nutritious parts removed during processing.Include at least one serving of whole grains at most of your meals, and try to make at least half of all grain servings whole grains. Make sure to measure out 1 oz or about 1/2 cup per serving.Whole grains to try include: whole wheat bread, millet, quinoa, oats, whole wheat pasta, brown rice or barley.
 Although not a food or food group, water is an essential nutrient that you need everyday. Ensure you're drinking adequate amounts to stay adequately hydrated.


Most health experts recommend drinking at least 8 glasses of water daily, but even up to 13 glasses daily. The more active you are, the more fluids you need each day.In addition, make sure you're only consuming calorie-free, caffeine-free fluids. This will help you stick to your diet and stay hydrated. Water, flavored water, sparkling water, decaf coffee and tea are appropriate.
 If you're looking for a diet plan to follow that isn't extreme, consider following the Mediterranean diet. This method of eating is not only healthy and well balanced but also supports heart health.The Mediterranean diet is based off the eating patterns of the people who live in countries that border the Mediterranean Sea. It's been shown to reduce the risk of heart disease, cancer, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.The types of foods that are featured in this particular diet include: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, olive oil, seafood, the occasional red wine and herbs and spices.Foods like red meat, dairy products, and poultry are still consumed, but much more in moderation and typically not on a daily basis., The Ornish diet was constructed by Dr. Dean Ornish. This diet is also very well-balanced and may help reduce your risk of heart disease.


The Ornish diet is most well known for helping significantly reducing the risk of heart disease, diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure.The types of foods that the Ornish diet recommends include: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, eggs and low-fat dairy.
This diet is lower in fat with only 10% of your total calories daily coming from fat sources. It suggests getting more of your protein from legumes, nuts, dairy and eggs over higher fat animal proteins.
 Although the DASH diet is typically prescribed for those with high blood pressure, it's a well-balanced diet that can also help you lose weight safely and effectively.The DASH diet also can help reduce your risk of osteoporosis, cancer, heart disease, stroke and diabetes.This eating plan focuses on foods like: whole grains, fruits, vegetables, low-fat dairy and lean protein (including seafood and legumes). It's a very well-balanced program.
The DASH diet discourages the consumption of sodium in foods like fried foods, fast foods and processed foods. In addition it suggests limiting sweets and alcohol., If you're interested in losing larger quantities of weight or are having difficulty losing weight by yourself, you might want to consider signing up for a medically supervised weight loss program.


These weight loss programs are only available through a qualified physician's practice. It may include prescription weight loss medication (regulated by the FDA), protein supplements and vitamin and mineral supplementation.In addition, these programs require regular follow-up with a weight loss doctor, registered dietitian and exercise physiologist. They work to modify diet, exercise and lifestyle to help induce weight loss.Each medically supervised program is different. You may want to spend some time researching programs in your area to find one that fits your budget and lifestyle.

