 The United States Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs is a good place to start. While specific requirements may vary between programs, you will need to be able to provide a safe, secure, and welcoming place for your exchange student to live. You must be able to provide transportation and food while the student is with you. You should be able to offer support, guidance, and encouragement for a young person who may feel uncomfortable or frightened by a new culture (at least at first). Most of all, you should be interested in the sometimes-challenging adventure of representing your country and your culture to others.


Exchange programs are usually split into two categories. Long-term programs usually run for longer than eight weeks. They may even be a full academic semester/term/quarter or a year. Short-term programs are usually eight weeks or less.Some programs have specific requirements for who may be a host family. Many programs do not. For example, the US State Department has had host families who were single adults, same-sex couples, military families, and senior couples with grown children.;
, Several government agencies run foreign student exchange programs. Many schools operate their own foreign exchange programs with schools in other countries. There are also private and nonprofit agencies that arrange for foreign exchange students to stay with host families. Whichever route you choose, do some research to make sure that you will be participating in a reputable program. The Better Business Bureau rates many exchange programs.


The US Department of State runs several Youth Exchange Programs.These include exchanges with students from Germany, Eurasia, South and Latin America, and several countries with large Muslim populations.
The Council on Standards for International Educational Travel (CSIET) is a not-for-profit organization that helps ensure quality standards for exchange education in high school. Programs listed with CSIET are likely to be responsible, reputable, and trustworthy. You can also find CSIET hosting opportunities at their website.ASSE International Student Exchange Program is a major sponsor of foreign exchange programs and has many affiliated programs. They might be a good place to start your search., Becoming a host family is a lot of responsibility, but it is also a wonderful learning experience for you as well as the student you host. You are taking on the responsibility for the well-being of your exchange student. Make sure that you are ready to take on that challenge. Having a good support network in place, such as connections within your community, can help you manage this responsibility.


You must provide at least three meals per day for your student. You must also be able to provide transport (or access to public transport), as exchange students are not allowed to drive. Your student’s parents or sponsors will pay for their personal travel, health insurance, and program fees. In many cases, they will also give the student a spending allowance.Most programs require at least one member of the household to be 25 (or 26) or older.Some programs may require host families to have at least two members.You will not be the student’s legal guardian, and you will not be legally responsible for the student’s actions. However, you are expected to set a good example for your student and help them learn about local customs and laws.
The US State Department does not allow hosts to receive reimbursement or a stipend.They do allow you to claim a flat-rate tax deduction of $50USD per month.
 The best way to learn about what it will be like to be a host family is to talk with other people who have done it. If you know people who have been hosts for exchange students, ask them about their experiences! Many programs also have video blogs and online forums where you can learn about the hosting experience., The application process may vary depending on the program you have chosen. Once you’ve completed your application, you will probably have an interview with a program coordinator. When that is complete, you will have a representative to help match you with a student.The State Department requires that you complete a criminal background check as part of the application process.Many programs will allow you to choose your student, or at least set preferences such as the student’s home country, age, and gender.

