 A table as high as your hips is ideal. Do not place the can on your lap or in between your legs. The knife could slip and injure you.
 Grip the top of the knife with your palm directly over the joining place. Your fingers should rest against the side of the handle, safely away from the sharp edge of the blade.Make sure you have a firm grip. This method can be dangerous if your hand or the knife is slippery.
Do not use this method with a knife smaller than a chef's knife. A chef's knife is a large, heavy knife that weighs more than a pruning or steak knife. You need the relatively heavy weight of the blade to effectively puncture the lid of the can.
 The heel of the knife is the place where the blade is widest. It's at the opposite end of the blade from the tip. Place it up against the raised lip at the edge of the can's lid.


The heel should be centered right under the place where your palm is gripping the knife.
Make sure it is firmly positioned against the edge of the lid, so it won't slip.
 Press down firmly so that it punctures the can, creating a small hole. If you have trouble puncturing the can, try standing up and leaning over it. Hold the knife in place with one hand. Place the other hand on top. Apply steady pressure with both hands and push down until the can is punctured.


Do not strike the can to puncture it. The knife may slip and injure you. Instead, apply slow, steady pressure until the knife breaks through the can.
Don't be tempted to use the sharp tip of the knife to puncture the can. The heel is more stable and less likely to slip. Also, if you use the tip you'll ruin the edge on your blade.
 Move it a few centimeters along the edge of the lid. Use the same technique to create another hole right next to the first one.
 Circle the entire lid, just as you would with a can opener. The lid should now be loose.
 Insert the tip of the knife into one of the holes. Push up to pry off the lid. Be careful to point the edge of the blade away from your body so that it won't hurt you if it slips. Remove and discard the lid.


If necessary, use a smaller knife to saw through remaining connected parts of the lid.
Consider covering your hand with a towel or your sleeve before prying off the lid. This will protect your hand from getting scratched by the sharp lid.

