 Regardless of your age, you will have to think like a young adult and try to get in your characters’ mindset in order to craft a novel that is believable and relatable to a young adult audience.Pay careful attention to how you narrate the book so you do not seem to be writing this from the perspective of an adult looking back on their teenage years with the wisdom and maturity that comes with age.If you are no longer a young adult, you will have to be careful about the decisions, feelings, and emotions your characters make. Ask yourself if this is something a young adult would actually do or if your hindsight and experience are making your characters and the story less relatable to a young adult audience.
If you are looking for insight into a young adult audience, check out online forums centered around young adult novels. You will get a better sense of the opinions, views, and perspectives of people you want to read and enjoy your work., Although the characters in your young adult novel may be very different from you, readers and writers have argued that successful books are those that capture the emotional experience of being a young adult.For example, even though readers may not identify with the specific struggle a main character in a young adult novel is dealing with, they will probably relate to his or her search for identity and meaning in the world.
 References to pop culture and the use of slang can help you develop your characters and make them more personable, but they can also date your novel and you as an author.Many successful young adult authors recommend using pop culture references and slang sparingly to help you establish the setting and provide specific insight into characters.
Excessive use of pop culture references and slang, however, may make the novel difficult for readers to understand and relate to in the future. References to technology, for example, quickly become obsolete. Overdoing the pop culture and slang can also distract from the storyline and the novel’s central conflict.
If you decide to use pop culture references or slang in your novel, make sure you provide sufficient context that a reader can figure out what you are referring to many years down the road.
 Finding and adopting the right voice for your young adult novel can be daunting. While there are no set rules, many young adult novels are written in the first-person present tense, and are narrated from the perspective of a young person revealing intimate details about his or her life.Many young adult readers, according to writers and editors, are looking for a story that is told in a personal and accessible way.Although adult characters may be present in the book, the novels usually do not emphasize their perspective and readers often identify most with the main character., When you start writing your young adult novel, you may feel like you need to be particularly poetic and creative, but many successful young adult writers have reported that people of all ages are attracted to their work because the writing style is more direct, straightforward, and simple.This doesn’t mean that you should throw writing and grammar rules out the window, but realize that your audience often communicates more bluntly and to the point. Writing like a snobby philosopher won’t help you craft a compelling novel that young adults and people of all ages can relate to.
 The age of your characters will influence who reads your novel and how they react to it. They may be excited to read a book about a character a few years older, but young adults are usually reluctant to read books about characters younger than they are so make sure your characters’ age is appropriate for your intended audience.The age range of main characters in young adult novels is usually mid to upper teens.
If you envisioned a protagonist as younger, you might want to evaluate whether your book is a better fit for a middle-grade audience. The main characters in these books are usually 10 to 12 years old, and the middle-grade demographic is 8 to 12 years old.
 At their core, most young adult books are coming-of-age stories that trace characters’ transition to adulthood. As a result, young adult authors have to demonstrate how their characters experience personal growth and change over the course of the novel.The appeal of coming-of-age stories and personal growth is one of the elements that make young adult books so popular to audiences of all ages. This is something we can all relate to.
 Anyone who has been a young adult or is often around young adults knows that they, just like adults, do not appreciate being told what to do. Avoid writing a novel with the intention of teaching your audience lessons you think are important.It’s okay for your views and opinions to be apparent in the way you write the novel, but you can usually make your audience think critically about a topic by simply raising a question or introducing an issue. It’s not your responsibility as a writer to provide an answer to the question. Instead, let your audience explore and grapple with the topic on their own time and in their own way.
 While older adults may dismiss teenagers as overly dramatic and emotional, you will need to embrace this tendency if you want to be a successful young adult author. When you are a young adult, everything that happens to you can seem and feel life-changing and very important.Young adults, because of how their bodies and brains are developing and changing, feel things intensely. To capture that quality, you have to be able to dramatize things that some people might regard as trivial in your book. For example, a grade on a science test, a glance from a boy you are attracted to, and a snicker in gym class can seem incredibly important to young adults., While young adult books can definitely explore topics that leave readers feeling raw and emotional, successful young adult novels also offer readers some glimpse of optimism or the sense that things can and will improve for the characters. You don’t have to make the ending a happy or rosy one, and tragedy can occur in the book. Just try to leave readers with a sense that there is some chance for survival, growth, and happiness.One of the reasons many adults are drawn to young adult novels is that they often provide more resolution or a reason for optimism than adult fiction.
For example, if you are writing a book about a geeky student in high school, you don’t have to include a triumphant but unrealistic ending where the nerd turns into the most popular student in school. You can, however, suggest that the unpopular student meets and befriends new people, feeling less isolated in the end.

