 Two nights before is best, but if you don’t want to, the night prior is fine also. When you come home from school on your chosen day, tell your easiest and most caring parent about how hard it was to be attentive in class. Most likely they will ask why, tell them your chosen sickness was hurting you, ask if you can go lie down, grab your self a flat ginger ale, or even better ask them to get you it. Then see if you can sneak some snacks up in your room. Reason for this, for added effect, skip out on dinner, say that you don’t feel well enough to handle food. If you have chosen two days in advance, get up the next morning and get ready, tell your parents your feeling a bit better and you are going to try to go to school, then when you come home say you felt even worse, and it started to hurt again during class. Repeat your same routine from the night prior.;
, If you want to, you can wake your parents up to have some medicine, obviously you will have to take it, but spit it out when you are alone in your room. Many kids would be in trouble for waking their parents up but, take the risk. In the morning they could try to force you to go to school, if they do, spend a little more time to get out, then have some cereal but pick at it, saying you don’t feel like eating. Then slowly start to dress, put on really comfy clothes, and don’t brush your hair properly. If they actually make you go, then go. But only for a while, call their cell phone, saying you can’t handle it anymore. it will work more or less. If your parents let you stay home you may protest, it's personal choice to do this or not do, your parents may start to think you are faking. But if you have something you enjoy, say “We were going to start basketball in gym today…” It may work.
 At dinner that night say you are feeling a little better, and eat some of your dinner saying you are also starting to get your appetite back. If you eat it all you could look like you are extremely hungry, and people who have not eaten in a while tend to slowly regain their appetite. Go to bed a little early, saying you are still a bit tired and need more sleep.
 Come home saying you barely are in pain any more, and you are well healed. Everything can go back to normal.

