 One way you can expand your capacity for joy is to volunteer your time for a cause you believe in. This could be a local cause, such as a local homeless shelter, or a national cause, such as a disaster relief organization. Look for a cause that you feel passionate about and donate your time. Even volunteering a few hours a week can expand your capacity for kindness, and as a result, your capacity for joy.For example, you may volunteer twice a month at your local literacy center, supporting adults learning to read. Or you may volunteer during the holidays at a national call center for a non-profit organization.;
, If you are not able to donate your time to a cause, consider donating money instead. Even a small amount once a year or once a month to a cause can make a big difference. Every time your donation goes out, you will feel a small surge of joy at the knowledge that you are helping someone in need.


To determine if a cause might be worthy to you, look at current events and things happening in the news. Perhaps there is an organization that addresses the needs of refugees, which you may be concerned about due to current events. This may then be a good cause for you to support.
You may have personal reasons for supporting a cause you feel is worthy, such as personal experience that relates to those who are being helped by an organization or group. If you were once an undocumented immigrant, for example, you may be interested in organizations or groups who work to address this issue.
Set up monthly donations to an organization that you believe in and want to support. Or you may make a larger donation once a year as a gift to the organization.
 Reach out to community organizations in your area that need role models and mentors. Offer to be a mentor to someone in your community who needs support and guidance. Being a role model for someone else can make you feel needed in your community in a positive, uplifting way.For example, you may sign up to a Big Brother or Big Sister to a young person in your community, where you mentor them and spend quality time with them. Or you may volunteer at an after school program where you mentor young people.
 Show kindness and compassion to those closest to you, such as your friends and family members. Support them when they need it most so they feel less alone. Giving your time and energy to someone close to you in need can make you feel good.For example, you may offer to cook meals for a family member who is ill. You can also support a friend going through a hard time, such as a break up or the loss of a loved one.
You can also support friends and family by being a good listener. Ask friends and family how they are feeling and listen to what they have to say.
 Random acts of kindness can also help you feel more joyful in your day to day life. Try doing one kind act a day for people you know and for total strangers. The act can be small and the person may not even know you are doing something kind for them.For example, you may pay for the coffee of the person behind you in line as an act of kindness or pick up the check for someone’s meal when you are eating out. You may also stop to chat with a homeless person on the street to acknowledge their presence and let them know you care about their wellbeing.

