 This is anything that's in the way of you doing the work that needs to get done. That means old papers, used pens and pencils, and random things that you can't remember what they are for. If you don't know why it's there, get rid of it.Put books on a bookshelf. Books are big, so they take up a lot of space. This will give you extra room on your desk, and you'll always have a place to put your books when you are finished with them.;
, Once you have cleared off your workspace, wipe it down to get rid of crumbs, dust, any other dirt still around. Check with your parents if you need some kind of special cleaner, like if you desk is made of a certain kind of wood., Read everything you've got, and figure out if you need to keep it or not. If it's something you need to keep, put it in one pile. If not, throw it away.If you have lots of things you don't need, throw them away, not into drawers. If you have lots of drawers, it can be tempting, but that only moves the mess into the draw, not get rid of it.
 These are the things you use regularly, like notebooks, pens, a calculator, or anything else that you might use everyday. You will need to find a space on your desk for them. For everything else, you'll get to decide if you have space on the desk for it, or if it needs to go somewhere else., Once you have figured out what doesn't need to be at your desk, make sure you have a place to put it. Maybe you have some extra shelf space, or a closet. Ask your parents if you don't have a good place in mind. Just make sure you remember where that stuff is, so you can find it when you need it.
 Once you have figure out what should be on your desk, and where to put the stuff you need but not regularly, it is best to throw out everything that is left. This is going to be old papers, used pens, or other garbage that you don't need at your desk., This means the television, electronic devices, or anything else that could cause you to look at something that isn't work. A desk is a space for working, and you don't want your attention focused on other things., This can be a big one showing each month, or a weekly planner. It can be a paper one to hang, or even an electronic one. Make sure you have it somewhere you'll always be able to see it.Put everything on your calendar. This means schoolwork, plus outside activities, practices, events, anything you'll be doing that takes up time. You don't want to miss or forget anything. When you get home from school or anywhere else, put any new dates or assignments on it. If you wait, you'll just forget.Make sure that stuff you'll need your parents for, like places they'll need to drive you or things that need their permission, get on to their calendars as well., You'll need to be able to see what you're doing at the desk, so make sure you have plenty of light from windows, lamps, and other lights. If you don't have good lights near your desk, get a lamp., Things you write with, pens and pencils, should be together so you know where to look when you need one. Folders and notebooks can go together too to keep all your papers in one place. This will help when you need to find something, because all of your pens or notebooks will be in the same place.For folders and notebooks, keep subjects together too. You don't want to open a folder for math when you're trying to do your science homework.
 Once you have figured out the papers you want to keep, you'll want to organize them by what needs to get done. Put all the stuff you need to do in one pile, to make sure you do it, then put the stuff that is finished into another. Maybe you give the finished stuff to your parents to check, or maybe you'll just put it in your bag to take to school the next day. This will help keep things you have to do together so you remember to do them., Use these to help remind you where things are, and where they should go. You can use a fancy label-maker or just some masking tape with a marker., Of course you're going to need to write things down, but your pens and paper don't need to be plain or boring. Look for pencils with fun erasers, or pens that come in different colors. Even small stacks of post-it notes can be different colors to help you stay organized, or just to look fun and different.


Just make sure you have pens that write in blue or black ink. Many teachers require it. You can have other colors, but make sure that if you need it, you have it.
 To help you keep your stuff in the right place, you'll want some organizers. You'll need places to hold your papers and pens, and small boxes to hold other items like paper clips or rubber bands. Brightly colored folders and cases, even little jewelry boxes, are perfect for keeping stuff together.You don't even have to buy new things. Cut a few cereal boxes in half, they are the perfect size for holding papers, while old cans (cleaned and with the labels taken off, of course) can hold pens and pencils. You can then paint these things, add stickers, or do other things to make them more personal to you., There are a variety of chair designs around, so you'll want something functional, but it can be all kinds of colors, with a different back, or maybe one that wheels or swivels around. Your chair is part of your desk, and while it needs to be functional so you can get work done, that doesn't mean it can't be comfortable or look great.You may want your chair to be adjustable for height. If it's a really good chair, you won't want to have to get rid of it just because you grew slightly, and which makes it less comfortable to sit in., Some bright, new colors can make even an old, beat up desk look brand new. It's especially fun to do it yourself, as now you can really feel like the desk really belongs to you, something you helped create.


If you're feeling really ambitious, and your parents are willing to help, you can think about painting your room a new and different color. You are getting older, and not everything needs to stay the same as when you were a little kid. If you don't want to paint the whole room, think about maybe just the area around your desk., You can decorate more than the outside of the desk. Some paint or stickers on the inside of drawers can make even opening them interesting. If you are really creative, you can use different decorations to help you keep organized as well, like using different colors or symbols for different subjects, rather than writing out names.
 This is your desk, and you can always put items on it that reflect you and stuff you like. These items should be small (you need that room for your work), but can be anything that expresses you, or makes you happy when you look at it. Pictures of you and your friends, trophies for sports and other activities, or even a small stuffed animal help make the desk unique to you.

