 Don’t just fit your job description, blow it out of the water. Do more than what people expect of you to show that you are capable and dedicated. This will make you much more likely to get promotions and recommendations.


As a teenager, you can use your free time to start a charitable organization. Choose a cause that is important to you and start raising money.

If you're a teen who is particularly good in a certain subject, help your classmates when you see them struggling. Offer to show them how you tackle problems or ask about starting a tutoring session. Sometimes people can learn better from their peers, who communicate with them more easily, than they can from teachers and you could be doing them a huge service.
Adults can do this easily by examining every time they find themselves saying "It isn't my problem." It might not be your responsibility to handle that situation but do what you can to do it anyway. For example, if you're a janitor and you see that someone is lost, help them, even though you may not be obligated to even speak to that person.
 When you and your schoolmates or coworkers are asked to volunteer for extra duties, be the first one to volunteer. Look for opportunities where no one is taking responsibility and things are neglected. Like going above and beyond the call of duty, this will show others that you are capable and dedicated, but it will also prove that you are a leader.


If you're a teenager, get a job as early as you can. It doesn't have to be for very many hours, just enough to have it on a resume. Having a resume that's already filled will show to future employers that you work hard: even if you don't have to.
Teens can also take on more responsibility by becoming teacher's assistants. Many schools will allow students to take a "class" where they grade papers, organize assignments, and do other tasks to help out in the classroom. This will also look good to colleges and future employers.
As an adult, suggest a program that can help your place of business and offer to manage the program in addition to the work you already do. For example, you could suggest that every six months the whole office gets together to beautify and organize a room, desk, or office space for one teammate. This will keep things organized and help out stressed coworkers, but it will also show your boss that you are leadership material.
 Do whatever you can to fight your way up the food chain. Being in better positions will allow you to better provide for yourself and your family. When you see positions open up in your company, apply for them. After you’ve been at a job for a few years, look and apply for jobs elsewhere that will move you further in that career path. Don’t be afraid of failure: you’ll never know if you could get the job if you don’t try!

