 If you already have a vet you know and trust, take your dog to see them without delay. Catching any potential infections as early as possible is vital to your new dog’s survival. This step is especially important if your new dog is a puppy. Early diagnosis of a viral infection of another contagious disease can save your new dog’s life., If this is your first dog, it is worth seeking referrals or doing some research of your own. Ask friends and family where they take their pets for veterinary care.Keep in mind that different veterinarians will have different levels of experience and philosophies.Local dog shelters and breeders are great places to ask someone about local vets.
The American Animal Hospital Association’s website is a good resource to help locate the options in your area.
 Reach out to a veterinarian office you’re considering and ask to speak with a vet or assistant. Ask them a few questions to see if they provide thoughtful responses. Since you’ll potentially be trusting them with the health of your dog, it’s important that they actually care about your concerns.For example, ask the vet about their experience with your dog’s breed, their perspectives on things like vaccinations and medications, their services, and payment policies.If a veterinarian is rude or impatient with your questions, it’s likely best to look elsewhere for your dog’s medical treatment.
 One of the reasons it’s so important to choose a good veterinarian is that you want to be sure they give your dog thorough check-ups. When meeting a new dog, these check-ups can be extensive.Be sure to use an appropriate dog carrier to safely transport your dog to the vet, or keep them on a leash.
The vet will check your dog’s heart and lungs, eyes, mouth, ears, abdomen, and limbs. They’ll be looking for any signs of congenital issues, infections, and developmental concerns.
The first exam your dog receives is especially important. Future evaluations will depend on a good initial check-up to determine your dog’s normal skin, fur, and body conditions, as well as behavior and other health indicators.
 Blood, urine and fecal (to check for worms and parasites) tests will allow your veterinarian to get a much better read on your dog’s health. In particular, these tests can tell you and your vet whether the dog’s organs are functioning fully, if they have an infection that has not yet led to symptoms, and if their immune system is in good shape.While an physical examination can tell your vet a good amount about your dog’s health, blood tests in particular provide more thorough and more certain information.
Initial blood tests are also important to provide baseline blood values. This can help your vet diagnose potential diseases or other issues later in the dog’s life.

