 Most major films are not subtitled, so a command of this language is necessary. It's also important to know how to communicate with casting agents and directors at film studios. Most communication from behind the scenes to on the stage is in Hindi, making it requirement #1.


While English is used in many Bollywood films, command of English is an optional skill. However, if you're confident in English, too, that is a point in your favor and may mean you get chosen for a part over someone else.;
, Study current actresses in the Bollywood film industry to see what is in demand. Stereotypically, successful actresses have long, slightly wavy hair, olive complexions, and manicured eyebrows, nails, lips, and everything else in between.


Just like in Hollywood, there is a definite emphasis on being beautiful. The majority of actresses are quite stereotypically feminine – they have long hair, clear skin, a thin frame, and gentle features.
 To work in Bollywood films, you not only need to have rhythm and fluid dance moves, but must know the meanings of all the movements and positioning. Hand and body gestures and movements, when done incorrectly, can offend viewers. It's not only something you're born with – it's something you have to learn.


Lessons at a dance school, through online videos or with a private instructor are some options. Though not every role will involve dance, just about every movie does.
 The Bollywood film industry is famous for its dancing and singing segments, and there are normally 6 or more musical numbers in a film. If you want true stardom, your voice will have to be a gem. The earlier you start, the better.


More and more voice teachers are offering lessons over the phone or via Skype. If you don't know of any teachers in your area, consider taking online lessons as an option.
 In addition to song and dance, you've got to be able to act and move with a subtle grace. Study with a mentor, join an acting group, or consider going to film school if your funds allow for it. Sure, you need an "it" factor, but you also need the technical know-how.


This involves practice, too. While you are studying, take every opportunity to hone your acting skills. The more time you get in front of the camera, the better. But onstage in front of a live audience is good, too.
 To get a feel of the type of roles, current acting style and dialog delivery of the well-known actors and actresses, it is very important to watch Hindi movies. Immerse yourself in them. Develop a refined appreciation for them to the point where you can't see yourself doing anything else. Make them a part of your life.


There are sources to watch Hindi movies online, like FridayMasti.com that can help widen your Bollywood horizons.
This will help you understand the culture, too. Read about the area and keep up with news and trends to supplement your knowledge as well.
 In order for casting agents to take you seriously, you've got to have a portfolio. Have professional photographs taken and make an audition tape or DVD that shows your acting, singing and dancing skills. It should also show snippets of the work you've already done.


Promote yourself on sites like YouTube, where you can develop your own following independently. If you have your own professional website, even better.
 This could be an extra or walk-on role in a film or a stunt double. Accept parts in commercials, on television shows, reality and game shows. Try to get work as a model, too. You can't start at the top – you've got to work your way up. It's all a step in the right direction.


Film studios are centered around Mumbai's Juhu district. Film scouts looking for extras and tourists are usually most active in the early morning hours.
 It takes just as much charisma, talent and ability to be "discovered" in Bollywood as it does in Hollywood. Competition is high and connections are important. Further, it's difficult to work in Bollywood if you are not of Indian descent. Determine whether you actually have a chance to make it before committing a lot of time and energy to learn how to become a Bollywood actress.


While you're working your way up, you'll need a source of income. Many of those aiming for stardom having something else they do on the side until they get their big break. It's good to have a fall back in the case that it doesn't work out.
 Many of the top film stars got their start because they were born into the business. Just like Hollywood, Bollywood is about networking, networking, networking. That invite you got to that party? Go. You never know who you might meet that can give you a leg up.


This is why taking any gig possible, even if it's collecting the mail, is a step in the right direction. You'll be around the right people and get your name and presence known. Even the smallest gig can lead to large opportunities.
 Most of Bollywood is centered in Mumbai. Your odds of making it increase drastically if you can center your life in Mumbai, too, and make it to every audition possible. You'll get more confident with each one as well.


Remember: there is no audition that is too small. Every role is something you can add to your resume or put onto your reel. The beefier it is, the more a casting agent will look at you and think, "She must know what she's doing."

, Very few actresses start out being the star. They put in their time and make the effort, proving they have that "something special." As you develop your career, you'll start being able to nab bigger and bigger roles. More and more people will recognize you, leading to bigger and better opportunities.


Be patient – this climb up the ladder takes time, and some don't see results for years. Stick with it, believe in yourself, and do your best. You'll inevitably experience rejection, but that can't stop you. Let your confidence carry you through.
 Some actresses struggle their entire lives trying to fit into a box the media or their manager says they should fit into. They try to fit a "look" that really just isn't them. Instead of doing this, embrace what makes you different. Take what makes you unique and run with it – because no one else can. No one else can do what you can do, but everyone can try to be the same person.


If there's some way you don't fit in, make it work for you. Is your voice a little different than "normal?" No, it's distinguishable – you just need the right role. And in that right role, you'll be unforgettable.
 With more and more positive attention inevitably comes more and more negative attention. You'll be in the public eye, so it's wise to be on your best behavior. You'll have naysayers and people wish you'll fail, but ignore them. You have fans on your side, too. Concentrate on the positive; don't wallow in the negative. It certainly won't do you any favors.


With stardom comes responsibility. You'll be a role model to people the world over, but especially to children. Always step out your door with you best foot forward and behave responsibly.
 All that hard work is finally paying off. You're making movies, you're lounging in VIP rooms, and you're rubbing noses with other stars. Ah, the life. Cherish it, because not everyone is so lucky. Pay it forward to the people that helped you on your way up. They're the ones that are keeping you at the top, too!


Use your stardom to affect your community for good. What organizations do you care about? How can you help those in need? Not only are you a star, but you're an ambassador of global prosperity, too. Take your power and use it for good.

