 Start with 1 tablespoon of water and add more later if the consistency of the dough is too rough. You can set it on the dough setting but most breads start out kneading anyway and you will not run it for its full cycle.


Optional: Use a flexible spatula and push the ingredients toward the propeller until it the flour becomes dough. Use caution as the machine can break a wooden spatula. This will help speed up the process of kneading the dough.;
, Examine the dough and see if you need to add all or part of the remaining tablespoon of water. You're looking for a clean, smooth ball of dough that looks like something you could work with your hands. If you put in too much of the remaining water, the dough will be too soft and will stick to the sides. If you have done this, try adding pinches of flour to rebuild the consistency until you get a ball again.
 When the time is up, turn off the bread machine and unplug it. Take a sheet of plastic wrap and pick up the ball from the machine, wrapping it in the plastic. Your skin need not touch the dough. Set this wrapped dough aside to settle for 20 minutes.
, If it feels a little sticky, dip your hands or the dough into some flour and pat the dough until it's no longer sticky. Break the dough into four or more smaller balls.
 If you have a pasta maker you are ready to go. Run the dough through the rollers at the widest setting then work your way to the thinnest. Each setting will make your strip longer and wider. If the strips become too wide, fold them over and run through again. To save time you could use every other thickness setting as you work your way to the thinnest. If your goal is lasagna, don't bother with the thinnest setting, it may be too thin.
 By the time you've made all the strips, the first strip should be dry enough to cut. The strip should not be sticky at all. If it is, it could cause problems with the cutter. As each strip is cut into noodles hang them to dry more.


If you don't have a pasta maker flatten the balls of dough with a rolling pin then use a pizza cutter to cut into noodles. You can use this to make lasagna, ravioli or egg noodles should work and you can certainly experiment with twisting and folding your dough to invent your own noodle.
You can also Use a Paper Shredder as a Pasta Machine!

, Standard pasta cooking directions apply to this dough. Boil for 3 to 5 minutes in slightly salted water.

