 Good yoga starts with an intention. Take a few seconds to close your eyes before your sun salutation.. Use this time to dedicate your practice to something or someone. This can help wake you up in an even calmer manner.Touch palms and fingers lightly and leave small space between your palms if you like. This can help your energy flow.
Close your eyes and softly say or think your intention. It doesn’t need to be anything big. A simple “stay happy” is a great way to start your day.
 Finish off your morning yoga with chanting or meditation. They can help you get rid of distracting thoughts, give you more energy, and make you more aware throughout during your day.Start your meditation and/or chant with an aum or om. This is the most elemental sound and can be a very powerful way to wake up.You should feel this mantra’s vibrations in your lower belly.
Repeat the Hare Krishna mantra if you prefer. The verses are: Hare Krishna, Hare Krishna, Krishna Krishna, Hare Hare, Hare Rama, Hare Rama, Rama Rama, Hare Hare.Let your thoughts come and go, which will help you let go of things you can’t control. Repeat “let” with every inhalation and “go” with every exhalation.
 Instead of waking up and rushing, start your morning yoga the evening before your practice. Look at your schedule for the day and figure out how much time you’d like to dedicate to yoga. Then set your alarm for a few minutes before you want to start. This gives you a chance to slowly get out of bed and ease into your morning yoga practice.Consider using a smartphone yoga app to wake you up. These often offer peaceful music that won’t have you hitting the snooze button.
Set your alarm to play soothing music such as classical or another type you enjoy.
 Another thing to keep your morning and yoga practice calm is having your gear ready to go. Set out your yoga clothes the night before or even wear them to bed if you like. Roll your mat out in a comfortable space where you can enjoy your yoga with little distraction.Set out some water and any other things you need for your practice.

