 Both BRCA1 and BRCA2 are genes that can be passed on from parents to their children.


Testing positive for either one carries a heightened risk of developing breast and/or ovarian cancer during your lifetime.;
, The purpose of genetic testing in this case is to determine your risk of developing cancer again down the road (as the risk may be heightened if you test positive for the mutation), and also to provide information that may assist your children in making decisions about their own healthcare.


If you test positive for a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, your children will also be eligible for genetic testing as the mutation may have been passed onto them genetically.
Children are not eligible for testing without a positive result in their parent to first confirm that the mutation is indeed present (and that the breast cancer or ovarian cancer is not related to other factors or to random chance).
 Again, the person with the cancer must test positive for the genetic mutation before any other family members are eligible for testing. This is to ensure that the mutation is present, before investing the time and money in testing relatives.
 Because the implications of testing positive can be life-changing, you will need to talk through all of the possible outcomes with the genetic counsellor, and discuss a plan of action as to what you will do and how you will move forward once you do find out the results.


While a negative result can provide some measure of reassurance, it does not eliminate the possibility of developing these cancers. Rather, it means that your risk is the same as the general population (11% risk for breast cancer in your lifetime and 1.3% risk for ovarian cancer). Furthermore, the test is not 100% accurate, so there is a very small chance that you could test negative and still be positive for a BRCA mutation.
A positive BRCA test puts you at up to an 85% risk of developing breast cancer at some point in your life, and a 30-50% risk of developing ovarian cancer. Needless to say, knowing these risks will add worry and stress to your life.
Consider the implications of a positive result on your children. If you test positive for a BRCA mutation, there is a 50% chance for each of your children to have the mutation (note that the mutation is most significant for girls, as male breast cancer is extremely rare and men cannot get ovarian cancer).
 You can get it done at any medical laboratory or hospital. Simply have your doctor fill out the required paperwork (which he or she will do only after you have had a consultation with a genetic counsellor), and bring it with you to the lab.


It will take a few weeks, or possibly even a couple of months, for you to receive the results.The genetic counsellor will either book a follow-up appointment with you when he or she knows the results will be ready (as he or she may be familiar with the lab's processing time in your area). Alternatively, you may receive a phone call from the genetic counsellor when your results are ready to be reviewed.
If you have not heard back within a couple months, phone the lab or your genetic counsellor to check in about the status of your BRCA testing.
 The reason for this is that they can help you to handle the impact of the results (either good or bad), and to choose an appropriate course of action moving forwards.


If you test negative, you can continue to live your life as normal, knowing that your risk is no greater than the general population.
If you test positive, however, there are a number of things to consider moving forwards. You may opt to get your breasts and/or your ovaries removed prophylactically (preventatively).You may need to discuss with the genetic counsellor the impact the result may have on your children, how you plan to tell your family, and/or how it may impact your decision to have more children down the road.
If you test positive for a BRCA mutation, it is important to inform your children in age-appropriate ways; they will then be invited to speak to a genetic counsellor and to decide for themselves whether or not they want to be tested.
However, genetic testing for people under 18 is highly controversial, as they may not be mature enough to make an informed decision about a disease that will not onset until they are adults.
The invitation will remain open to them at any stage in life, so even if they decline in their twenties, for instance, they may return for the test in their thirties if their perspective and desire for testing has changed.
It is for all these reasons that it is important to see a genetic counsellor, as he or she is someone who has been specifically trained to help people navigate this challenging time in their lives.

