 This can take a few minutes to even an hour if you have much to do to get ready. First, ask yourself why you haven't been studying for the past few hours and assess it. If you have been at sports practice or doing other homework, it doesn't matter.;
, ((Note: if quiet music helps you concentrate, turn the radio to a station which plays only classical music. If you can't find one then use Pandora, create a "Solo Piano" radio or "Peaceful Holidays" radio which will only play instrumental.)) If you haven't been sitting on your bed for more than an hour doing nothing, then skip to the next step. But even if you've been doing nothing you should get up. Stretch, and take a break. Shower if you need to, make yourself a cup of tea or decaf coffee (you won't need caffeine), and be sure to keep a bottle of water handy.
 Close your door, tune out all other noises and turn on the lights. Get comfortable because you will be there a while.
 Choose only the raw study guides, notes, and your book to use, preferably only the things your teacher told you to use to prepare for the test.
 It may seem like a lot of work, but if your test is not that long read thoroughly and completely. This will help you review before you begin studying your study guides and get confused.
 While going through the chapter, take a look at your notes to see if they are correct and complete.
, These are great ideas to simply review, because bookwork questions are often on the test.
 These questions will almost definitely be on the test and quizzes are shorter than classwork and homework worksheets.
 Read through them once if they fill up more than 5 pages; if they are 2 to 4 pages long then read through them twice. Be sure you understand each concept. If you have fill in the blank notes cover the blank with your hand and quiz yourself using the rest of the sentence.
 If you have a checklist or something your teacher emailed, then definitely fill it out now. If it's already filled out then just review it over and over, and quiz yourself on it.
, It is scientifically proven that reviewing before bed will make you remember it well.
 Relax and envision an A on that test!

, Don't spend too much time or worry about it.
 If your teacher is laid back then use the 5 minutes wisely, or if not do it at another time, such as during lunch.
