 Papillon’s are easy to train, especially if you start early, i.e., about eight weeks of age. Begin with command training. Teach your Papillon to sit, come, and stay. Papillon’s respond well to reward-based training methods. Make sure your whole family is involved in training your dog. If not, it will take a lot longer to fully train your dog.Create a structured schedule for your Papillon. Have a designated time for using the restroom, going on walks, eating, grooming, playing outside, sleeping, and spending time in the crate.You can always enroll your Papillon in a professional dog training program. Contact your vet or your local pet supply store about dog training programs. Training programs cost around $50 to $100., Papillons are active dogs. If given a choice, they would rather be chasing a ball than sitting around. Since Papillons are small, they can get their exercise either indoors or outdoors. They require at least 30 minutes of exercise or play time per day.Play fetch with your Papillon indoors or outdoors. Try to alternate between outdoor and indoor exercise.
When walking your dog, use a harness with a leash attachment. Since Papillon’s frames are small, a leash used around its neck might harm it.When outdoors, your Papillon should be supervised at all times. Since they are small, they can get into a bit of mischief if not supervised., Feed your papillon according to its weight and age. Dogs over one year of age should be fed once per day. Clean, fresh water should be available at all times. Place your dog’s bowls in a quiet corner.


Always speak with your vet or breeder about frequency and size of meals.
Try to stick to one type of dog food.
Clean its food bowls regularly, for example, once a week.
 You should visit the vet at least once a year. Have your vet assess your dog's general health and make sure he is up to date on vaccinations. Depending on your dog's dental hygiene, you might need to visit the vet twice a year to ensure that your dog has healthy teeth and gums.Be sure to take your dog to the vet for their vaccinations, deworming medicine, and heartworm control medicine.
Talk with your vet about desexing your dog.
You may also want to ask about microchipping, which can help to ensure the safe return of your dog if he gets lost.
Make sure the vet checks your dog's ear health, as well.

