 There are plenty of makeup tricks to give you the gorgeous tan you've been looking for, many of which are easy to do. Using makeup is the safest, but also most temporary, way to darken your skin. One great method is using bronzers and shimmer powders. You'll need a few simple products to create your new tan look, all of which can be found online or at any makeup department or convince store.


You'll need a cream bronzer, a powder bronzer, a highlighter or shimmer powder, a small powder brush, and a regular powder brush.
Start off by using a small powder brush to sweep a cream bronzer across both cheeks, under your eyes, and across the bridge of the nose. The key is to apply it where you would naturally get tan on your face.
Next, take your powder bronzer and apply it to your cheeks and temples with your regular powder brush. Blend both bronzers thoroughly to avoid makeup lines.
Lastly, take your highlighter or shimmer powder and apply it along your cheekbones, above your upper lip, and along the outside of your eye / eyebrow area with your regular sized rider brush.
Be sure to blend your bronzers and shimmer powders to avoid makeup lines., Sunless tanning products, also known as self-tanners, are a great way to give your skin a beautiful tan without being exposed to harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays. Self tanners are easy to use and come in many different types and shades, making them the perfect option for many people. You can purchase self tanning products online or at your local convenience store. Your tan from a self tanning lotion or spray will typically last 3-5 days.


Try a self tanning lotion at home for a speedy tan. This lotion isn't difficult to apply, but it's easy to miss a spot or two. Be sure to keep some extra lotion to dab in spots you may have missed.
Use a gradual self tanning lotion. Gradual self tanners are the most natural looking and easy to control, but will take a 4-7 days to get you the results you're looking for. If you're not in a hurry, a gradual self tanning lotion is recommended.
Get a self tanning spray. This may be the easiest to use out of all at-home tanning products, but it can be hard to get those hard to reach places. If you have an at-home spray tan assistant, give this tanning method a try.Always be sure to exfoliate your skin before applying your self tanner. Exfoliating your skin will remove your dead skin cells, and allow the tanner to soak into fresh skin. This will help your tan last longer.
Let your self tanner soak in for at least 10 minutes before getting dressed, and wait until the following day to shower.
 For best results, follow the instructions on your self tanning package very closely. Get the right shade for your skin complexion, if you get a shade that's too dark, you will not be hoary with the results.


Apply the lotion in sections to be sure that you're entirely covered, and use a circular motion to apply the product to your skin. Start by applying the lotion to your arms, then your legs, and lastly your torso. Wash your hands after each section to avoid excessive tanning on your palms. Lightly apply the product to your ankles, feet and hands.
Wipe down your joint areas, as they tend to absorb the lotion more quickly. If you notice quick darkening on your joint areas, gently wipe them with a damp towel., As with any self tanner, follow the instructions on the package carefully.


Remove any jewelry and tie up your hair, otherwise you may end up with some strange markings.
Prior to spraying, apply an oil-free moisturizer to any dry areas.
Apply your spray sparingly around high absorption areas: knees, elbows, and feet. To ensure you get an even application, bend your knees and elbows when spraying those areas.
Hold the can at arm’s length away from the area to which you are applying the product, and spray a layer over your entire body. It's easiest to start from your feet and work your way up., Putting on too much self tanning lotion or bronzer will leave you looking orange and unnatural. Apply your tanning products in moderation, and start with a small amount. It's easier to apply another layer than to take one away.

