 Punica granatum is a small deciduous tree. It will grow to about 2.5 metres (8.2 feet) tall, with orange flowers during the summer season. The dwarf variety "Nana" will grow shorter, to about 1 meter (3.2 feet) and are the best for growing in containers. Or, you might like the frilly flowers that grow on the "Beautiful" variety.


Be sure to consider your climate when choosing a pomegranate. Most varieties cannot tolerate temperatures below 15 °F (−9.4 °C).There are several ways you can grow a pomegranate: from a seedling, a cutting, or from seed. Growing pomegranates from seeds does not guarantee you will get a certain variety of pomegranate and you will have to wait three or four years before your plant produces any fruit. If you would like to know how to germinate pomegranate seeds, click here.
;
, You can purchase a pomegranate seedling at your local nursery. Be sure to buy a variety that produces edible fruit if you are hoping to be able to eat homegrown pomegranate. However, if you have a friend who has a pomegranate tree, you can also take a cutting from that tree. Cut a branch that is at least 10 inches (25cm) long. Cover the cut end of the branch with rooting hormone to help it grow.Take the cutting in February or March, when the plant is still dormant.
 Pomegranate trees love sunshine and will only fruit reliably when they get enough sun. If you do not have a spot in your yard that gets constant sun throughout the day, pick the spot that gets the least amount of shade., Pomegranate trees are not able to cope with waterlogged soil (known as “soggy feet”). Instead, they do best in well-draining or even sandy soil. Some pomegranate growers maintain that slightly acidic soil is best for pomegranates, though they also grow very well in moderately alkaline soil. For the most part, pomegranates will adopt to the soil they are planted in, so long as it drains well., Plant the pomegranate in a warm, dry spot that is at least partly protected from heavy winds. Avoid planting it in an area of your garden that is moist, dark, or dank. Keep in mind that pomegranates thrive in hot, dry climates., Plant your pom in early spring after the last frost. Gently remove the seedling from the container. Wash about an inch (2.5cm) of the bottom of the root ball to remove any excess potting medium. Doing this will help the plant establish itself faster than plants transferred straight from the nursery container to the ground. Dig a hole two feet (60 cm) deep and wide and place the pomegranate seedling into the hole.If you are growing the plant from a cutting, loosen the soil and plant the pomegranate branch vertically so that the cut end is about five to six inches (12.5 to 15cm) down in the soil, with the dormant buds pointing up towards the sky.Also, make sure that you dust the plant with a rooting hormone to aid root development.

