 Bike pants, sweat pants, leggings, Dancewear like leotards, or yoga pants are all good choices, while jeans or corduroys are not. If you have just woken up, pajamas are a great choice.
 It is important that your muscles are warmed up, or injury becomes more likely. Jog for five minutes or do an active, or a fast walk for ten minutes will be adequate. Remember to keep yourself hydrated - bring a bottle of water with you.


Consider doing warming up exercises after taking a hot shower or bath because this makes your legs warmer.;
, The following non-stretch warm-up activities can really get you prepared for stretching:


20 jumping jacks.






20 cross jacks.






5 minutes jogging.






A light aerobic warm up.
 Reach over your legs towards your toes. Keep your back straight. Try to bring your chest closer to your legs. If this is difficult, try bending your right leg a little, and then switch. It may hurt, but try to touch your head to your knees for 15 seconds. The more you do this the better stretch you have. 

, One leg should be straight ahead and the other to the side. Stretch forward to your right leg with your back straight and hold the position for 30 seconds or more. Repeat to the opposite side, with your left leg straight.
 Keep your legs in the 90 degrees position, and lean and stretch your body forward between your legs with a straight back. Hold the pose for 30 seconds or more.
 Flex the feet and try to reach past your toes. Make sure the crown of the head is tucked in between your legs as far as you can, and this should benefit the back too, as well as all the way down the legs. Now, touch your toes and bend your elbows this will stretch you more.
 Reach towards the leg which is facing outwards. Then switch legs and do it again

, Reach towards each leg and towards the middle.
, For a bigger stretch, keep your back straight.
 This time, pull your back leg towards your bottom, with your hand.
 This time, flex your front foot and hold for 30-60 seconds.
 Stand in a lunge position. Lift the back knee off the floor and let gravity pull your hips down. Do not bounce, as bouncing can cause tiny tears in the muscles.


Bending your back leg, straighten the front leg and lower your forehead towards your knee. This is a great stretch for the hamstring; be sure to repeat on the other leg.
 Your bottom should be fairly close to a wall and your legs up and against the wall.
 Gravity and the weight of your legs will help to push them down. Hold for 1 minute.
 Bend your front leg and have your back leg straight out the back. Repeat on the opposite leg. You will be getting closer and eventually you may be past that point.
 underneath your pelvis area whilst in a lunge. Slowly lower yourself into the front splits position, and keeping both legs straight if you can, sit yourself on the pile making sure that your hips are square to the front and your back knee is facing downwards towards the floor. Stay in this position with the stack underneath your legs and stay here for a minute or so.


Keep your hips square. Open splits are bad for the body in the long term.
Make sure your back knee is on the ground and your front knee is facing the ceiling. Also, try to get your pinkie toe to touch the ground on your back leg this will help keep your splits square

, Taking a cushion or pillow away at a time, lower yourself into the splits as far as you can go. Stay there for no longer than 30 seconds.
, Learn to stretch past the split line where this is required for advanced dancers, gymnasts, and cheerleaders. It should only be worked on if you can already do the splits well and ideally should only be done under the supervision of a coach or experienced spotter.
 Gradually increase the height at which either leg--or both legs--are positioned on the pillow. This is called over-splitting and will stretch you past the splits. Never bounce to get there, as that can tear or strain your muscles.

