 Hope is an attitude that you work to achieve every day. It is not a permanent state of mind. One definition of hope used by some psychologists is “a positive motivational state that is based on an interactively derived sense of successful (a) agency (goal-directed energy) and (b) pathways (planning to meet goals).” Hope is the result of doing things that bring us pleasure and help us reach our goals., Don’t expect yourself to become more hopeful all of a sudden, as if there’s a switch you can simply turn on or off. Becoming hopeful requires you to work on your attitude every day. Take this process one day at a time and focus your attention on the aspects of your life that you actually have control over.For example, if you lack hope regarding your ability to find a job. Don’t dwell on what you cannot control, such as who calls you for an interview. Start thinking about what you can control, such as how many jobs you apply to. Take small steps to build your hope up every day by working on the things you can control.
 To have hope, it is important to work on your ability to deal with negative thoughts and stop letting them get the better of you. By learning to engage with difficult emotions when they arise, as opposed to ignoring them, you can begin to understand why you are having those feelings. Understanding your feelings will help you to deal with them in a constructive manner, rather than allow them to overtake you.For example, if you notice that you get discouraged about your weight loss progress sometimes, think about what is causing you to feel that way. Are you comparing yourself to other people? Are you not losing weight as fast as you hoped you would? Try to identify the source of your discouragement become more aware of the reason for these thoughts.
 In order to cultivate a sense of hope, you need to learn how to function in situations that cause you distress and derail your sense of motivation. Research has found that learning to be more comfortable in threatening situations can actually reduce the risk for physical health problems and improve overall psychological functioning.A strong social support system and feeling confident in your abilities are also necessary to develop a sense of resilience.

