 If you want your Movie Star Planet character looking as trendy as possible, you'll want to be up-to-date on all of the latest fashion trends. Fashion blogs are a great way to quickly find images of what's hot. Typing "fashion blog" into your favorite search engine will return lots of articles that list all of the best blogs to check out. Look through several blogs to see if you can find styles that can be mimicked in the game. Pay particular attention to hairstyles and makeup techniques.


Because of the nature of the game and the limited number of items, you won't be able to copy everything you see. It's still a great place to start for some inspiration.;
, Celebrities are always in the spotlight, and finding images of your favorites is a great way to get inspired for Movie Star Planet. Do an image search for your favorite celebrity, and focus on outfits they wear to the red carpet. Try to adapt these styles to your own character. Again, pay special attention to the hair and makeup style.
 There is a very large Movie Star Planet community on Pinterest that focuses on fashion and design. You can find a lot of trendy MSP styles here that you can copy with your character, as long as you have the Starcoins for it. You may find that you already have items that are currently considered trendy.


Pin some of your favorites so that you get updates whenever that person changes their style. This can help keep you current.
 One of the most difficult things to get right in Movie Star Planet is the perfect makeup color. There are tons of options, and the wrong colors can be an eyesore. By referring to some makeup color guides, you can find the perfect combination of colors for your character that will look natural and make you stand out.


There are lots of articles that discuss the "makeup color wheel." While these color wheels are designed for real people, they work equally well in the game. Use the color wheel to help find the perfect complementary shades for your makeup.
 A vintage look is always popular, and you could set some trends yourself by doing a throwback to an older look. try to find some older fashion magazines from at least 20 years ago and see if you can copy anything you find in the game. You may be able to start a fashion revolution!

, Inspiration is great, but it won't mean much if you can't afford new items in the game. You don't have to be a VIP member to look good, but you'll need to earn Starcoins to afford a lot of items. The best ways to earn Starcoins are to play the games and make popular movies. If you can get a role in someone else's movie, you'll earn a lot of Starcoins as well.


See How to Get Starcoins Easily for a more detailed guide on earning Starcoins.
See Become Famous on MovieStarPlanet for tips on making popular movies and becoming famous in the game.
 Eyes are the first thing people notice about you. Eyes with a surprised or pouty expression look really cute. You don’t have to choose what your eyes look like in real life. Take risks!


Eyes come in many different shapes. Choose what you think is the cutest.
Pick an eye color. Your eye color is your choice, but choosing light green, blue, brown or hazel will make you stand out.
There are also fake lashes you can buy as an accessory if you want your eyes to look big and innocent.
 Usually, cute noses are small, and big lips can be very pretty. Skin color doesn’t matter, so choose any shade you want.


A small nose will compliment big lips, and a larger nose will look good with smaller lips. This will achieve balance.
If you want big lips and a big nose, your look will be very dramatic.
 Once you’ve put your face together, make sure the different parts look good together. If something doesn’t match, now is the time to change it.
 If you’re going for a natural look, the best choice for your hair is smoky black, gorgeous blonde, or a light brown. If you want to look sassy, colors like pink, green, or even orange will work.


Big hair with lots of volume gives you a dramatic look.
Short and straight hair looks more sophisticated.
Bangs are a good choice because they frame your face.
Get an updo hairstyle if you want to look fancy.
 It’s up to you whether you wear a lot or a little eye makeup. The more eyeliner and eyeshadow you wear, the more dramatic your face will look. For example, dark eyeliner and eyeshadow will make your eyes pop.


There are fun colors of eyeshadow like blue or purple. Try going with a natural look though.
Light colors like gold or green look good with light blue or green eyes.Darker colors like black or purple look good with darker eyes like brown or black., Reds and pinks look good on lips. If you want a wild look, choose a bright color like green or even a dark color like purple. Gothic looks use black lipstick.


Wearing lipstick and eye makeup at the same time will give your face a fuller look.
Sometimes, people like to balance their look by either having dark eye makeup or dark lip makeup—not both.
A lot of blush is not recommended. Too much can make your face look unnatural.
 In the “Shopping” area, you can buy new clothes and accessories.Your clothes should look subtle, but at the same time sophisticated and fancy. There are some general guidelines to remember when buying clothes:


Bright colors will attract more attention.
Sassy clothes are shorter and cover your body less.
Dark colors look more emo and goth.
 If you’re wearing a big t-shirt, choose jeans as a bottom. If you’re wearing a tank top, a skirt will look nice. Fancy tops look best with fancy bottoms, and casual tops go nicely with casual bottoms. But whatever you do, DON'T mix patterns.


Bohemian looks include lots of patterns, scarves, and lots of necklaces.If you want to look bohemian, put on chunky necklaces and wear colorful patterns.
Sporty looks include t-shirts, tennis shoes, and jeans. This look is more simple but still cute. Pair a bright v-neck t-shirt with a pair of blue jeans.
Classic styles are formal, don’t have as many colors, and are simple.A long, red dress is classic, and so is a short black dress.
 Shoes that are the same color as your outfit always look good. You can choose heels if you want to look fancy or flats if you want to look casual. Tennis shoes are more sporty.


Heels go well with dresses.
Tennis shoes look good with jeans.
Flats look good with almost anything.
 There are so many accessories to choose from.Hats and glasses are classy and professional. There are different types of necklaces and bracelets to compliment any outfit.


If you’re going for a sophisticated look, choose a diamond necklace and a matching bracelet.
If you’re being sassy, choose bright gold or silver necklaces, bracelets, and earrings.
Put on sunglasses to look cool.
Purses are also great accessories. Get one in a color that matches your shoes or dress.
 MovieStarPlanet is all about having fun and being whoever you want!Take fashion risks you wouldn’t in real life, and have fun dressing your character.

