 Do you want to photograph birds of prey, water birds, nesting birds or flying birds? Both the type and positioning of the bird can have a major impact on your photography success. Some birds are much easier to find and shoot than others. For instance, a wren or robin will be much easier to photograph than any type of raptor.


Bird environments vary widely. Some of your decision will be determined by where you live or your ability to get somewhere by traveling in the time you have available. Seabirds, for example, require you to be near the ocean, while forest birds will require you to be near the forest.
What is your own level of willingness to go where the birds are? If you're keen on the outdoors and love a good hike, you'll be more likely to head back country, climb, swim or whatever to get those rarer bird shots. On the other hand, if you're more of a park stroller, you may need to settle for the local, more common types of bird. Both are equally fine choices––it is simply that you need to match your expectations to your preparedness to expend effort.
Consider starting with a bird sanctuary. If there is a bird sanctuary or bird nature reserve near you, you're fairly much guaranteed to find birds as that's the focus of the place. As well as good amenities such as boardwalks, hides and seating, you'll also get lots of information on the birds and their habits too. Such a place is great for a beginner to practice bird photography.;
, This means doing a lot of research unless you're already knowledgeable about the bird's habits and quirks. Consider doing some birdwatching first––if you don't already have experience with that species, make a concerted effort to locate and watch them. Learn their habits and what they do before attempting to photograph them. It will put you at a distinct advantage to be personally aware of expected bird behaviors.


Information that will make your photography more interesting and better directed includes: feeding habits, breeding, nesting, and migratory behaviors.
Also consider season. Some birds look during some seasons than others, due to molting, over-wintering, etc. This knowledge will only be gleaned by doing your research first.
Birdwatching beforehand also teaches you more than any guide can about the approachability of different species of birds. This will vary on the type of bird, the experience the birds have had with human interaction and where you are in the world. There is no one hard and fast rule for approaching birds, other than that being noisy and running at the birds will cause most birds to fly away (even pigeons), at least temporarily.
 Most, if not all, states, provinces and countries have bird guides of the birds that are native to the area. This is a good way to become familiar with a variety of bird species that may be in the area too.

