 If your book isn't dripping wet (or was and has now dried partially), it should be safe to carefully and gently flip through the pages without ripping them. Open your book and carefully flip through the pages, placing absorbent paper towel sheets between the pages every 20-30 pages or so. In addition, place paper towel sheets inside each cover between the cover and the text block.


Be careful with the number of paper towels you place in the book this way — if you place too many, it's possible to cause the spine of the book to bend backwards, which can deform the book if allowed to dry like this. You may need to space your paper towels more widely if this becomes a problem.
 After you've finished laying paper towel sheets throughout the book, set the book down on its side to dry, rather than standing it upright. The absorbent paper towel sheets should begin to draw moisture away from the inside of the book. This process can take some time, so be patient.


To speed the process up, ensure that your book is in a location where dry air is able to circulate continuously. If you live in a humid climate, a dehumidifier can be a big help here. Otherwise, turning on a fan or opening a few windows will usually suffice.
 As above, you'll want to regularly check on your book as it dries. When you notice your paper towels becoming saturated with liquid, carefully remove them and insert new paper towels roughly every 20-30 pages or so. To ensure the book dries evenly, try not to lay down paper towels between the exact same pages each time.


Each time you replace the paper towels, flip the book over. This helps prevent the pages from deforming and "ruffling up" as they dry.
 As paper and cardboard dry, they stiffen and harden. This means that if your book is lying at a slanted angle as it dries, it can eventually become permanently deformed. To avoid this, keep the book perfectly "square" as it dries. If the book resists your efforts to straighten it out, use heavy bookends or weights to hold its edges in place.


Eventually, your book will dry to a point that your paper towels no longer become saturated — merely damp. At this point, you'll want to proceed to "Drying Slightly Damp Books" below.

