 Guard dogs are also family dogs and will be a part of your family for many years. Choosing the right guard dog also entails understanding what kind of dog works best with your family and your lifestyle.Since most guard dogs are large and enjoy working, they need plenty of exercise and space to be happy.
Some breeds work best in homes without small children. However, other breeds can be great guard dogs and also great family pets. You’ll need to research whether the breed you’ve chosen works in a home with small children if necessary. For example, boxers, German shepherds, and Great Pyrenees are all great with kids.Rottweilers and Akitas are not recommended for families.
 Some dogs look more menacing than others. People often form associations between different breeds and their appearances based on familiarity. For example, people often associate German shepherds with protection since this breed is frequently used as a police or military dog.


Often, larger sized dogs look more menacing than smaller dogs. These dogs may have gentle temperaments and be loving family dogs but look more intimidating than smaller or toy sized breeds.
Some menacing looking breeds include Rottweilers, Doberman pinschers, Staffordshire bull terriers, and pit bulls.
 In a guard dog, size is important. Potential intruders see larger dogs as more of a threat than they do little dogs. Larger dogs are also able to physically stop or impede intruders by biting or attacking.


In this case, you’ll want to avoid dogs that are small or toy sized, like Chihuahuas or Yorkshire terriers.
Look for large breeds like German shepherds, Staffordshire bull terriers, Bullmastiffs, and Akitas.
 You want to select a breed that responds to training and is motivated to work. Dog breeds that are part of the working dog group tend to be easily trainable and motivated to follow commands.


Working dog breeds like the cane corso, German shepherd, Doberman pinscher, and Rottweiler are all highly intelligent dogs that respond well to training.Some dogs are more protective by nature. bull mastiffs, Irish wolfhounds, Bulldogs, and the St. Bernard are all fiercely loyal to their owners and are protective of them., While some dogs are naturally protective, you can train a dog to become a better guard dog. In this case, you’ll want to select a breed that is intelligent and easily trained. These dogs are eager to learn and enjoy pleasing their owners by following their commands.


Some of the more easily trained dog breeds include border collies, Labrador retrievers, poodles and schnauzers.