 The noodle shape should be drawn at an angle from the head. The shape for the body will be about the same size as the head just in a different shape. Next, draw a vertical line from the top of the circle to the bottom of it. Then draw another slightly curved line going horizontal across the bottom-third of the circle.


When you’re finished, your drawing will be of a puppy standing up.
 Starting at the back of his head, draw two lines going out at an angle on each side. Then curve these same two lines down and around alongside his head. You want cute, perky ears so only come about a third of the way down.
 Many cartoon characters start out with these same kinds of shapes. It just takes practice to understand the process. Then you’ll have it down. Draw with light lines so you can easily erase them later if you need to., When you’re finished, this will be a beautiful marking over one eye. Don’t worry about shading. You’ll do that later.
 Draw it slightly above where the two lines cross in the circle. Make a smaller half-circle right below that for the mouth. Remember to sketch lightly in case you need to erase and redraw it later.
 Sketch another ellipse on the other side. Basically, you are drawing two elongated noodles to represent the sides of the puppy’s wide, smiling mouth. Next, where you drew the oblong shape for the nose earlier, right in the middle draw a smaller, triangular-shape to make a button nose.
 For the front legs, draw the first one in an oblong shape. Make it larger at the bottom to give the puppy big paws. Sketch a few lines for nails. Draw the opposite leg but make it a little bit smaller since we see the other paw first. Now draw the back legs using the same oblong shape; make these legs a little smaller than the front.


Most kitten and puppy cartoon characters have big paws, and it will make your puppy look extra-cute., Sketch it coming out of the half-circle that you drew in an earlier step. Take your time. The tongue in a cartoon puppy is a cute feature. Now give your puppy a pointy, curvy tail.
 Using a soft pencil, outline the contours of the body. Shade in the ellipse around the one eye. Darken in the top of his back, ears and tail. Shade in the inside of his mouth and pupils. Lightly shade in the rest of his body, leaving the belly and paws white.

