 Catnip essential oil has been shown to be effective at driving away bees and mosquitoes, and can be purchased from aromatherapy shops or online. Other strong-scented substances such as peppermint oil or cloves are often used to repel insects, but may not work as well as other options.


Do not apply these substances to children under three years of age.If not sold with instructions for applying to skin, look up the substance online first, to see if it causes irritation or health problems.;
, Bees do not seek out humans unless they perceive them as a threat, so insect repellants for personal protection are not typically useful. However, some specialized bee repellants such as Bee Go or Honey Robber can be used to repel bees from an area. These are available from stores that sell beekeeping equipment.


In the United States, check the label for an EPA-approved logo before buying, so you know it is safe for human use and the environment.Spray repellents are by far the most effective type of commercial insect repellent. Candles, foggers, coils, clip-on battery-powered devices, wristbands, and electronic sound-based repellents rarely work to drive off insects., Listen for a buzzing noise while walking through the wilderness, and don't put your hand into any crevices you can't see into. Bees often nest among rocks or in trees, so be extra alert while climbing.While most honeybees do not bother humans, "Africanized" honeybees will aggressively defend their hives. These are found in many areas in Southern America, Central America, and along the southern border of the United States.
If you hear a hive, or you know there are hives in the area, keep pets nearby, preferably on a leash.
 While clothing probably does not have a major effect on bee attraction, dark clothing and red clothing is more likely to cause bees to perceive you as a threat.Leather and furry articles of clothing may also alarm bees.
 The USDA and some other agencies recommend not using strongly scented perfume, shampoo, gum, or other materials in areas with Africanized honeybees. Similarly, loud noises from chainsaws, lawn mowers, and other machinery may alarm these especially high-strung bees.These factors are unlikely to matter around other bees unless you have already disturbed the physical hive itself.


Remember that some treatments for dogs, horses, and other animals may contain strong scents as well.
While one study did not find any bees attracted to perfume, the study was small and may or may not have included Africanized honey bees., If you are attacked by a large number of bees, immediately run to the nearest vehicle or building, or keep running until the bees stop chasing you. Pull your shirt up over your face only if it does not slow you down.Do not enter a body of water unless you have no other choice. Some bees may wait for you to come up for air, then continue stinging.
Once you are safe, remove bee stingers from yourself by scraping them with your fingernail, the edge of credit card, or a similar object. Do not pull them out, as this can cause more venom to enter the wound.

