 If you’re a rookie makeup shopper, your first step should be to find a store associate. An associate can help you pick out the correct makeup for your skin color, recommend the best brands and values and help you figure out a makeup regimen.Some stores will give you a free makeover, just for shopping there. Ask your associate about this.
If you’re unsure how to apply a product, your associate can also teach you how to do this.
 If you’re brand new to shopping for makeup, you may want to bring a friend to the store with you. You friend can weigh in on color options and tell you whether an item is worth purchasing or passing on.If you can’t find a friend to accompany you, take pictures on your cell-phone. Sometimes, makeup looks different on camera than it does in real life.
 Your skin changes throughout the year, so it stands to reason you should have different makeup for different parts of the year. When you buy bronzer, buy two shades so you can match your skin tone as it changes.If you’re buying bronzer in the summer, buy an additional shade lighter to use in the winter.
If you’re buying bronzer in the winter, buy an additional shade darker to use in the summer.
 Perfume smells different from the time you initially spray it to the time it dries on your body. When testing perfumes, spray a little on your wrist, then wait two minutes before checking the smell.If you’re going to be testing multiple perfumes, spray the fragrances on tester strips so their scents don’t intermingle.
 Lighting affects your makeup significantly, and the way your skin looks in the store may not be the way it looks outside. When shopping for foundation or skin powder, ask for a sample, then try that sample out at home and outside before committing.If your store doesn’t give samples, try the product on, then head outside to look in a mirror.
 If you’re purchasing a new-to-you product, buy the smallest option. The biggest bottle may save you money long-term, but if you never wear it, it’s a complete waste of money.Buy the smallest bottle and upgrade later when you run out.
If you love something, buy a second travel sized bottle so you can take your products with you on planes.
 Not everyone will have the same experience with the same product, but reviews will be able to give you some insight into a product’s long-term durability and usefulness.


Do extra research when you’re investing in something you’ll use for years, like makeup brushes.Don’t buy new colors of products online. Use online shopping to re-up on items you already know work for you.
 Most people don't have unlimited amounts of disposable income, and sometimes you can't afford the really quality makeup that you want. Luckily, there are some good affordable options you can use to replace your expensive favorites.Swap CoverGirl Nature Luxe Silk Foundation for Giorgio Armani Luminous Silk Foundation.
Swap Styli-Style Line and Seal Eyes for Giorgio Armani Smooth Silk Eye Pencil.
Swap NYX Eyeshadow in Champagne for MAC Eyeshadow in All That Glitters.
Swap L'Oreal Paris Voluminous Mascara for Dior Diorshow Mascara.
Swap E.L.F. Contouring Blush and Bronzing Powder for NARS Blush/Bronzer Duo
Swap Ben Nye Translucent Powder for MAC Set Powder.
Swap Revlon Lipstick in Orange Flip for MAC Lipstick in Lady Danger with Luster.

