

Eggs are powerhouses of nutritional goodness
Eggs contain vitamins A, E, D, and E, all the fats (especially lecithin), iron, sulfur, and proteins.;
, There are lots of things you might not know about eggs yet. For instance:

How can you tell the difference between a stale egg and a fresh one? Hint: See How to tell if an egg is bad. And if you want to buy fresh eggs, read: How to see if the eggs you are buying are fresh

How does a hen's egg become edible? What other eggs can be eaten by humans?
What are the different parts of an egg and how do they play a part in cooking?
Try an experiment on the differences between soft and hard boiled eggs. Cut a hard boiled egg in half and try to identify each section from the core to the shell.
Ask friends how they prefer their eggs cooked and ask them "Why?". You might learn some interesting things!

, Improve on your egg cooking and experiment with recipes you've never tried before. Mix in your favorite vegetables for a healthy omelet or create your own breakfast egg burrito. Here are some more great egg ideas to get you started:







How to boil eggs (soft, semi-soft, and hard







How to make sunny side up eggs







How to poach an egg







How to make Scotch eggs







How to make griddled eggs







How to make scrambled eggs







How to make Spanish eggs







How to make spicy Mexican eggs







How to make a cheese soufflé







How to Make MayonnaiseHow to Make White Mayonnaise


, Use hard boiled eggs to make your own post-Easter creations. Sharpies and other non-water based markers should hold drawings on eggs better. Blow out the egg to make it hollow inside, but be careful when handling it or it may break. Here are some more "eggy" craft ideas:







How to carve an egg







How to create and design your own Fabergé egg from a real egg







How to make a Santa Claus decoration with an egg







How to dye eggs.
 Sometimes it can be very helpful to see both sides of the consumption of a food, just to be sure you're getting the most out of your food choices. Some of the things you can try include:

Make a list of pros and cons of eating eggs. Put together a list of the nutritious and unhealthy reasons of eating eggs. Check which list is longer than the other or if they balance out. Try to get different people's opinions on eggs and use that as input on your list.

Make a statement against egg consumption. Some vegetarians believe that it is wrong to consume eggs. If you are against people eating eggs or dislike eggs as a food, voice out your opinions this month.
Create a promotional poster for eggs, listing all the good things about eggs and eating them.
 There are so many ways to include eggs in your conversation and this one will be fun for the kids:

Change words to include the word egg. For egg-sample, "eggs-cellent", "eggs-traordinary", "eggs-static", and "eggs-plode".
Find words or phrases with egg in them already to describe things or people. For egg-sample, egghead, scrambled egg brain, egged on, eggplant, eggy, etc.
Tell chicken jokes. They're favorites for groans and laughs! For example: Q. What do you get when cross a chicken with a dog? A: A pooched egg.

