 Some employers will offer paid maternity leave for some period of time. Others may stick to the allotted unpaid leave that is required under the Family and Medical Leave Act, which allows up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave. However, many small employers are even exempt from this. You need to find out what policy your employer has, and use that information to help you determine what financial help you will need.For a maternity leave, you can also investigate whether you can be covered under short term disability insurance. This could provide a portion of your salary during your leave. To investigate coverage, you should talk with your employer or human resources personnel, or your own insurance company.
 If you are out of work temporarily, either looking for a new job, on a maternity leave, caring for an ill family member or for some other reason, you may want to plan for some temporary work that you can do. Find something that gives you the flexibility that you need to go along with your leave, but still provides some income for you and your family. For example:Even with a new baby or an ill family member, you can probably find some time to tutor a few students a week or teach music lessons (if you have that talent).
You might be able to do some freelance writing or editing.
 If you participated in an employer-based savings or retirement plan, you should transfer that plan when you leave. Your financial adviser may be able to help you set up a personal IRA, or you might talk to an investments adviser at your bank., If your company allowed you to accrue vacation time or sick time, you might be able to cash that in and collect an additional payment in accordance with your contract. In some cases, this can be a valuable payoff amount.In some cases, you may be able to collect a partial cash payout for unused sick or vacation days to provide some cash for a temporary emergency leave, such as a family illness or bereavement leave. Even if such a benefit is not standard, you may want to talk with your employer and come up with some creative possibilities.
If you are not aware whether or not you have such a benefit, contact your company’s human resources department and ask.
 If you were granted the option to purchase stock in the company, and you have not exercised that option to its fullest potential, you should do so before leaving. These options can often be very valuable and will not be available to you later.Depending on your contract, you may have a set period of time to purchase such options upon your separation from the company.
 One of the primary benefits of employment is having health insurance. When you plan to leave, whether for permanent retirement or a temporary leave for a job change, you will need to make plans for some replacement health insurance.You may wish to investigate the following options:


If you are under age 26, your parents may be able to add you to their health plan.
If you participated in the insurance plan through your employer, you may be eligible through COBRA to continue on that plan for up to 3 years by making your own monthly payments.
Your spouse or partner may be able to add you to their health plan.

