 You need to get your hair wet because it is easier to comb your hair out and stretch it straight when it is wet. You can do this in the shower or by simply spritzing water onto your hair. If you do take a shower, make sure you apply conditioner.If you are going to wash your hair right before straightening it, consider washing and conditioning your hair with products that contain smoothing agents, such as argan.This will help prepare your hair for straightening better than regular shampoo and conditioner.;
, It is important to make sure your hair is tangle free before you wrap it. Use a wide toothed comb or hairbrush.








Be patient but gentle. Get any knots out without pulling hard by starting at the bottom of your hair and working up the strands gradually, getting a few inches clear of knots at a time.
 Put a small amount of oil into your palm and then work it into your hair. This will help to lock moisture into your hair.








Avoid water-based moisturizers. They can make your hair become wavy or curly again.
Be sure to massage the oil into the bottom half of your hair. This part of your hair has less natural oil to protect it.
 Begin by giving yourself a middle part. Use a comb or brush to do this.








Start at the front of your hair and work your way towards the back.
Brush one half of your hair over to the side and behind your ear.
Brush the remainder of this section of hair around the back of your neck and over the opposite shoulder.
 Begin by taking a section of hair from the top of one side of your head and combing this over your part to the other side.








Hold the base of this section of hair down with your palm. This will prevent a bump or wave from forming at the base of the comb over.
Comb the ends of this section around the back of your ear and around the back of the neck.
Work in small sections until all of your hair is combed over and around your ear and neck., Take a bristle brush and go over each section you just combed over. This will help them stick together and lie flatter on your head.









This is the key to getting straighter hair. Having the hair lay tight and flat over your head will keep it straight.
Make sure you hold the top of your hair down with your palm as you do so to prevent bumps from forming.
 This will make it easier to comb over the bottom half of longer hair.This process will get easier as you add layers of hair.









Comb the bottom half of your hair over the top of your head and the duck bill clip.
Smooth it continuously with a bristle brush to keep the sections blended.
 Do this until it is all combed over and around your head.Smooth over all of your combed over hair one final time with the bristle brush and then use bobby pins to pin all of your hair in place.
 Place a wig cap or bonnet over the scarf to hold everything together. This will prevent your hair from unwrapping while you sleep.
 Unwrap your hair gently, undoing one layer at a time. Your hair should be straight but you may need to gently comb it out a bit to completely straighten and style it.








