 You don’t have to conquer everything at once. You don’t have to work on every muscle group at the same time. While you want to get a balanced workout, maybe choose one or two exercises to begin with to help you start to get comfortable at the gym. Think about something you may already be familiar with or something you’ve always wanted to learn.For example, you may decide you want to focus on barbell squats. Go into the free weight section and choose your weight. You may only be able to do 35 or 45 pounds, and that is great. Spend a few weeks working on your squat. Hopefully by the end of a couple weeks, you feel more comfortable in the gym and want to try other new exercises.
You may also decide to focus on the treadmill and the shoulder machine, or doing bicep curls and shoulder presses with hand weights.
Don’t worry about the guy next to you who can squat or press hundreds of pounds. You are in the gym, working on your goal. That’s impressive and progress for you.
 If you do not feel confident using the hand weights in the free weight weight, grab what you need and move to a different room. It doesn’t matter if you use the weights in the free weight room or another room. Going to a place you feel more comfortable can give you the confidence to get through the workout.Just remember to return the weights after you are finished.
 If you are unsure where to begin at the gym, you can set up personal training sessions with the gym trainers. During the sessions, you and the trainer will come up with a workout plan tailored to your fitness level and goals. This can help you feel confident that you are using a plan that will get you results.During training sessions, trainers will be there, coaching and encouraging you. They can help you learn difficult moves and motivate you when you want to give up.
Personal training sessions can be expensive, so this may not be an option for everyone.
 Group classes are an excellent way to try new things and work towards your fitness goals. Group classes are given at different times throughout the week and cover a wide variety of exercises. During group classes, you will be exercising alongside other people with an instructor taking you through the routine.


Instructors are generally encouraging during classes or stay at front of the exercise room as they do the workout with you. You won’t have instructors hovering over you or yelling at you if you have to stop and rest or modify the exercise.
A group exercise class is a good way to try a new exercise in a low-stress, inclusive environment.
 When you get to the gym, you should have a workout plan ready. This can help you be more confident. Knowing which machines you want to use, which exercises you want to do, and how many sets and reps you want can help you not feel intimidated or uncomfortable as your workout.Having a plan gives you focus for your workout. You will also have goals, and each time you hit one of your exercise goals, you will feel more confident.
 Bringing a friend to the gym can help you feel more confident. Your friend can provide emotional support and motivation, so that you can work out with more confidence. It is always easier to do something that is intimidating when you are not alone.Make sure your friend has the same goal in mind as you, that way you end up exercising instead of talking.

