 Take some mental notes on how to act towards their friends, schoolwork, how their makeup and clothes look, everything. If you can't find fashion role models at school, find them somewhere else.;
, Shower every single day, preferably in the morning so you're fresh for school. Wash your hair, and condition your hair. Wash your face and body. Be sure to lotion up afterwards. Always wear deodorant and brush your teeth. If you want you can also start to wear some light perfume or body splash.


Don't overdo the perfume or body splash, or you may find that people are holding their noses and avoiding you.
Some girls like to shave their legs and armpits. Shaved armpits are easier to keep smelling fresh, so if you decide not to shave, wear plenty of deodorant.
 A jacket with a clear center line (e.g. a button-up jean jacket) usually looks fashionable. A jacket from a university in your state (hoodies are best) is a good addition. Make sure the jacket fits you really well all over. Ask mom or your friends from outside of your school for advice on the fit.
 Make sure all the jeans you buy are either skinny jeans or straight legged jeans. Get two nice pairs of short denim shorts that fit you really nice around the thigh and on your butt.


Wedgies and itches aren't trendy. Walk around in your jeans and shorts in the changing room to make sure they are comfortable.
 Make sure the shirts fit you really well and are super tight and cute, but not too short. Build up your collection of tee shirts, you can never have too many because they work in the summer and the winter. Get some tank tops and long sleeved shirts that flatter your figure. To make plain tee shirts look rich, get an undershirt to go under it.
 Makeup is a personal choice, and you can look great with or without it. If you want to try makeup, start small to see if you like it, then get bolder with practice. Here are some things to consider:


Facial sunscreen as a moisturizing base
Cover-up stick for acne and undereye darkness
Liquid foundation that matches your skin tone
Mineral cover up
Eye shadow and mascara

, Every morning after you're done showering, dry your hair and style it as desired. Make sure your hair is parted neatly (side parts look nice) and even consider getting some side bangs (super cute) If you have frizzy hair, get a shine serum that will smooth down all the little frizzies.


If you decide to blow-dry, flat iron, or curl your hair, spray a heat protection spray first. Too much heat styling can damage your hair.
Try adding hair clips in your hair, on the side that has the least hair on it after you part your hair. Bow clips are trendy.
 Vans are in. Tuck the laces into your shoes instead of tying them and make sure to get the no-show socks with them so you can see your socks. Get a pair of flip flops and cute sandals.
 Know your body type and coloring, so that you can choose shapes and colors that suit you. Figure out your personal taste in fashion (sporty, dressy, preppy, etc.) so you can rock clothes that make you feel confident.
 Figure out which type of accessories you love, and what is in. Accessories can add a splash of color or interest to an otherwise plain outfit. Wear things that make you feel happy. Consider:


Nerd glasses and fake Ray Bans are in.
Necklaces: try wearing a simple pendant on a silver or gold chain (depending on your coloring).
Nails: try dark polish, clear polish, or a French manicure. Keep your nails short and clean.
Bags: try alternating between several cute backpacks.
 Love blue and glitter? Get a sparkly blue phone case. Into flowers? Buy a pencil case with floral designs. Whenever you go shopping, look for things that bring out your unique style.
 Try joining one or two sports or clubs, and work hard at doing well in them. Look for people to chat with, and remember that everyone has something interesting to teach you. Participate in class and do your best at school.
 Just as you've embraced your style, others are rocking their own. Nerdy can be cool. Don't judge others based on their styles, and instead appreciate what makes them unique. If you look for the good in everyone, you'll find yourself surrounded by friends.

