 These will give the girls something to munch on.


Popcorn, chips, sweets of all sorts, and just about any other snack food will work. Have multiple options.
Have good drinks too... Soda is a good way to keep yourself awake. Just make sure to not drink too much!;
, You will be able to stay up longer if you aren't just sitting watching TV. Here are some ways to stay active inside.


Dance and sing to some of your favorite songs.
Have a pillow fight (make sure your friends are ok with this!).
Play games that involve moving around, such as twister.
Play flashlight tag.
 You can:


Decorate picture frames (maybe even take some pics beforehand you can put inside them!).
Make sock puppets.
Paint mugs.



Watch a comedy, not a scary movie. Even though it might be easy to stay up once you're freaked out about every little sound, it's not good for the nights after that, as you wouldn't be able to sleep off the fear.



Ask fun truths, and do fun dares. Don't dare anyone to do something dangerous or mean. Don't make someone say something that makes them uncomfortable.
 Make sure a parent isn't around and it isn't too late. Make sure all the food is safe for your guests to eat.


Making dinner is fun. Pizza is a fun thing to make. Have each girl make her own mini pizza with toppings she likes.
Bake cookies or cupcakes. These are the best options because the girls can decorate them.

Do makeup.

Blind makeovers are always fun, just make sure you're careful and don't put on so much it's hard to get off!


Give each other massages.
Go online and find "spa" treatments that you can do at home.
Do hair.



These are good if the conversation is at a lull

,, Then, have the teams be creative and dress the model up with the tin foil or duct tape. Provide scissors and tape if using tin foil, and scissor when using duct tape.
, Record it, and watch it over!

,,, Either have your friends bring some outrageous clothes of theirs, or use your own!


Provide some funny articles of clothing such as suspenders, boas, glasses, hats, etc. Have everyone try them on and take pictures.



Take funny photos of guests wearing/ doing funny things. Make sure to never post them online if they're not comfortable with it!

,


If you get bored of all the typical games, invent your own!

,
Name that tune
Pigs in a blanket

,,,, Play games you haven't played with and toys you haven't used in years.


This nostalgia is always a nice feeling.
,
Have someone be the director, and choose "actresses". Make a short film.
,


this game always gets some laughs

, The basic idea is to give each group 3 or four random foods, and have them put together a no-cook concoction. The judge(s) decides who wins (if it's not too late, have parents be the judge!).
 Whichever food the pointer points to is the one you have to eat.
