 Do things that not only scare you, but will help you become the person you want to be. It’s fine to do scary things like watching a horror movie every day, but it’s much more meaningful to do things that involve improving yourself.For instance, if you want to be a better public speaker but have always been afraid in front of crowds, you could try taking a class at a local community college. You could also try something a more informal, like joining a local Toastmasters club., Biting off more than you can chew can leave you feeling discouraged and unmotivated. Set yourself up for success by pursuing realistic goals that match your abilities.If you’ve never climbed a mountain before, you wouldn’t want to try climbing Mount Everest. Try an indoor rock wall first or find a nearby beginner’s hiking trail.
 Sometimes, even with all of your efforts, it is difficult to cope with and overcome fears. These are the times you could benefit from the additional support and guidance of a qualified therapist.

There are some therapists that can combine Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) with Exposure Therapy. In essence, your therapist can guide you through a CBT session while you are in that fear state of mind. These forms of therapy are very effective for people who have difficulty overcoming their fears on their own. (This is usually through Computerized CBT, which provides a virtual environment that puts clients right into what they are fearful of). Typically individuals that need this level of treatment will have more severe anxiety responses, and sometimes panic attacks associated with their fears.
 Try to incorporate doing things that scare you into your daily routine instead of giving your routine up completely. It’s great to challenge yourself and get out of your comfort zone, but it’s physically and emotionally draining to be uncomfortable at all times.Find the right balance for you by contemplating the meaning behind the mantra “do one thing that scares you every day.” It doesn’t mean live dangerously and impulsively. Rather, it’s about taking risks that challenge you to become the best possible version of yourself.

