 Many people find it helpful to keep a chart of the sites as they are used so they can routinely rotate their injection sites.The areas of your body that are most suitable for insulin injections include the abdomen, the thigh, and the buttocks. The upper arm area can also be used if enough fatty tissue is present., Develop a system that works for you to consistently rotate your injection sites. Continue to move around your body using new sites for each injection.Using a clockwise strategy is helpful for many people to help rotate their injection sites.
Use a chart or drawing of your body areas to identify the sites you just used or are planning to use. Your diabetic healthcare provider or doctor can help you develop a system to rotate your injection sites.Inject into your abdomen, two inches away from your navel and not too far towards your sides. Looking into a mirror, begin on the upper left of the injection area, move next to the upper right area, then lower right, then lower left.Move to your thighs. Begin closest to your upper body, then move the next injection site further down.In your buttocks, start with your left side and closer to your side, then move towards your midline, then to the right side and towards the midline, then to the areas closer to your right side.If your arms are appropriate according to your doctor or healthcare provider, move systematically either up or down with injection sites in those areas.
Keep track of the sites as you use them in a systematic manner., One way to help minimize the pain upon injection is to avoid injections at hair roots.Use needles with shorter lengths and smaller diameters. Shorter needles help to minimize the pain and are appropriate for most people.Acceptable shorter needle lengths include those that are either 4.5 mm, 5 mm, or 6 mm in length., Some injection sites or needle lengths work best if you gently pinch the skin to create skin folds.Use only the thumb and index finger to lift the skin. Using more of your hand causes muscle tissue to be lifted and increases the risk of injecting your insulin into muscle tissue.Do not squeeze the skin fold. Gently hold the skin in place to give the injection. Squeezing tightly can cause more pain and possibly interfere with the dose delivery., Shorter needles are appropriate for most patients, can be easier to use, and are less painful.Consult with your doctor about which needle is appropriate for you.


The purpose of using shorter needles, pinching the skin, and injecting at a 45 degree angle is to avoid injecting the insulin into muscle tissue.Consider the need to use skin folds as you rotate your injection sites. Injecting into areas with thinner skin layers and more muscle tissue often require pinching the skin and injecting at an angle.Talk to your doctor or diabetic healthcare provider for instruction on the areas of your body that would need for the skin to be pinched to create skin folds even when using the shorter needle lengths.
In many cases, there is no need to lift or pinch the skin when using the shorter needles.Injections with the shorter needles can often be given at a 90 degree angle when there is enough fatty tissue present at the injection site.