 If you’ve never talked to her, be sure to introduce yourself. When introducing yourself, say your name, then ask for her name. Make eye contact and if possible, face her. If you want to be polite, shake her hand. Say something simple like, “Hi, I’m Devin. We have math together. What’s your name?”One she tells you her name, say her name back to her by saying, “It’s nice to meet you, Genevieve.”

, You don’t need to overly plan what you’ll first say to her, but you do want to be somewhat prepared. This can be as simple as asking, “How are you?” or, “How is your day going?” Keep the conversation going after this. If you have something in common, say it now. This might include going to the same synagogue, volunteering at the same organization, or both liking roller blading. If you have a class together, say, “Can I walk with you to class?” Perhaps you like the same sports teams, so you can ask, “Did you see the game last night?”


Make your first line friendly and approachable so that she can respond back to you. No need for a cheesy “pickup line” or icebreaker.
 Starting any new relationship or wanting to start a new relationship can be a very intimidating experience for many people. Realize that the girl you wish to have a conversation with may be just as nervous as you. Your best bet is to approach any new conversation with the girl with confidence. Avoid seeking her approval, as it sends her the signal that you are not confident with your own decisions or opinions in life.

Approach a conversational topic with a lighthearted playfulness.
Keep her guessing just enough to want to know more.
Be respectful and kind in any approach to conversations you have with her. If she says something that made you feel self-conscious of yourself, don’t overreact. Move on to a different topic with added wit and humor.
 Especially when you are starting or initiating any conversation with a girl, avoid heavy loaded and negative statements or comments. Avoid tense topics such as politics or religion. Once you’ve been able to further establish a relationship with this girl, and after many more future conversations, should one approach such heavy handed topics. Even then, it should be approached with caution and with much respect for another person’s opinions.

Keep all conversations light, easy flowing and fun.
Take this opportunity to ask the girl questions about herself expressing your interest in her likes, dislikes, and hobbies. If the girl starts to speak about negative topics, just gently redirect the conversation in another direction.
 Smiling is a simple way to be pleasant and approachable. It shows that you are friendly and open.People tend to feel safe or let their guard down around others who smile. This can be especially useful at the beginning of a conversation.


Just don’t smile too much, as she might think it’s creepy. Smile when it’s appropriate, like when you walk up to her, when she says something funny, or when you’re enthusiastic about something.

