 This natural roach and ant killer is safe to place in your home and can kill these pests. The flour will attract them, and the boric acid will kill them. Wear gloves when mixing this solution. Mix one cup (120 g) of boric acid with one cup (120 g) of flour. Add enough water to make it into a liquid.Pour the solution in small containers, like bowls or jar lids. Place them around your home in places where ants and roaches will likely be, like under the refrigerator and in the back of kitchen cabinets. You can also place them around outside.
You can also soak cotton balls in the solution and set them out instead.Boric acid is toxic, so keep it away from pets and children.;
, Another natural way to kill roaches and ants is to mix borax with powdered sugar. This method works in a similar way to boric acid and flour. Combine two parts borax with one part powdered sugar. Add two to three drops of peppermint essential oil to the recipe.Sprinkle the mixture around the places where you have roaches or ants.
You can also add water to the solution to make it liquid. Soak a cotton ball in the solution and set out around your home., Take an old, clean plastic container and cut a small hole near the rim. Cut multiple holes if the trap is going to be inside, but only cut one if it is going to be outside. In a bowl, mix one cup (120 g) of borax with 1 cup (120 g) of sugar. Add water, honey, or bacon grease to make the mixture moist.


Shape the mixture into balls and place them on the lid of the plastic container. Snap the bowl into place upside down. Set the trap anywhere ants or roaches will find it.
 Another way to kill roaches and ants without pesticide is to use baking soda and sugar. The sugar will attract the bugs, and the baking soda will kill them. Mix one part sugar with one part baking soda. Place the mixture in small bowls or lids. Set the solution out where roaches or ants are likely to find them. You can place a source of water next to this solution since drinking water will cause the baking soda to work faster.Place the mixture under your refrigerator, in cabinets, or near entrances.
 You can make homemade and nontoxic roach and ant traps with petroleum jelly. Place the jelly in a small bowl. Add sugar or flour to the jelly to attract the roaches and ants. Place these bowls wherever the bugs will have access to them.With this method, you will have to go and empty the traps periodically and lay down new petroleum jelly.
 Some essential oils can deter ants from your home. Just choose one of these essential oils, place a few drops on a cotton ball, and wipe down any places where ants can get into your home. Try multiple essential oils if you want to make sure that the ants leave you alone.Try peppermint, tea tree, clove, lemon, or orange oil.
 Clove oil works to kill both ants and roaches. It is a very strong essential oil, so mix it with other substances. Mix ¼ cup (59 mL) with ¼ cup (59 mL) of vodka. Add 15 drops of peppermint essential oil, 15 drops of tea tree oil, and one to three drops of clove oil. Place the mixture into a spray bottle.Spray the oil anywhere that you see ants or roaches. Spray around entrances to your home.
Replace the tea tree oil with 15 drops of peppermint oil if you are going to spray on surfaces where you eat.
 Some people don’t like to use boric acid because it can be toxic to people. Diatomaceous earth is not toxic if ingested. To use DE, sprinkle a thin layer of it around the entryways of your home and anywhere you think ants and roaches will be., Combine one part water with one part rubbing alcohol, one part olive oil, or one part distilled white vinegar. Place it in a spray bottle. Each time you see a roach, spray them with your solution. This will coat their shell, and suffocate and kill them.