 You'll find this in the lower-left corner of the screen, and it will have the Windows logo.;
, This will open the Device Manager window.
, There are three main video card manufacturers that your adapter is almost guaranteed to be using: NVIDIA, AMD/ATI, and Intel.


If you see Intel and NVIDIA, your computer is either switching between them as necessary or you've installed an NVIDIA card on a motherboard with Intel graphics. In either case, you'll be getting the NVIDIA drivers.
 You'll need to know the video card model and model number in order to download the correct drivers. You'll see all of this information after the manufacturer name.


For example, "NVIDIA GeForce GTX 670" is made by "NVIDIA" and the model line is "GeForce." The model number is "GTX 670."

, Now that you know the video card information, you'll need to download the driver software from the manufacturer.
 Each manufacturer has a website dedicated to driver downloads for their cards:


NVIDIA
AMD
Intel

, Use the drop-down menus and the model number you noted earlier to find your specific video card. All three websites also have an auto-detect tool that you can run, which will determine your video card. You may need to accept some security warnings when running these tools.


If your video card is older than four or five years, it may no longer be supported by the manufacturer and new drivers may not be available.
 Once you've found the drivers for your card, click the download link or button to begin downloading the installers. Video card driver installers can be fairly large, and may take a while to download.
 After the installer has finished downloading, click it to start installing the drivers. You'll find the installer at the bottom of your browser window, or in the Downloads folder.
 The process is different for each manufacturer, but you can generally leave all of the installation settings at their defaults.


During the installation process, your monitor may flicker or shut off for a moment.

