 A common source of distraction is caused by loose items rolling about inside the vehicle as you drive. Ensure you stow all loose items in containers such as the glove compartment or center console before you begin driving.Ensure groceries are stowed safely in the trunk of the vehicle before setting out on the drive home.
Make sure anything you keep in the cabin of your car is secure and won’t roll about as you drive.;
, Some drivers use their commute time before work as an opportunity to complete their grooming regiment prior to stepping foot in the office. This can be dangerous because it takes your focus off of the road.Make sure to complete shaving or applying makeup at your house prior to leaving for work.
Make any grooming corrections once you have pulled over or arrived at your workplace.
 If you share your vehicle with a spouse or other driver, you may find the mirrors on your vehicle are not set properly for you to see as you drive when you get into the vehicle. Make sure to look at and adjust your mirrors prior to setting off.Adjusting your mirrors as you drive can lead to you being in an accident.
Ensure you have full visibility of your mirrors before setting out on any trip.
 As you drive, you should get into a habit of checking each of your mirrors periodically. This will ensure you have an understanding of everything that is going on around your vehicle and help ensure you aren’t taken by surprise by pedestrians or other drivers.Get into the habit of checking each mirror and your speedometer at regular intervals as you drive.
Always check your mirrors before turning or changing lanes.
 Keep track of all other vehicles around you on the road. Whether you’re on a highway with multiple lanes of traffic heading in the same direction or on a residential road with a single lane going each way, keep track of the vehicles around to make sure you don’t lose them in a blind spot.You can lose track of vehicles in your mirrors, but if you’ve been paying attention you should still know where they are.
 As you pay close attention to the road around you and other vehicles, you can start to anticipate possible risks or dangerous situations before they present themselves. Try to identify risky situations and act to avoid them before they happen.Look for people or animals on the side of the road and give them plenty of room.
Keep track of things going on around you so you can anticipate risky situations before they occur.

