 Pain or discomfort in your shoulder or in the area around it may indicate that you have a shoulder injury.You might notice pain at all times or just when you move or apply pressure to the affected area. Pay attention to how your shoulder feels at rest and when you move it.


Joint separations are graded from mild (grade one) to severe (grade three). Grade one is a sprain, grade two is a partial separation, and grade three is a full separation. A grade one AC separation might just feel sore, while a grade three separation might cause intense pain.Grades one through three are the most common classifications, but there are actually three more grades: four, five, and six. These are rare and usually involve tearing of the deltoid and/or trapezius muscles.Along with pain, you might also notice some swelling in your shoulder if you have a grade two or grade three AC separation.;
, As you move your shoulder joint around, it should be silent. If you hear any popping sounds, it may mean that you have injured your AC joint. Gently rotate your shoulder around and listen for any popping or snapping sounds.


Keep in mind that hearing a popping sound is more common with a grade three separation.See your doctor as soon as possible if you hear popping sounds.
 Examine your shoulder and the area around it to determine if you have any bumps. A small bump can form on the top of your shoulder where your clavicle bone stops. This is almost always a symptom of a shoulder separation.Having a bump on your shoulder is more common with a grade three separation.See your doctor right away if you notice a bump.
 Movement of your clavicle bone is a symptom of a separated AC joint.Your clavicle is the bone that connects your breastbone to your shoulder. Place your hand on your clavicle and gently push it to see if it moves or remains stationary. Your clavicle should not move when you press it.


Movement in your clavicle is also more common with a grade three AC separation and indicates that you need to see a doctor as soon as possible.
 Try to rotate your injured shoulder in all different directions. Not being able to move your injured shoulder in the same ways as you can move your other shoulder may be a sign of a separated AC joint. Try moving your shoulder in the following ways:


Lift your shoulder up.
Push your shoulder down.
Pull your shoulder across your body.
Pull your shoulder out to the side.
Pull your shoulder back and stretch it behind your head.
 Cold or numbing sensations in your extremities or fingers can also be a sign that you have suffered a shoulder injury. Apply some gentle pressure to your shoulder and the surrounding area to see if you can feel it.Sit or stand still and begin to press gently into your affected shoulder. Try this with your unaffected shoulder as well to see if both shoulders feel the same.
The sensation you are trying to feel for is similar to when your body parts “fall asleep.”

