 Retain the quality of your jerky by placing it in an airtight container. Vacuum packing, sealable bags and plastic wrap can be used to wrap your jerky and are effective at keeping air out. The option that would allow the jerky to be most easily accessible is to place it in a storage container or jar that has a lid.


Label the container with the date at the beginning of the storage life so you know the age of the jerky and how long it has been stored.






Separate your jerky by type. Place different types of jerky in different containers to keep the flavors separate, ensuring top quality.





;
, Water, including condensation in the container, will cause mold to grow on the meat. Fat is also a source of moisture that affects the quality and storage life of your jerky.


Use a paper towel to dry your jerky. If you notice moisture or oil on your jerky, noted by wetness or a sheen on the surface, gently pat the surfaces of the meat with a paper towel.
Keep moisture at bay while the jerky is in storage by placing the jerky between layers of paper towel in the container. The towels will absorb any moisture from the jerky or container. Replace the towels when you notice any presence of moisture.
 After cooking, jerky should be completely cool prior to placing it in a container. Ignoring this precaution, or exposing your stored jerky to a too warm environment will cause it to sweat, which leads to molding.
 Time will take a toll on the quality of your jerky. With proper storage techniques, jerky can safely be stored for varying lengths of time depending on where you choose to store it.


Leave your jerky in a cool, dry place. When placed properly in an airtight container, you can leave your jerky on the counter top or another cool, dry place for no longer than 1 month.






Put your jerky in the refrigerator. Jerky can be stored in the refrigerator to be used within 6 months.






Store homemade jerky in the freezer. Jerky lasts up to 1 year when kept in your freezer.







