 This is almost always the case if you have a retail product, as the vast majority of retailers require products going into their stores to have barcodes on the packaging.


If you're selling your homemade candles at the farmer's market, you probably won't need a barcode; at the small shop on the corner, possibly so; and at a big-box retailer, certainly so. Some online retailers may also require barcodes for logistical purposes. Contact your intended retailers before proceeding with or without barcodes.
Please note that this Method describes buying barcodes from resellers that have bought them in bulk from the originating organization (known as GS1). Some retailers, such as Target and Walmart, may not accept such secondhand barcodes (even though they are unique and legitimate) because they require you, the producer, to have a certificate from GS1. Check with your intended retailer(s) before buying barcodes., In general, UPC-A barcodes are used in the USA and EAN-13 barcodes are used predominantly everywhere else. This means if you are primarily selling in the USA, you should get a UPC-A barcode; if you are predominantly selling outside of the USA, you should get an EAN-13.Truth be told, however, UPC-A and EAN-13 barcodes are virtually identical and almost always interchangeable; the latter has one more digit (13 instead of 12) as a country code., Resellers supply legitimate, legal barcodes for a one-off cost. Many of them supply both UPC-A and EAN-13 barcodes.


A list of reputable resellers can be found, for instance, at http://www.barcodeinfo.org/reputable-resellers. It is important to make sure your reseller is reputable because using fraudulent or copied barcodes can lead to problems down the track.
 Buying secondhand barcodes a la carte gives you more flexibility to buy only the amount you need, though buying in bulk does save money per barcode.


As an example of how many barcodes you may need, let's suppose you are selling a t-shirt with your logo on the front, in two colors (white and blue) and three sizes (S, M, L). Each combination of size and color requires a unique barcode, meaning you will need to buy six. With increased variety and complexity in your product line, the amount of unique barcodes you need can grow substantially.
As one example from a barcode reseller, one barcode costs $75 (a one-time fee); 12 cost $250; and 100 cost $695., Most resellers will promptly email an image of the barcode to you, allowing you to quickly incorporate it into your product packaging. You can then begin using your barcode.Make sure the barcode image sent to you is clear, and that the copies you render for your product packaging are of the same quality.
Barcodes don't necessarily have to be black and white, but a high contrast between the alternating bars is essential for easy reading.
In some cases product packaging (e.g. a matchbox) may be too small to incorporate a standard EAN and UPC barcode image supplied by resellers (37.29mm x 25.93). This is because GS1 recommends a minimum 80% reduction of a bar code's original size. If your product packaging is very small you can ask your reseller to scale down your barcodes to suit or you can obtain smaller eight digit EAN 8 barcodes from GS1 directly.