 This will only make the admin or moderators more angry with you, and they will ban your IP address. Forums keep a record of every members IP address. And so if you try to sign up with a different user name and email address, they will know that it's you.;
, But bear in mind that the forum does not have to answer your email. And they do not have to give you a reason why you have been banned either. But if you do not get a response to your email, do not email the forum again and again. Or they can ban your IP address, and then you will not be able to go onto the site at all.
 Did you go off topic several times? Did you blow up at a forum member when they were rude to you? Or you could have been banned for other reasons. Think about what it was that got you banned and learn from your mistakes. And next time you sign up on a forum, do not make the same mistakes again.
 If your threads or threads you are posting on keep getting locked by the moderators. Or they keep getting moved from public view to private view. Meaning that your thread is not visible on the web or in search engines. And can only be read by other forum members. And even then they can still be locked or deleted by a moderator. This could be a sign that you are not welcome on the forum. In this case it is better that you leave the forum to avoid getting banned. If you are being made to feel uncomfortable on the forum. It is better to leave now, rather than end up getting banned later.
 Or you could be banned from that forum as well. Some forums will not allow anyone who has been banned from other forums on their forum.
 That is if you have your own blog, website or video channel, and your website or video channel is well known on the web. Or you may have several websites or video channels. Either way, some forums will ban you if you are well known on the web. Because they may think that you are using their forum to promote your website or your video channel. And this is not allowed on any forum. So if you are well known on the web, from your blog, website or video channel. Or you might be well known on the web from posts that you made on other forums. If that's the case, it would be better to use a different name and user name. That is different from the name and user name you use on your website or video channel. In order to avoid this problem on the new forum in the future.
 While this may be entertaining for your readers and viewers, forum moderators will not find it entertaining. And if you join another forum. And they find your posts and videos on the web about you being banned from other forums. They will ban your from their forum. So if you have posted on your website or video channel that you were banned from one or several forums. Then it might be worth thinking about using a different user name and name on the new forum. So that the admin and moderators do not link you to your website or videos. If you do not want to risk being banned from another forum.
 Rules on Windows and Linux forums are stricter than other forums. And you may have been banned for what you thought was nothing. Some forums are so strict they will ban you for saying"I don't use anti virus software. " Or they will ban you for saying"Windows is better than Linux. " You can also be banned for posting too many posts in a short time. Which made them think you were spamming or tolling. Both of which is against the rules. Or you could have been banned for something more minor, such as typing more than one post in all block capitals or ALL CAPS. Some of the rules are strict and do not make a lot of sense. If you don't agree with the rules or you find you do not fit in with the forum. It may be better to forget about forums, and post on your own blog or website instead. Then you are your own boss.

