 When purchasing wine, you will find that there is a big price difference between a "cheap" bottle of wine and an expensive one. Fortunately, there is a Merlot to fit any budget. Take a moment to think about how much you are comfortable spending per bottle.If you are new to wine drinking, you might want to start with a moderately priced bottle. As you are learning to discern different tastes and qualities, you probably won't want to splurge on a high-priced bottle.
Consider the occasion. If you are just having a casual group over to watch The Bachelor, you probably don't need to break the bank on wine.
If you are having a formal dinner or celebrating a special occasion, you might want to spend more per bottle. There is usually a discernible difference in taste and quality, depending on how much you spend.
You can get a good quality Merlot for around $25. If you are planning to splurge, there are excellent wines available in the $200 range.
 Merlot comes in many varieties. There are multiple ingredients used to make this full-flavored wine. Read the label of each bottle to find out which flavors are highlighted. Fruit is often one of the primary characteristics of Merlot. Common flavors are Raspberry, Plum, and Black Cherry.
Other ingredients are used to enhance the flavors of the grapes. Some examples include cedar, vanilla, clove, and tobacco.
Merlot comes from several different regions. France, Italy, the U.S., Australia, and Chile all are known for Merlot. You might find you prefer one region over another.
 Learning about wine can be lots of fun. It can also be overwhelming. If you are unsure which wine to choose, do not be afraid to ask.Visit a wine store. The employees will be happy to make recommendations.
Be clear about your price point. Also explain the occasion where the wine will be served.
Take a wine tasting class. Many high-end food stores offer these types of classes.
Even local grocery stores and markets have special tasting events. These gatherings are a fun way to taste new wines and to learn about them.

