 If the cue ball is placed too near the cushion, your pool cue will be at a steep, awkward angle, making it difficult to hit with speed and control. Place the cue ball far enough from the cushion to allow for your normal range of motion when using a cue, then add an additional 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm) of space to allow an even flatter, steadier cue.Note that the cue ball must be placed behind the "head string." If the head string isn't drawn on the table, find it by looking for the "diamonds" or marks on the table's sides, and counting to the second pair of diamonds from the table's end. The imaginary line between this pair of diamonds is the head string.
 The more in line the cue ball is with the rack, the easier the shot will be.As you get better at breaking, you can try more advanced breaking techniques described below. But while you're a beginner, stick with the center placement.
 For the basic break shot, aim for the center of the cue ball, not above or below it.If you notice your cue ball has backspin or forward spin, try watching the tip of your pool cue as you shoot to look for unintentional movements. Practice an even motion while shooting, keeping your elbow level to avoid shifting the pool cue up or down.
 For a powerful break shot, you'll need to stay balanced as you hit the cue ball, then follow through by moving forward. Many players stand slightly to the side of the ball to allow the cue a full range of motion, and may bend at the knees before they strike, encouraging a fluid follow through.
 Following through, or continuing to move the cue forward after striking the ball, is an excellent way to practice and evaluate your break shots.Accelerate the cue through the ball, so you continue to move in one fluid motion rather than stopping or moving jerkily after the ball is struck. Keep your eyes down near the cue and watch the cue ball as you follow through. If the cue does not move in line with the cue ball, practice shooting steadily and accurately until it does before you concentrate on strength.
 The most common place to aim, and the easiest, is the one ball, at the nearest point on the rack. If the cue ball is not in line with the diamond, try not to let the diamond shape confuse your aim. Focus on the single ball you are aiming for, and try to hit the exact center of that ball.
 It's better to hit the cue ball softly and aim correctly, rather than break hard and fast but lose control of your cue ball.If your cue ball often misses or "scratches," meaning it ends up fouled by falling in a pocket, try to shoot more gently. Practice stronger "power breaks" once you are able to consistently hit the center of the ball you are aiming for.

