 The first 15 numbers in Spanish have unique names that you'll need to learn. After those, the numbers come in combinations, so you can form more numbers by combining the names of the ones you already know.The words for the first 15 numbers in Spanish are uno (1), dos (2), tres (3), cuatro (4), cinco (5), seis (6), siete (7), ocho (8), nueve (9), diez (10), once (11), doce (12), trece (13), catorce (14), and quince (15).;
, The tens in Spanish are unique words as well. Recognize the pattern that most of these are more or less a combination of the word for the first digit and the suffix -enta. For example, cuarenta is a combination of cuatro (4) and the suffix -enta, with the "t" removed as well.To write numbers through 99, all you need are the tens and the second digit, separated by the word y. For example, 34 would be "treinta y cuatro," which literally means "30 and 4."

, To create the full word for a number in the hundreds, you simply add the word for the other digits to ciento or cientos.For example, two hundred is doscientos. The only exception is the word for the number 500, which is quinientos.
 When writing out large numbers in Spanish, you need an y between the second and third digit of each grouping of three digits. This is the case regardless of how many groupings there are.For example, if you wanted to write the number "999,999" in Spanish you would write the words as "novecientos noventa y nueve mil novecientos noventa y nueve." The literal translation of this into English is "nine hundred ninety and nine thousand, nine hundred ninety and nine."

, In Spanish, you use "mil" for "thousand." If you're writing about something that is exactly 1,000, you should only write "mil," not "un mil." The plural form of "mil" is "miles."There is an exception if you're writing a check in Spanish and the amount begins with "one thousand." Then you usually should write "un mil" rather than "mil" to prevent someone from altering the check – even though this is technically incorrect.
 Write the words just as you would in English, by writing first the number of millions there are, and then writing the rest of the numbers., In Spanish, extremely big numbers in the billions and trillions are counted differently than they are in English. If you fail to recognize this, you could make a significant error when writing numbers in Spanish.In Spanish, the number you would call "one billion" in English is called "mil millón," or "thousand million." The Spanish word "billón" is equivalent to the number you would call "one trillion" in English.
 In Spanish, if you're speaking of exactly 100, you must shorten ciento to cien. The numerals uno and veintiuno also are shortened to un and veintiún if they are immediately before another number, a noun, or an adjective.For example, if you were talking about one dog, you would write "un perro."
When you're using the feminine forms of these numbers, however, they are not shortened. For example, if you were writing about one ball, you would write "una pelota."

, One of the biggest differences between written numbers in Spanish and written numbers in English is the use of decimal points and commas.When you write numbers in Spanish, separate thousands with a decimal point – not with a comma as you would in English. For example, you would write "126,342" as "126.342" in Spanish.
Decimals, on the other hand, are written using a comma. For example, if you wanted to write pi in Spanish, you would write "3,14159265359."

, While decimals are still acceptable to use when separating thousands as you write numbers in Spanish, it also is acceptable to simply use a space.This method has become more common as a way to separate thousands because it keeps the decimal point from being confused with the comma.
 If a number word describes a feminine noun, you should write it so that it ends in -a rather than -o. Unless you're referring to exactly one thing, the noun also must be pluralized.For example, if you were referring to 20 houses, in Spanish you would write "veintiuna casas."
Keep in mind that in Spanish, anything that isn't exactly one must be pluralized. For example, on an invoice or spreadsheet, you would pluralize the noun even if the quantity listed was "1,00" (expressed in English as 1.00)., In English, you might write "April first" in a paragraph about April Fool's Day. However, in Spanish, you would write "1 abril," putting the day first and using the cardinal number rather than the ordinal.