 In order to cook the best steak on the stove, you should aim for a piece of meat that is roughly 1 inch thick. This allows you to sear the outsides quickly why still getting the insides well done.If your steak is thicker, you'll need to cook the steak on low for a longer period of time after searing both sides.
 Let steaks stand 30 minutes at room temperature so they are not cool and the outsides can cook quickly., Rub both sides of the steak with salt and pepper so that it is well encrusted. The bigger the salt you can get (kosher, coarse sea-salt, etc.) the better: bigger pieces of salt stay crunchy and take less time to dissolve into the meat.


You want a fair amount of salt on the meat-- it shouldn't be all white, but there should be salt on every part of the steak.
 Add 1/2 tablespoon olive oil to the pan and swirl to coat. The oil should be smoking just a little, so faint wisps of smoke are coming off the surface.


Some cooks swear by coconut oil, which has a mild flavor but a high smoking point, allowing you to really cook the outside of the steak.If you do not have a cast-iron skillet you can use a normal frying pan instead, but you may need more oil.
 You want a nice, caramelized exterior on both sides -- brown but not black. If you flip the steak and it is still pink, turn it back over and leave it until it is nice and crispy on one side.
 Lower the heat to medium-low and cook the steak until the inside is your preferred level of done. If you have a meat thermometer you can use this to get your steak perfect every time:



Rare: 130-135째F. Remove immediately after flipping each side.

Medium-Rare: 140째F. Cook for an additional 1-3 minutes on each side.

Medium: 155째F. Cook for an additional 3-5 minutes on each side.

Well Done: 165째F Cook the steak for an additional 5-7 minutes on each side., You don't want to eat your steak right after it comes off. Waiting locks in juices and flavor as they soak into the meat. Tent a piece of aluminum foil over the steak and let it rest before slicing.