 Make sure that there are a lot of hiding spots and that it’s a safe place to run around.


Although flashlight tag is typically played outside, you can also play inside with the lights off! Just be sure to clear away anything that someone could trip on during the game.When playing outside, you don’t have to play when it is completely dark. If you need to be home by a certain time or if you get scared at night, you can play at dusk or in a better lit area (such as a park).You can also play with silly string during the day instead of a flashlight.;
, You only need three people to play this game, but the more people you can get to play, the better!Ask some of your neighborhood friends to play on a weekend. This game is also fun to play when you have a party or sleepover.
Flashlight tag can also be played with your family. If you have brothers or sisters, ask them if they would like to play. If you are an only child, ask your parents or grandparents.
If your parents hesitate to let you play outside when it’s dark, ask if one of them would play or at least come with you. Your friends’ parents might also feel better knowing an adult is there.
Bring some extra batteries with you, in case the batteries in your flashlight quit working in the middle of the game., This person will have the flashlight and will be responsible for "tagging" people.


If more than one person wants to be ‘it,’ you can draw straws, pick numbers out of a hat, or flip a coin.
 Have the person who is 'it' count to a set number (such as 100), while everyone else hides.


The person who is ‘it’ should close their eyes or wear a blindfold during this time.
Good hiding places can be found through nature. You could, for example, hide behind a tree or a bush. You could also crouch below a large rock or hill. If you're playing in someone's backyard, make use of the structures. Hide underneath a slide. Hide under the table in the playhouse.
 After counting to the specified number, the person who is ‘it’ can then start to look for people. As with regular tag, once you are tagged, you are out. However, to tag someone in flashlight tag, the person who is ‘it’ must tag people with the beam of the flashlight and call their names.


In regular tag, if you can run faster than the ‘it’ person, you can evade them for a while. But with flashlight tag, the ‘it’ person can tag you with the light from a distance. Thus, while you are hiding, scope out your location and look for other places you could dart behind. To avoid being tagged with the beam from the flashlight, you’ll need to put something between yourself and the ‘it’ person.



Alternately, instead of playing until everyone has been tagged, you can also play with a rotating ‘it’ person. In this case, once someone is tagged, they become the new ‘it’ person and the person who tagged them hands over the flashlight.With a rotating ‘it’ person, you will need to hide not only from the current ‘it’ person but from everyone playing the game. Be sure that none of your friends see where you hide!

, The first person tagged and sent to “jail” in the last round will be the ‘it’ person for the second round.If you are playing with a rotating ‘it’ person instead of a “jail,” you don’t need to restart the game, because it is never over!

