 If you have a friend who's spent time around musical instruments, bring them along (especially if they also play bass guitar). Even musicians who have little experience around guitars can help you inspect the instrument and determine what condition its in.

If none of your friends are musicians, get to know the different parts of a bass guitar as well as you can. The more you know about the guitar, the better you'll be able to estimate its condition.
 If you're buying the instrument in-person, ask the seller if you can strum the guitar. More experienced musicians will be able to play a few notes on the bass and tune as needed; from there, you'll be able to determine its quality.

Beginners might not know what to look for as much but will still be able to test how the instrument feels in their hands and whether they like its sound.
If you have never played a bass guitar before, ask the seller if they could play a song for you. You'll get a better sense of its condition by watching someone play.
 When holding the guitar in your hands, decide whether the length is comfortable for you. Bass guitars are available in a variety of lengths, and some will fit you better than others. Smaller players should look for guitars with a scale length of 30 inches (76.2 cm) or less.The average bass length is 34 inches (86.3 cm) This will be the most versatile bass length, if your guitar will be used by multiple people., Check for any nicks or cracks in the frame, as even small fractures can distort the bass's sound. Some parts of the guitar, like the strings or tuning keys, can be upgraded. Others, like the neck, are a permanent part of the guitar. Thoroughly examine the guitar, and ask the seller about any possible damages.

If the guitar is in poorer condition but is being sold at a reasonable price, ask the seller if they know of any instrument repair shops. You may consider purchasing a used guitar for a cheap price, then having a repair shop refurbish it.
 Even if you're not inspecting the guitar in-person, you can still get a good sense of its condition. Ask the seller to send pictures of the guitar from a variety of angles, and ask for close-ups of any spots that look damaged.

Ask the seller to make a recording of themselves playing a song on the bass so you know how it sounds. When buying instruments, what you hear is just as important as what you see.

