 Obviously men can't put themselves in the place of a woman and understand what it's like to have a menstrual cycle, but they can try to understand what symptoms they go through. Woman can get terrible stomach cramps, which are never fun, and can range from a dull pain that simply annoys, to a stabbing pain that practically paralyses a woman. Women can get mood swings, they can get headaches, restlessness, become extremely tired or sleepy, become sore in their genital regions, and their appetites can dramatically change. Symptoms will vary from woman to woman and some women may not even have symptoms at all! Women having a heavy period may want to use the appropriate facilitates as often as every couple of hours which is a drag and can curtail trips out and about. Periods are just generally uncomfortable and the symptoms that go along with it are never any fun. Hopefully this will help give you an idea of what a woman goes through during her menstrual cycle.;
, Give her compliments. Say things that will make her feel just as beautiful and intelligent when she's on her period as you find her the rest of the time. This will help boost her confidence, if she needs it, and may help a little with her mood swings.
 If she has any little chores or errands to do, help her out. Take the stress off of her by doing the dishes or taking her things down to the laundry. This will help lift some weight from her shoulders and give her time to relax. Keep in mind she may not just have little or chores. Women who work for a living and run a family of kids and pets and everything else have periods too and HAVE to cope. Be considerate.
 Have her sit down and give her a massage or give her a warm hug. Even a comforting arm rub might make her feel better and will at least show you care.
 Let her know how happy you are to have her in your life. Tell her she's a great friend, girlfriend, or wife. If she's at work or away from you, call her cellphone, work phone or email them and tell her how beautiful, sweet and all-round awesome she is. It's not even describable how nice it is for a person to do this. Don't go over the top her if she's snappy and irritable from the mood swings.
 Show her that you are not grossed out by the very thought of her menstrual cycle (even if maybe you indeed don't feel comfortable with it at first). If she tries to talk to you about it, do not make faces or say 'Go talk to one of your girlfriends". This will just make her feel like you don't care. Another part of this step is to be willing to run errands for her. Go get her the supplies she is out of, (thinking of sanitary items as "girl stuff" is immature and unhelpful, tampons, etc.) and pick her up some chocolate or her favorite magazine while you are at it! It will make her feel like you really care.

