 The Asshole deals one deck of cards (without the jokers) clockwise to the left, starting with himself and proceeding in order of player hierarchy from low to high until all cards are dealt (presuming the participants are sitting in order). This ensures that the King begins with the fewest number of cards if the hands are uneven. Some parties may wish to sit in order each round to make it easier.


At the first round, anyone can deal. If there is an uneven number of cards to be had, roll a die to see who gets the fewest.
In certain variants, the Asshole must hand over his two best cards to the King. If there is a Vice Asshole or Asshole Jr., he must hand over 1. The King and VP then hand over 2 and 1, respectively, of their worst cards.
 Either the player to the left of the dealer or the player with a designated card (4 of clubs, say) begins the "trick" (like in Spades or Bridge). The next player can either lay the same card, a higher card, or a pair, three, or four of the same or higher card. With each turn, the value of the cards gets higher and higher until no one can play.


Each player must at least lay the same number of cards. If 2 threes are laid down, the succeeding play must be either 2 threes or 2 fours, etc. Of course, 3 or 4 of the same card is doable as well.
If a player cannot go, they pass. They can still play in the same round--they are just opting to pass that specific turn. If all players cannot go, the hand is cleared and the last person to lay a hand down starts again.
 As the rounds progress, each player is holding fewer and fewer cards. When one runs out, they become King. That player then sits happily while the rest fight to the death not to become the Asshole. To make the game go more quickly, however, you may count each player's cards after the King is established to assign roles.If keeping score, the players get points depending on their position - for example 2 for the President, 1 for the Vice President and nothing for the others. More importantly, the players of higher status are entitled to enjoy and generally abuse their power over the lower ranking players.