


If you are regularly calling, texting, or chatting online with your best friend’s boyfriend, then you are becoming more intimate with each other, even if there is nothing physical going on. The emotional intimacy you are developing can interfere with your friend’s relationship with her boyfriend and it can also develop into a physical relationship between you and him.;
, Some topics are harmless, such as talking about something that happened at school or work, discussing a recent episode of a TV show, or asking about each other’s plans for the summer. However, some topics are inappropriate for you to discuss with your best friend’s boyfriend.


For example, if you and your best friend’s boyfriend are having conversations where you talk about sex, your best friend, or where you are expressing interest in each other, then this is a red flag.
 Your reasons for wanting to talk to your best friend’s boyfriend can also help you to decide if you are behaving in an appropriate manner.For example, if you are seeking out opportunities to talk to your best friend’s boyfriend in the hopes that he will admit that he likes you or that something else will happen, then you are behaving inappropriately.
 If your best friend has expressed jealousy or anger about your interactions with her boyfriend, then you should respect her and avoid repeating the same behavior.


For example, if your best friend says, “I get really upset when you text Joey late at night,” then you should probably stop texting him altogether.
 If you have determined that any of your behaviors are inappropriate, then find ways to alter these behaviors. This can be hard to do if you really like him, but remember that continuing to behave inappropriately towards your friend's boyfriend may bring an end to your friendship.


You may also owe your friend an apology for some of these behaviors. If you have done anything to make your friend angry or jealous, then make sure that you apologize to her. Try saying something like, "I know that my behavior was inappropriate and I am sorry. I did not mean to hurt you or upset you."

