 This is the most important step that any girl or guy needs to know. If the "man of your dreams" doesn't like you for who you are- then he's not the man of your dreams and that should not matter. Do not EVER change for someone to like you.;
, Don't try to dress just for a guy. You don't need to show too much skin to attract guys because that's the wrong kind of attention. Wear whatever you want. You want a guy who likes you for your personality, not for what you wear or how you look.
 All that matters is personality and not your clothing.
 Don't fake laugh, just be happy. If he sees that you're comfortable around him, he'll have an easier time talking to you.
 Feel free to tease back if he teases you, but don't take it to a mean level. You should always be nice, anyway. You can come up with a witty comeback then laugh so he knows you weren't serious. Be nice and witty to his friends as well. Hey, this could help him try to date you sooner, because he won't want his friends to get you first.
 Sometimes it's good (especially with shy boys) to turn quickly and blush. Shy ones blush and find it adorable if you blush too. This will tell him that you like him.
 Is he interested or does he ignore you? If he does ignore you then he probably doesn't care and is a waste of time, you can find someone better than him anyway!

, That can make you seem rude. Once you get to know him better, do what you want of course, but it might not make the greatest first impression until he knows how awesome you really are.
 There's scientific proof that when people look into each other's eyes, they are more likely to develop feelings of attraction. Don't go too long, it's natural to look away during a conversation, and its creepy if you're staring at them, but try to meet their eyes more than you might meet a friend's.
 If it doesn't work out, then all this thought on him won't do you any good anyway. Act as you can totally live without him and he will find it hard to resist wanting to hang with you. It's like you could not hang out with him and not even miss a beat, it'll drive him insane that you can be fine without him, but you won't have to be without him because as long as you've followed these steps, you'll be the girl every guy dreams of.

