 If you are struggling to be a good emotional support for loved ones with diabetes, do not be afraid to reach out to a counselor or therapist. The onset of any medical health issue and illness, whether it is yours or a family member’s affects every person within that family unit in some way. It can contribute to many unsettling emotional states, such as depression or sadness, anxiety, anger, or grief. Speaking to a therapist can not only help you feel emotionally prepared for supporting a diabetic loved one, but also help you find ways to cope with your own emotional states as well to keep you living as optimally as possible. When you are able to function at your best, then you will be better prepared to help your loved one with their diabetic illness. Ask your doctor for a referral to a therapist. Look for a therapist online who specializes in emotional support for those caring for loved ones with health issues.You may suggest that you and your loved ones go to a counselor or therapist together for support. This way, you can all discuss how you are feeling about dealing with the disease and listen to each other in a supportive environment.
 Consider reaching out to others in your community who are also trying to be emotionally supportive for a diabetic loved one. Look for support groups who focus on those dealing with the care and support of diabetic loved ones. Ask your doctor for a referral to a support group in your area. Search for support groups online., Coping with and taking care of a loved one with a chronic illness can drastically impact your life and your overall well-being. You may notice your emotional state becoming a little imbalanced. Perhaps your stress level has increased, or you’re feeling frustrated or overly exhausted. Maybe you feel isolated with these experiences, which is leading to guilt or depression. Or there could be added financial strains with medical bills and the cost of medications that may not have been covered by insurance.

All of these internal emotional and situational experiences can add up. You may be so focused on supporting your loved one that you forget to take care of yourself.
Practice your mindfulness, and live each day within the moment. Incorporate meditation and deep breathing exercises into your life to help keep you grounded. Deal with things as they come, because that is all you can ever do is live within one moment at a time.
Practice the art of self-forgiveness and forgiveness to the other person you may be providing that emotional support to.
Take breaks and time away from your loved one as needed so you can have time to decompress. Go for walks, take a short vacation. Become involved with a hobby of interest and get out there to meet new people in a different setting.
 It can be tough to shoulder the emotional support of diabetic loved ones on your own. Lean on other family and friends in your life to help you support the diabetic loved one. Ask for their help if you need it. Agree to divide up the emotional care and support for the diabetic loved one among friends or family. This way, you are not responsible for the emotional support for the loved on on your own.For example, you may say to family and friends, “Would you mind helping me as I support our diabetic loved one?” or “Would you be able to also offer support to our diabetic loved one?”

