 Stay occupied during your spare time so that you don’t give yourself a lot of time to think about them. Take up new hobbies, pick up old ones, ask friends out for coffee or dinner, join a club, take a class, or volunteer. Fill your days and nights so that you’re enjoying life and aren’t spending much time thinking of them.You will notice that thinking of them is regressive – you will think of them less and less over time.;
, You might have a routine of texting them every morning, or talking on the phone every night, and come to expect that is what you’ll do every day. Change your routine so that you don’t expect to talk, text, or video chat with them at certain times throughout the day. If you normally talk in the morning, try exercising instead. Or if you always text at lunch, plan to read a book instead.Your routine won’t change effortlessly, and that is okay. Stick with it and before you know it, what was work will be your new routine.
If they try to continue with routines that involve you, such as phone calls or texts, you can explain that you no longer wish to speak with them on the phone, for example, or you may take a more thorough approach and block them on social media.
If you choose to block them, block their phone number so that they may not call or text you also.
 It may help you to look at all of the reasons why a relationship with this person is not realistic. Try making a list of all of the reasons why it would not work out. You might include:


Distance, such as living in different states, countries, or even different continents.
Differences in lifestyle, personality, or interests. For example, maybe the person you are in love with is an outgoing sports enthusiast who loves to attend parties and other social events. If you are more of an introvert who likes to watch movies and hang out at home with just a few people at a time, then your lifestyles, personalities, and interests might not mesh well.
Different relationship goals, such as wanting marriage while the other person may not be interested in a monogamous relationship at all.
 You don’t have to actually say goodbye to them, but you do need to say goodbye to the relationship. Reconcile with yourself that you need to stop being in love with them, and that it’s time to let go. This can be a painful process, but it’s necessary because it signals that you’ve made a decision to stop being in love and move on.You can say goodbye, you can write it in a letter, or a poem, or simply process it internally by thinking about it.
If you share a friend or hobby group, you may decide that you want to maintain a friendship with them. If that’s the case, explain to them that you’re ending the romantic part of your relationship but look forward to a mature and healthy friendship.
If you think it would be better to cut all ties, it’s up to you whether you want to explain that you want no further contact with them.
 While you’ll never meet, you might have exchanged letters, trinkets, gifts, or other items. You need to get rid of these reminders so that you can begin the process of healing and falling out of love. Box the items up and throw them away or ask someone else to discard them for you. This should happen at the same time that you say goodbye to allow yourself a clean slate.