 The "unwanted" is an important part! Each record should be the same size, unless you're planning on deliberately using a big-small-big, etc. pattern. That's up to you.


The amount of records you'll need depends on how much space you are trying to cover. If you are hanging them from the ceiling to say, sofa level, count on about eight records of large size for the vertical drop, then as many of these rows of eight as you need to cover the space to be divided. This could be a lot of records, so visit the local thrift store if you haven't got that many stashed away.
 Contact paper is the best way to cover the records and make them all the same color.


Prints are also possible but bear in mind that your room decor must be matched nicely.
 This forms your template piece for records of that size. Use this to make as many circles as needed for the amount of records (one piece each side).
 Smooth out all bubbles and wrinkles so that the contact paper sits perfectly flat. Meet the edges of each side of each circle with care. Repeat for all records.
 Mark four holes at even quarter spaces around the edges of the record circle. Heat the wire at one end over a stovetop and use the hot end to piece holes through the marked spots.


Hold the wire with strong gloves, such as gardening gloves, in case it heats too much.


Repeat for each record.
 Use medium gauge wire to make ring joins between the holes, closing the wire with pliers. Cut the same lengths of wire for the entire project, although you may wish to make large rings for the top level rings, depending on the hook requirements from the hanging points.


Make rows first, according to the measurement needed for your space.
Then join the rows to form the entire hanging divider.
Ensure that the top row has rings too, so that it can be hung from the ceiling, beam or other area, with ease.
 Use planter hooks from the ceiling over the area in need of the divider, either with a piece of chain to add length or directly hang the divider straight from the hooks. It is important to have at least one helper to do this part, as hanging can be tricky.
 You now have an amazing, funky divider for your room or area.