 This will help you determine the type of music you need, as well as the tempo.


Practice the aerobic routine until you are familiar enough with the routine to select music for it. This is especially helpful if you are the instructor of an aerobics class.
If your aerobic routine is based on an instructional video, watch the video several times until you feel comfortable enough to select music for your routine.;
, Different types of aerobics may require a specific music genre or style.


Choose a music type from the genre your aerobic routine is based on. For example, choose upbeat dance or techno music for dance aerobics, hip-hop music for hip-hop aerobics, or upbeat jazz music for jazz and funk aerobics.
If the aerobic routine is very specific, such as country-style dance aerobics, consider choosing upbeat pop-country music for the routine.
 This will allow you to develop the ideal playlist for your aerobics workout.


Perform an Internet search to locate artists and songs from the genre you selected. Many websites will allow you to listen to the song in its entirety for free or provide you with a sample of the song to help you determine if you want to purchase it.
If you do not have Internet access, visit a retail store that specializes in music in your local area. Some stores may have listening stations or allow you to preview the music before you purchase it.
You can also tune in to a local radio station that plays music from the aerobic genre you have chosen to generate ideas for your playlist.



Perform part of your aerobic workout as you listen to the music or visually picture the aerobics routine in your head to determine whether the tempos match with one another.
The music tempo you need may vary depending on your aerobics routine. Most aerobic dance routines fall in the tempo range of between 130 and 160 beats per minute, whereas step aerobics may have a range of between 118 and 125 beats per minute.
Choose slower tempos for the stretching, warm-up and cool-down parts of your aerobics routine. Usually these tempos will fall within the range of 100 and 120 beats per minute.
You can also look for compilation albums or music collections designed specifically for aerobic workouts, which already contain song selections with tempos that fall within the appropriate ranges.



Place the slower, more melodic songs at the beginning and end of your playlist for the stretching, warm-up, and cool-down phases.
Place all of the intense, fast-tempo song selections in the middle of the playlist during the most intense phases of the workout.
 This will prevent you or your aerobics class from becoming bored or losing interest during workouts from listening to the same music repeatedly.

