 Is your gerbil over two years old and male? if so, you should think about trying to introduce two just-weaned pups instead so you are not left with a lonely gerbil in a few years time (this is the only exception to the not introducing one to a pair or group). What is your gerbil's temperament like? Some gerbils will not accept a cage mate if they've been alone too long, or do not like other gerbils.;
, If it does not work, what will you do with your two lonely gerbils? Make sure you have spare cages or good homes lined up.
 You may find your gerbil breeder will guide you through the split cage or even do it for you. They should also be prepared to take the second gerbil back if the split cage does not work.
 With girls, they should also be the same size. Male gerbils are easier to introduce than girls and less likely to declan in later life.
 Details of this are in the sources. Ideally start with a double layer of mesh, and remove the first layer after a week if signs look good. This is because gerbils can bite each other through a single layer.
 Make sure you have no toys, wheel, or bowls. A water bottle can be taped to the side and food can be thrown loosely into each side (known as scatter-feeding).
 Do not let them interact whilst doing so.
 Positive signs include sleeping flank to flank against the mesh divider, grooming each other through the mesh and sleeping in the bed used by the other gerbil. If your gerbil continues to bite at the mesh to get at the other gerbil then they are not ready. Research more on when to know to remove the divider through sources and other articles.
 Monitor very closely and intervene if you see any warning signs such as that listed under warnings in this article. Set aside a full day to watch them.
 If signs are good you can now leave them in the tank together, but do not add anything else to their cage. If they continue to get on you can gradually add more neutral items - if these have been used by a gerbil already then make sure you have thoroughly cleaned them. Add one new item every few days and don't clean them out for a few weeks.
 Gerbils can declan later on, even if they are initially stable - but if they've accepted each other they will be much happier with company!

