 In order to be a successful pitcher at any level, you must work hard all year. Most pitchers who aren't too serious only play baseball during the season. If you want to become better than the rest, you need to work more.;
, There are many drills that you can do to improve your game. Try to focus on the mechanics of pitching. Accuracy and velocity should follow if you are performing the right drills.
 If your mechanics need work, keep doing drills. Eventually, your muscles will remember the drills and in a week or two, it will become feeling natural.
 If you work hard enough, you should be able to throw 60-70 bullpen pitches, 2-3 times a week. ALWAYS ice your arm after throwing. The ice will help soothe any pain and it will repair your arm. Do not over-exert yourself while throwing. Stay comfortable and relaxed; being tight during throwing can increase the chances of injury.
 On the days you are not throwing, you could run or bike. During the winter, you can use a treadmill if you have one. Your week should consist of 2-3 days of throwing, 3-4 days drills, and 1 day of rest.
 Long toss is very commonly used to strengthen the arm and to improve stamina. When you do long toss, you should begin at a close distance and move your way back, then when you are far enough, start moving in again.
 If you have worked hard enough with your drills and throwing, attention should find you. You will feel good knowing that you don't have to show off to be noticed.
 Any successful pitcher would agree that in order to be control on the mound, you must be in control of yourself. There are many books and articles written on the mental game that you can read.
 Take your game seriously. Coaches respect a player who focuses in practice. Also, be open to constructive criticism from your coaches and maybe even from teammates.
 You've worked all season for this. Try to remember all you can about what you have learned in the off-season. Many pitchers focus intensely on the game starting 1-2 hours before they take the mound. Don't try to work harder than you should. Be comfortable and relaxed. All the work you've done will pay off, just pitch your game.

