 Many people like Roberta because of her stylish hair or her wardrobe, but the best about her is definitely her rocking personality!



Roberta's not your typical protagonist. She is recalcitrant, she always gets what she wants, she's plain-spoken, mean, and rebellious. However, her classmates really admire her. She's also really strong, and a kind of troublemaker!







Be kind! Roberta has a very big heart. She always helps out her friends, sometimes even her enemies.







Think about your own personality traits. How are you different from her? Do you have something in common with her? If you do, then good for you. If you don't, you can take steps to be more like her. Just keep in mind, that Roberta is a fictional character, while you are real. You are an individual, and you shouldn't be exactly like her. Stay yourself, and try to spice your personality with something you really admire her for.







Do what you feel like to do! Roberta often doesn't even think about the consequences.







Be independent! You can't always count on your friends. If you get into trouble, you should get out of it too!






While watching the series on YouTube, or on DVD, look at her gestures, sayings and study her reactions in different situations. If you focus on these, it can be quite useful.





;
, Roberta is also known for her wild hairstyles! It's always very cool and absolutely matches her style! There are a few ideas about what can you do about your own hair to look like her. You don't need to be exactly the same looking to be like her.



Color it! Roberta had two main hair colors during the series. Of course she always changed it somehow, and we could see her simple brown hair in the first episode.






You can put streaks in your hair, it doesn't need to be exactly the same like hers. Her first hairstyle had coontails in it.






Her second hair color was bright red, and towards the end, it became even brighter and wilder.









Style it! Roberta always liked changes, she always tried a new hairstyle, and sometimes she got a new haircut!






At the beginning, she had a simple medium-length haircut with coontails. Later, when she dyed her hair red, she got some layers and a short fringe too. Then she let her hair grow, and around the end (when Miguel had an amnesia, for example) she got a cool mullet hairstyle. In the wedding, she wore extensions.






Experiment with new hairstyles! Roberta often braided her hair or made a ponytail. It's really up to you!









, Try to find the colors that you wear really often, and make your face colorful with it! You can find a lot of tutorial on YouTube.


While she had dark brown hair , she kept it simple. She applied an eyeliner, and a sparkly lipgloss.






Later on, when she dyed her hair red , she still used black eyeliner, and peach eyeshadow with nude lips.
 Roberta's wardrobe is just as crazy as she is. She really likes black, but there are a lot of colorful pieces in her dresser. She often wears neon colors, prints and blacks, but we can mostly see her in the uniform of Elite Way School .
 You should make your voice heard. You can be known by a lot of people even if you don't befriend with those you hate. Be a rebel and be someone who don't join those dumb popular girls like Mía Colucci!



Make sure you have some friends on your side. They make the most important part of your highschool years. Even if you'll forget them, and even if they have their own mistakes, they'll always be on your side.







Always stay strong. In this society, stronger people will trample on weaker people.







Don't be afraid to argue. You are an individual, and it's natural to have your own opinion and point of view. Maybe some people won't like it, but it's completely natural too. Just don't let them to manipulate you by being huffy.
 Roberta is a singer in the band, RBD and she also was a member of the dance club.



Find something you do well and enjoy doing it. You don't have to be an excellent singer to be like Roberta. Do what you like and that's it. If you're an excellent writer, photographer or you can paint, or even if you are good in sports, that's really good too.







Rock your ideas! Roberta always knows how to get out of trouble, and also, how to get in it!







