 Dreamworld levels are similar and based on the levels found on Reality, which is what we call the main or basic game before Dreamworld came. You have to move forward in Reality in order to move forward in Dreamworld. You cannot get to a level in Dreamworld that you haven’t beaten in Reality.


If you try to get into a level in Dreamworld that you haven’t beaten in Reality, you will be blocked by a message, “Next dream is locked. Complete another episode in the Saga to unlock your next dream adventure.”;
, Odus’ presence in Dreamworld affects your game differently each time. Odus sleeps on a horizontal crescent moon, with two different candies on each side. The moon Odus sleeps on goes out of a balance if the number of candies matching the ones on the moon cleared out do not closely match.


When the imbalance of candies grows large, Odus will fall off the moon and you would lose the level.
It’s basically the same game play from Reality, with the added complexity of balancing two candies.
 After a predetermined number of moves, as long as the moon is still balanced with Odus safely on top, you will get a Moonstruck. It’s similar to Sugar Crush at the end of each success level from Reality, but Moonstruck doesn’t happen at the end of the game. Once Moonstruck is triggered, Odus will fly away and one or both of the candies on the moon scale will be crushed.


No candies of the same colors will come into play during this time. During the period that Odus is away, there will be no moon scale so you can do whatever you want on the board and create all sorts of combos and special candies.
Moonstruck can help you achieve high scores by removing all candies of the same colors, which can then lead to several cascades and combos.
 Every time you launch Candy Crush, the default game is in Reality.
 Depending on where you’re playing, Odus may be located differently.


On the mobile device’s Candy Crush app, a sleeping Odus can be found on the upper-right corner of the screen.
On Facebook’s Candy Crush, a sleeping Odus can be found on the upper-left part of the game.
 Clicking or tapping on Odus will wake him up and have him bring you to Dreamworld. He will fly off the screen, and bring down a new world.
 The levels and navigating through them are similar with Reality. Click or tap the level you’d like to play.
 If you’d like to go back to the main game, click or tap Odus again from the game map. He will bring down the Reality world.
 From the game map, scroll up or down to find your level. Click or tap the level you’d like to play.
 On the pre-game window, you can equip some boosters to help you in your level.
 Click or tap the “Play” button to start the game.


Refer to this article for more tips on how to play Candy Crush. Playing in Dreamworld is essentially the same.
 The main difference with Dreamworld is Odus. With every move you make, you have to note the balance of Odus’ moon scale. If the scale is already tipped to one end, you have to make sure you don’t crush any candy similar to the candy on the heavier end of the scale. If you do, Odus may fall and you will lose the level.
 Target the candies on the moon scale alternately. Don’t go for one kind of candy consecutively as this will tip the scale.


All the other candies are fair play.
 You can still make combos and special candies. In fact, these are needed to bring up your points and to complete some levels. However, you don’t have much control over the results of these combos and special candies. It will be wise to avoid them. Better yet, take advantage of them only during Moonstruck.