 If you want to diagnose giardia, pay attention to your cat's litter box. The main sign of giardia is unusual bowel movements. Cats will have foul-smelling, watery diarrhea that may contain trace amounts of blood.Some cats may also lose weight with giardia due to the diarrhea. Cats may also become less active in this weakened state.;
, If you notice any unusual symptoms, take your cat to the vet right away. The vet will work with your to diagnose and treat giardia. Tell the vet all the symptoms you observed and they will determine whether to test your cat for giardia.The symptoms of giardia do not necessarily indicate giardia. Unusual bowel movements can be caused by lifestyle changes, such as a change in diet. If your vet believes something else is causing your cat's symptoms, they may want to treat or test for that before testing for giardia.
 Giardia infections are usually detected via a stool sample. Collect a recent stool sample from your cat's litter box for testing. Place the stool sample in a plastic bag and bring it to your vet's office for testing., Your vet will send the sample to a lab or test it in the clinic. The test will determine if your cat has giardia.A stool sample is usually used to detect giardia. However, depending on your cat's symptoms and risk factors, vets may occasionally diagnose giardia without a stool sample.
 Usually, giardia can be treated at home. However, the condition can cause dehydration. If your cat is severely dehydrated, your vet may want to leave your cat at the hospital so it can receive fluids via an IV., Giardia is usually treated through prescription medications. Your vet may administer the medications at the office. They may also send you home with medications for your cats. Your vet will provide information about how often and for how long to give your cat medications to fight giardia.Metronidazole is the medication most often prescribed. Unless your cat is pregnant, your vet will likely give you a prescription for metronidazole.
Pregnant cats are usually treated with the alternative medication fenbendazole.
 Younger cats and kittens are especially prone to developing dehydration due to giardia. Dehydration can be life threatening when left untreated. If you notice signs of dehydration in your cat, take it to your vet as soon as possible.The following are symptoms of dehydration in cats:Sunken eyes
Lethargy
Stiff skin
Dry mouth
Lack of appetite

, Giardia-causing parasites may stay in a cat's fur. After the diagnosis, give your cat a bath. Ask your vet whether you need special shampoo and how often you should bathe your cat.Bathe your cat when it's mellow. Bathing can be stressful, so it's a bad idea to bathe a cat that is already aggravated.Place a rubber mat in a bathtub or sink and fill it with three to four inches of lukewarm water. Gently place your cat in the water.
Use a faucet or bucket to wet your cat's fur. Mix one part shampoo with five parts water and lather it into your cat's coat, working from head to tail. Then, rinse out the shampoo completely.
Wrap a towel around your cat, remove it from the bath, and dry it off in a warm place in your home.
 Make sure you keep your home clean. The cleaner your home, the less likely you are to attract parasites. Dust, mop, and vacuum regularly, especially near doors and openings to the outdoors., If your vet suggests it you can administer medication for giardia regularly to outdoor cats. The  medication is not harmful for cats who do not have giardia and it can help stop an infection right away. Ask your vet whether regularly giving yoru cat giardia-fighting medications is right for you., Giardia can be ingested through water from creeks, lakes, and ponds. Keep your cat inside for the most part, especially if you live near a body of water. Your cat should only drink clean tap water to prevent giardia.