 You can also use parchment paper, plastic wrap, or even wax paper.This will make cleaning up at the end easier.
 If you want to make more than one color, you can use a second or third baking sheet. You can also make smaller patches of colored sand on one large baking sheet, but be sue to leave some space between each one!, The best place to work in would be outdoors. If this is not possible, a large room with windows open might also work. You need good ventilation in the next step so that you don't get lightheaded., You can use any type of waterproofing spray for fabric, such as Scotchgard. Keep spraying until the sand is damp. The spray will make the sand resistant to water and keep it dry., Allow the sand to dry for about 10 minutes first. Stir it up with a spoon, fork, your fingers, or even a toy rake. Spray it once more in a thick, even layer. You want the sand to be damp but not soaking wet.

If the sand still doesn't feel evenly coated, you can repeat this step for good measure, especially if you have a lot of sand., It will take about 30 to 60 minutes for it to do so. It may take longer, however, if you have a lot of sand and it's a damp day., Choose a container that is easy to pour from, such as a mini jar. If you made multiple colors, pour one color into each jar. If you dried your sand on parchment or wax paper, you can use that to funnel the sand into the container., The container does not have to be clear, but if it's clear, you'll be able to see your designs from the side! Vases, large mason jars, and even old (but clean) aquariums make great choices!, You can pour it straight from the jar or you can use a funnel. You can even pour it into a plastic squeeze bottle first, then squeeze it into the water., Grab a clump, pull it out of the water, and watch how it "magically" becomes dry again., If you want to make a more permanent display, fill a small, plastic aquarium with water, and pour the sand in. You can create different looks by pouring the sand from a cup, through a funnel, or out of a squeeze bottle. Create some mounds and pillars. Lastly, add some ocean-related figurines inside, such as fish, shells, or mermaids!, You can do this using your hands, a spoon, or even a cup. If you used multiple colors, consider using a spoon to scoop individual colors out. You might still get a few specks of other colors, but it is still a good way to preserve the original color., The sand won't get wet, but there may be some beads of water cleaning to it. If you spot any, spread the sand out on a sheet of parchment paper, and wait for the water to evaporate.If you don't have parchment paper, you can use wax paper instead.
 If you had to "dry" the sand, use the parchment/wax paper to funnel it back into its container. Put the cap or lid back on so that the sand doesn't spill.