 This may seem obvious, but listening to music and paying attention to the song lyrics will not only teach you more about the mechanics of successful song lyrics, but can also be inspiring.


Try taking a walk and listening to music without lyrics. You can also do this while sitting down, but being outside and moving can help inspire you to come up with lyrics that are set to the music you are listening to. Pause every so often to take notes if you come up with any lines you think are particularly good.
Go back and listen to the music that initially inspired you to start songwriting. Everyone has different musical tastes and influences that change over time. Go back to the musicians who first inspired you and spend some time listening to their music and figuring out just what it is about their music that you like so much. Doing so will help you know what to emulate and what to avoid in your own songs.
Pay attention to the classics. Iconic songwriters, from Quincy Jones to Woody Guthrie, attained their status for a reason. Regardless of your particular music tastes, you should spend at least an afternoon listening to some classics and dissecting what about them appeal to so many people. Make note of the arrangements and structures as well as the lyrics as these will inform your own songs later.Listen to various types of music, especially new styles or music that you don’t normally listen to. Broadening your musical horizons will inspire you to incorporate new sounds or styles that you wouldn’t have otherwise considered.
 You don’t have to limit yourself to music for inspiration. Try to consume as much art as possible in all its different forms as doing so can inspire you in unexpected ways. Watch movies, read books, go to art galleries--anything creative can feed your own artistic spirit.


Reading different forms of literature can also help your songwriting a great deal. Poetry is a great place to start because it is most similar to song lyrics. Reading also has the added benefit of expanding your vocabulary, which you can also use in your own songs., Inspiration is all around us as long as we are open to it. From street art to experimental theatre, the more you get out of your comfort zone, the more exciting possible inspirations you may find.


For example, you could spend a day exploring the graffiti in your area with a pad and paper. Many street artists are compelled to make public art for a wide range of reasons (such as raising political awareness or beautifying an urban area).Therefore, there’s often a diverse range of emotions and images that can inspire you. As you explore, be sure to take note of any descriptions, phrases, or emotions that come to mind.
Discomfort isn’t always a bad thing. Seeking out new experiences (such as strange art forms that you aren’t naturally attracted to) may make you uncomfortable but this challenge could actually fuel you to produce new, exciting work.This is especially true for those who may feel like they are stuck in a rut or creating the same thing over and over.

