 Your child support order may include specific dates or events when child support may be terminated.


For example, some child support orders state that your child support obligation ends when the child reaches a certain age, such as 18. If your child is 18, then you have the right to terminate child support.However, your child support order may not state clearly when it ends, which would leave it up to interpretation. If that's the case, you may want to talk to the other parent and see if you can reach an agreement that child support should end.;
, Procedures may vary among states. If your case has been handled through your state's child support enforcement agency, an agency representative will be able to tell you what specific steps you need to take to stop your child support order.


Unlike filing a motion or petition in court, there typically is no charge to have a child support order stopped using the child support enforcement agency.You should contact the agency as soon as possible after you learn that you should no longer be paying child support. As long as the order is in effect, you are still on the hook for making payments – even if those payments are no longer necessary.Usually both parents are responsible for notifying the agency if a change in circumstances requires the termination of child support. Although you can notify the agency initially over the phone, agencies typically require written notification along with copies of any documents that prove child support should be terminated.Some states such as Missouri make the parent who receives the child support responsible for contacting the state agency when the payments should be terminated.
 Before you fill out an application to have your child support order stopped, get copies of any documentation that would help prove your child no longer needs child support.


For example, if your child support order states that your obligation ends when the child turns 18, you would want to attach a copy of the child's birth certificate and a copy of the original child support order.If you want to stop your child support order because you have reconciled with the other parent, you would need to provide evidence that the two of you have actually reconciled.For example, you might make copies of bills or other mail that shows you moved back to the same house.
 Each state agency has its own forms that you must complete and file with the agency before your child support order can be terminated.


You must list the specific reason you believe your child support should be terminated, and provide documentation to back up that reason., After you've submitted your application, the agency will review your application and evaluate the reasons you've stated your child support order should end.


Most state agencies have a deadline for beginning and completing an investigation and notifying you of the results. For example, Ohio's Child Support Enforcement Agency must complete its investigation to verify the facts you set forth in your application within 20 days of receiving the information from you., When the agency finishes reviewing your case, it will send you a notice of whether your child support has been terminated or will continue.


Your notice typically will include an itemized listing of your account, including any back child support you still owe, any over-payments you've made, and any existing child support orders that remain for other children.If the agency denies your request to terminate child support, your notice will include information on how to file a motion with the court or otherwise start an administrative or court hearing process on your case.