 Find a piece of bamboo cane that’s between 8 and 10 feet long and 1 and 2 inches in diameter and cut it at the base.


When it comes to bamboo fishing pole, bigger is not necessarily better. Larger poles can be cumbersome to hold and awkward to transport.
It’s probably best to cut three or four pieces of bamboo at a time, in case your first piece breaks after you’ve dried it out and you have to begin the process again;
, Use a small sharp knife to trim away any leaves or nubs, as close to the main body of the cane as possible.


Find a joint at the thicker end of the cane and saw through it. This will ensure that the butt of your fishing pole has a closed end.
Take a piece of sandpaper and used it to smooth the body of the fishing pole as much as possible.
 The next step is to dry out the cane pole. Tie a piece of string around the narrow end of the pole and suspend it from the ceiling. This will ensure that the cane dries evenly and as straight as possible.


Dry the cane pole in a warm, dry place but do not exposed it to direct sunlight. Sunlight will dry out the cane too quickly, causing it to become brittle.
Depending on temperature and humidity levels, the cane will take a few weeks to several months to dry out fully. You will know it’s ready when it turns a tan color.
When the cane is dry pick it up and give it a few test swings through the air to make sure it doesn’t break or bend. If it does, try another piece.
You want your fishing pole to be as straight as possible, so if it dries with a slight curve you can straighten it out by weighting it with bricks.
 Take some 20 pound Dacron line and tie one end a couple of inches above the “handle” of the fishing pole.Run the line along the length of the pole until you get to the end. Then take some extra pieces of fishing line and use them to tie the running line to the fishing pole at two or three different points (including the tip).
Be careful when tying the running line to the pole -- if it’s tied too tightly you won’t be able to slide the line up and down, but if it’s tied too loosely the line will droop and get tangled. Use a whip-finish if possible.
The length of the fishing line (from the tip of the pole) should measure the total length of the pole, plus an extra two feet. If you prefer, the extra two feet can be monofilament leader instead of the Dacron line.
 Attach your preferred hook or lure to the end of the line along with a bobber and a split-shot sinker.


Now your homemade bamboo fishing pole is ready to use! To shorten the line, pull it back through the loops and wrap the excess around the handle.