 These are the ball, the bat, the wickets, the stumps, and the bails. You may not have heard these words before, so take your time repeating them. When reading and understanding rules, the pieces of equipment need to be common knowledge to you.;
, The ball is hard and covered in leather, and the bat is made up of wood and it is flat on one side and humped on the other.Stumps are wooden posts that are 32 inches high. Bails are the grooves that connect the stumps, and wickets are rectangular wooden structures made up of these stumps.there are 6 stumps on a pitch 3 on one side and three on other side. there are 11 players in both the teams. 3 umpires are selected in match where 2 umpires are at the ground and 1 is at out of the ground


Look at pictures of the equipment online.
Watch professionals play cricket online or on sports channels on TV—you will see the equipment they are using.
Recognize where the equipment is used on the field: the bats and balls are in the players’ hands, but the wickets and stumps are out on the field.
 This is the easiest way to get really familiar with the components of cricket. Go to a local sports store and ask if they have cricket equipment. Look at the balls, bats, stumps, and wickets. Try handling them.
 The field is rectangular, and on both sides of the field are the pitches.The pitch is outlined with white lines. The pitch is a rectangle where the batsmen stands.


The wickets are in the pitch. The batsmen stand in front of these.
The two pitches are facing each other; the batsmen runs in between these when he bats.
Boundaries are the edges of the field.
 Just reading about the layout of a field can be confusing. Looking at a labelled diagram of a field can help you understand it. You can even try copying the diagram by hand to help you familiarize yourself with it. Knowing the parts of the field is essential to understanding the game and the rules.the fielders can stand on silly point, gully, mid off, mid on, third man, fine leg, slip, mid wicket, long off, long, cover, short cover, forward short leg, backward short leg or leg slip etc.
 You can attend a cricket game if you live near a field; if not, there are many online videos of games and it is a popular sport in many countries so is broadcast on television. Watch a few, and look at the marks on and layout of the field. See if you can name the different parts, such as the pitch and wicket.
 The team that is batting sends two players to bat at a time, and these are called batsman.They wear protective gear and carry cricket bats. Each batsman wants to score as many runs as possible by hitting boundaries, which are like home runs.


One type of boundary is awarded four runs. This is when the batsman hits the ball past the boundary line.
The other type of boundary is awarded six runs. This is when the batsman hits the ball past the boundary line without the ball bouncing.
 On the field are the eleven fielding players. One is a bowler who stands behind a wicket, away from the pitch; one is a wicket-keeper who is behind another wicket. These two players have special ball-catching equipment on.


The other 9 players have no special equipment.
The other 9 players are stand in various locations around the field.
Their collective goal is to stop the batsman from scoring runs.
 The innings in cricket organize where players are and what they are doing. When a team is batting, it is their inning.The players switch roles when an inning is over.
 Cricket involves two teams of eleven players each.Teams bat in successive innings and try to score runs; the opposing team is in the field and trying to end to the batting team's innings. After the two teams has batted one or two innings the team with the most runs wins. The basic concept of cricket is as simple as that!

, A coin toss decides which team bats or fields first. The two batsmen in the middle of the pitch need to make runs by hitting the ball, and the bowler will try to strike them out. The batsmen take turns hitting the ball and running to the opposite wicket, trying to ensure they get their run before the fielder throws the ball back.


If the fielder, bowler, or wicket keeper throws the ball directly at the batsman’s stumps and the bail falls off before the batsman is home, he is out.
If a fielder, bowler, or wicket keeper catches the batsman’s hit, he is out.
If a batsman is out another batsman replaces him.
Once a team has lost ten wickets the innings is finished.
 If a player is batting, they should run between the wickets until the fielders have their ball; in cricket, a batsmen can score multiple runs per shot. If a player is in the field, they should pay attention to the bowler and batsmen so they will be ready to catch the ball when and if it comes at them. When a fielder catches a ball, they must throw it back to the bowler.
 For example, a player can’t pitch the ball from an undesignated area, bounce the ball when pitching, or pitch the ball at a batsmen.These are all actions that go against the rules of cricket. There are many other things a player cannot do, such as:


Touching the ball when batting.
Hitting the ball twice when batting.
Batsmen need to be paying attention while batting, or they are out.

