 All names have a meaning and some can have less ideal meanings than others! Even if your baby’s name doesn’t have personal or family-based significance, it’s still a good idea to check its formal definition.For example, “Portia” sounds like a beautiful and exotic name for a girl, but it’s Latin for “pig,” which is a meaning some people may find appalling and others may adore.
 Make sure the name you choose sounds good out loud. “Julian George,” for example, has a regal ring to it, while “Stella Isabella” sounds more like the name of cartoon character.
 Puns are never a good idea when selecting a name for your baby. School-age kids can be especially cruel, so steer clear of puns or plays on popular words and phrases.


Candy Kane and Gamble Moore may sound cute and funny in the moment, but remember that your child will have to live with laughs and jests for a lifetime!
Avoiding puns or irony for twins is also important. Twin names like “Jennifer and Angelina” or “Harry and Sally” are references to pop culture and won’t be lost on the majority of people, even if making a joke wasn’t your intention.
 It can get quite frustrating if your name is constantly mispronounced or you have to repeat your name or its spelling multiple times to a new acquaintance because it’s unusual, long, or difficult to say. For example, if you like a rare name like “Meegan” but choose to spell it “Meagan” or “Megan,” people will assume the common pronunciation over the exotic one, which means you and your child will constantly be correcting new acquaintances.
"Axle” is a cute, modern boy’s name, and though “Acksol,” and “Aksyl” are unique renditions of it, they are not intuitive., While some names are perfectly suited for cute babies and small children, they won’t always suit an adult. Make sure the name you choose can grow right along with your baby.For example, while “King” is an adorable name for a baby boy, his colleagues may not take him seriously when he’s an adult giving a presentation in a corporate office.
 Some of the best name combinations can bring forth the worst initial combinations, so be sure to write out the initials of your favorite name before making the decision permanent.


For example, the name “Ashley Suzanne Seavey” and “Parker Mitchell Smith” are not ideal initial combinations!, No matter what name you choose, it’s going to be impossible to please everyone, and negative feedback may leave you questioning a truly excellent choice. If you wait to announce your baby’s name until after birth, people are far less likely to criticize and far more likely to agree that you’ve made the perfect choice.

