 This prank is a favorite of graduating seniors, but there's no reason you can't use it on one of your friends outside of school. When your friend is away, get permission from her parents or roommates to sneak into her room. Inflate as many balloons as you can and pack them into her room. You really want to fill her room here — the fuller, the better. Ideally, when she returns, she'll open her door, only for a floor-to-ceiling wave of balloons to come crashing down on her!


This prank can take quite some time to set up, but one of the best things about it is that it's pretty quick (and entertaining) to clean up. All you need is something sharp, like a pointed stick or a pair of scissors, and you can start cutting through the sea of balloons like butter!

, If you're not squeamish about making your friend sweat, this is the trick for you. However, this prank requires your friend's boss, teacher, or principal to be willing to do a little acting. Talk this person about setting up a fake disciplinary hearing for your friend. Your friend's boss or teacher should call your friend away from his class or work and act as though he's in serious trouble. The boss or teacher should present fake evidence that your friend has done something against the rules (like cheating or stealing) and should recommend some sort of serious punishment (like detention or a pay cut). At the last second, reveal the joke and watch the look on your friend's face!


For example, if your friend is in school, you might arrange for his principal to pull him out of class one day and bring him to the office. Here, he might present a note (which you've written and signed with your friend's name) about how he thinks the principal looks like a fat, disgusting pig. Let the principal make your friend squirm for a while, then burst through the door laughing.
Be careful with this prank — it's not for the faint of heart. If you pull this prank on the wrong person, it can easily lead to tears and seriously hurt feelings, so only use it on people that you know will be able to take the joke.
 No one ever expects their furniture to come to life while they're using it, so this prank is great for catching even the most paranoid friends by surprise. However, it requires a lot of work and some knowledge of sewing and carpentry. The basic idea is that you'll want to modify a chair so that you can sit inside it — that is, your feet should touch the floor, your arms should be in the armrests, and your upper body should be in the upholstery in the back of the chair. When your friend sits down in the chair, wait a few minutes, then start moving. You will get an amazing reaction of confusion mixed with pure terror every time!

, It's everyone's secret worst nightmare — the people they care about the most have all forgotten their special day. This prank requires a lot of work on your part. You'll need to contact your friend's parents, her friends, close acquaintances, coworkers, teachers, and so on to ensure than none acknowledge her birthday. Luckily, if you can manage to get everyone to agree to it, it's not terribly hard to pull off — all everyone has to do is simply say nothing out of the ordinary.


Don't let your friend become depressed! For the best results, follow this prank up with a surprise party to let your friend know that you do care.
 This prank is a serious undertaking, but the results can (quite literally) turn your friend's world upside down. Using nails, screws, glue, and any other tools necessary, attach all of your friend's furniture to the ceiling in exactly the same arrangement as it is in normally. For extra attention to detail, try taping or gluing his personal possessions in place exactly as they normally are, only upside down.


Obviously, you'll want the permission of your friend's parents, roommates, and/or landlord before performing this trick. You'll also need plenty of time to work, so this trick is often best if the friend is out of town for some time.

