 The Google Chromecast is one of the cheapest ways to get streaming video on your TV, but requires an Android or iOS device in order to work. The Chromecast uses your Android or iOS device to select what you watch instead of using a traditional remote.

If you'd rather use a traditional remote to select your videos, see the Roku section below.
Chromecasts only work on TVs that have HDMI ports. Virtually all HDTVs have at least one HDMI port.
You'll need to have a wireless network in order for the Chromecast to connect to the internet and stream video.
 The Chromecast is a small dongle, and just sticks out of the HDMI port. You can use the included extender if it doesn't fit., The Chromecast includes a USB power cable that you can plug into either the wall adapter or into a USB port on your TV. Some USB ports on TVs will not provide enough power to turn the Chromecast on, in which case you'll need to use the wall adapter., Check the label of the HDMI port you've plugged the Chromecast into and switch the TV to that input. You should see the Chromecast Setup screen. If you don't see anything, check to make sure the Chromecast is getting enough power., This free app from Google will allow you to setup your Chromecast so that it can connect to your wireless network., Your new Chromecast will appear in this tab after a moment. If you're using an iPhone, turn on your Bluetooth to make the setup process much simpler. Android users can simply tap "Devices" and see the new Chromecast., This will begin the Chromecast setup process. Once you've got your Chromecast setup and connected, you won't have to go through this again., This is important in crowded networks., This can be useful if you have multiple Chromecasts in your home. You could label them "Living Room" and "Bedroom," for example., You'll be prompted to enter the password. Your Chromecast will save this information and automatically connect to this network whenever it is turned on in the future., There may be updates for your Chromecast, which will begin downloading automatically. This may take a few minutes to complete., You'll be using the Netflix app for your smartphone to find videos and control playback. You can download the app for free from the Google Play Store or Android App Store., Select the profile you want to use if you have multiple profiles on the account., The button is located in the upper-right corner, and appears when you are connected to the same network as a Chromecast. You'll see the Netflix screen appear on your TV after a moment., Use the Netflix app on your smartphone to browse through the library or search for a specific title., As long as the app is connected to your Chromecast, the video will begin playing on your TV once it loads., You can pause and seek using your Netflix app. You don't have to keep Netflix open on your smartphone to keep playing video on your TV. Playback controls will also be available in your Notification Panel., Once your Chromecast is all setup, you won't have to go through all of these steps every time you want to watch. Just turn on your TV and switch to the Chromecast input, then load the Netflix app on your phone.