 Examine the shops who have succeeded, and what they have done and accomplished. Then compare with ones who didn't make it, and try to avoid those mistakes. Jot down these notes. Include information such as their business hours, locations, merchandise and items, and services.;
, This plays a major role in your success, but finances are something to consider as well. After all, you will need money to stock up merchandise to sell for the customers. Perhaps you want to start your journey small first, as small as using a movable cart. These are great since you can change locations, from a movie theater to shopping centers to festivals.
 It's required to have a business plan and a financial plan; this will also determine how successful your shop will be. Now you decide if you will need bank loan to start or search for private investors for funds. Be sure to have a license or permit to run your business. If you are selling food and drinks, additional licenses may be required.
 Spend some time during this process. Think of an original, creative, and attracting name. Make sure no one else is using it by checking on the Internet. Then give a description of your company.
 What would they like to purchase? What store services would you provide? Are they dominantly male or female? Determine the attributes that would be interested in buying. You may be able to get your inventory at a discount if you buy from a gift shop that is going out of business. The savings you create may give you the money you need to get that prime location. Remember, if you start off small, these customers will only be potential. Work your way up and they'll come back!

, Your gift shop needs to appeal to your customers' wants, rather than their needs, so advertising is a must. The marketing plan should be well-written with a foundation if you want your business to be successful.
 Learn how to write down records for your gift shop and tax purposes. By doing this, you'll also know how well you're doing financially each day.
 You can view your notes from earlier when browsing other gift shops to decide. It is recommended that to not have hired help yet since money is very short, and the money can be used for merchandise. Choose the right hours, and hope for a thriving successful gift shop!

