 Many heavy set women settle for shapeless plus sized clothing because they feel a need to hide their heaviness. Oversized, baggy pieces only make you look larger, however.;
, Like any other woman, you should dress in a way that works with the natural contours of your shape and accentuates your curves. Fitted tops and dresses that nip in at the waist are especially flattering since they define your waist, making your top and bottom look more proportioned.
 Clothes that are too tight will show any rolls of fat or excess weight you likely want to hide. Clothes that are too big will make you look boxy and larger than necessary. Purchase clothing that brushes against your body without squeezing it, and remember that bunching or pulling will only draw unflattering attention to those areas of your body.
 Long, fitted pieces that extend past your hip create a smooth, streamlined silhouette that may make your hips and stomach look thinner. Avoid pieces that end at the widest part of your thighs, though, since the horizontal hemline across that area of your body may make your thighs look larger.
 Long tops may only make you look shorter and stouter. Tops and jackets that stop just above your hipbone elongate your leg, reducing the appearance of stoutness.
 Tapered legs only make your hips and thighs look larger. A straight-legged pant streamlines your appearance, reducing the appearance of thickness around your thighs. Pants with a slight flare, like boot-cuts, also help by balancing out the width of your upper leg with extra material at the bottom.
 A-line skirts flare out toward the bottom, creating a flattering silhouette for your hips. Wrap dresses and empire waist dresses area also very flattering, since they define your waist and drape naturally off your curves.
 Not all heavy set bodies are the same. You may have be an apple shape who carries her weight around her stomach, a pear shape who carries her weight around her thighs, an inverted triangle who carries her weight in her chest, or a rectangle whose weight is evenly distributed throughout her body. Determine your body type and learn about what styles of dress flatter your shape best.
 Stiff fabrics often create a boxy look that adds pounds rather than taking them away. Clingy fabrics tightly form to your body, often accentuating excess weight. Draping fabrics fall off your body naturally, lightly hugging your contours without drawing extra attention to them.

