 Most often the best defense against weeds is to make sure that your lawn is healthy and strong enough to ward of the weeds before they even surface. This includes ensuring that you are using the correct types of seeds when planting parts of the lawn.;
, For example, check to make sure that you are fertilizing and watering regularly and properly. Read the instructions for fertilizing the type of lawn you have and mark dates for addition of fertilizer on your calendar.
 This will help prevent any weeds from sprouting out before they surface.
 Being able to identify the source of the problem will help determine the most effective treatments. Make sure you understand what the issue is before you try treating it, so that you can target the treatment of the grass to its type. Typical grassy weeds that you might come across in a lawn include:Grassy winter annual weeds: Annual bluegrass (Poa annua)

Grassy summer annual weeds:






Crabgrass (Digitaria)
Goosegrass
Japanese stilt grass (Microstegium vimineum)



Grassy perennial weed/sedges (sedges are not grassy weeds but may end up in the lawn as well):

Bermuda grass or wiregrass (Cynodon dactylon)
Dallisgrass (Papsalum)
Nimblewill (Muhlenbergia schreberi)
Orchardgrass (Dactylis)
Quackgrass (Elymus repens); and
Yellow nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus).
 There are two types of chemical weed control––one for pre-emergent weeds and one for post-emergent weeds.Ask for advice at your local hardware store, based on the identification of the weeds in your yard.
 Be careful to make sure you are removing the entire weed if you decide to pull it out, getting all of the root as well.


If hand pulling, do so before the seeds emerge, to ensure that the plant is not more widely distributed as you carry it about while clearing.
 It is only with persistent and consistent care that you can keep grassy weeds at bay. It will only take a season of not caring for the yard for the weeds to re-invade the area, so if you're not able to undertake maintenance when needed, get in someone who can do it for you.

