 If you go into something with a negative mindset, the outcome is guaranteed to be negative. Believe in yourself that you are tough. Once you start to believe that yourself, it will be easier for others to see it.


It's important that you think highly of yourself in order for others to think positively of you, as well. Do not ever put others down, however. No matter how tough you are, putting others down is a sign of weakness.;
, If somebody needs a helping hand, help out. Offer to lift something if someone is having. Showing your strength is an easy way to prove your toughness.


You can be strong without being physically strong, too. Offer to carry heavy books for a girl in your class or kill a spider that people are scared of. Having courage is just another way to be tough.
 Having a mental toughness means being able to take things as they come to you, and handling adversity well.It may not always be the easy choice, but doing the right thing even when it seems unfair is a good way to show mental toughness.


Being mentally prepared for hard times helps develop mental toughness. Seek out small problems every day to prepare yourself for the unexpected larger problems. Don't avoid the inconvenient things, so those things won't be so inconvenient next time.
 If you see someone being bullied, don't be afraid to step in. If you're trying to be tough, this is a good opportunity to show how tough you are while doing the right thing.


Don't bully the bullies. If you're bigger and tougher, it can be easy to start being a bully. Try to avoid fights or picking on people who are bullying others., Don't let others push you around. If you let others treat you a certain way, then that's how they'll always see you.If the situation calls for a fight, be the better man and try to walk away. If physical violence is needed, make sure it's only to defend yourself.


You don't need to fight in order to be the "tough guy." If someone's picking a fight with you, it's because they already think you're tough. Brush off the instigator with something cool like, "I wouldn't want to hurt you if I fight you." Just be sure not to egg on your opponent too much.

