 Basil comes in many different varieties, each of which have a unique flavor and smell. Read up on different types of basil and pick out one - or several - that appeal to you, then order the seeds or buy them at a garden store. Here are a few ideas:


Cinnamon basil really does smell like the sweet spice, and it also has unusually beautiful and fragrant flowers.
Lemon basil actually contains citral, an aromatic compound found in citrus fruit, and smells very lemony.
Purple basil is often grown for decoration, as well as its scent and flowers.
There are perennial basils which come back year after year, like African Blue Basil (which has pretty blue veins on its leaves) and Thai Basil, while most other varieties are annuals, which you'll have to plant year after year.
Globe and Greek basil are much more difficult to grow, but form pretty little bushes which stay well-contained.;
, Basil needs warm air and sun to do well, so it's often easiest to start the seeds indoors instead of risking that they'll get damaged by frost.


If you live in a hot climate, you can start the seeds outside instead.
To figure out when the last frost will be, consult an almanac or talk with other gardeners in your area.
 Fill flats or individual seed containers with a mixture of equal parts perlite, vermiculite, and peat. Press the mixture slightly to eliminate air pockets. Dampen the mixture with water so it's ready to provide the right environment for the basil seeds to germinate.
 Drop one to two seeds into each container. Cover them lightly with soil. Cover containers with clear plastic kitchen wrap, so they stay moist. Leave the containers in a sunny window. Twice daily, remove the plastic wrap and sprinkle the containers with more water.


It is important to keep your basil seeds warm after you plant them. You might consider using a heat mat or an overhead lamp to keep them warm.
 When you see the first green tendrils push up through the soil, it's time to remove the plastic wrap. Keep watering the sprouts twice daily, never letting the soil dry out. When the plants become a few inches tall and their leaves mature, it's time to transplant them to a larger container.

