 Healthy newborn puppies should cry very little. In fact, they should spend most of their time either sleeping or eating. If you notice your puppy crying or whining frequently, be sure to take it to your veterinarian.Increased crying is a common symptom of most neonatal problems. If a puppy is crying, it may be overheated, becoming ill, experiencing pain, or not getting enough to eat.;
, Puppies nurse frequently throughout the day. If you notice that any of the puppies are not nursing regularly, this may be a symptom of a larger problem. The puppies may be ill, have a digestive disorder, or be unable to nurse properly. Be sure to visit your veterinarian if you observe a decrease in appetite by any of your puppies.This may be a symptom of hypothermia as well. Pups younger than six days old are unable to shiver and regulate their body temperature properly. A pup suffering from hypothermia will be unable to nurse or digest its food.
 Depending on the breed, a healthy newborn puppy can weigh between 4.2 and 22 ounces (120 to 625 g). In its first few weeks, a healthy puppy should gain 5 to 10 percent of its birth weight each day. Weigh your puppies twice a day and take them to the veterinarian if they are not gaining weight normally or are losing weight. A failure to gain weight or a loss in weight can be a symptom of poor nutrition, an infection, or a congenital disorder like hypoglycemia.Be sure to talk with your veterinarian about what healthy weight gain should look like for pups.
A loss in weight may also be the result of nipple guarding by larger puppies in the liter.
 When they are not nursing, newborn puppies should spend most of their time sleeping. If you notice that any of your puppies are not sleeping regularly or seem restless, be sure to take them to the vet. They may be suffering from an infection of some sort or not getting their nutritional needs met.Be sure to check your newborn pups every few hours to make sure that they are sleeping and eating normally.
 A healthy puppy will sleep in a group with its siblings and close to its mother. This helps the pups regulate their body temperatures and facilitates feeding. However, if a pup is sleeping away from the rest of the group, it is likely that the mother has pushed it away for some reason. They puppy may have a congenital issue or the mother may not have enough milk to feed all of the pups and has decided to sacrifice this puppy to save the litter.If a puppy has become separated from the litter, have your veterinarian examine the pup. It may have a congenital disorder that will limit its quality of life. In that case, your veterinarian may suggest euthanizing the pup.
If the mother is unable to feed all of the pups, you may be able to successfully feed the pup yourself.
 Often, the declining health of puppies is a result of the mother’s actions. Maternal neglect is a common cause of health problems in newborn puppies. A mother may not lie with her pups and warm them. She may also refuse to nurse her pups or not have enough milk to feed them all. Large breed dogs sometimes clumsily step on their pups or smother them with their large bodies.If you notice that the mother is not capable of or is disinterested in caring for her pups, you should remove them and care for them yourself.

