;
, or 140 g) flour and set aside.
 (2.5 ml) salt, 1/2 cup butter (113 g or 1 stick) and 1 tsp. (5 ml) sugar to a simmer in a heavy-bottomed saucepan.


Use high heat.
You do not need to stir.
,


Stir with a wooden spoon until the mixture forms a mass and pulls away from the sides of the pan, about 3 minutes. There will be a film on the sides of the pan.
,


Make sure each egg is completely incorporated before you add the next.
The batter may separate, but with continued beating it should come back together.
When you pull a wooden spoon through the batter and the line it makes closes slowly, the batter is the right consistency.
If necessary add more egg whites until the dough is the right consistency.
 of dry cheese.


Gruyere is a traditional choice for cheese puffs, but it is moist and heavy and can keep them from puffing well.
Parmesan or aged Gouda both work well in cheese puffs.
Grate the cheese very finely. You should have about 1 cup (.24 L.)

, or 64 g) of cheese to the puff pastry dough.


Stir with a wooden spoon.
 (15 ml) of paprika to the dough.



Place some dough in a pastry bag, refilling as necessary.
Use a 1/3 in. (.84 cm) piping tip.
Twist the top of the bag closed and squeeze a little dough out to remove any air bubbles.
Squeeze gently and with even pressure on the upper end of the bag to form mounds of dough on the parchment-lined pan.
The mounds should be about 1 in. (2.5 cm) wide and 2/3 in. (1.7 cm) high.
Pipe the mounds so they are at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart.
There should be about 40 cheese puffs.



Beat a whole egg with 1/2 tsp. (2.5 ml) salt.
If you want a darker glaze, you can add an egg yolk.
If you want a lighter glaze, you can add an egg white.
, or 21 g) of cheese.
 Cheese puffs are done when they are golden brown.


Rotate the pan halfway through cooking if your oven does not heat evenly.



Allow the cheese pastries to cool completely.
Spread them out on a baking sheet and cover them with plastic wrap.
Freeze them and then transfer them to zippered storage bags. They can remain frozen for several months.
Reheat them in a 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven.
