 Just like with treats for humans, there are a variety of treat types that you can buy for your dog. The kind you buy will depend on what your dog likes and the benefits of each type of treat. These treats include:


Dried kibble type treats, which are biscuit type treats that come in a variety of flavors.
Dental treats, which have ingredients and textures that help clean your dog's teeth and require more chewing
Jerky and chewy treats, which are typically made of pressed, dried strips of beef, chicken, or pork
Natural treats, which are made from all natural ingredients
Rawhide, which are dried strips of animal hides, typically beef, that have been pressed into various shapes
Bones, which are pieces of hard bone typically from cattle
Various other treats, such as pizzles, pigs ears, and dried vegetable leathers;
, You need to figure out if there are treats that are better for your dog depending on his health. Your dog may need special treats if he has certain chronic conditions such liver, kidney, or heart disease, food allergies, ingredient intolerances, or dental problems.


For example, there are treats with Glucosamine and Chondroitin specifically for dogs with arthritis, which come in jerky, rawhide, and chewy forms.0
If your dog has a chronic issue, ask your vet for treat recommendations.
 The United States regulates the ingredients in and making of dog treats. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) made it the law to make dog treats with only good, safe ingredients and must reflect what is listed on the labels. Look on the back of the treat bag to find the country of origin. If it is anywhere other than the US, look into the dog treat creating standards in that country before buying them.
China has been found to manufacture dog treats with ingredients that are not safe for dog, so never buy treats made in China., Even with regulations on treats, there may be recalls on treats. There is online database that you can check to make sure that the treats you buy your dog have not been recalled.