 Even if your dog's howling has you at your wit’s end, do not try to reduce the howling before seeing your vet. Your vet can determine whether the howling’s cause is behavioral or medical. They will perform a physical exam and run various diagnostic tests (blood work, urinalysis, x-rays) to rule out medical causes, such as arthritis or kidney disease.


During the appointment, give your vet a history of the howling, including when it started, when it usually occurs (during the night, when you leave the house), and if it’s gotten more frequent.
If your dog does not have medical problems, then a behavioral issue is the likely cause of the howling.;
, Separation anxiety is common in older dogs.If your vet diagnosed your dog with separation anxiety, you can relieve this anxiety at home in several ways, such as exercising. The physical demands of daily exercise will help your dog feel less anxious and reduce anxiety-induced howling. Examples of exercises include:


Twice-daily walksRuns, if your dog is physically able to run

, The fear of being alone can make a dog feel anxious and start howling. If your older dog has anxiety-induced howling, it could be calling out for you, even when you’re not home. Regular, daily playtime will give your dog the attention it needs from you to feel more relaxed and howl less. Try these playtime ideas:



Fetch, if your dog can easily run and jump
Hide and seek
Teaching new commands

, Separation anxiety is often associated with a dog owner leaving the house. If your older dog howls when you leave, reduce its howling by teaching it that your departure is no big deal:Go through your normal departure routine (grabbing your keys, putting on your coat) without actually leaving the house. Practice this a few times a day.
Leave the house for short periods of time, maybe as short as 10 seconds, then come back in when your dog stops howling. Reward your dog with a treat after the howling stops. Gradually increase the amount of time that you leave the house.
Be patient. It may take weeks or months before your dog stops howling when you leave the house.
 For some older dogs, the separation anxiety is so severe that behavioral changes aren’t enough. If your dog’s anxiety-induced howling hasn’t lessened, take your dog to your vet. Your vet will prescribe an anti-anxiety medication.Realize that medication alone will not relieve your dog’s anxiety or reduce the howling. Continue with the behavioral strategies after you start your dog on the anti-anxiety medication.