 Get a tumbler, mason jar, or a bottle and use those to put your smoothies and other drinks in instead of new plastic containers every time. Some places even offer a discount if you do this.


Plastic water bottles are one of the best examples of how simple changes can create a big impact in your life. Not only is the water being sold not regulated as strictly as municipal drinking water sources, but the plastic mostly ends up in landfills. The product itself has also been proven to exceed 2,000 times the cost of tap water.
Put a reminder on the fridge where you you keep your shopping list, on on the bathroom mirror, or any other place where you will see the note everyday. It doesn't need to be long or elegant or poetic. It just needs to say something like, "No plastic bottles of water today—remember your water bottle," or "Bring your water bottle." The biggest part of the plastic bottled water problem is convenience.;
, Use reusable bags whenever possible. Take cloth bags with you when you go shopping. Use biodegradable bin bags for your rubbish. Store your food leftovers in ceramic or glass containers.


Many grocery stores sell sustainable cloth bags for grocery shopping. However, these can be costly. Any bag will do: purses, backpacks, duffel bags.
Before accepting the standard plastic bags, ask the clerk for paper, or even better, a cardboard box. Most grocery stores have left over banana boxes, which are large but also have handles for easy transport.
 Buy only the fruit and vegetables not packaged in plastic. Purchase food in glass containers and avoid food packaged in plastics. Reuse containers for storing leftovers or shopping in bulk. Bring your own container for take-out or for your restaurant doggy-bag, since many restaurants use styrofoam.


Purchase food like cereal, pasta, and rice from bulk bins, and fill a reusable bag or container. You can save money and unnecessary packaging.
Even metal cans and cardboard boxes often have plastic coating, so if you have an option, buy food packaged in a glass jar instead. For instance, tomato sauce usually comes in both a can and a jar, so buy the jar.




Make fresh-squeezed juice or eat fruit instead of buying juice in plastic bottles. It may be healthier for you and better for the environment.

Make your own yogurt in Kilner jars. It’s easier than you think!
Buy milk in paper cartons.
Only buy bread from bakeries that wrap in paper. Consider making your own bread.
 When you are packing lunches, don't use Ziploc bags. Use Tupperware containers or a stainless steel lunchbox instead. Opt for fresh fruits and veggies and bulk items instead of products that come in single serving cups.