 Fruits and vegetables in red and orange can help keep your skin beautiful. Try orange and yellow bell peppers, carrots, apricots, sweet potatoes, and yellow squash, for instance. They are high in antioxidants, protecting you against the effects of age. Tomatoes and blueberries are also high in antioxidants.Some of these foods, such as carrots and sweet potatoes, also contain vitamin A, which can also keep your skin healthy and beautiful. Other good sources of vitamin A include lean meats and dairy products., Leafy green vegetables, such as kale, broccoli, spinach, or collard greens, should be a regular part of your diet anyway, because they are nutritious on so many levels. But they are also great for your skin, given the amount of antioxidants they contain.They are also a good source of Vitamin A, iron, beta carotene, folate, and vitamin C. Maintaining appropriate levels of these nutrients will help hair and scalp healthy.B vitamins are important for keeping your skin healthy., Strawberries are high in vitamin C. Vitamin C is essential for many bodily functions, and it also helps build up collagen, reducing the chance of wrinkles in your skin.Try eating 1/2 a cup a day, which provides half of your daily required vitamin C.Other fruits high in vitamin C include citrus fruits such as grapefruit, oranges, and lemons. Others include Kiwi, mangoes, cantaloupe, and watermelon., It is important to include these fats to increase consumption of omega-3 fatty acids. Healthy fats, such as polyunsaturated fats and monounsaturated fats, can help keep your skin younger-looking and more supple. Additionally, they are essential to helping your body take in other nutrients, such as vitamin A and E, that help keep your skin healthy.Some healthy fats include canola oil, olive oil, soybean oil, safflower and sunflower oils. Try cooking with these oils or adding them to salad dressing.If you'd prefer to eat your fats in solid form, try eating fatty fish such as salmon, or nuts, avocados, and seeds.Decrease your consumption of omega-6 fatty acids because they compete with omega-3 fatty acids in the body. Examples of these foods include vegetable oils such as corn oil, sesame oil, sunflower oil, and walnut oil., Edamame is a healthy snack, rich in protein. In addition, the isoflavones in it are thought to help preserve collagen, keeping your skin looking young.You can find edamame at most grocery stores in the freezer sections. You can steam a handful at a time in the microwave for a quick afternoon snack.
Remember, you don't eat the outside shell, just the beans inside, though you can find it already shelled to add to salads.
 You hair, nails, and skin are built with the keratin from protein. In fact, your hair may go into stasis by not growing if you aren't getting enough.Pick foods rich in protein, such as fish, milk, eggs, and beans. For instance, meat has 7 grams of protein per ounce.Eggs are also a great source of biotin, which can strengthen brittle nails. If you're deficient in biotin, you may experience hair loss.Meat is also a good source of iron, and your hair needs iron to stay thick and healthy., Fish have omega-3 fatty acids that help your hair grow. Choose fish that contain high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids, such as mackerel, tuna, or sardines. Other good choices include fatty fish such as catfish, halibut, salmon, striped sea bass, and albacore tuna.These fish will also help add shine. Make sure to eat fish at least 2 times per week.Instead of fish, you can eat walnuts, canola oil, or tofu, all of which are also high in omega-3 fatty acids., Apples contain quercetin, which can help stave off the harmful parts of the sun's rays that cause skin cancer. Eat Golden Delicious, Cortland, or Monroe for the highest benefit.Tomatoes have lycopene, which has been shown to increase your skin's protection from the sun, especially if you eat it in a concentrated, cooked form, such as tomato paste. Remember, it's still important to wear sunscreen and always use a moisturizer with sunscreen to protect your skin from the sun.

