 One of the simplest, most beginner-friendly ways to remove chrome is via simple mechanical action - i.e., scrubbing with an abrasive. Mix baking soda or a solid household cleanser with water to make an abrasive paste that can be rubbed onto the chrome with a soft cloth until the chrome begins to give way. This method may work best with especially thin, weak chrome plating or with "fake" chrome plating (for example, plastic painted with a fake "chrome" material). Even in these cases, considerable elbow grease may be required.


Check your progress frequently as you scrub. Scrubbing for too long may scratch the underlying material.
 Some types of chrome (especially fake plastic variants like you may find on model cars, etc.) can be removed with commercial-grade oven cleaners. These powerful de-greasing solutions usually come in an aerosol can as a foam or liquid spray. Give your chrome part a generous coating of cleaner, then allow it to sit for 10 minutes. Wipe the chrome off along with the spray-cleaner.


Note that some oven spray-cleaner may darken any underlying metal if left to sit too long, so you may want to apply the process repeatedly in short increments until you have the result you want.
 Another favorite method of model car enthusiasts for removing chrome is the use of a bleach bath. In this method, chromed parts are simply submerged bleach and left to sit. After about a day, depending on its thickness, the chrome should be loosened if not stripped entirely.


The primary benefit of this method compared to the others is that bleach should leave any primer below the outer chrome layer intact.
After using bleach to remove chrome, it should be properly disposed of and never re-used (for laundry, etc.)

, Standard automotive brake fluid works like paint thinner to remove chrome layers from plastic objects. However, this method can take several days to work. Additionally, it requires the proper handling and disposal of the brake fluid, which is toxic. Rub the chrome object with brake fluid and let it set about 10 minutes before rinsing it off. Repeat as needed to completely strip the chrome.


Note that brake fluid can dissolve plastic, so be very cautious when using this method on chromed plastic parts (or opt for another method).

