 Baking soda is an essential leavening agent for recipes that call for an acid, such as buttermilk, vinegar, sour cream, yogurt, lemon or orange juice, cocoa, chocolate, honey, maple syrup, fruit, or brown sugar.


When baking soda interacts with acidic substances such as those above it creates sodium carbonate and carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide bubbles give rise to baked goods. Follow the amount of baking soda specified on the recipe. Make sure that you do not substitute baking soda for baking powder as they are different!
Sour cream, yogurt, and molasses also create a bubbling reaction in baked goods. Add one teaspoon of baking soda or follow the recipe’s directions.The addition of the baking soda will cause an instant reaction if one of these acidic ingredients is present, so that the batter will expand when the batter is put into the oven. This in turn will cause the batter to rise, creating a lighter texture to baked goods like cookies, quick breads, cakes, and muffins., In addition to reacting in batter, some people have claimed that a mixture of molasses and baking soda can help cure cancer. However, check with your doctor.Mix one cup of water with 1 teaspoon of black strap molasses and 1 teaspoon of baking soda. The water should be room temperature.You can also use grade B maple syrup, or Manuka honey in place of the black strap molasses.Always research alternative health treatments. Do not assume that the solution actually works because of one man’s experience., Baking soda will dissolve in water. However, there are many uses for baking soda water.


The baking soda water can help with chronic heartburn or acid reflux by neutralizing stomach acids.All you need is a tablespoon of baking soda in a glass of water.
Baking soda water can also be used as a mild antiseptic. Remember that baking soda is high in sodium and can have side effects, such as stomach cramping.
Check with your doctor if you have high blood pressure, are a nursing mother or are pregnant.