 Tanning beds emit UVA radiation, just like the sun, and if you stay in them too long you can get burned. The fairer your skin, the less time it will take to burn.
 The faster you start treatment, the less damage the burn will do. If your skin feels tingly or itchy, or if it is pink or reddish, you should start treating it right away., Burns draw water to your skin, dehydrating the rest of you. You’ll always want to drink extra water after tanning, but if you have burned, you’ll want to drink as much water as you can stomach to promote healing and keep you hydrated., Do this for 10 or 15 minutes several times a day to take the heat out of your skin and offer relief. If taking a bath or shower, pat yourself dry and leave some water on your skin. Apply moisturizer immediately., Moisturizers with aloe vera are particularly soothing for burned skin,and you may also want to consider products with Vitamin C and E, which may help to limit the damage to your skin.Do not use moisturizers that contain petroleum, which will trap the heat in your skin. Also avoid benzocaine and lidocaine, which can irritate your skin.Do not apply moisturizers to blistering skin., You can buy hydrocortisone over-the-counter, and it will help to ease painful burning or itching. Do not apply hydrocortisone to blistering skin., Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve, Naprosyn) will both reduce pain and swelling, helping to prevent long-term damage to the skin.Adults may also use aspirin, but never give it to children, as it can cause sudden acute brain and liver damage., Blisters indicate that you have a second degree burn. Do not put moisturizer on them or pop them, as this will make your sunburn worse.Leave them alone until they heal, or consider covering them with a dry bandage to prevent chafing against your clothing., The last thing you want to do is to expose your burned skin to more sun. Keep your time outside to a minimum, and when you do go out, cover all burned areas with clothes made of tightly-woven fabric (when you hold them up to a bright light, no light should shine through). If you have a burn on your face, apply a moisturizer that doubles as sunscreen.