 When you start to feel like your emotions are getting out of control, using a self-soothing activity can help. Self-soothing activities are little things that you can do to help yourself feel calmer and more secure. Identify some self-soothing activities that make you feel better and use these to help you harness your emotions. Some good self-soothing activities include:Taking a relaxing shower or bubble bath.
Making yourself a cup of tea or hot cocoa.
Doing some gentle stretching.
Calling up a supportive friend to talk.
Listening to some soothing music.
Going for a walk.
 Finding something to distract yourself can also be a helpful way to harness your emotions. This can be just about anything that will absorb you and get your mind off of the think that is upsetting you. Some things you can try include:Reading a book or listening to an audiobook.
Watching a movie or TV show.
Engaging in a favorite hobby, such as painting, playing an instrument, or baking some cookies.
 If you cannot distract yourself because you are currently dealing with the situation that is upsetting you, then another option is to look for ways to modify your situation.You can do this by adopting a different attitude about the situation or by looking for ways to make the situation more comfortable.


For example, if you are at work and you are upset with your boss, then you might try telling yourself something like, “Even though she can be harsh, she is just trying to help me. If I can look at her critical comments as a way to help me improve my future work, then I can grow from this experience.”
Or, if you are in a fight with a friend and having trouble keeping your emotions under control, then you might ask your friend something like, “Can we resume this conversation tomorrow? I have to run.”

, It’s easy to become overwhelmed by your emotions, especially negative ones. If a particular situation causes you to feel angry, for example, it is best to wait for a period of time before reacting. This will allow you to get to the root of your emotion, harness it, and then use it to your benefit.For example, if you feel upset at your partner, try not reacting right away. Take a moment to think about what you are feeling and why before reacting.
 Taking a moment or several minutes to practice deep breathing exercises can help you gain control of your emotions in any given situation. While you are thinking about how you will respond to a situation or feeling, take a deep breath while counting to four. Exhale slowly as you count to four. Repeat this as many times as necessary to harness your emotions., Exercise reduces stress hormones and promotes a sense of calm and well-being. This, in turn, can help you harness your emotions and maintain control over a given situation. Exercise can also help alleviate feelings of anger, sadness, and anxiety.Try going for a long, quiet walk when experiencing anxiety.
If you are feeling overwhelmed, head out to a yoga or zumba class to relieve tension and gain perspective.
If you get angry at your boss at work, try going on a walk during lunch to decompress.
 Be mindful of your emotions, but do not let them control you. Being mindful can encompass living in the present moment and focusing your attention on what matters in that particular moment. Experiencing emotions is an important part of practicing mindfulness, as is learning how to let go of emotions.
 Humans are creatures of habit, and more often than not will respond to similar situations in similar ways. When you are angry, for example, yelling at the object of your frustrations might be your go-to response. If you are sad, isolating yourself from friends and family might be your response of choice. Try responding differently the next time you are overwhelmed by a certain emotion.The next time you are sad, try reaching out to a close friend instead of closing yourself off from the world.
If you usually yell at your spouse in a given situation, try speaking calmly instead.
 Seek help from a mental health provider who can help you manage your emotions. A counselor or therapist can help you better understand your emotions, find the root causes of problems in your life, and help you create solutions and coping strategies that work for you.


Contact your insurance provider to see what types of counseling are covered by your plan, as well as what providers accept your insurance.

