 There may not be enough time for everything, so get your priorities straight and don't beat yourself up if you don't accomplish every single task you've set out to do on a given day. Stay positive and be thankful that you have the opportunity to make a living and get an education — two things many people in the world go without.


Going to school and working at the same time is not for everyone. Be realistic and prioritize. Don't let going to school jeopardize your income and your family's well-being., By taking on work and studies at the same time, you're accepting a challenge that many wouldn't dare attempt. But, you wouldn't be doing it if you weren't motivated. Maybe you want to pay your way through school and remain debt-free or you want to get ahead in your career. No matter what, be sure to keep your goals in mind whenever it starts to feel like too much., If you try to accomplish all of this by yourself, it will be infinitely more difficult. If you find yourself increasingly irritable, withdrawing from social interaction, distracted or forgetful, anxious, or emotionally strained, talk to someone. Talk to your significant other, your parents, your friends, or even a professional counsellor. Many colleges have full-time counselors, advisors, and therapists that can help you work through your issues. One of the first steps to success is knowing how to depend on others., Don’t start and stop. Taking a semester off may seem like a fine idea, but only do so for extraordinary circumstances, such as illness, serious injury, or a death in the family. If you find you are tiring of school, reduce your course load for the next semester and take at least one class that you’ll enjoy. Otherwise, you risk losing the momentum and never returning.
 What you aspire to do each day and what you actually managed to do. This will help in attaining your goal on a daily basis.
 Create some sort of progress measurement. Cross completed classes off of a list or use a countdown clock to measure time to completion. This will help keep your eyes on the prize. When you make it over small and large obstacles, commemorate your achievements with friends and family.It doesn't matter if it is a good grade on a paper, passing a class, or graduating. It is necessary to celebrate to keep yourself motivated., It may seem overwhelming at times, but remember that other people have gone through the same thing you are and they have succeeded. You can too.

