 It is best to establish these rules before you hire a babysitter. As you’re interviewing the babysitter, make your stance on social media clear. Inform them if you do not want them posting pictures on Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, or Instagram. Tell them if you will require that they turn their location settings off or if they must abstain from all technology while babysitting.You can say, “Before we hire you, we want to make it clear that we do not want any pictures of our children on social media. Even if you have privacy settings activated, we would feel more comfortable if our children’s pictures were not on the internet.”
If you don’t want them using social media at all while at your house, you can say, “We expect that while you are watching our children, you will not be Skyping or chatting with friends on Facebook.”

, If you already have hired a babysitter or have been using a babysitter for a while, you should start the conversation as soon as possible.The next time they come to babysit, ask them if they can arrive a few minutes early so that you can discuss some new rules.


If your babysitter has not infringed on your social media boundaries, let them know that you are not accusing them. Say, “I know this hasn’t been an issue before, but I realize that we’ve never discussed my social media boundaries with you before. I just want to make sure that we completely understand each other on this matter.”
If the babysitter has posted or done something that causes you concern, gently ask them if they would refrain from doing it in the future. You can say, “I know you have been sending pictures of my child to your friends. While I love it when you text me pictures of the kids, I am not comfortable with strangers receiving pictures of them.”, Some babysitters, especially younger ones, may be very comfortable with social media, or they may believe that their privacy settings protect them. Make it clear that even with high privacy settings, you do not want information or pictures posted about your children. If you explain your reasons why, they may be more likely to follow your rules.


If you don’t want pictures posted, you can say, “It makes us very uncomfortable when strangers see pictures of our children. Many people can steal these pictures very easily.”If you don’t want them posting their location or geotags, you can say, “When you’re alone with the kids, we don’t necessarily want people on the internet to know exactly where you are or what the kids are doing. This might attract predators.”If you’re nervous about them complaining or posting information about your family online, you can say, “We hope that you trust us, and if you have a problem with anything that you come to us first. We expect you to respect our privacy, as we respect yours.”

, Ask the babysitter if they would be comfortable giving you links to any public social media accounts. If they do not want to give you the exact accounts, you can ask them what apps they use so that you can address specific usage rules.If they have a blog, you can ask them what the blog is about. If it is all related to child care, you might remind them if you do not want your family to be discussed on their blog. You can say, “We would appreciate it if you didn’t mention our family on the blog.”
Many people believe that photo apps like Snapchat are safe to use because the photo disappears after 15 seconds. That said, people can still screencap these photos and share them. If your sitter uses Snapchat, remind them that the same rules apply., Once you have had the discussion, you should make sure that these rules are written and given to your babysitter. If you have an information list or employment contract already made for your babysitter, you can add your social media guidelines to this document., At the end of the conversation, you should let them know that you appreciate what they are doing for you. It can be increasingly difficult for people to disconnect from the internet, so let them how grateful you are.


You can say, “I know it’s hard to avoid using your phone, but we really appreciate you following these rules. They really give us peace of mind knowing that you’re respecting the children's privacy as well as our own.”

