 Making ice cream without the help of an ice cream maker is a little trickier, but the good news is that you don't need to change the main recipe at all. Mix the eggs, sugar, Nutella, cream, and milk according to the directions in the section above. When you have a smooth mixture, transfer it to the fridge to chill while you ready your makeshift ice cream maker.
 You want to add about enough ice to fill the bowl halfway to the top. Chopped ice is best here — the smaller the pieces of ice are, the more evenly they will cool the ice cream. Add the rock salt and stir to combine.


At this point, clear enough space in your freezer so that the large bowl can fit in it.
The rock salt is important because it lowers the temperature of the water past its normal freezing point, making the bowl colder than it would be with just ice. It also makes the ice melt slightly slower, though you should still work quickly so you can get the ice cream as cold as possible., Try to nestle the bowl into the ice so that it is almost buried up to the brim. This will get it as cold as possible.
 Carefully pour your ice cream mix from earlier into the smaller, inner bowl. Use a hand mixer set to medium-low to mix the ingredients at a steady pace or simply beat by hand with a whisk. Mix for 10 minutes without stopping.You can cover the inner bowl with a towel to prevent splashing while you mix.
Take care that no ice or salt water make their way into the inner bowl — this can ruin the taste.
 After 10 minutes of mixing, the ingredients probably still won't look like actual ice cream yet. This is OK. Carefully cover the inner bowl with a towel. Place the large bowl (with the small bowl still inside) in the freezer. Chill for 45 minutes.
 After cooling, scrape the surface of the ice cream with a fork or spoon. It should be semi-solid but soft (like pudding).Mix with the whisk or hand mixer again for another 5 minutes. This should leave you with something that resembles soft-serve ice cream.
 The ice cream is ready to eat as soon as you think it has a solid-enough texture. If you want firm, traditional ice cream, just transfer the ice cream to an airtight container and let it cool in the fridge for 8 hours or so (as specified in the section above).

