


Pay attention to characters that people don't like. Bella Swan from Twilight is often considered weak, passive, and flat. Try to understand why, and avoid creating characters that many don't like.
Characters such as Hermione Granger from Harry Potter, Katniss from The Hunger Games , Catherine Earnshaw from Wuthering Heights , and Elizabeth Bennet from Pride and Prejudice are all noted for being powerful characters. Even if you haven't read the books, research what makes these characters so admirable.

Don't take everyone's word. Just because many people find Hermione a strong character, try to figure out how you could weave those traits into your story and whether you really like her yourself.

;
, For example, Katniss often avoids and rejects many things considered feminine, such as dresses, makeup, hair, and girly-ness. Don't consider those things the enemy. It is perfectly OK for female characters to be more feminine. This can make them more relatable, since many girls like these things as well. You rarely (if ever) see male characters rejecting every stereotypically male trait.



Feminine can be strong too. Just because your character may whine about breaking a nail does not mean they're not capable of defending their family. The same character can be witty and extremely intelligent. By rejecting femininity, you may imply to readers that you do not find everyday females strong.
Avoid immersing your characters in these stereotypes. Stereotypes exist because someone does follow them, but most people do not meet every stereotype. Creating a character as such makes them appear unrealistic and flat. But many people don't consider that doing the opposite can come off the same way. Instead, find the perfect balance so that your characters seem unpredictable and real.
 This doesn't just apply to female characters, but since they're the most poorly-executed characters, it applies mostly to them.


Creating variety helps you play around with traits and finding the right balance. You can some minor characters have more exaggerated traits, while your more important characters (especially the protagonist) must seem realistic and interesting since readers will have more interaction with her.

Often, this helps make characters with more obnoxious traits more tolerable. For example, you can have a minor character that is shallow, narcissistic, and celebrity-obsessed if you can balance her with a sensible, more subdued character.


This isn't an excuse to make flat characters! Even if some of your characters are more extreme and flamboyant, you have to at least provide a reason for their behavior, and make sure they have other traits that make them less ridiculous.
 Literally meaning "fatal woman" in French, these are female characters that often use their sexuality as a weapon. They're lustful and alluring, yet also controversial.


To a few, these characters, while powerful and tough, can be offensive and exploitative. Because they're overtly sexual, they're also seen as amoral. These types are often antagonists, but sometimes appear as protagonists.
But writing is all about taking risks, and the allure of femme fatale characters is undeniable. It's not impossible to pull off such characters. They don't have to be necessarily sleazy, and like the few in the picture, many can be classy. They are mysterious and seductive, though. And since these characters are already very intense, it's best make them slightly vulnerable.
The hardest part of creating such characters is making them memorable. They can be easily dubbed as too sexual, predictably using her sex appeal to get what she wants. Avoid this.
 Many writers create female characters knowing how hard it is to not step on any toes and remain politically correct. The goal to make a realistic, feminine yet not whiny character can end up with an author pushing their agenda on how women should be.


The best way to avoid this is not to create characters that show how women should be, but how they are. No one can deny that your characters are just political symbols when they can easily relate to someone they know.
Most authors probably do this to some extent with their female characters. Even Suzanne Collins (author of The Hunger Games ) had to carefully consider how she wanted Katniss (and women) portrayed in her novel before writing it.

