 Indicators are any physical signs or changes in behavior that may be due to child abuse. An indicator should be a red flag for you that there is a possibility of abuse. If you suspect child abuse, ask the child questions.Behavioral signs usually show up first, such as withdrawal, frequent absences, unexplained outbursts, aggression, crying spells, or hostility.
Indicators may include bruises, broken bones, a filthy appearance, or a change in behavior.
Generally, physical indicators are severe, happen often, or follow a pattern.
Not every indicator means abuse is happening. This is why it’s important to talk to the child and ask questions.
 If you suspect abuse, try talking to the child. Start with screening questions, which are questions to figure out if indicators are the result of neglect or abuse. They may feel comfortable sharing things with you that can help you figure out what’s going on. You may also want to talk to the parents.Talk with the child somewhere that they feel comfortable. If they would feel more comfortable with someone else asking the questions, then involve that person.
Start with open-ended questions, which are questions that cannot be answered with a simple yes or no. You may ask, “I see you have some bruises. How did you get those?” or “Tell me about how you got that bruise.” You may also want to ask, “Has someone close to you hurt you/made you do something that makes you feel uncomfortable?”
If you suspect sexual abuse, try asking, “What do you know about appropriate touching?” or “If someone touched you in your private areas, what would you do?”
Other questions may include, “What things are you scared of?” or “How would you define discipline?”

, If the answers lead you to suspect abuse, ask more specific close-ended questions. Close-ended questions can be answered with yes, no, or a fact. They help you find out more details about the situation.Examples of close-ended questions include “When did your father hit you?”, “What were you hit with?”, or “How often does your mother leave you alone for hours?”
Be patient with this process. Sometimes you have to ask the same questions many times before the child will build up the nerve to answer.
 You may also need to talk to the parents. This can help you clear up any confusion and get an idea about what is going on in the child’s home.You may want to ask, “Describe how accident prone your child is” or “How did your child get injured?”
If you suspect sexual abuse, try asking, “Do you know what your child knows about sex? Do you know how they found out about it?” or “Tell me what you have told your child about inappropriate touching?”
You can also ask them, “Describe what discipline means to you” or “Explain what kind of punishments you enforce for your child.”

, If you suspect child abuse, contact your local authorities or child protective services. They will look into the matter. You may also contact the national child abuse hotline at 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453), or find your state's toll-free child abuse numbers at this website or this website.To report the abuse, you need to provide details. You will probably be asked the child's name, age, and location, address, or phone number. You will be asked to identify the suspected person and their relationship to the child, and then provide any details you know about the situation.When you report child abuse, many places will allow you to do it anonymously. In many states, the identity of the person who reports the abuse is kept confidential.

