 A side of brown rice with every meal, or at least with every dinner, can cause your body temperature to rise within a matter of days. As a complex carbohydrate, brown rice gives your digestive system a challenge. The extra work your system uses in the digestive process heats you up inside. Note that other whole grains, like quinoa and buckwheat, can also have a similar effect., Eating one serving of ice cream each day can gradually cause your core temperature to increase over a span of several weeks. The shock of cold your system receives forces it to heat up to prevent your temperature from dropping. Additionally, foods that contain fat, protein, and carbohydrates heat up the body more as your digestive system processes them.


Fat moves especially slow through your digestive system, forcing your body to warm up as it works more., Add as little as 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) of cayenne pepper to your food each day. If the heat is too much to handle in one sitting, spread it out by only adding a dash of cayenne pepper to your food at each meal. Cayenne pepper contains an especially hot compound known as capsaicin. This compound is responsible for the initial burst of heat you experience when eating cayenne pepper, but this burst of heat is not responsible for the change in body temperature.


The digestive process your body undergoes when processing capsaicin is what causes the spike in your temperature.
While it is not certain, jalapeno and habanero peppers may have a similar effect., Coconut oil is a medium chain triglyceride (MCT) that aids in elevating core body temperature and metabolism. MCTs are known to increase metabolism and enhance weight loss. Instead of being stored as fat it is converted to energy, thereby increasing body temperature. This may be beneficial to people that have low thyroid function. Further, coconut oil may have antiviral properties and may help people with diabetes stabilize their blood glucose., Peanut are a good source of protein and fatty acids. Peanuts also have a lot of niacin. Niacin is a B vitamin that is responsible for respiration and metabolism at the cellular level. When consumed, niacin causes a flushing that leads to an elevation in temperature. Peanuts also have antioxidant properties and can rev up a sluggish circulatory system., Eating a thumb-sized piece of raw ginger can give your body temperature a quick spike. If eating it does not appeal to you, though, you could also make a tea by boiling the same sized piece in water for five to 10 minutes. Ginger increases digestive activity, thereby increasing body temperature.


Other root vegetables may help somewhat, as well. If ginger does not appeal to you, try carrots, beets, or sweet potatoes.