 Many times hearing loss is associated with age or an infection, but can also be present right from the start of a child's life. Infants can be more difficult to gauge because they cannot directly communicate their symptoms like adults or even older children. If you notice any of these symptoms in your infant, they may have hearing issues:Your child does not turn to the source of a sound by three to four months of age. By four months your child should awaken or startle to loud sounds, calm at the sound of familiar voices, and respond to familiar voices occasionally with smiles or coos.
Your child pays attention to vibrating noises or noises that can be felt rather than heard.
Your child turns their head when they see you, but not if you only call out their name. This is usually mistaken for not paying attention or the child just ignoring you, but it could be the result of a partial hearing loss.
 Toddlers may also experience hearing problems. This is a critical stage for development since important speech skills are gained through listening and imitation. Paying attention to language development is a good way to recognize hearing difficulties.By 24 months, toddlers should be able to point to familiar objects, listen to stories and songs, and follow basic commands. If a child over the age of two is unable to express basic needs or only make certain sounds, they may be having trouble hearing.Rule out other explanations for language problems. Many children may have oral-motor problems that are part of neurological or cognitive delays. It could also be a physical problem with the mouth or tongue. A speech pathologist will be able to evaluate whether the problem is physical in the mouth or ear, or whether there could be other explanations., Children who attend school may see performance related problems develop. If your child is sitting closer to the teacher to understand them, asks for things to be repeated, or doesn’t respond to noises, they may be suffering from hearing issues.If your child’s academic performance is suffering, it may be a sign of hearing problems. Children may have trouble following directions or listening to information. You can ask your child about their hearing, but some children may be embarrassed or not realize their hearing is different than other people’s.
Your child may have problems interacting with other children or not be developing socially like they should because of hearing problems.
Most schools have hearing specialists that can perform further testing on your child.