 Hearing aids can be either analog or digital. Both types of hearing aids will amplify sound, but the digital style converts sound to data, amplifies it, then converts back to analog. The analog style simply amplifies sound. Digital hearing aids are more precise and more popular.In fact, many companies are discontinuing production of analog models to focus on the digital brands. If possible, choose a digital model.
 Because wearing a hearing aid affects how you hear your own voice, listening to the sound of your voice can be a good way to compare different models. At the store or doctor’s office, try different models and recite the same paragraph a few times each – pay attention to how your own voice sounds between different devices., The average cost of a hearing aid varies from about $1,500 to several thousand dollars. While the cost of a hearing aid will undoubtedly play a role in your decision, it's important to understand what’s included in the price a company quotes you. Most importantly, make sure that the price includes creating a mold that fits in your ear precisely, as well as the cost of making adjustments should you find the hearing aid uncomfortable.Other expenses may include remote controls, accessories, and those optional features.
Your insurance may cover the cost of your hearing aid, or at least part of it. Medicare does not pay for hearing aids, but private insurance might cover all or part for adults and is usually required to pay for hearing aids for children – check with your insurance provider. You may also be able to get your hearing aid paid for by the Veterans Administration (VA) or a medical assistance program.
 You should be allowed a trial period, because it can take a little time to adjust to your device and decide if you like it. Be sure to find out what it costs to have a trial period and whether that cost counts towards the purchase price if you choose to buy the hearing aid. Also know if you get a refund if you choose to return it during the trial.


Get all of this in writing.
 Your warranty should cover parts and labor for a period of time. Some warranties also cover doctor visits.This varies depending on where you get your device, but consider warranties as you compare options.
 Remember that your hearing loss may worsen as you get older. Consider whether the model of hearing aid you get is adaptable if you need more power in the future.If not, you may end up needing to purchase a new hearing aid down the road.

