 A drug abuse problem may result in problems with a person’s responsibilities. They may stop going to work, skip classes, or cancel plans with friends. Instead, they go to clubs or parties where they can get more club drugs or take them freely.For example, the person may skip class or not come to work because they were out the night before at a club or party doing drugs.
 A person who is addicted to drugs may give up activities that are not related to the drug use. They may stop doing things they used to do often, drop out of clubs or groups, or cancel social engagements.For example, a person may stop participating in a sports team or neglect going to the gym due to their club drug use. A person may stop playing the piano or quit their band.
 A club drug addiction will lead to changes in personality. The person may start acting erratic, jittery, or over-excitable, or have mood swings. The person may also act like they are confused.Often, a club drug addict will stop caring for themselves and have worse hygiene.
 As with any drug addiction, a person who is addicted to club drugs may start to participate in destructive behavior. They may stop going to school or work, or their work at either will get worse. They may start borrowing money and not paying it back, or they may resort to stealing.Day to day self-care such as hygiene and regular sleep may fall by the wayside.


A person addicted to club drugs may participate in risky, unsafe sexual behaviors, like having unprotected sex with multiple partners.
 If someone is abusing club drugs, their health will start to decline. They may experience significant weight loss or weight gain. They may start to have sinus problems or nose bleeds. They may also have red eyes or burst capillaries in their eyes.The person may say that they are sick or carry around eyedrops.
 Many club drugs can cause dependency in frequent users. When off the drug for long enough, these users experience physical withdrawal symptoms. GHB withdrawal, for example, can cause insomnia, anxiety, tremors, and sweating.Overcoming an addiction alone is very difficult. If it turns out someone you know is trying to stop drug use, recommend professional help from a doctor or therapist.
 Club drugs can be smoked, taken as pills, injected, or snorted. They may come in powder, crystal, or pill form, and may be able to be smoked inside a cigarette or pipe. Some drugs, like ecstasy, may look like candy and be placed on candy necklaces.Look for baggies, vials, pipes, inhalers, or syringes in the person’s room or trashcan.
 Since club drugs are usually taken in very specific places, the person may have certain items that point to club drug usage, or participation in situations or activities that lead to club drug usage.For example, you may look for surgical masks, glow sticks, pacifiers, lollipops, bags of candy, or candy jewelry.
 Club drugs are mostly used at clubs, raves, parties, and bars, so people who frequent those scenes are at a higher risk for club drug addiction that people who do not go to those places.


Due to the places where most club drugs are found, those who use and get addicted are often teens and young adults.
Drug use is higher among people who attend these events, but not universal. As a rough estimate, about ⅓ to ½ of attendees have taken club drugs at some point in their lives.