 You're going to need to examine the cat's paw a bit, so you'll need to make sure it can't bite or scratch you. The best way is to have someone help you. Contain the cat by wrapping it securely in a towel or blanket. Hug it so it has trouble moving, and then examine the paw. Leave its head out so it has space to breathe.You may think your cat would never bite you, but animals who wouldn't normally bite may lash out when in pain.;
, If the nail is bleeding, you need to stop the bleeding. You can simply hold a clean cloth on the nail for about 5 minutes until the bleeding stops., If the cut won't stop bleeding, you can use a styptic pencil instead. Rub it across the cut to help stop the bleeding. You can also use styptic powder or cauterizing powder.If you can't don't have those options available to you, try using cornstarch or flour pressed gently into the end of the nail. You can also try a bar of soap pressed into it., The claw may be doing more than bleeding. It may also have discharge, such as pus. If it does, it most likely has an infection, and it will definitely need to be treated by a vet.Also check for swelling and redness, which indicate infection as well.
If you suspect an infection at all, take the cat to the vet. The claw is connected to the bone, and infection in the claw could spread to the bone., If the claw isn't infected, you may be able to trim it at home. If you examine the claw, you may notice part of it that you can trim away easily. You can try to treat it, but you may still need to take the cat to the vet., Once the claw stops bleeding, you may need to apply a bandage. The best way to bandage it is to apply a sterile gauze pad to the claw. You can wrap a layer of cotton gauze around next for padding. For the final layer, use a layer of elastic bandages that stick to themselves. Wrap it around the paw., A broken claw may not need treatment by a vet, particularly if it stops bleeding. However, sometimes this condition continues to be painful, and you'll need to see the vet. Make a call first to see what the vet recommends., While your cat won't need to be knocked out completely, the vet may use light sedation to make it easier to work on the cat. Then, the vet will trim the nail with a professional trimmer.The vet may also need to drain pus if the infection is bad.
 When the vet is done trimming back the nail, they'll apply a bandage. Pay attention to how the vet bandages the nail, so you can apply it properly at home. The vet will likely use an antibiotic ointment on the nail to help prevent infection., Your vet will likely prescribe an antibiotic for prevention or treatment of infection. If the cat is in pain, the vet will also prescribe a pain medication., You'll need to change the bandages for several days to help keep it clean. The vet should show you how to do it. You should also look to make sure an infection isn't developing., Because of the possibility of infection, you may need to visit the vet again. You certainly should if you notice infection, but the vet will likely want you to come back in a couple of days anyway, just in case.