 In a few short years, you’ll be off to college or have a career. Take advantage of the time you have now to have fun with your parents and build some good memories together. If you hate the things your parents like to do, be proactive and suggest plans yourself so that they are more in line with your interests. Additionally, you can benefit from this extra time you spend together. Teens who spend more time with their parents have higher self-esteem.See if there are movies or shows that you can enjoy together.
If you and your parents are “foodies,” try to dine out together a few times a month and try new restaurants.
 You are probably spending more time with your friends than your parents at this point in your life, and it shows great respect to your parents by letting them know your friends. They will feel secure knowing the character of the people you choose to have around you, and it may make it easier to ask for extra privileges if your parents are fond of your friends.


Talk to your parents about your friendships and conflicts or difficulties you may be having. This will help them trust you more, and you can also gain valuable wisdom.
Ask if your friends can come over after school or for dinner.
If your parents attend a school function, make an effort to bring them over to meet a few of your friends.
 It may seem like your parents don’t listen to you or your feelings, but you can help fix this by making an effort to really communicate with them. If you can, schedule a regular “chat time” to talk with them about your day or what is going on in your life. Also ask about them! Take an interest in their lives as well. Regular communication is one of the best ways for you to develop a good relationship with your parents.Start simply, by saying something like, “Today was great. I presented my project to the biology class, and I finished all of my homework in study hall.” Sharing parts of your day like this will help you easily start a conversation and can lead to further discussion.
You could also talk with your parents about challenges you are facing: “My friend started to take her brother’s ADHD medicine, and I don’t know what to do to help her.” Your parents will be happy you confided in them, and they will be able to offer valuable advice on how to face these types of issues.
 Don’t forget about the relationships you share with your brothers and sisters when thinking about being a good teenage daughter. If you are one of the older children in your family, you can model good behavior to the younger ones. They will invariably look up to you, so if you treat your parents well, they will be more likely to also. Your parents will be grateful for you offering a good example to your younger siblings.


See if you can handle disputes between you and your siblings amongst yourselves, if appropriate. Then you can talk to your parents about how this went.
You can also be a good sibling by spending time with them, helping them with their homework, and attending their sports or dance activities.
Offer to watch your siblings so your parents can have some time together.
If you are the youngest in your family, try to keep in contact with siblings who may be away at college or living in another city for a job. You can learn from their experiences and figure out good ways to interact with your parents.

