 It is best to use fresh ingredients whenever you can. If you can get organic foods that have not been exposed to pesticide, that's good, too. This is the healthiest choice for your baby. If this isn't an option, reach for frozen ingredients as an alternative.


Fruits, vegetables, whole grains like wheat, rice, lentils and legumes are healthy plant based starter foods for your baby. These foods are rich in health-promoting nutrients like fiber, vitamins, minerals and protein. They are generally healthier than animal products, which contain saturated fat and cholesterol which your baby can (and should) do without.
Buy fresh ingredients that are grown locally. Locally grown products may have a short shelf life, but are organic and chemical free. They are, overall, better for your baby’s health.;
, Don't be tempted to buy fresh food in bulk. Buy as many ingredients as you need for 2-3 servings, depending on how long the ingredients will stay fresh.


For small babies, use only one ingredient. Their digestive system is not developed enough and it is necessary to gradually introduce foods to your baby's stomach for her to adapt. When you go to the store, just concentrate on two or three foods to make up your baby's diet.
For bigger babies who have a developed digestive tract, it is safe to use a mixture of ingredients. For example, you can add rice or oats to bulk up any dish. These stay fresh longer, too.
 If your baby is a bit older and you can use a mixture of ingredients in each meal, don't be tempted to add in processed ingredients. It's easy to think fresh fruits and veggies make any dish healthy, but their nutrients can be negated by other ingredients. Here's what to keep in mind:


Use whole wheat flour, instead of refined flour. The more the food is processed, the lesser it's nutrient value.
Use brown sugar instead of refined sugar. It, too, has gone through less processing.
Use rock salt instead of iodized salt. Rock salt dissolves quickly and has more minerals compared to iodized salt.
 Knowing that you only need a few ingredients and sticking to fresh fruits and vegetables will certainly narrow down what you have in mind to feed your baby. As you weigh your options, think about what kinds of food you want to introduce your baby to as well.


Tomato soup or mixed vegetable soup, whole wheat porridge, boiled lentils with rice, etc. are simple dishes to make and good starter foods for your baby.
Follow the recipes that have been passed down the generations of your family. Nothing beats grandma’s experience with babies!

, Here's what you'll need:



A small saucepan. It is not recommended to use raw ingredients for your baby because it is easier to digest cooked food. The saucepan does not have to be big – you will not cook large quantities of food because the baby does not eat much.

Colander. To make a puree, it is necessary to drain the fruit. To do this, you'll need a colander.

Blender. To turn cooked plants into ​​a smooth puree, you need a good blender. The stronger the better – the more blended the food, the easier it will be to digest.

Glass jars. If the baby does not eat all the food, or you cook with the intent to use the dish more than once, you'll need glass jars. Glass jars are easier to maintain than plastic jars and can be easily and sterilized before re-use by washing them in boiling water.
 Wash the ingredients you're using under running water. Remove all dirt, soil, bacteria and remains of pesticides. Peel the ingredients, if the ingredients you chose needs to be peeled. The most dirt is found on the peel and it is harder to digest, too.


When you create a meal for your baby, the best and healthiest option is to use fresh fruits and vegetables. You can use apples, peaches, bananas, carrots, sweet potatoes, broccoli, apricots, plums, green beans, peas – whatever you think your baby will like.
 It is necessary to cook the ingredients before blending them to make sure they're easy to digest. Boil until they are soft – you can test this with a fork. If it goes in easily and the food readily mashes, it's ready.


Bananas and avocados are the exception. They do not have to cook; it is enough to just mash them with a fork.
Do not add spices. Babies' stomachs aren't great with these add-ins.
 Drain the cooked fruit or vegetables by pouring the contents of your saucepan into a colander to remove any excess water. However, save a little water to make a puree from it because it contains some of the nutrients that got lost with cooking.
 Place the well-cooked and soft fruits or vegetables in the blender along with the water from the saucepan and blend. When it's a smooth, even consistency, your food is ready.


Instead of water, you can use breast milk or formula; if the baby is older than a year you can use soy milk or almond milk.Make sure that the soy milk from soy is grown organically.
If the baby is older and you wish to add additional ingredients like rice or oats to the meal, then cook the rice or oats separately. This way the puree will be smoother.
 Taste a spoonful of food before serving it to the baby. Adjust the salt and sugar if necessary, but stay away from making it too salty or too sweet. The majority of the taste should come from the fruit and veggies, not sugar or salt.
 When the puree has cooled down sufficiently, put the amount that is sufficient for your baby's meal in a bowl and take pride in feeding your baby food that you've created yourself.


In fact, some people believe the baby can smell the food and hear the sound of food being prepared. This is thought to pique her curiosity and enhances her appetite.
 Put the remaining food in jars, make sure they're tightly closed and place them in the fridge. They'll store for up to 3 days.


Store in the freezer up to a month, if you'd like. Put the date on each package that you put in the freezer to use the oldest first.
 If you are not able to make a meal from fresh plant ingredients, use frozen fruits and vegetables. Here's what you should know about frozen foods:If you've purchased frozen vegetables, verify that they are without salt and rise rinse well before using
If you've purchased frozen fruit, make sure it is sugar-free and that is not stored in juices – it's possible the nutrients will soak out into these juices and make the food less healthy for your baby.
If you leave your own fruit and vegetables in the freezer for future use, do not cook them before, but freeze them raw. You will cook them when you're preparing the meal to keep more of the nutrients.
 Thaw only the amount that you can use immediately. You do not want to use food that gets thawed, frozen, and thawed over and over again. This slowly deteriorates the nutrients.


Do not freeze already thawed plant ingredients and do not refreeze food made ​​from frozen ingredients. If you take out too much, prepare it all and store it for later use in the refrigerator.
 In a small saucepan, cover the ingredients with water and bring them to a boil. Once you can easily insert your fork, they're done and ready to be pureed.


You can also use formula or breast milk if you like. If your baby is a bit older, almond or soy milk can work, too.
 Using your colander, drain the ingredients, but save some of the water. The water contains some of the nutrients that have been boiled out of the ingredients.


Blend your ingredients until smooth. Make a puree with a few tablespoons of the drained water and the cooked ingredients. Once it's reached a smooth consistency, it's ready for eating.
 Using your glass jars, put away the remaining food, making sure the jars are tightly closed, and place them in the fridge. They'll store for up to 3 days.


Food that was once frozen should not be refrozen. It's okay to put baby food that was once fresh in the freezer, but baby food made from frozen ingredients should only be kept in the fridge. If it gets refrozen, it'll lose its nutrients.
 Give only a quarter spoonful of the food to your baby at a time. Too much and she'll just spit it right back up. Let the baby relish the food and taste it before giving the next spoonful.


Allow the baby to drink or swallow the food before giving the next spoonful. If she's going slowly, be patient.
Stop when the baby no longer wants to eat it. Always avoid force feeding the remaining food to the baby.
 In general, babies love variety. If she's only eating a few foods, switch them up regularly, or tweak them slightly to give a subtle yet different flavor. Watch how she responds to each dish and make note of which ones she particularly enjoys.


You can switch up how you serve the food, too. Use differently colored bowls to keep the foods exciting – especially ones that aren't her favorite but that she should eat.
 Your baby will let you know her food preferences automatically.


When the baby does not like the food or is full or unwell, she will turn its face away, refuse to open her mouth completely, or simply keep the food in her mouth without swallowing it, etc.
When the baby likes the food, or is hungry, she will open her mouth fully to eat the next spoonful, will open her mouth eagerly for the next spoonful, and will eat the food with a smile, etc.

If you've stumbled on a dish that your baby doesn't like, try to incorporate the food in a different dish, in a different way, slowly.
 Avoid making a new vegetable or a fruit as the main part of any dish you prepare. Start with small portions of a new food to ensure the baby is not allergic to a particular food before increasing the quantity. It also helps to make sure your baby likes the food, too.


When you do start with a new food, monitor if she gets gassy. Certain foods, like lentils, potatoes, and chickpeas may give your baby minor digestive issues. It won't be much of a problem for her, but it may be something you don't wish to deal with.



Pressure cook one tomato with half a clove of garlic in a cup of water with a little rock salt.
Remove the peel and blend it. Pass it through a sieve.
Bring the soup to a boil and test the consistency. If it is very thick, add some more water.
Add a little brown sugar and more salt if necessary.

Next week, pressure cook the tomato with half a carrot to change the flavour. The third time you make this dish, you can add a small chopped onion to the tomato. This keeps it simple, tasty, interesting and nutritious too.



Add half a cup of water to two teaspoons of rice and one teaspoon of lentils (start with split green lentils. It is easier to digest). Pressure cook it with some salt.
Pass the cooked mixture through a sieve to get a smooth paste or use a blender to make it smooth and even.
Add some more water to get the required consistency, add a dash of some finely powdered cumin powder and add a bit more salt, if required.
Tweak the same recipe by using a different lentil or grain base. Add a small dash of lime to change the flavour if you'd like, too.



Add a cup of water to half a small chopped onion, half a clove of garlic, half a carrot, 2 to 3 spinach leaves and a small cube of potato.
Pressure cook it with some rock salt.
Make a smooth puree with a blender and pass it through a sieve.
Add enough water to adjust the consistency and some brown sugar and more salt if necessary.
Tweak the same recipe by changing the vegetables in the soup – you can add 6-8 peas or a couple of finely chopped beans the next time, for example.



Bring half a cup of water to a boil and keep it aside.
Melt half a teaspoon of butter (or clarified butter, ghee) in a small frying pan.
Roast one teaspoon of whole wheat flour till it becomes light brown in colour.
Switch off the flame.
Add half of the boiled water (quarter cup only) to the roasted wheat flour slowly and only a little at a time. Stir continuously to avoid lumps.
Add one or two teaspoons of brown sugar to it and allow it to melt.
Switch on the flame and allow the porridge to simmer for a couple of minutes.
Add the remaining water slowly to get the required consistency, and add more sugar to get the required sweetness. Heat gently for half a minute again.
Add some finely ground cardamom powder for added flavour.

