 If you feel that your physique is small, there is a chance that you are actually underweight. The health dangers of being overweight are well-known, but there are also significant problems attached to being underweight. Evaluate whether you are underweight and consider steps to develop a healthier physique. This isn’t about becoming a bodybuilder, but is about being healthy and happy.


Use a BMI healthy weight calculator to assess your weight and size, like the one here.
If you are underweight you may not be getting enough calories, which can leave you tired and lethargic.
Being underweight can mean your body lacks the nutrients to develop fully. Your immune system will also suffer, making you more susceptible to illness., If you are underweight you should aim to gradually gain weight until you reach the recommended level for your age and height. This doesn’t mean eating a lot of fatty and sugar-filled foods to pile on the pounds. Doing this will increase your body fat, rather than your lean body mass. You should instead try to eat three meals a day, and three snacks a day, which are based on the principles of a healthy balanced diet.


High-energy foods are particularly effective if you are trying to gain weight.
Try oatmeal with whole milk for breakfast, with smoothies for snacks.
For lunch, a baked potato with tuna gives you lots of energy.
Peanut butter on wheat toast is a great high-energy snack to have between meals if you want to put on some weight., Achieving a healthy weight and physique does not mean building enormous muscles. Having a toned, athletic, and flexible body will help you stay healthy. Try to couple strength exercises, such as push up, squats, and crunches, with exercises that improve your flexibility, such as yoga or pilates.


Remember: you should not try to emulate an idealised or unattainable physique.
Think about how physically fit you feel, rather than what you look like.
Exercising regularly will help keep your body healthy. Try to do some muscle-strengthening exercises twice a week.