 Narcolepsy may be caused by low levels of hypocretin, a chemical in the brain that helps promote wakefulness. Experts believe that certain factors may work together to cause hypocretin deficiency, such as heredity, brain injuries, autoimmune disorders, and low levels of histamine, as well as certain environmental toxins. Heredity alone doesn’t cause narcolepsy.


Other sleep disorders related to narcolepsy, such as chronic fatigue syndrome, hypersomnia, insomnia, sleep paralysis, and sleep apnea can put you at an increased risk of narcolepsy.
If you think you have narcolepsy, talk to your doctor for a proper medical diagnosis and possible treatment plans as soon as possible., Since narcolepsy is fairly rare, it can take 10 to 15 years after the first symptoms appear to be properly diagnosed. Some people with narcolepsy have episodes in which they fall asleep suddenly, experience loss of muscle movement, hallucinations, and sleep paralysis. Extreme daytime sleepiness is the most obvious symptom of narcolepsy, characterized by mental cloudiness, memory problems, lack of energy, and depression. Sleep episodes may occur during all kinds of activities, such as talking, eating, reading, watching TV, or sitting in a meeting. Each episode can last for 30 minutes or less.


A sleep disorder called hypersomnia can occur along with narcolepsy, characterized by recurrent episodes of daytime sleepiness. Strong emotions such as anger, fear, laughter, or excitement can also trigger sleepiness.
Cataplexy is another symptom of narcolepsy which is often induced by emotional or other stressful stimuli. During a cataleptic episode you lose muscle tone when you’re awake, making it harder to move your head or speak. Some people may also lose all muscle control, causing them to drop things or fall. Episodes often last a few seconds or minutes, and often occur weeks to years after first experiencing extreme daytime sleepiness. The person remains conscious during these episodes.
Hallucinations can occur when falling asleep, waking up, or dozing. They feel very real and you may feel like you can see, hear, smell, and taste things.
Children who have narcolepsy may experience severe sleepiness, trouble studying, and remembering things. They may fall asleep while talking, eating, or during social events and sporting activities. They may also seem hyperactive.
These symptoms can range from mild to severe episodes. Most people with narcolepsy have trouble falling and staying asleep, which can worsen daytime sleepiness., If you think you might have narcolepsy, start a sleep diary before seeing your doctor. Your doctor will want to know when you first had signs and symptoms and whether they bother your sleep or daily routine. He or she also will want to know about your sleep habits and how you feel and act during the day. Keep a sleep diary a few weeks prior to seeing your doctor to make a daily record of how easy it is to fall and stay asleep, how much sleep you get at night, and how alert you feel during the day.


Also note down any factors that increase your risk of narcolepsy such as history of narcolepsy in the family, any brain injuries or exposure to toxins you may have experienced, and any autoimmune disorders or other sleep disorders you may have., Your doctor will check you to see whether another condition is causing your symptoms. Infections, certain thyroid diseases, drug and alcohol use, and other medical or sleep disorders may cause symptoms similar to those of narcolepsy. Tell your doctor about any medications, herbs, or supplements you may be taking as some may cause excessive daytime sleepiness.


Your doctor may suggest getting a hypocretin test, which measures the level of hypocretin in the fluid that surrounds your spinal cord. To get a sample of spinal cord fluid, a spinal tap is done in which your doctor inserts a needle into your lower back area and then withdraws a sample of your spinal fluid., If your doctor thinks you have narcolepsy, he or she may likely suggest that you see a sleep specialist. This specialist may advise you to get a sleep study test called a polysomnogram (PSG). A PSG records brain activity, eye movements, heart rate, and blood pressure while you sleep.


You usually stay overnight at a sleep center for a PSG. A PSG can help find out whether you fall asleep quickly, go into rapid eye movement (REM) sleep soon after falling asleep, and if you wake up often during the night, A multiple sleep latency test is a daytime sleep study that measures how sleepy you are. It is often performed the day after a PSG. During the test, you're asked to nap for 20 minutes every 2 hours throughout the day. You will nap a total of four or five times, during which a technician checks your brain activity, notes how quickly you fall asleep, and how long it takes you to reach various stages of sleep.


An MSLT finds out how quickly you fall asleep during the day after a full night's sleep. It also shows whether you go into REM sleep soon after falling asleep. , If you suffer from frequently interrupted breathing during sleep, ask your doctor for treatment options. Interrupted breathing can make it harder to fall asleep, which can result in excessive daytime sleepiness, headaches, and attention problems. Your doctor may recommend surgery or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) as treatment.


There are three types of sleep apnea: obstructive, central and complex.
CPAP is a common therapy for sleep apnea, which includes a small machine that supplies constant and steady air pressure, a hose, and a mask or nose piece. Some CPAP devices come with a heated humidifier for people who have chronic respiratory infections such as bronchitis or sinusitis., While there is no permanent medical cure for narcolepsy, certain medications prescribed by your doctor can help make it manageable. Your doctor may prescribe stimulants such as modafinil, which isn’t as addictive as other stimulants and doesn’t cause mood swings. Side effects of modafinil are uncommon, but may include headache, nausea, and dry mouth. Some people need treatment with various amphetamines, which are also effective but may cause side effects such as nervousness and heart palpitations, and may be addictive.


Serotonin inhibitors are also prescribed to suppress REM sleep through the day to help alleviate symptoms of cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and hallucinations. Side effects can include sexual dysfunction and digestive problems.
Tricyclic antidepressants are effective for people who have cataplexy, but have frequent side effects such as dry mouth and lightheadedness. Sodium oxybate can also be highly effective for people with cataplexy because it improves nighttime sleep and controls daytime sleepiness. However, it can have serious side effects such as bed-wetting, nausea, and worsening of sleepwalking. When taken with other sleeping medications, herbs, supplements, alcohol, or pain relievers, it can cause difficulty breathing, coma, and death.
Certain over the counter drugs, such as allergy and cold medications, can cause drowsiness. If you have narcolepsy, your doctor will likely recommend that you avoid these medications. 