 Pour the milk into a saucepan and place the saucepan on the stove. Gradually warm the milk up over medium heat until steam just begins to form.


While the acid you will use in this method may curdle the milk on its own when used in large enough quantities, heat dramatically accelerates the process, making the milk curdle faster and more noticeably. This is especially important if you plan to separate the solid curds from the liquid whey, as you would do when making cheese.
Note that you can also curdle milk using nothing but heat, as outlined in another method of this article. Doing so will produce smaller curds, though, so this method is recommended if you need larger curds.;
, Add an acidic ingredient like lemon juice, orange juice, or vinegar to the hot milk. Whisk it in to incorporate thoroughly.


Milk contains a protein called casein. Casein groupings are usually spread throughout milk evenly, but when milk becomes acidic, the negative charge keeping the casein groupings separate is neutralized. As a result, the casein proteins clump together, causing the milk to become grainy and curdle.Lemon juice is generally the preferred acid of choice, followed by vinegar. Both are more acidic than orange juice or other common kitchen acids.
The more acid you add, the larger your curds will be and the faster they will form. For smaller “grains” of curds, use a smaller amount of acid.
 Remove the saucepan from the stove and let the acidic milk stand, uncovered, for 5 to 10 minutes at room temperature. Do not stir the milk during this time.


If the milk has not curdled sufficiently enough for your recipe, you can let it stand longer or return it to the stove and heat it for a longer period of time.
 If you need the solid curds for cheese or another recipe, pour the contents of the saucepan into a cheesecloth. Wrap up the cheesecloth tightly and strain the liquid into a sink or large mixing bowl.


Depending on how watery the curdled milk is, you might need to let it drain for several hours to a day before all the whey separates from the curds.
If you do not need to strain the curdled milk, you can use it as is.

