 Especially if you have motor skills issues or executive dysfunction, it's important to have enough time not to feel rushed.
 Scrub your entire body without skipping any part! It might help to scrub everything multiple times just to make sure you scrubbed each part. Bury your hair with shampoo and rinse it off.
 Brush your teeth, wash your face, and apply deodorant. Then brush your hair and style it if desired.


Facial hair should be shaved or well-groomed.
If you wear makeup, stick with what you are good at doing, and keep it light.
 Remember what your date said about the dress code, and ask for specific advice in figuring out how to adhere to it. Consider asking a fashion-conscious loved one for help picking out a fitting outfit.


For a very casual meeting, wear some of your nicer everyday clothes. The clothes should be clean and laid-back—jeans, sundresses, nice t-shirts, et cetera.
For more conservative parents, wear the sort of clothes you'd wear to church. Try shirts with collars, ties, and mid-length skirts. Wear a little jewelry if desired, and keep it neat and simple.
For a very formal outing, dress like you would for a wedding or job interview. Choose your nicest clothes. Consider an attractive tie or a beautiful dress.
 Being a little overdressed just shows that you want to impress them, and is better than being a little underdressed. If this happens, the parents will probably appreciate the effort.
 You don't know exactly how traditional parents are, so unfortunately, a low-cut top or short skirt may lead to sexist commentary and speculations on how promiscuous you are. This doesn't make it okay or your responsibility, but it's probably something you want to avoid.


Make sure that your clothing is not see-through, and that your bra doesn't show.
Avoid showing cleavage or much of your thigh.
 Try an elegant tangle toy, a stress ball, stimmy jewelry, or another silent stim toy. Choose something small enough to fit into a pocket or purse. If it's especially attractive or unique, it may spark conversation.


You don't have to mention that you're autistic. You can say something like "I find that this helps me focus" or "I like to fiddle with things while I talk" and they'll accept the explanation.
Silent tactile stims are the most subtle. Chew gum if you need something in your mouth, hum if you need to stim vocally, and use replacement stims if they are comfortable.

