 Even if you washed your face with a facial cleanser the night before, give it a good scrub in the morning, or right before applying your makeup. Use a cleansing oil or an alcohol-free facial cleanser.


If you use a facial oil, simply dab some on a cotton ball as you would nail polish remover and swipe across your face. Facial oils break up the dirt particles instantly and clean out your pores. Once the oil is on, rinse.
If you use a facial cleanser, gently massage the cleanser onto your face and neck in small circular motions with your fingertips. Once applied, rinse with warm water.;
, If you have not done so within the past 24 hours, exfoliate your skin to remove dead skin particles and reveal the new, smooth skin beneath.


Avoid exfoliates with microbeads or large particles, as these will only cause micro-tears in your skin. Applying your facial cleanser to a warm washcloth and massaging the washcloth on your face is enough exfoliation.
A facial toner is a great addition to the exfoliation process. If you exfoliate at night, apply the toner before going to bed. If you exfoliate in the morning, apply the toner before applying your makeup., Facial serums help seal in the moisture that may have been lost during exfoliation, and prevent your face from drying out and getting dry skin patches. It is important that you do not skip this step, as the pores have just had a deep clean and need to be closed and sealed before applying makeup.


For oily skin, use a serum that contains glycolic acid or retinol to help smooth your skin's texture, accelerate cellular turnover, and prevent clogged pores. Vitamin C is a bonus ingredient, as it provides antioxidant protection while reducing redness and inflammation.
For combination skin, opt for a serum that targets your specific skin concerns. From reducing dark spots to scarring to smoothing out your skin, there are serums on the market that do it all.
If you have dry skin, look for a serum that contains hydrating ingredients such as hyaluronic acid, or opt for one with added vitamins., Moisturizer serves a number of purposes, from protecting your face from the sun to improving the texture, tone, and general appearance of your skin. Moisturizer also provides an even surface for makeup application.


Aim for a moisturizer with at least 30 SPF, as anything less will not adequately protect your skin from the sun's rays.Always moisturize after washing your face, as facial cleansers tend to dry out the skin.
Let the moisturizer absorb into your skin for a full 1-2 minutes before moving on to the next step.
 Too many people skip the primer, but this is a mistake. Primer helps smooth the surface of your skin, fill unwanted pores, evens your skin tone, and gives your makeup something to adhere to throughout the day. Use a primer that contains silicone, as this will act as a protective barrier between your skin and makeup.


Take a small amount of primer and start in the center of your face, then work your way outward. Aim for a light coverage—nothing too heavy.
Apply only with your fingertips or a sponge—never a brush.
Avoid applying primer to beneath or around your eyes.
 Using your fingertips or a foundation brush, apply your regular, everyday foundation all over your face. This is just the base, and should be the same color as your skin tone. Be sure to apply foundation from the top of your forehead to beneath your chin, and around your neck. This will ensure that there is not an unnatural looking line separating your head from your neck.


If you notice any blemishes such as under-eye circles, now is the time to cover them with concealer.
If you will be using a gel blush to finish off the look, do not apply your foundation until after you have applied your blush.
 Swirl your contour brush around in your bronzer approximately five times. Tap the brush on the back of your hand to remove any loose powder. Double-check the brush one last time to make sure it is not overloaded with product. The key to contouring is to go light.
 Make sure your mirror has plenty of light around it, and that it is tilted back so that when you suck in your cheekbones you can see the shadow beneath them very clearly. That is where your bronzer is going to go.
 Point your brush at the shadowy spot, suck in your cheekbones, and gently spread your bronzer in the shadowy area. Sweep up in a crescent shape, up towards the top of your ears. Be sure to not get any bronzer on your cheekbones.


If you have an oblong or square face, contour the corners of your face to make them appear less angular and to give your face a softer edge.
If you have a triangular face, contour along the jaw line to give your face a more proportionate look.
If you have a round face, contour at the temples, cheekbones, and the sides of the jaw line, giving your face more definition.
If you have an oval face, contour similar to the round face shape: at the temples, cheekbones, and sides of the jawline.
 Take a step away from the mirror and give your face a good long study. Is that naturally shadowy area now filled with bronzer? If so, success! If not, go over the area a few more times until the area is clearly defined.


If you have applied too much bronzer, do not worry; simply grab some tissue, scrunch it into a ball, and gently use circular motions to wipe off the excess bronzer.
 If you’re using a liquid highlighter, apply a small dab to the center of your hand. Pat your index or middle finger into it. Look straight into the mirror and apply the highlighter above the bronzer line. Blend the highlighter on top of your cheekbones.


If you need to, suck in your cheeks to get the bones to stick out.
If using a highlighting powder, grab a blush brush and pat some product onto it. Apply the same as if applying a liquid highlighter.
Blend onto the cheekbones, being sure to focus more on the top and outermost areas so that it gives your cheeks a soft glow.
To highlight an oblong or square face, add highlight to your forehead and chin to give your face more dimension.
For a heart shaped face, highlight under the eyes to bring your cheekbones forward. Highlight your forehead and chin to give your face more dimension.
For a triangular shaped face, highlight along the temples and under the eyes to give your face the illusion of cheekbones.
If you have a round face, use the highlighter on your chin and forehead to bring these areas forward and create the illusion of angles on your face.
 Choose a blush that matches or compliments your skin tone, and that pairs well with your eye and lip makeup. The wrong blush can make you look like a clown, or as if you are wearing stage makeup—neither of which is a good daytime or nighttime look.


If you are fair-skinned, opt for pinks and rosy hues.
If your complexion is more olive-toned, choose a peach or other tawny color.
If your skin is darker colored, use colors with a slightly orange undertone or hints of red., Each form of blush is created to highlight your cheeks a certain way, so choose a form that achieves the effect you’re going for. Cream blushes lend a dewy, sun-kissed look to the wearer and are good for daytime use. Powders are also good for everyday wear, while gels have a long-lasting effect, and can be used to transition from day to night.


If you are using gel blush, apply your foundation and other make only after you have applied the blush.
 To apply the blush, dab a large, soft blush brush into the powder. If you are using cream or gel, dab your fingers into the makeup. Smile! Your cheek’s apple should show up. Apply the blush to the top part of the apple in short, rounded, swooping motions.


Do not use long swooping motions, as doing so will give your face a sharp, severe look.
Brush outward toward the cheekbone.
 Once you have applied the blush to the apples of your cheeks, blend upwards along your cheekbones. For the most natural look, always concentrate the color on the apples of your cheeks and blend well. Before blending outwards, dust off the excess blush to avoid looking overly rosy.


Blend with your brush inwards towards your nose, then outwards, towards your ears. Make the motions half-moon like, and not angular, as this will make you look clownish.
Always use a clean brush for blending.
Once you’re done blending, brush downwards to smooth the natural peach fuzz along your cheeks.
 To set the look and ensure that your makeup doesn’t run or smear throughout the day, tap a small powder brush into your setting powder. Get a very light amount on the brush, so light that you can barely see it. Tap lightly along your cheeks, T-zone and chin.


You can also use setting spray, which you apply by misting onto your entire face. Setting spray is easier to apply than setting powder and offers a more natural, finished look.

