 People still have their constitutional rights, and no one can undo this. Some of the things that Trump pledges to do violate the Constitution; thus, he can't legally do them.Laws don't go away just because they are inconvenient to someone.


The first amendment includes freedom of religion. This means that Muslims are protected under the constitution.
The first amendment allows a free press and the right to express dissent. It will never be illegal to speak out against Trump, as long as you are honest.
The fifth amendment protects people's right to due process. Family members of terrorists can't legally be attacked simply due to them being related to the wrong person.
The fourteenth amendment states that people need equal protection under the law. This means that targeting people based on race/ethnicity, religion, gender, et cetera is unconstitutional.;
, The system of checks and balances allows the legislative branch to curtail the powers of the president. Congress can...Override presidential vetoes
Approve treaties and presidential appointments
Investigate
Impeach the president if necessary
Furthermore, Congresspeople are up for election every 2 or 6 years, and want to be re-elected (and to be good people). This means that even if they are of the same political party as the president, they won't necessarily follow if the president begins doing ridiculous things.
 The Supreme Court may rule against actions of the president.It can rule that a president's action is unconstitutional (or that a new law is unconstitutional)
The president can't fire the justices, and justices appointed by a certain president are not beholden to agree with the president or the president's party (see David Souter and John Roberts)

, These advisers will speak up if the president is trying to do something ridiculous, unwise, or illegal. They can advise the president on everything from policy to basic manners.


Government officials are required not to follow orders that break laws., Donald Trump will not be president forever, nor will Republicans have control of Congress until the end of time. It may help to think of this election as a temporary thing.


A president is in office for 4 years, and then runs for re-election, in which they may or may not win the seat for another 4 years. The Constitution limits them to 2 terms (8 years total).
Every 2 years, many Congresspeople are up for (re)election. Congress may switch to be in favor or one party or another.
After one bad president, the next president and Congress may work hard to undo some of the damage they did. For example, after Watergate, Congress passed laws to limit spying on opposing parties.