 Your physician can prescribe preventive medication to reduce the number and severity of your migraines. There are several different preventative medications that your physician may suggest. Preventive medications are meant to be taken daily and can include:Beta blockers, which are also used to treat heart disease. Although the reason they work is not clear, doctors believe it may be that they keep blood vessels from constricting and dilating in the brain. Beta blockers include atenolol (Tenormin), metoprolol (Lopressor), propranolol (Inderal).
Calcium channel blockers are another type of heart medication that have been found to reduce the number and duration of migraine headaches. These medications include verapamil (Calan) or diltiazem (Cardizem).
Tricyclic antidepressants help prevent other kinds of headaches as well as migraines. Medications include amitriptyline(Elavil), nortriptyline (Pamelor), doxepin (Sinequan), imipramine (Tofranil).
Some anticonvulsant medications will also prevent migraine headaches, although physicians are not sure why. Some anticonvulsants that have been effective include divalproex sodium (Depakote), gabapentin (Neurontin), topiramate (Topamax).
Botox injections have been approved by the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to treat migraines. The medication helps some people and is injected in a series in the forehead, temples, back of the neck and shoulders about every three months.
 Acute or abortive medications are designed to stop the headache you currently have. Acute or abortive medications are given when the symptoms first appear. Different medications are used to treat either the pain or the associated symptoms.Triptans are some of the first medications prescribed to relieve pain, nausea, and sensitivity to light, sounds, and smells. Triptan medications include: almotriptan (Axert), eletriptan (Relpax), frovatriptan (Frova), naratriptan (Amerge), rizatriptan (Maxalt), sumatriptan (Imitrex), zolmitriptan (Zomig).
Ergots work by constricting the blood vessels but have more side effects than triptans. These are the second type of medications used to help relieve pain and the associated symptoms, which can be worse than the headache itself. These medications include dihydroergotamine (Migranal) and ergotamine (Ergomar).
Isometheptene, dichloralphenazone, and acetaminophen, known as Midrin, combines a pain reliever, sedative, and medication that also constricts blood vessels to address the needs of someone with a headache.
Narcotics, such as codeine, are used for people who can’t take triptans or ergots because of side effects, allergic reactions, or interactions with other medications. But keep in mind that narcotics may also cause dependency and rebound headaches.
 Consider using feverfew daily to prevent migraines or reduce the severity of migraine headaches. This is not proven to reduce the severity or the number of headaches from which you suffer. However, there is anecdotal evidence that suggests some effect, so it is worth considering.


Freeze dried capsules are recommended because the tea is bitter and can irritate the mucous membranes in your mouth.Speak to your physician and pharmacist about integrating feverfew into your daily routine before starting.Feverfew can interact with other medications you may already be taking.
Do not take feverfew if you are pregnant or want to become pregnant, are breastfeeding, or taking another nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication, such as aspirin or ibuprofen.
Taper off slowly if you decide to quit taking feverfew. Stopping feverfew quickly can result in the return of migraine headaches with more symptoms, such as increased nausea, and vomiting.
 Ask your doctor what extract and dose would be appropriate for your circumstances, including your weight, age, and any underlying medical conditions.


Keep in mind that if you are allergic to ragweed, then you may be sensitive to butterbur.
Women who are pregnant, nursing, or want to become pregnant should not take butterbur.

