 Explain to your boyfriend that you find this annoying and you want him to stop. Your negative feelings should be enough for a good boyfriend to stop treating you that way. Here are some examples of ways to broach the idea:"I feel very uncomfortable when you wolf whistle at other people. It makes me feel like you don’t respect me."
"Please don't do that. I don't like it."
"Please stop wolf whistling. It makes me feel on edge.";
, If wolf whistling and catcalling is absolutely unacceptable to you, tell him that. He needs to know that you won’t tolerate this kind of behavior and that you will consider leaving if it continues.


Try saying something like, “I love you, but I refuse to allow you to wolf whistle. If you continue with this degrading behavior, I’ll have no other choice than to leave.”

, If he's used to wolf whistling and other forms of catcalling, he might need some time to remember that it's rude. Acknowledge a good-faith effort and encourage him to keep trying.A habit can take a while to break, so give him some time to adapt.
 Tell your boyfriend that in many places and cultures, wolf whistling (and other forms of catcalling) are considered hate crimes. They can make people feel uncomfortable and unsafe. And this kind of behavior can be punished by the authorities in many parts of the world.Your boyfriend probably doesn’t want to go to jail or be prosecuted for a hate crime. If you live somewhere where catcalling is considered a hate crime, bring this to your boyfriend's attention.
 If a little attitude is your style, you can try creative ways to make it clear that you aren't okay with his gross behavior. Come up with a clever retort to get him thinking.Try wolf whistling back at him to give him a taste of his own medicine.
Consider saying something like: “I’m sure your attention is totally the highlight of her day.”

, If possible, ignore the wolf whistling and don’t let it get to you. If you have talked to your boyfriend about it and he continues to do it, then decide if you can live with it or not. If not, consider breaking up with him. If it is not that important to you, then stay with him and just tell him you don’t like it every time he does it in front of you.Sometimes it’s better to just ignore the behavior than to get in a big confrontation about it.
 Wolf whistling is a form of catcalling that makes many women feel reduced to sex objects. It's not a compliment and this behavior on the street can cause victims to fear for their safety. Wanting to not experience harassment is well within your rights as a human being.Don’t try to minimize your feelings or get used to his behavior if it makes you uncomfortable.
Wolf whistling is a way for guys to exert power over women, which is why they often do it to show off around friends., A boyfriend who insists on inappropriate and classless behavior, even after you've asked him to stop, is not a boyfriend who respects your comfort levels and opinions. If he refuses to treat you with respect, it may be time to dump him.Don’t rush to any conclusions. But if he isn’t willing to take your feelings into consideration about this, then he will probably ignore your feelings about other issues as well.
 There are quite a few anti-catcalling movements that are active now, such as Hollaback and #YouOkSis. Reading up on these projects will help you better understand the importance of anti-catcalling movements.Read works by feminist theorists like Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, Elaine Showalter, and Julia Kristen if you would like to get a broader scope of feminist theory.

