 Spend some time grappling with the issue or problem. After all, if you don’t have a solid understanding of the issue or problem, you won’t be able to articulate a convincing point.


Read extensively about the issue or problem. For example, if you want to make a point about the problem of providing foreign aid, you should read as many newspaper articles, policy papers, and more about the subject as possible.
Talk to others about the issue or problem before you take a side.
Be open to different points of view on any issue or problem.;
, After you’ve learned about an issue or idea, you need to take a position. Taking a position on the problem will enable you to begin the work of honing your argument.


Make a concrete decision about it.
Your decision does not have to be black or white. You can take a subtle or complex position. For instance, if you're deciding to make a point about the problem of legalizing marijuana, you don't need to argue that it should or should not be legalized. You can argue that it can be legalized for some people, like adults over the age of 21 or for people with a certain medical condition.
State your point out loud to yourself in simple terms. Say something like "Marijuana should be legalized for all adults over the age of 21.", You also need evidence and supporting details to effectively make a point. Supporting your point with evidence lends it strength and makes it more convincing.


Brainstorm and make a list of evidence that supports your point. For instance, if you're making a point about legalizing marijuana, you can list things like crime, health, and economic data.
Narrow down your evidence. Pick the top three pieces of support that seem the strongest. If you think that three economic statistics associated with legalizing marijuana are the most convincing examples you have, use these., After you’ve done some thinking on the subject, you need to create an outline. Your outline will include the basics you’ve already covered and a little more. Make sure to include:


A sentence or two that clearly and concisely states your point. Use simple terms, if possible.
Expound on your main point in a sentence or two underneath.
List your three supporting details underneath your main point.
Include additional support that you will hold back from your initial delivery of your point. This will be used in a rebuttal, if necessary. For example, if you think that crime statistics are very convincing (but not as convincing as economic data) for your point about legalizing marijuana, use these here.
Craft a concluding sentence. Your concluding statement should re-state your point, re-iterate important details, and be very persuasive. For example, write that "Ultimately, when we take the economic benefits of marijuana legalization into effect, we find that our society will benefit immensely from ending prohibition.", Speaking clearly and slowly is an effective way to make a point. Not only does speaking clearly and slowly allow your audience to hear and process your words, but it will enable you to focus on your previously thought out plan.


State your point in a clear and unhurried way.
Focus on individual words instead of entire sentences or ideas.
Avoid jumping from one point to the next in a hurried fashion. Even if you have a limited amount of time to make your point, make sure you are moving through your thesis, supporting evidence, and conclusion in a deliberate way., When it comes to articulating your point, you need to stick to your plan. Make sure to state your point exactly as you outlined it. If you stray from your outline and talking points, you’ll be more likely to mess up.


This is when you say your point: "Marijuana should be legalized for all adults over the age of 21 because it will stimulate the economy."
Don’t rush. Take your time to articulate your thoughts clearly.
Avoid changing your point or your approach while you are making your point. This is likely to undermine your case. Don't change your argument at the last minute and switch to an argument about personal liberty. You have not prepared for this., Understanding how you speak – your level, intonation, pronunciation, and more – is very important in delivering your point. This is because your delivery greatly impacts how others perceive and understand what you are saying. Ultimately, if you understand how you speak, you’ll be able to take steps to improve your speaking.


Record yourself. Listen to recordings and then try to correct common problems. For instance, if you speak to softly, train yourself to talk louder.
Ask others to watch you or participate in debates with you. This is a great way to get feedback from people who care about you.
Consider things you might say a lot like "uh," your intonation, and any awkward pauses that you may make while you speak. Work to correct these., After you’ve made your point, you need to listen carefully to any response the person you’re speaking with might make. This is important, as without listening carefully, you won’t be able to respond thoughtfully.


Be quiet as the person is speaking.
While it may be tempting to think about how you’re going to respond, avoid doing so.
If you need, make some mental or written notes about the points the other person is saying. If the person is making an argument to maintain marijuana prohibition due to crime, take notes. You may need to counter with your back up evidence later on., When you feel emotion, you'll be more likely to lose track of what the other person is saying and what you will say in a rebuttal. In the end, if you let your emotions get the better of you, you'll respond in a much less effective way.


Make sure you think before you respond.
If you get upset, always count to five before responding.
Don’t take anything the person says personally. If they try to provoke you and get you to lose your cool, don’t take the bait., After you’ve listened to your opponent’s rebuttal, you need to respond. Responding to a rebuttal is extremely important, as it will give you the opportunity to restate your argument, clarify any misconceptions, and provide additional evidence.


Make a statement that transitions you to a response. In an informal setting, consider responding: "I see what you're saying, Toby, but I hope you will consider my argument." In a more formal setting, consider responding: "While I respect my opponent's perspective, I think the issue is much more complicated."
Restate the position or point of the person you are talking to, and verify that you understood what they meant.
Restate your point in different words, before adding any new comments.
Provide additional evidence, to lend more support to your point. This is that opportunity for you to mention crime statistics associated with marijuana. This might put you over the top in making your point.