 For the first few days after infection, a person with yellow fever will experience flu-like symptoms: fever, backache, headache, weakness, chills, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, muscle pain, loss of appetite, and an irritable mood. Most patients begin to recover after this stage. Around 15% of patients, however, experience a second, more dangerous stage, characterized by more fever, nausea, and vomiting and, in addition, jaundice (a yellowing of the skin and eyes, the symptom that gives yellow fever its name) and bleeding (from the eyes, nose, or mouth, or into your vomit or feces), which can lead to shock and organ failure.


The presence of jaundice during the second stage of yellow fever indicates that the liver has been affected. This symptom is a serious one.
Left untreated, half of all patients who enter the second stage will not survive it. It is therefore crucial to recognize the symptoms and seek immediate medical treatment.;
, Yellow fever is much more common in tropical and sub-tropical climates, where the high temperature, humidity, and rainfall permit abundant growth of the Aedes aegypti mosquito, which typically spreads the disease. In particular, if you want to avoid yellow fever, consider avoiding sub-Saharan/West Africa, especially between July and October, and South America.


African countries where yellow fever is likely to occur include: Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sudan, South Sudan, Togo, and Uganda.
South American countries where yellow fever is likely to occur include: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela.
 The germ that causes yellow fever is a particular virus, a flavivirus, which is usually transmitted through a mosquito bite. Typically, a female mosquito (most often the Aedes aegypti mosquito) bites a human, breaks through the skin, injects the virus into the person’s bloodstream, seeps up another load of blood, and then bites into another human, repeating the process.


In Africa and South America, mosquitoes can also transmit yellow fever from monkeys to humans and from apes to humans.
 mosquitoes are found on every continent except Antarctica, If possible, avoid jungles, forests, and other tropical and sub-tropical zones, especially sub-Saharan/West Africa and South America.
 If you are planning to travel to a potentially dangerous area, consult organizations like the Center for Disease Control to investigate particular locations and evaluate your risk. You’ll find information about places where yellow fever is prevalent and places where yellow fever is resistant to drugs.
 If you plan to be in a dangerous area, talk to your doctor about getting the vaccine. The yellow fever vaccine is called the 17D vaccine; it’s a live, attenuated vaccine that causes the body to produce antibodies against yellow fever. It is generally safe and gives maximum immunity against yellow fever within 7-10 days of vaccination. Your immunity will last up to ten years.


Some people should not get the vaccine. People with weakened immune systems, people with allergies to eggs or to the vaccine itself, and children under nine months old should not be vaccinated. Pregnant women should not be vaccinated until there is a yellow fever outbreak. Extra care should be given when people older than 60 get the vaccine.
Once you get the yellow fever vaccine, you will be issued an International Certificate of Vaccination (or “yellow card”).
Side effects of the vaccine include headaches, muscle pain, fever, and chills, and, in a small number of people, severe and more dangerous problems, including allergic reactions, neurological diseases, and organ failure.
 mosquitoes like still water, so if you are in a mosquito-infested area, try to avoid lakes, swamps, stagnant creeks, marshes, and bogs. mosquitoes typically lay their eggs in these locations, and many species then stay in the vicinity.


mosquitoes can also lay eggs in smaller containers, like flowerpots, bird baths, and drainage ditches, as long as there is sufficient water. The eggs of the Aedes aegypti mosquito can even stay in dry places for months, waiting for water; then, when water appears, they hatch. Therefore, be cautious of any man-made sources of standing water as well: whenever possible, keep pools, ditches, tires, containers, storm drains, and any low places on a piece of property covered.
 mosquitoes are attracted to warm-blooded creatures. Avoid wearing dark clothes in the sunlight, as they absorb more heat, and don’t exercise too strenuously, as you will get warmer and breathe more heavily, attracting mosquitoes with the carbon dioxide you exhale.
 Wear long sleeves, long pants, and loose clothing, and look for fabric that’s not too thin – mosquitoes can bite you through very thin material.


Consider purchasing special camping clothes, which are made from lightweight but sturdy fabric.
 There are a variety of products on the market to repel mosquitoes, and they come in creams, lotions, sprays, and sticks. Apply directly to your skin when outdoors, and, if you will also be using sunscreen, be sure to put the sunscreen on first, then the mosquito repellant. Avoid applying repellant around your eyes, mouth, and hands, and do not apply to irritated or broken areas of skin.


Look for products containing 15% picaridin, which is a very effective repellant.
Look for products containing 30%-50% DEET, an oil that will keep mosquitoes away. These products are effective for a few hours after application. Do not apply products with DEET to babies under six months of age.
Products vary, so follow the directions on the label. Make sure to help small children; do not allow them to handle mosquito repellants themselves.
 The Aedes aegypti mosquito is a daytime insect, most active from two hours after sunrise to a few hours before sunset. Research local species of mosquitoes, and try to adjust your activities accordingly.
 Fine-mesh aluminum or wire screens should cover windows and doorways. To be safest, keep doors and windows closed as well.
 Mosquito nets have very small holes that allow air to pass through but keep insects out. Secure the net to one or more surfaces, and hang it in such a way that it does not touch you – mosquitoes can bite you through it.


Consider looking for mosquito nets that are pretreated with insect repellants. These are typically used for malaria control, but they may work to prevent yellow fever as well.
Remember to check your mosquito net periodically for holes, and fix them immediately if you see any.
 Malathion, permethrin, and other insecticides will kill many mosquitoes, as will other commercial preparations made for inside spaces, but they are also very poisonous and should not be used by just anyone – you need to be properly trained and equipped with protective clothing.

