 Also, state contractually that no additional obligations will be incurred without prior written quotation and approval for any upgrade or change. Contractors could charge you whatever rates they would like for any deviation or nuance otherwise. Some families have spent tens of thousands of dollars and never realized that they would owe a dime since it was a one-for-one replacement in their eyes.
 Otherwise, all those new warranties are made futile and not enforceable. Thus, place this onus squarely on the contractor.
 Thus, if you live in a nice suburb in Connecticut, you are not obligated to be serviced by a vendor that is located in a rat infested area of the Bronx or a company that is going out of business. (Don’t laugh—it happens!)

, This needs to be carefully checked for the specifications listed. Remember that there are critical aspects that can make huge differences in your cost and values that you may not normally evaluate. Interior and exterior doors can vary widely be width, style, solid wood/hollow/ or particle board filled, finish, etc.—check the details and ask the construction firm to walk through the proposal on-site with you. Ask to see any items in the proposal that are important to you before construction. The proposal is based on the construction firm’s quotation of materials; they should be able to show you the actual material proposed either on-line or on-site at the location inclusive of doors, windows, cabinetry, etc. Do not approve the proposal without seeing the larger elements or the details in advance of the manufacturer, selection, etc. Do not allow the contractor to tell you that you cannot access the information yet for any reason – or that it doesn’t exist. If they have quoted it, then it exists on paper and they must be made to be forthcoming.
 Insist that any selections by you that are needed must be outlined at least two weeks in advance to allow proper timing and consideration.
 Consider an appliance worksheet (example in appendix) that notates the previous appliance and selected replacement inclusive of model numbers and styles. E-mail is a great expedient way to confirm choices in written form. This makes the contractor liable for the informed choice/selection and also makes you liable for the clarity of the decision. Any written selections that need further clarification should ask for them in writing.
 Their subcontractors are skilled in many disciplines such as carpentry, plumbing, flooring, painting, roofing and the like. Their skills and subcontractors may not lend themselves to being a complete expert in unique or more skilled areas such as placement of video cameras for security equipment and monitoring, hi-level stereo system design and installation, expert marble work, restoration of valuable antiques, or handling of unique areas of restoration that are not mainstream. These are areas where you might want to insist upon a separate entity by your designated selection to obtain the previous existing quality.
, The reason is that these contractors all have a “known” code to enter any and all of their homes, so any construction worker that ever worked on any project of theirs has now been given the “keys” to your house. They can enter at any time, and the premise is not secure. If there are any contents of value, any appliances to be installed, or any installed items that are damaged, then the liability becomes an issue, not inclusive of any liability if the trespasser gets injured on your property.
 Some contractors will advocate that you need to make the call of how to best remedy the leaking roof, for example. The right answer is that they are the general contractor and responsible for providing a dry roof. It is not your onus to understand and research the best construction techniques and make technical decisions – they own the liability for the decision.
 For example, the windows and doors selections may include the type and brand, but the contractor is responsible for the measurement and proper fit. Again, this may seem obvious but some contractors will try to unload as much responsibility as possible. Don’t fall for it.
 Insist on a copy of the contractor’s total coverage and make sure that it is adequate for your purposes.
,, Most reconstruction firms will have a caveat for this since they don’t want to be held liable and your insurance firms are typically limiting their liability too. Pay particular attention to areas where water was displaced and how the area is being handled. You would prefer complete removal for these areas and new build./wood/materials.

