 If you are in pain, the first step is to contact your physician. If your physician does not treat your pain effectively or does not refer you to a physical or exercise therapist, consider getting a second opinion or seeing a pain specialist. A pain specialist is a physician who specializes in treating pain.


Once you have a diagnosis from a doctor, you can use this information to;
, Some injuries and conditions may be made worse by exercising, so it is best to determine the cause of your pain before you try to exercise it away. The biggest danger is in overexerting yourself. For example:


Over-stretching can result in torn muscles, microtears, and micro-bleeds.
Doing range of motion exercises improperly can cause micro-tears, microbleeds, and dislocations.
Intense aerobic and endurance exercises may cause a heart attack or stroke.
 For lower back pain and neck pain, a chiropractor may be the ideal healthcare professional to provide a referral and education concerning the best forms of exercise for you. For acute pain, the first step may be using a form of passive therapy to alleviate the pain. These therapies may include:Electrical muscle stimulation using a TENS (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation) unit. TENS consists of pads that you place on your skin. The pads transmit a very small electric charge through the skin and the muscle underlying the skin. It is believed that the electrical stimulation releases natural painkillers and blocks the transmission of pain.Heat and cold therapy. This therapy involves applying heat packs, cold packs or alternating hot and cold packs to the area producing the pain. For lower back and neck pain, the specific cause of the pain and type of pain can be important in determining which therapy or combination to use. A chiropractor or a physical or exercise therapist should be consulted to determine which is best for your form of pain.Massage therapy can help loosen up tight muscles. If your muscles are very tight, then that can often make pain worse.
Chiropractic manipulation. If you vertebrae are misaligned, back and muscle pain often results. A chiropractic manipulation can realign the vertebrae and reduce pain., Once the acute pain has decreased, consider an exercise program that includes stretching, strengthening exercises, and low-impact aerobic exercise. You may also consider doing water exercises.


Only do the exercises recommended by your doctor, chiropractor, or physical/exercise therapist. They will have an understanding of your condition, your body, and your limitations.Try to find the balance between “pushing yourself” and hurting yourself. You need to push yourself a bit, but also know when enough is enough. Learn to pace yourself so that you don’t harm or re-injure yourself.