 Multi-Purpose Clothes Will Save Your Trip. It is important when preparing to depart for your study abroad experience that you research the weather in not only the area you are going but also places that you plan to travel.


Since Australia is a very spread out country it is possible to encounter many different temperatures and weather pattern along your travels. It may be breezy and cold on the coast one day and then the next day your travels could bring you to the outback where the climate will be much different.
This is also important if you plan to hit the near by islands of New Zealand or Fiji. Both are easily accessible but will require much different apparel.
 Video chats are a great way to keep in touch with family and friends while you are abroad. Video chat are more personal than phone calls and when you can see the people who you miss face to face it makes it much easier to not get homesick.


Skype is a great way to keep in touch because not only can you use it to video chat but you can also use it to call land lines to people like parents or grandparents who may not be able to figure out how to use video chat. Call to land lines through Skype are much cheaper than calling cards or international phone plans, it costs pennies per minute. Plus, most hostel computers have this program on their computers already for you to keep in touch while traveling as well.
 It won't be hard to find people who want to talk to you about your country or offer you advice on where to go. Australians are very friendly people who don’t hesitate to strike up a conversation at a local bar or sporting event, especially if your accent stands out.


Therefore it is important to make friends with the locals and other travelers you may come across. These are the people who are going to tell you about places and things to see that may not be as well known or in all the travel books.
Don’t be surprised if you live in campus housing if many people in your dorms offer for you to come home with them on the weekends. Take as many people up on that offer as you can, it will take you to many place with beautiful and unique scenery and usually at a very cheap price

, Buses and Trains and Planes, Oh My Traveling is by far the best thing that you can do on your exchange.


This opportunity could be a once in a lifetime experience for you. Wicked Travel and Koala are two great companies to look into during your time abroad in Australia. They are cheap student oriented travel companies that help student travelers book affordable and well planned trips that allow you to fit as much into your experience as you can. JetStar is a cheap airline company that also can help out a great deal. They frequently have cheap tickets and promotions to many different locations. Sign up for their e-mail list to get notifications of their deals and you could add a quick trip you didn’t expect to your agenda and get even more out of your time abroad.
 Keep in touch with the people you meet. While you will most likely be very excited to be returning to family and friends, you will greatly miss the people you’ve met. Emailing and Facebook is a great way to keep in touch with your new friends. Plus, there’s a good chance that you will meet people from around the world during your time abroad. This is a great connection if you plan to travel more, always places to crash You will likely meet someone from every country in Europe which would come in very handy if you decided to backpack someday

