 Writing a personal memoir can be a fun and challenging way to write about your family. You may write a memoir as part of an assignment for a class or as a personal project. To write the memoir, you will first need to do research on your family history. This may mean interviewing your family members, searching through public records for information on your family, and creating a family tree.


As you do your research, you should talk to your family about your plans to write a memoir. Let them know that you are researching your family for a book. Discussing the book with them will make the memoir more compelling and give you more information to work with.
Keep in mind your family may not all be thrilled at the idea of the memoir at first, especially if they are nervous or worried about certain family details coming to light. Be tactful and patient with your family. Explain to them that you are writing a memoir from your perspective and that there is never one side to any story. Assure them that you will let them read the final draft once it is done.
 To get a better idea of how to approach your family’s story, you may read examples of non fiction work about family. You may focus on a writer that has a particular style or voice that you love. Or, if you are focusing on a specific family dynamic, such as an immigrant family story, you may read works that relate to that dynamic. For example, you may read:



Angela’s Ashes by Frank McCourt

The Woman Warrior by Maxine Hong Kingston

Notes of a Native Son by James Baldwin

Running in the Family by Michael Ondaatje

The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls

, You may realize there is a specific issue or theme that keeps coming up when you talk to your family members and do research on your family. You may use this issue or theme to structure your story. You could also include your own reflections on the theme or issue in your piece about your family.For example, perhaps you notice the theme of assimilation keeps coming up in your research of your family. Or maybe there is the common issue of the women in your family overcoming obstacles to raise their children in America.
 Creating a plot outline for your family’s story will help you stay focused and organized. You may make a loose plot outline that is broken into chapters or sections. Or you may go for a more traditional plot outline that is based on a plot diagram. Whichever approach you choose, having a plot outline can make diving into the writing of the story much easier.


A plot diagram contains five parts: the exposition, the inciting incident, the rising action, the climax, the falling action, and the resolution.
You can also try using the snowflake method, where you write a one sentence summary of the story, followed by a one paragraph summary, character synopses, and a spreadsheet of scenes.
 In personal memoir, you are exploring your family relationships from your perspective. You should look at your family memories and your experiences with your family. Perhaps you realize there is a central conflict in your memories and experiences that you would like to explore further. Or maybe there is a particular memory you have from childhood that had a big impact on your family and the rest of your childhood.


If you are writing about a memory or experience that is difficult to confront, such as a memory of abuse or neglect from a family member, you may need to write several drafts of the memory. Take your time and try to focus on sensory details in the memory. Be honest about how you feel about the memory on the page and don't be afraid to dig deep.
 Once you have completed a draft of your story about your family, you should spend time polishing it until it is at its best. Read the draft aloud to yourself. Listen to how each section flows into one another. Pay attention to how you characterize each member of your family. Notice if there are any sections that feel flat or not as full of tension and conflict as they could be.You should ask yourself several questions as you revise, including: Do the characters in the story feel like fair representations of my real family? Is the conflict in the story and is it meaningful? Do I need to include more reflections on my family from my perspective?

, You should consider showing the draft of your story to your family members, especially if you are planning to try to get the story published. Get feedback from your family members. Ask them if they feel the story is accurate of the family’s history. Be willing to listen to what they have to say and integrate their feedback into your next draft.Depending on what you write, some of your family members may be upset or unsettled by your story. This may occur if you are writing about a family secret or a difficult period in your family’s history. You should be prepare to defend or explain the choices you made in your story to your family members.
You may also get feedback on the draft from close family friends or colleagues that you are close to. If you are looking for professional guidance on your draft, you may enroll in a writing workshop that focuses on non fiction and memoir writing. You may then get valuable feedback on your draft from other writers who are also exploring their family history.
You may be able to find non fiction writing groups online or at your local college or university. If you have friends or colleagues who have experience writing memoir, you may approach them and ask if they’d be willing to start a writing group.

