 “Ovarian reserve testing” can involve a variety of different tests used to determine the approximate quantity (and in some cases, quality) of a person’s remaining eggs. This can be done to assess their levels of fertility and/or the viability of freezing their eggs. Available ovarian reserve tests include both biochemical markers (such as FSH, estradiol, antimüllerian hormone, and inhibin B) and ovarian ultrasonic imaging (to determine antral follicle count and ovarian volume).This test is often performed as part of the initial evaluation for infertility patients.
This test is also performed prior to egg freezing.
This test may also be performed on transmen who'd like to freeze eggs prior to transition.
Depending on which clinic you choose, these tests can run anywhere from $150 to $500.;
, Most often, ovarian reserve testing is performed on women 35 or older who have been attempting pregnancy for at least six months, or on women who have other risk factors. These risk factors include a history of cancer treated with gonadotoxic therapy, pelvic irradiation, or both; medical conditions treated with gonadotoxic therapy; or ovarian surgery for endometriomas.Additionally, this test may be important for individuals interested in freezing eggs.
This includes folks transitioning from female-to-male, who'd like to start a family later.
 Many people may feel compelled to determine the size of their ovarian reserve. However, it should be noted that these results can be quite ambiguous, imperfect, and difficult to interpret. This is why home fertility tests are not recommended. Prepare to take the results of an ovarian reserve test with a grain of salt, and discuss all options with a healthcare provider before jumping to conclusions., If you’d like to have your ovarian reserve tested, perform an internet search for fertility clinics in your area. (Alternatively, you may contact your insurance company for approved options.) Make an appointment with a local clinic to go in and discuss your options. You may try this with several clinics until you find the right one for you. When you find a fertility clinic and doctor that you trust, make an appointment to move forward with your test (or tests).


Not all fertility practices are LGBTQ friendly and/or knowledgeable.
Transmen and other LGBTQ families should get referrals from friends or other doctors whenever possible.