 It’s hard even for doctors to determine when someone is just pretending to have a headache.Act like this headache is really keeping you down, making you tired and lethargic. A good way to sell a painful headache is to use symptoms typically associated with migraines: blurry vision and eye pain., The purpose of a sneeze is to remove a blockage in your nose, like mucus caused by a cold.A fake sneeze takes a little bit of acting. You don’t want to exaggerate and simply shout “achoo”, but a sneeze should occur in two parts. A good sneeze starts with an inhale and finishes with a strong exhale.


As the sneeze is supposed to dislodge blockage, try to make it sound “wet” by pursing your lips.
You can also spit a bit into your armpit or hands to simulate residue.
 Try and replicate the last cough you had, but make sure you don’t overdo it. Go into coughing fits every so often; make sure you don’t set a pattern, sometimes cutting off your own sentences. Don’t go for a big hacking cough as it’s the easiest way to get found out.
 The first step to pretending you have a fever is to make yourself warm to the touch. Many parents will just check your forehead with the back of their hands if you start complaining that you’re sick. Try the following to beat this test:


Use a hairdryer for a few minutes to warm up your forehead. Make sure you do this away from your parents so they can’t hear the noise.
Bury your face in the pillow and exhale several times. This will warm up the pillow and your face.
 If your parents are particularly skeptical, they might test for a fever with a thermometer. To convince your parents you have a fever, the thermometer needs to show a temperature at or above 100.4°F (38°C). Be careful not to go too high, as your parents might take you to the hospital. The method you use will depend on how trusting your parents are.


If your parents leave you alone with the thermometer, simply rub your thumb against the sensor until it reaches the right thermometer.
If your parents won’t leave you with the thermometer, excuse yourself to the bathroom. Gargle some hot water to raise the temperature in your mouth. Be careful not to burn yourself.