 When practiced daily, meditation can reduce your stress and anxiety, increase your focus and productivity, and improve your general well-being. When practiced in the workplace, meditation provides the same benefits. It can help you to relax, enhance your effectiveness as an employee, and improve your overall on-site experience. To reap these perks, set aside time to meditate each day:


Meditate during your lunch hour. The midday mental break will rejuvenate your mind.
Meditate at the end of your work day. Concluding your workday with a brief meditation session will enforce the boundary between your work life and your social/home life.
Meditate whenever you feel stressed or anxious. Taking a break from your busy schedule can actually help you overcome the feeling that you have too much to do.;
, While some workplaces have designated meditation spaces, many business do not. Do your best to find a quiet, comfortable, private location to practice your meditation. If you must remain in your cubicle or office, you can take the following steps to minimize the distractions:


Close your door and dim the lights.
Take your desk phone off the hook.
Turn off your cell phone.
Put your computer in sleep mode.
Wear earplugs or headphones., Take a seat in a comfortable chair. Place your feet firmly on the ground, rest your hands on your knees, sit up straight, and lift your chin. As you focus on an object in front of you, take several deep breaths. Gradually soften your gaze and close your eyes., As you concentrate on your breathing, listen to your heartbeat. Do not control your breath, just breathe naturally. Note how your body moves with every inhale and exhale.


How do your ribs move?
When do your shoulders rise?
How does your belly rise and fall?, As you meditate, thoughts will enter your mind. Instead of fixating on these thoughts, acknowledge that they exist and choose to let them exit your mind. Return your focus to your breathing.


Do not judge or assess your thoughts.
As you practice, you may begin to notice a pattern in your thoughts., Gradually return your attention to the present. Before opening your eyes, take several deep breaths. Instead of immediately returning to work, remain seated for a moment and take time to assess how the meditation made you feel.


You may choose to end your meditation session at any time. As you continue to practice, your sessions will get longer.