 This method is for slinkies that aren't tangled, but have developed bent coils or "kinks" that refuse to line up with the other coils. Some plastic slinky kinks can be molded back into place when heated, but this won't always work and could even melt your toy if you're not careful. Metal slinkies are much harder to bend back, so only try it if you have time to spare and really don't want to buy a replacement.
 Fill a pot with enough water to cover the slinky. Heat it on the stove alone, without the slinky in it.You do not want the water to boil, but keep heating it until it becomes quite hot, perhaps just beginning to steam.


You could microwave a bowl of water instead, or heat water in the kettle and pour it into a pot.
 Turn off the heat once the water is hot. Never keep heating the water after the slinky is in it, or the slinky could melt and ruin both itself and the container it's in.
 Put on rubber gloves to protect your hands, and lower the slinky into the hot water. Leave it there for a couple minutes.
 After a couple minutes in the hot water, take the slinky out while wearing gloves. If the slinky was heated hot enough, you should be able to mold it gently into place, pressing the kinked coil down where it should go.


If you have a cardboard tube or other cylinder that's slightly smaller than the slinky, you can wrap the slinky coils around it to get the right position., If the slinky is still stiff and can't be bent, heat the water hotter and try again. Heating the slinky too much can make it a permanently ruined mess, so increase the temperature slowly and keep a close eye on the water. Never heat the slinky directly.
 Immediately after bending it back into place, place the coiled slinky underneath a flat book. Leave it there for several hours, or even overnight, to compress the slinky into position.


If the book keeps falling off, try using a large, thin children's book instead. Place a small, heavy object on the center of the children's book, directly over the slinky.
Don't use a book that's so heavy or so wide that it knocks the slinky over and crushes it.
 If hot water doesn't work to repair the slinky, you could line a baking sheet with tin foil, put the kinked slinky in a stack on top of it and heat it in a 250ºF (121ºC) oven for about 10 minutes.Use oven mitts to pull it out and bend it back into place, if it hasn't settled on its own. This is risky, as some plastic slinkies could melt.
 If all else fails, use a pair of wire cutters to cut the slinky at either end of the kink. You can try to reattach the good parts using rubber cement or super glue, but it will be difficult to attach them at the right angle. More likely, you'll end up with two permanently separated smaller slinkies.


The cut ends may be sharp. Try covering them with several small pieces of packing tape to protect your fingers.

