 To start making an origami gun, you'll need to prepare two sheets of paper. Take a large rectangular sheet of origami paper. Fold it in half and tear it into two smaller, wider rectangles. You will fold each smaller sheet using the following process:


Fold the rectangle in half from top to bottom, creating a smaller, narrower rectangle. Then, unfold the paper.Use the crease in the center of the paper as a guide. The paper is now in two halves. Fold one-half inward, so the end of the paper lines up with create. Then, fold the other half inward, so the end of the paper lines up with crease. The two ends of the paper should meet at the crease of the paper.Now, fold the paper inward along the crease. You should have a long, thin strip of folded paper., Then, unfold the paper. The crease at the center of the strip should divide it into two halves. Fold the end of the right half at a 90-degree angle. Then, fold the other half into a 90-degree angle. The paper should look something like a small paper horseshoe.The width of the center, horizontal section should be twice the width of your long pieces. Place the strip to the right of your center line. Then fold the "arm" of the horseshoe right where it meets the thin strip in the center.
 Keeping the fold starting in the same place, re-angle the horseshoe so it looks a bit like a squared teardrop. There should be a nice triangle in the middle.
 It will be a bit like a lower-case "L," with a long strip and slight curvy bit at the end. You should also fold your long, thin strip of paper in half too.
 Things can get a bit tricky here, so go slowly. Take your second strip of paper and fold it in half from end to end. You will be inserting this strip into the handle:


Pull the handle apart slightly. The bent down portion should have two small openings. Feed either end of the second strip through these openings.Pull both ends of the second folded strip through the openings of the horseshoe. Keep pulling until the two strips are forming a wide angle of roughly 110 degrees. The two ends of the strip will form the "barrel" of the pistol., You should now be able to see the outline of a gun. There should be a small folded strip of paper hanging out just underneath the gun's barrel. Pull down on this strip of paper gently, until it hangs down below the gun. You should now be able to bend this handle in and out like a trigger., This is where you "load" the gun." The incision should be roughly 1/4" deep and 1/2 wide. Place it roughly in the center of the diagonal "trigger" of the gun.


You may need to cut twice -- once through the barrel and once through the opening underneath. If you do, try and stagger them a bit to make a "hammer" on your gun, or the small lever you see people pull back before shooting in movies. This little extra notch will help hold the rubber band in place.
Make sure there is a deep enough notch to hook a rubber band (bullet) onto.
 This just needs to be big enough to hold a rubber band on the other side. You can then attach the band between this notch and the first one you made. When you pull the "trigger" you move the notch enough to release the rubber band, causing it to fire!

