 A complex sentence is made up of an independent clause and what is known as a dependent clause. A dependent clause is a group of words that contain a subject and a verb but do not express a complete thought by themselves. In other words, a dependent clause is not a simple sentence by itself.There are several words, called subordinating conjunctions, that indicate the beginning of a dependent clause.


Examples of subordinating conjunctions are as follows: after, although, as, as if, because, before, even if, even though, if, in order to, since, though, unless, until, whatever, when, whenever, whether, and while. Examples of dependent clauses by themselves are as follows: "Because Yao shares his books", "Before eating my breakfast" and "Until I have more money".
 Notice that while the above examples of dependent clauses have a subject and verb, they do not express a complete thought. In order to express a complete thought, the dependent clause needs to be joined with a simple sentence. Here are some examples.


Because Yao shares his books, he is kind. -or- Yao is kind because he shares his books.
Before eating my breakfast, I have to walk my dog. -or- I have to walk my dog before eating breakfast.
Until I have more money, I won't be able to buy an engagement ring. -or- I won't be able to buy an engagement ring until I have more money.
 When writing a complex sentence, you need to combine one simple sentence with a dependent clause. Make sure you use the dependent clause to clarify what is happening in the simple sentence.
 Complex sentences are useful because they often show a clear and specific relationship between the parts of the sentence. For instance, "before" tells readers that the dog needs to be walked prior to eating breakfast; "because" helps to explain why Yao is kind.
 Periodic sentences begin with the dependent clause and end with an independent clause. You do not provide a comma before the dependent clause if the independent clause comes first. Commas are only used if the dependent clause is introducing the simple sentence.Periodic sentences are great for building up tension or interest, since the the dependent clause "builds up" to the meaning or complete thought at the end.
For example: "As I sat waiting in traffic, I realized I would be late for class."

