 Gas forms when carbohydrates that are not digested in your small intestine are fermented by bacteria in your colon.Foods that cause this to happen affect some people more than others do. If you experience gas and bloating often, you might want to limit or avoid consuming these foods:


Beans and other legumes. Black beans, kidney beans, lima beans, peas, and other legumes are notorious for causing gas to form. They contain a sugar called oligosaccharide the body cannot break down; the undigested sugar stays intact through the digestion process and results in gas production in the small intestine.
Fibrous fruits and vegetables. Fiber has many health benefits, but it cannot be digested and it is one of the main culprits that cause gas and bloating. Try to figure out which fibrous fruits and vegetables give you the most trouble. Cabbage, broccoli, and other cruciferous vegetables tend to cause more gas production than salad greens.
Dairy products made from cow milk. Cow milk contains lactose, which disagrees with many people's digestion. Avoid milk, cheese, ice cream, and other dairy products made with lactose milk. Goat's milk is said to be easier for people to digest, so try it as an alternative.
Artificial additives. Sorbitol, Mannitol, and other artificial sweeteners cause many people to become bloated.
Soda and other carbonated drinks. The air bubbles in carbonated drinks lead to bloating, since the air stays trapped in your stomach.
 The body naturally produces hydrochloric acid, which breaks down protein, when you first start eating a meal. If you start a meal by eating carbohydrates, the hydrochloric acid gets used up before the protein you eat later in the meal hits your system. The under-digested protein then ferments and leads to gas and bloating.


Instead of starting your meals with bread and salad, take a few bits of your meat, fish, or other protein first.
If digesting protein continues to become a problem, consider taking hydrochloric acid supplements, sold at health food stores. Take them after the meal while you are still digesting your food.
 Chewing your food is the first part of the digestion, when your teeth and saliva start breaking the food down. Making sure you chew every bit thoroughly before swallowing creates less work for your stomach and intestines, reducing the chances the food will ferment and cause gas.


Try to chew each bite 20 times before swallowing. Put your fork down between bites to give yourself time.
Slowing down how you eat also prevents you from swallowing as much air as you do when eating quickly, so bloating and burping won't occur as often.
 Proper digestion requires a supply of healthy bacteria. People have been supplementing their bodies with bacteria-containing food for centuries.


Yogurt containing probiotics is a common source of bacteria that aids in digestion. Kefir is another cultured dairy product that is easy for the body to digest.
Sauerkraut, kimchi, and other fermented vegetables are also good alternatives.
 Digestive enzyme supplements can help your body break down the indigestible components of beans, fiber, and fats that might be causing your gas or bloating. Try to identify what food is causing the problem and choose the correct supplement.


If you have trouble digesting beans, try Beano, which contains the enzyme needed to digest oligosaccharides.
Digestive enzymes should be taken before the meal, rather than after, to so your body is ready to digest the food as it hits your system.

