 Although most states make informational copies of death certificates available to anyone who asks, certified copies typically are restricted to close family members of the deceased.


The death certificate typically is prepared by the funeral home or other individual or organization in charge of the person's remains. In addition to the date, time, place, and cause of death, the death certificate includes information such as the person's full name and address, his or her birth date and birthplace, and the name and birthplace of the person's mother and father.The death certificate also may include information about the person's education, military experience, marital status, and the name of the surviving spouse.Because of the sensitivity of much of the information on the death certificate, many states restrict access to them. If you are unrelated to the person for whom you're seeking a death certificate, you may only be able to get a redacted informational certificate – particularly if the death was fairly recent.Certified copies are officially stamped and contain complete information. These copies typically are required for functions involved with the person's estate, such as transferring property or claiming death benefits.However, if you don't need the certificate for probate purposes, an informational copy should be sufficient.
 Death certificates generally are kept in the state or county where the person died.


If the death occurred recently, the record may not yet be at the state vital records department, so you would need to go to the county. However, if it's been a year or longer you probably can find the certificate filed with the state.Conversely, death records that are hundreds of years old typically are kept in local or county vital records offices rather than at the state level. For example, Minnesota began keeping death records at the state level in 1908. For earlier death records you would have to contact the office in the county where the death occurred.The CDC has an online directory of the vital records offices in each state at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/w2w.htm.
 Most states have a particular form you must fill out to request either a certified or informational copy of the death certificate.


If you're requesting a certified copy, you usually must be related to the person as defined by state law. In most states, certified copies are available for parents, children, and siblings of the deceased.Some jurisdictions require death records request forms to be signed in front of a notary. Staff at the vital records office will tell you if this is required, or you may simply look on the form to see if there is a place for the form to be notarized.If your request form must be notarized, you can fill out the required information, but don't sign it until you are in the presence of a notary.
You also may be required to submit documentation of your relationship to the deceased or your stated interest in the estate., Once you've completed your request form, you must file it with the state or county vital records office where you believe the death certificate to be located.


You must pay a fee for each copy of the death certificate. The fee varies among jurisdictions, but typically is between $10 and $15.Keep in mind that the fee is non-refundable, meaning you won't get any portion of it back if the office does not find the record you requested., If you filed your request in person, you may be able to get the death certificate that day. If you mailed in your request or filed it online, expect several weeks of processing time before your copy is delivered.


Some vital records offices may have expedited processing available for an additional fee. You can ask at the vital records office if this service is available, or check the state vital records website.