 A primary concern regarding your selection will be financial.Insurance companies are required to provide directories listing local options in your area, along with a summary of benefits showing what is covered.Ask, “Does my plan cover services at birthing centers?” “Which local birthing centers are covered by my plan?” “If I choose a water birth, is that service covered?”
You also need to find out about coverage at local hospitals: “If I have to stay extra nights at the hospital because of complications, are those covered?”;
, Your choice of hospital or birthing center may be determined by the doctor or midwife you choose.Most doctors only have admitting privileges at specific hospitals.
At birthing centers, most of the care is provided by midwives.
Talk with your provider about what type of care you prefer: “I really want a natural childbirth experience. Can you treat me at a birthing center instead of a hospital?”
Find out if you have choices if you are not happy with where your provider usually delivers: “I have not heard great things about that hospital, can you help me deliver at a different facility?”

, Once you’ve narrowed down your choices, it is time to figure out whether they offer quality care and the extras you may be looking for.


Ask friends who have recently given birth for recommendations. They will be able to give you first-hand insights on the care they received. You can ask questions like: “How was the nursing care? Did you have to wait long when you asked for assistance or pain relief?” or “Did you get to keep the baby with you immediately after delivery, or was the baby taken away for an exam?”
Research the hospitals or birthing centers online to see how they have been reviewed by patients.
Check to see whether local birthing centers are accredited. The Commission for the Accreditation of Birth Centers has an interactive, online tool to research birthing centers across the country., Depending on certain medical conditions, you may only be a candidate for a hospital birth.Talk with your health care provider to find out if you are having a healthy enough pregnancy to give birth at a birthing center or if you need to be at a hospital.


Most birthing centers cannot handle high-risk pregnancies, such as those for mothers older than 35 or mothers carrying multiples. Talk with your health care provider about your specific concerns.
 Once you’ve narrowed down your choices between hospitals and/or birthing centers, schedule a tour.Being on site at your potential delivery hospital or center will help you figure out some logistical basics, such as where to park, which doors are open in the middle of the night, and the best route to the maternity ward.
You will be able to meet some of the staff and ask questions like, “Who can be in the room during delivery?” or “Is my partner allowed to stay overnight?” or “What are the security policies at the hospital/center?” or “Do you have tubs for laboring in?”
Pay attention to the comfort level of the delivery and recovery rooms.
 In addition to serving as the potential site of your baby’s birth, these facilities can be a good resource for learning more about becoming a mom.Do they offer childbirth classes?
Are classes available on baby CPR, general baby care, or babyproofing your house?
Are there support groups available for new mothers or new fathers?
Do they offer breast feeding support?

