 Canning preserves the food in an air-free environment. Without air, there is no way for bacteria to form, allowing canned foods to have a shelf life of 1-5 years. Most fruits and acidic vegetables will be canned in a water bath. This method of canning, good for high-acid foods, involves placing food in sterilized canning jars, putting lids on them, and then lowering them into water that comes to a boil. Be sure to follow a recipe, or consult the website cited below for an array of canning ideas, recipes, and videos.Using this method, you can preserve:



Jams and jellies
Fruit pieces – peaches, apples, pears, pineapple, plums, etc.
Salsas
Tomatoes
Chutneys
Pickles

, This is the way you will need to can meats and most vegetables, all of which are low-acid. Keep in mind that if you are putting a high-acid and a low-acid food together to be canned, you must also use this method. Like the water-bath method, pressure canning requires you to fill sterilized jars with the food you want to can, cover with the appropriate lids and then placing them into a pressure canner with boiling water in it. You will then lock the pressure canner lid into place and vent it, allowing it to create steam for 10 minutes. As was the case with the water-bath method, be sure to use a recipe.This method is best for:


Vegetables – corn, green beans,
Soups and stews

Stock – both vegetable and meat
Meat
Poultry
Fish

, Pickling refers to multiple processes – usually involving fermentation and canning though it might be only one or the other. The usual pickling process is for cucumber pickles involves canning them in a vinegar brine. This process can also be used for an array of other fruits and vegetables, including:Okra
Peppers
Ginger
Green beans
Brussels sprouts
Cauliflower
Eggplant
Watermelon rinds
Lemons
Pineapple

, Ferment cucumbers or cabbage to make pickles and sauerkraut. Both classic pickles and sauerkraut are made through a fermentation process, typically lasting three weeks. The vegetable is salted and put into a pickling crock. The water comes out of the vegetable as it ferments, creating a new flavor. Even though the cucumbers are also called “pickles,” like those canned in vinegar brine, they are actually fermented to preserve them.