 While anyone who is diagnosed with Tourette's has motor and/or vocal tics that have occurred for a year or more, there is a wide variation of how those symptoms present in each person. Tics with sudden, rapid, and recurrent movement or vocalization are not one and the same.Tics can start usually between the ages 5 to 18. They may start out as motor tics of the face, limbs, arms, or trunk. But tics can change patterns or frequency over time. The tics you have now may not stay the same as two years from now.
Vocal tics aren't just involuntarily shouting obscene words. The more common vocal tics are grunting or barking, snorting, throat clearing, or repeating other's words or sounds. Help others to understand uttering inappropriate words is not the most common symptom.
Males are more likely to have Tourette's, but it can be found in either gender.
There is usually a family history of Tourette Syndrome, ADHD, or OCD in the family. Think about any relatives who you know that have Tourette Syndrome, ADHD, or OCD. They may have insight about their condition, and how it developed into their teens.
 As a teen, you may be concerned about how long you'll have these tics, and whether they will get worse. Some good news is that most research shows an improvement in the condition in a person's late teens and early adulthood.


While your tics may peak in early puberty around age 10-12, they are more likely to decrease after your mid-teens.
About 85 to 90% of those affected with the condition will see improvement by adulthood. While the symptoms may not fully go away, the condition may be less bothersome for you. Think positively about how your symptoms will likely improve over time.
 While it may seem like there are no positives to having Tourette Syndrome, think about how this condition has made you stronger, more understanding, and possibly more accepting of differences in people.Avoid focusing only on the negative aspects of feeling different or weird. Don't let others determine your worth and value.
See how your condition makes you unique. It may help you to learn to appreciate others more. It may teach you to be kind to others who face similar challenges. It gives you a sense of originality. You're not boring and ordinary.
 Be self-aware and recognize if there are other conditions that need attention. Many teens who have Tourette Syndrome may also have ADHD, OCD, anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, or a substance use disorder.Having another condition is common, and thus it's important to really look at your overall mental health.
If you've had Tourette's for many years, you may feel sad, anxious, or upset about feeling different or having difficulty with talking to other people. Look at ways to get help, feel more accepted, and be happier with who you are.

