 One of the best ways to help your cat get used to car rides is to take short rides. By taking short rides, your cat will be able to experience a car ride and get used to the movement of the vehicle.


Start with a 5 or 10 minute trip around your neighborhood.
Slowly increase the amount of time.;
, By turning the car into a calm and relaxing environment, you’ll settle your cat’s nerves and help it get used to the car ride. In the end, creating a calm environment may help your cat overcome car sickness.


Put on white noise.
Pull some shades down over the back car windows to darken the back seat.
Avoid blaring music.
Ask small children to be quiet and calm.
Make sure to bring plenty of food and water, especially if you're taking a long trip., Make sure to bring as many items as you can to entice your cat. This is important, as you’ll want the cat to have a positive association with the car. In addition, by including treats, toys, and more, you may be able to distract your cat from its anxiety and lessen the chance of car sickness. Bring:


Treats
Toys
A bed, towels, and pillows, Safety is a very important thing to consider when traveling with your cat. This is especially true since your cat could interfere with your ability to drive. However, some safety measures can potentially create anxiety for your cat.


If you use a harness or another device to secure your cat to the seat, make sure your cat is comfortable in it.
Avoid bulky harnesses and other safety devices.
Try equipping your cat with any safety equipment while at home. This way, it can get used to the feeling of a seatbelt harness while not in the car.
Consider using a cat carrier to secure your cat. This way, your cat will be secured safely in an environment it is already familiar with., If you notice your cat gets sick when riding in the car, you should visit your veterinarian and have them examine your cat. Ultimately, you won’t know how to treat or deal with your cat’s car sickness if you haven’t ruled out medical problems.


Describe the problem to your vet. For example, say “Whenever we ride in the car, Yoda starts acting weird and winds up vomiting in the back seat.”, After examining your cat and ruling out any medical conditions, the vet will likely prescribe medication to help your cat overcome the symptoms of car sickness. Depending on the vet, your cat, and other circumstances, this medication may vary.


Your vet may prescribe motion sickness medication.
Your vet may prescribe anxiety medication to help put your cat at ease while it is traveling in the car.
They may prescribe a mild sedative., Other than prescription medication, your vet may be able to make some recommendations that will help you manage and deal with your cat’s car sickness. These recommendations may range from holistic medicine to small tips on how to talk to your cat.


If you’d prefer non-prescription medication solutions, tell your vet. For example, say “Doctor, I want to avoid medications, if possible. Can you give me some tips on other ways of how to help my cat overcome car sickness without medication?”
They may be able to recommend non-prescription treatment like ginger. Ginger may reduce nausea in cats.
Your vet may recommend that you feed the cat earlier than usual so their stomach is not full when they are riding in the car., The inconvenience of dealing with a carsick cat is that their throw up may stain or ruin your car seats. To avoid this you should cover your seats to protect them from stains. Ultimately, there are a wide variety of seat covers you can use. Consider using:


Old towels or sheets
Generic seat covers
Seat covers made for your make and model vehicle

, It is important that you’re prepared to deal with any mess that your cat creates because of their car sickness. As a result, you should travel with all essential cleaning products you may need to clean up their mess.


Bring paper towels or cloth rags to pick up cat vomit or any other mess. You may also need some to wipe your kitty’s mouth.
Pack any cleaning solution you’ll need to clean your car seats.
Include a few plastic bags to put any mess-related trash., Another great way to help deal with the mess of your cat’s ca sickness is to travel with a cat carrier. The cat carrier has several benefits and will help you contain the mess and put the cat at ease.


Your cat may be more comfortable and less anxious in the carrier. This is especially true if your cat spends a decent amount of time in the carrier.
Consider covering the bottom of the carrier with newspapers. This way, if your cat becomes sick, you can simply ball up the newspapers and throw them out.