 The measles infection develops in stages and comes with several signs and symptoms as it evolves. The illness is contagious prior to the onset of the prodromal phase, or the time in which signs and symptoms starts to occur. It takes five days before rashes become visible. It continues to become contagious until four days following the onset of the rashes.The early symptoms of measles typically emerge 10 days after your child becomes infected and resolve around the 7th to 10th day afterwards.;
, The incubation period of the measles virus is 10 to 14 days following exposure. If a person has measles, your child must be at least 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m) near the infected person to be at risk of inhaling the measles virus. Your child can inhale it in the form of respiratory droplets that comes from certain activities of an infected individual such as breathing, coughing, talking or sneezing. , During this period, it is impossible for parents to identify measles in their child because it is usually not accompanied by any signs and symptoms., The Prodromal Phase (non-specific signs and symptoms) begins 11 days following exposure to the measles virus and lasts 4 to 5 days., Low-grade fevers range from about 100 degree Fahrenheit to 101 degree Fahrenheit (37 to 38 degrees Celsius).When your child’s body detects the virus, it will try to burn it out by increasing the temperature of the body. Use a thermometer to measure your child’s temperature.


For infants, you can detect fever through the following non-verbal cues:

Irritability
Fussy or hard to soothe
May not suck on the breasts or bottle
Cries constantly
Exhibits episodes of shivering or chilling


For verbal children they may complain of:

Feeling hotter or colder than normal
Headache
Pain in different parts of the body
A bitter taste which leads to loss of appetite


Verbal children can also display non-verbal cues of fever such as:

Irritability
Episodes of shivering or chilling
Lethargy



, Conjunctivitis is the swelling of the eyelids and eyeballs that occurs when rashes develop on a child’s face. Look to see if your child’s eyes look puffier than usual.Verbal children may complain of a burning pain in their eyes. They may rub their eyes because conjunctivitis is itchy and leads to tear formation.
 Photophobia is characterized by the occurrence of pain whenever the eyes are exposed to bright lights. This happens when the eyes are swollen; bright lights can further aggravate the situation.You may notice that your child immediately closes his or her eyes when exposed to bright lights.
 A runny nose occurs to prevent infectious agents from entering the lungs by blocking them in the nose and trapping them in mucus secretions, which is the fluid that comes out of the nose. In cases of infections such as measles, mucus secretions are generally green or yellow and usually thick., Your child’s eyes might become red as the virus colonizes in his or her respiratory tract. The redness is a sign that the virus is affecting your child’s inner nose and the passage between the eyes and the nose., This will most commonly occur if the infection is in the respiratory tract. Coughing is your child’s body’s way of expelling infectious agents.


A cough caused by measles is generally deep-sounding, hoarse, and barking. Your child may cough for long intervals at a time., When a child gets sick, his or her eating patterns often get disrupted. In particular, fevers can affect the taste buds; if your child’s sense of taste becomes impaired, he or she will be less likely to eat.
 Momentary muscle fatigue or weakness can be caused by infection. Muscles swell when infections are present as the body releases inflammatory chemicals to react with the infection. Your child may verbalized body weakness or an aching pain. Your child can tell you which part of their body is painful and can point it out.They may tell you that they just want to lie in bed and sleep because they feel weak.
 This symptom generally occurs at the end of the prodromal phase. Koplik’s spots refer to white spots that have bluish or white centers enclosed by a red ring. They generally appear along your child’s gums and on the inside of the cheeks. These are a hallmark of measles.These spots may bleed intermittently.
 Five days after Koplik’s spots become visible, they will shed off. At the same time, a rash will begin to form behind your child’s ears, neck, and cheeks. Within the next three days, the rash will spread over the face, arms, trunk, thighs, lower legs, and feet.At the same time, your child’s temperature will spike up to 40°C to 41°C (104°F to 105.8°F). Measles rash may last 5 to 6 days and may slowly fade away in the same manner it appeared. The rash leaves a brownish tint and flakes in the skin that vanish within 7 to 10 days., Measles rash can be spread very easily, which is why it is important to keep your child home from school. If you do not have the measles vaccine, do not touch your child while the rash is still present.


Vaccinated parents, and those who have had measles before are considered immune to the disease.
 Calamine lotion can be applied to the rash to soothe itchiness, but make sure not to directly touch the rashes. Use sterile gloves or a cotton bud to apply the calamine lotion to the rashes.After application, calamine lotion evaporates and produces a cooling effect that helps alleviate the itchiness. Apply calamine lotion as often as necessary.

