 If you contribute to Roth IRAs and do not contribute to traditional IRAs, you can contribute a maximum of either $5,500, or the total taxable earned income you brought home in a given year (assuming that total is less than $5,500).If you are 50 years old or older, you can contribute a maximum of $6,500 per year.


For instance, if you earned only $4,000 in a year, you can contribute no more than $4,000, even if you got a $6,000 gift from your rich aunt.
 Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs offer different advantages and disadvantages. Choosing which type of IRA to invest in will depend on your financial circumstances and personal preferences. When you make your choice, think about the following factors:Roth IRA contributions are not tax deductible and have limits. However, if your income is low enough that you would not be able to contribute more than the limit anyway, a Roth IRA might work. In addition, if you expect to be in the same or higher tax bracket you are currently in when you retire, a Roth IRA might be the best choice for you because it allows you to pay the tax bill now and get your money tax-free later. However, if you expect to be in a lower tax bracket when you retire, you might want to invest in a traditional IRA so you can push off your tax liability.
You also need to consider what the rest of your retirement portfolio looks like. In general, your retirement portfolio should be diversified, meaning you should have both taxable and tax-free accounts invested in. Therefore, if you already have a tax-deferred 401(k), you might want to invest in a Roth IRA, which will be taxed up front as opposed to on the back end.
Also, the Roth IRA offers more flexibility, which may be important to you. Unlike traditional IRAs, you can withdraw your contributions (but not your earnings), penalty free.
 If you have both a regular and a Roth IRA, your maximum contribution limit is different than it would be in the case of someone exclusively contributing to Roth IRAs.When you have both types of IRAs, you can contribute a maximum of either $5,500, or the total taxable earned income you brought home in a given year (assuming that total is less than $5,500), minus any contribution you made to a regular IRA. If you are 50 or older, you are limited to a maximum contribution of $6,500 per year, minus any contribution made to a traditional IRA.


For instance if you contributed $500 to your regular IRA and you are 42 years old, you can put only $5,000, not $5,500, towards your Roth IRA. If you are 55 years old and contributed $6,000 to your regular IRA, you can contribute just $500 to your Roth IRA in that year.
Employer contributions to your regular IRA are acceptable and will not lower your Roth IRA contribution limit.
 If you are a reservist in the military within two years of ending your active duty period, you can make a contribution using money earned during military service. The money (a qualified reservist distribution) could be from another IRA or from the funds you asked your employer (the military) to deduct from your wages and put toward a retirement plan, including a 401(k) or 403(b).If you make a qualified reservist contribution to your Roth IRA, you can increase your contribution limit in a given year.


For instance, suppose you are a 30 year-old reservist and earned a qualified reservist distribution in 2014 of $2,000, perhaps in the form of an IRA withdrawal. The following year, you could make a maximum contribution of $7,500 ($2,000 + $5,500) toward your Roth IRA.