 Being friends with them may be too much, but you are going to see them or deal with them at certain points due to having a mutual friend. You may even hang out together in a small or large group. So try keeping your distance, but be friendly enough not to put your shared friend in an uncomfortable position.
 If your friend contacts you and asks, "me and Sarah are going to see a movie, you want to come?" try going. It may be uncomfortable, but you never know what might happen. You might be able to help the situation by spending more time together.


You may learn something new about that person that may help you understand why they are the way they are.
You'll get a chance to see your friend and them hang out together and see if they are different around them than they are around you.
You may find that spending time with them is not as awful as you thought.
 While you are hanging out together, it may be easy to develop an “us” vs. “them” mentality.That could be dangerous, because you will feel and then act like you are always in competition with that person. Instead, be the bigger person and resist the urge to get into a power struggle with them.


Remind yourself that they might be trying to bait you into arguing or competing with them.
Find an external “enemy” a object that you all agree you dislike. If you are in school, this could be a teacher or an assignment. It could also be a celebrity, or a television show.
Remember why you are working hard at this in the first place, to maintain a good relationship with your friend. Arguing in front of them, while you are hanging out together will not accomplish that.
 Even though you hate them, make an effort to find something about them that you like. Living with that negativity will be harmful for all three of you so try to find a way around it by picking out qualities that are positive.


Think about your common interests, what do you both like?
Focus on what you think is their best quality and go from there.
Join in on an activity with them and create common ground.
 While you are hanging out together you might not be able to be friends but you should at least be civil. If you are nasty, your friend may realize that they don't want to hang out with the both of you. If just you are being nasty, it could cause your friend to prefer to hand out the the other person. It's better to always be polite.Say “hello” when you see them instead of ignoring them.
Make eye contact when they are speaking.
Say “thank you” and “you're welcome.”

, While you should always try and remain polite, make sure you are not allowing the other person to walk all over you. Stand up for yourself in the face of nastiness, but try not to stoop to their level or retaliate.Your needs are important important, too.If the person is calling you names you can try to ignore it, or ask them to stop. Responding maturely will show your mutual friend that you are the bigger person and are more respectful.

