 This place should be level, dry, stable, and in an area that no one walks by too often to prevent collapse.;
,

Place four 2x8 blocks side by side, forming the first row.






Place four more 2x8 blocks across the top of the first row making sure they are running the opposite direction of the previous row.






Continue adding rows of four 2x8 blocks continuing to alternate the direction of each row. Repeat this step until you have built eight rows.


Place three 2x6 blocks side by side centered on top of the base.






Place a second row of three 2x6 blocks across the top of the previously placed row, making sure they are running the opposite direction of the previous row.






Continue adding rows of three 2x6 blocks continuing to alternate the direction of each row, until you have added twelve rows on top of the base.


Place two 2x4 blocks side by side centered on top of the lower section.






Place a second row of two 2x4 blocks across the top of the previously placed row, making sure they are running the opposite direction of the previous row.






Continue placing rows of tow 2x4 blocks until you have added 16 rows on top of the lower section.


Place one 2x2 block centered on top of the middle section.






Continue placing 2x2 blocks until you have added four blocks on top of the middle section.


On the edges of the base place the following.






One 1x6 flat tile on the front edge.
One 1x6 flat tile on the back edge.
Two 1x4 flat tiles on the right edge.
Two 1x4 flat tiles left edge.


On the edges of the lower section place the following.






One 1x6 flat tile on the front edge.
One 1x6 flat tile on the back edge.
One 1x4 flat tiles on the right edge.
One 1x4 flat tiles left edge.


On the edges of the middle section place the following.






One 1x4 flat tile on the front edge.
One 1x4 flat tile on the back edge.
One 1x2 flat tiles on the right edge.
One 1x2 flat tiles left edge.


On the top section place the following.






One 2x2 flat tile.
