 It is multiple types of mold (including black mold) growing in the internal drain hose inside your washer where you can’t see it.;
, Search "mold growth" and you will see that the biggest problem is high humidity (over 60%). This chart shows you at what relative humidity mold starts to grow. It starts at around 55% and by the time you get to 70% the chance of mold growth is close to 100%. Because it starts growing at about 55% we highly recommend you keep your relative humidity (RH) of your laundry area under 50% at all times. A dehumidifier is the best way to lower your RH.
 They will just help with the odor for a little while. This picture is of the internal drain hose inside your washer where the black mold starts to grow. The internal drain hose should look milk-jug clear, unless it is a grey hose. Where the pipe looks dark is the black mold inside the pipe. Most internal drain hoses are ribbed pipes and once the mold starts to grow it is very difficult to clean it out. When you just occasionally use special cleaners you are not solving what caused the mold to start growing to start with. This is why a washer fan is so important in permanently eliminating washer odor.
 In this case you need to lower the humidity level inside your washer drum below 50%. You can do this with a washer fan. You can purchase one online; just search the internet for "washer fan". You can install it yourself in seconds and there are videos on the website showing you how to do it. You can permanently fix the problem rather than covering it up.
 This allows the air being pushed into the drum to be exhausted out the front. As air exhausts out the front, it brings high RH with it and thereby lowers the humidity level inside the drum.
 Using too much soap only feeds the mold and can also wear out your washer prematurely. This image is the backside of the inner drum of a Whirlpool Duet washer that is about 5 years old. When you use too much soap (especially dry granular soap) it builds up over time and keeps parts of the washer wet continually. This leads to premature failure of your machine.
 You can find details about your particular washer online, as some owner’s manuals do not cover how to do this. Debris and biofilm trapped in your washer’s water pump filter can add to the odor problem. There are lots of videos online showing you how to get at your particular washer’s clean out and how to clean it out.

