 One reason for weight gain during menopause may be the consumption of too many calories. For women especially, as you age you'll lose lean muscle mass and the amount of calories your body needs to support itself decreases.Be very mindful of your total calorie intake. If you're having troubles with your weight, it might be wise to start tracking your calories in a food journal or food journal app. You can use this information to decide whether or not you should cut out some calories.
Try cutting out calories to help you maintain your weight or lose some weight. Decreasing your total calorie intake by about 500 calories daily can help you lose about 1 pound per week.Don't forget to count calories from beverages such as soda, juice, and alcohol.
Do not go below 1,200 calories daily. It's difficult to maintain proper nutrition with very low calorie diets.;
, Protein is an essential nutrient in your diet. It's especially important to get enough protein when you're going through menopause to help preserve your lean muscle mass.


As you age, especially as women age, you're more susceptible to losing lean muscle mass. Eating enough protein can help combat this effect.Proteins take longer to digest so you feel full longer and thus tend to eat less.
Include a serving or two of protein at each meal. Studies have shown eating 20-30 g at each meal is beneficial for maintaining lean muscle.Aim for a 3-4 oz piece of meat or about 1/2 cup of protein-rich legumes.Choosing leaner proteins over high fat proteins (like fatty beef or poultry with skin) can help you stay within your calorie goal.Lean protein options include: poultry without skin, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, legumes and tofu.
 Both fruits and vegetables are an integral part of a well-balanced and nutritious diet. In addition, including many servings of these can help you stay within your calorie goal.Fruits and vegetables can help bulk up your meals and make you feel more full with fewer calories. These foods work well for weight loss since they are low in calories, yet high in fiber, vitamins and minerals.
Aim for about five to nine servings of these nutrient-rich foods each day.
Strive to measure your portion sizes to stay on track. For for about 1/2 cup of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables or 2 cups of leafy greens each day.
 Women who are going through menopause need a little extra calcium in their diets. Calcium is found in many foods, but is particularly high in the dairy food group.


The RDA or recommended daily amount increases from 1,000 mg daily to 1,200 mg daily as you age. Ensuring you're including a variety of calcium-rich foods is important.One serving of dairy is 1 cup of milk or yogurt and 1.5 ounces of cheese.Some studies have shown that you may become lactose intolerant as you age. This is caused by changes in your gut bacteria overtime. If you notice gas, bloating, cramping or loose stools after consuming dairy, try dairy alternatives. Soy, almond or rice milks and yogurts are good substitutes.
You can find calcium in other foods like broccoli, almonds, dark greens, beans and fortified orange juice. Use these foods as calcium alternatives in your diet.
 In addition to protein, fruits and vegetables and dairy, it's important to include nutrient-dense sources of grains. This will help balance and round out your diet.


If you're choosing to eat a grain-based food (like bread, rice or pasta) try to choose 100% whole grains. These foods are less processed and higher in fiber, protein and other nutrients.This makes them more nutrient dense compared to refined grains.
White bread, items made with white flour and white rice are more processed and lower in many nutrients.
Also make sure to measure your portion sizes so that you can stay within your target calorie limit. Go for 1 oz of 1/2 cup of whole grains.Choose whole grains like: quinoa, brown rice, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, millet or oatmeal.
 High levels of alcohol are not recommended for any person, and excessive alcohol consumption has been linked with increased risk of bone loss and osteoporosis.If you do decide to drink, only have one serving daily at a maximum; however, since alcohol is 100% empty calories, you should consider drinking less often.Also, when choosing to have a drink, minimize the amount of calories and sugar you consume. Instead of a fruity mixed drink, go for a low-carb beer or a glass of red wine.
 As you age and go through menopause, many of your nutrient needs change. If you cannot meet your nutrient needs through diet, consider taking supplements to prevent deficiencies.


As mentioned, your calcium needs increase to about 1,200 mg daily. If you are lactose intolerant, do not care for dairy or other calcium rich foods, consider taking a calcium supplement.
Although there have been studies linking calcium supplements with heart disease, it's only been found with calcium supplementation that is in excess of your needs. Consider taking a 500 mg calcium supplement once or twice a day.Again, this is only needed if you're not getting calcium from your diet.
Vitamin D is another important nutrient that many people are deficient in. It's difficult to get enough through food and sunlight. Vitamin D is integral to your health — especially your bone health. Without adequate vitamin D, it's hard for you body to use calcium effectively to maintain your bone health.Talk to your doctor about Vitamin D. If you're deficient (which is detected through a blood test), they may put you on a supplement. Ranges vary and should be determined by your doctor only.
 During menopause, women who are having trouble maintaining their weight should strive for 30 to 40 minutes of exercise five days a week.Aerobic exercise comes with many benefits. For women going through menopause, it can specifically help you: maintain or lose weight, decrease your risk of breast cancer, reduce your risk of diabetes and high blood pressure, and boost your mood.At a minimum, include 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity each week. You may find you need to a little more to help burn more calories to maintain your weight.
Aerobic activity hasn't been proven to help deal with any of the common side effects associated with menopause at this time (like mood swings or hot flashes);however, it doesn't hurt to keep up a good activity routine.
 In addition to aerobic exercise, it's vital to include regular strength training to help prevent the loss of bone and muscle mass that's associated with menopause.


Include two to three days of strength training in addition to doing your aerobic exercises.
Activities such as yoga, pilates or weight training may help to slow down the natural loss of muscle mass that occurs as a normal part of the aging process, and accelerates for women during menopause.
 Both stretching and stability exercises can help improve flexibility and balance which are important as you age.Stretch only after your muscles are warmed up. It is not advisable to stretch before your workout.Also include balance exercises. This may help prevent falls as you get older.Yoga, sideways walking, balancing on one leg or tai chi are good exercises to try.
 Stress can make weight maintenance or weight loss difficult for anyone, and when stress is combined with menopause it may make weight loss nearly impossible.When you're dealing with stress, your body secretes a hormone called cortisol (frequently known as the "stress hormone). This can cause an increase in appetite and desire to eat making it more difficult to say no to foods.Stress may also cause you to "stress eat" or emotionally eat. In addition, you're more likely to go for "comfort foods" or those foods that are higher calorie and higher in fat.Manage stress the best you can. Try: taking a walk, talking to a supportive friend, meditating, doing yoga or listening to good music.
If those things don't work, consider seeing a behavioral specialist for additional help. These mental health professionals can give you additional tips and techniques for stress management.
 There are a variety of side effects and symptoms of menopause, a common one being nighttime hot flashes. These, in addition to other hormonal imbalances, may disrupt sleeping patterns for menopausal women.Sleep disturbances can directly work against weight maintenance or weight loss. Many people will experience changes in appetite and changes in cravings.In addition, if you're feeling tired and fatigued you're less likely to get up and exercise and make healthy food choices.You may want to talk to your OB/GYN about taking hormone replacements as relief. You may also want to consider taking melatonin daily to help regulate your sleep., Smoking is never recommended as it's been connected with a large variety of negative health side effects. It's also been linked to bone loss in menopausal women.Quitting smoking is associated with weight gain, and many women are reluctant to do quit and risk gaining more weight. Keep in mind that the long-term benefits will outweigh short-term weight gain.
If you currently smoke, consider quitting. It's best to quit cold turkey as you immediately discontinue the influx of toxins and nicotine in your body.
If you're having trouble quitting or cannot quit cold turkey, talk to your doctor. He or she may be able to prescribe you a medication to help you quit or refer you to a smoking cessation program.

