 Start with a small plastic embroidering hoop. Get rid of the inner part, and unscrew the outer part. Thread on two curtain panels, each 44-inches. They should be facing outward.To hang it, tie (1/2-inch) ribbon or yarn on each side of the hoop, where the curtains meet. Tie them in a knot or bow above the embroidery hoop. Hang it on a screw hook in the ceiling.
 PEX pipe is flexible plastic pipe; find it at hardware stores. You'll need 1/2 inch tubing and a 1 1/2-inch coupling to connect it. You'll also need a long curtain panel.Cut off about 14 inches from the bottom of the curtain. If the bottom doesn't have a sleeve, sew or use fabric glue to create one. Sew or use fabric glue to attach the fabric to the top of the curtain (the unhemmed side), leaving the sleeve on the top of the curtain open.
Thread the pipe into the original curtain's sleeve. Attach it with the coupling. Thread a string through the sleeve you created. Gather up the fabric, and tie the string in a knot or bow. Attach it to the ceiling with a hook.
 If you have a small nook in your home, use a tension rod (the width of the nook) to make a tent. You'll also need a flat wood shim slightly smaller than the nook, as well as some screws and a drill.Get a piece of fabric wide enough for the nook, and long enough to go from front to back and to the floor. Decide where your shim on the wall is going to go. It should be higher than the tension rod in the front, which will be the height of your tent.
Cut the fabric in two, so that one piece is long enough to go from the shim to the tension rod, with extra inches on each side. The other piece should be long enough to reach the floor from the tension rod, with extra inches on either side.
Glue or hem three sides of the top piece of fabric, but leave the top unhemmed. On the bottom edge, make three loops on the underside of the fabric, spread out along the fabric. Glue the top edge to the shim, and screw it into studs in the wall with the fabric edge towards the wall. On the bottom piece of fabric, hem three sides (bottom and both sides). Make a sleeve with the top edge. Push the tension rod through one loop of the fabric, then push in the sleeve of the other fabric. Pull the last two loops on, and hang up the tension rod.

