 For this project, you will need a pair of shorts, rubber gloves, water, bleach, some soap, and rubber bands. You will also need a plastic bucket or tub large enough to comfortably fit the shorts.


If you do not own a pair of denim shorts, you can make your own by cutting the legs off of a pair of jeans.
 Outside is the best location because there is plenty of fresh air and you are less likely to feel light-headed. If it is not possible to work outside, then make sure that you have a window open; turning a fan on in your work space will give you additional ventilation.
 Although you will be working with diluted bleach, you still want to protect your skin. Bleach can irritate or burn your skin.
 You will need one part liquid bleach and one part cool water. How much bleach and water you use will depend on the size of your tub and the shorts. You want the water-bleach solution to be deep enough so that the shorts end up completely submerged.
 Take a few rubber bands and start tying off small parts of your shorts. You can tie the bands randomly around your shorts in little nibs for a starburst effect. You can also scrunch the shorts into a rope, and wrap rubber bands around the "rope" in 3 to 4 inch (7.62 to 10.16 centimeters) intervals.
 Press down on them so that they are completely submerged in the bleach and water solution. If they keep floating to the top, you can weigh them down by putting a heavy object, such as a glass vase or a few rocks, on top of them.
 The longer you leave them in the bleach and water solution, the lighter they will become. In general, you will start seeing some results after about 20 minutes. Do not leave the shorts in the bleach solution for too long, however, or you will risk damaging the fabric.
 Once the shorts have reached the level of lightness you want, pull them out of the tub. Squeeze them to get the excess moisture out.
 Using a pair of scissors, snip the rubber bands off. Be careful not to cut the fabric of the shorts.
 Gently work some soap into the shorts and rinse them using cool water until you can no longer smell the bleach. The soap will help prevent the bleach from staining the fabric yellow.
 You can either hang them to dry in the sun, or you can toss them into the dryer for a few minutes.

