 To prevent the spread of disease through contact with the plant or soil, throw them away immediately with your regular trash before doing any more work in the area. Further prevent the disease from spreading by disinfecting your tool immediately after pruning each leaf. Have a solution of 1-part bleach to 4-parts water within easy reach..;
, Prune the infected leaves, including those that have turned yellow or are about to, since these are most likely too far gone to recover. If the infection is widespread, it’s better to prune off entire limbs rather than just removing leaves. Treat what remains, including the leaves’ bottoms as well as their tops.Although there is no guaranteed cure for black spot disease,try the following remedies, which can slow and prevent the disease from spreading, and use whichever shows the best results:


Mix together a solution of 1 tbsp. baking soda, 2.5 tbsp. vegetable oil, 1 tsp. liquid soap, and 1 gallon water. Be sure to use liquid soap, not detergent. Since this may potentially burn your leaves, spray a small test area with the solution before spraying the entire plant. If burning is absent or minimal, spray the leaves once every two weeks.Combine 1-part dairy milk to 2-parts water. Spray the leaves once each week. (Sorry, vegans; non-dairy milk substitutes won’t work).Spray the leaves with neem oil once every two weeks.Use fungicides as a last resort if the disease returns for multiple growing seasons.Follow their directions regarding applications. Apply them early, before outbreaks or at the first sign of spots, since they are preventative in nature. Choose organic products if possible for both the plant’s health as well as pollinating insects., Remove them from the area as soon as you prune them. Put them with your regular garbage, preferably in a tied bag. If you dump them straight into a trashcan, secure the lid firmly to prevent the wind or animals from blowing or tracking them free.


Do not add infected leaves to compost, since the disease may survive and infect other plants when that compost is used as mulch.

