


Are you lonely?  If so, this is not the answer.  Getting involved in a relationship just because you are lonely may cause you to settle for less than you deserve; or it may lead you to become dependent on him (which is not healthy for you or attractive to him).
Do you want someone to listen?  If so, a boyfriend may not be the best option.  Try to seek counseling.  Not only will you be able to express your emotions, but you will also not run the risk of being rejected by a man, which could exaggerate your depression.
Are you seeking physical contact?  Sex has all kinds of wonderful effects for the mind and body, but it can be equally damaging if rushed into with the wrong person.  The good news is that the same chemicals we release during sex can be stimulated by hugging those we love in a non-sexual way.  Some studies have even indicated that laughing heartily can release these chemicals. It may not be as thrilling as sexual contact, but it could save a lot of heartache to hold out on intimate contact until you are in a healthy state of mind and capable of truly loving another.
If your need for a relationship does not fall into one of the lines of reasoning above, and you feel that you simply want a boyfriend to have a more complete social life, then start simple.;
,  Write them down.  Be realistic (e.g. if you are 120 pounds overweight and think hiking is a Kool-Aid flavor, you probably are not going to snag a bodybuilder).  Think beyond the physical qualities.  If you are depressed, you are going to want someone who is strong enough to minimize your mood swings, but also sensitive enough to be a shoulder to cry on.
  If you are religious, look for someone who practices the same faith (remember practicing a faith and believing in it are two very different things).  If you are into fitness, switch up your routine and attend a body pump or cycling class to find a man who can become your workout partner.  If you are in school, try to talk to him about a project, class, or sport you find interesting.  Connecting with someone is way more complicated than we make it out to be.  If you have a hobby and he does too - you have an icebreaker.  If you don't have a hobby...try something out!  This may help both with meeting a man and to cure your depression.
  Invite him to hang out with you and your friends, or invite him to something casual.  You are in a delicate mindset now, and you can't just jump into a relationship until you have eased your depression symptoms.  Don't forget that. Your task is finding a happy relationship, but also finding a happy you.  Don't suffocate your depression for the passing thrill of a man who may or may not be there for the long term.
  This is not going to be as easy as "Hi, my name is Becky and I am depressed" (obviously!), but you need to find some way to discuss the subject to see if it is something that he can handle.  If this relationship is going to be genuine, you cannot hide your emotional struggles from him.
  Talk about an article, movie, or current event that has to do with depression.  Talk about that, and transition into asking if he has ever suffered from depression or if he knows anyone who has.  This will serve many purposes.  First, it will allow you to understand whether he really sees depression as what it is (a mental illness which is normal and can be cured), or whether he is ignorant on the topic. You will also be able to see if he has encountered it in the past.


If his answer is something to the tune of yes - he is familiar and/or he has experienced it, open up.  You don't need to go into detail, but let him know that you are struggling.  Tell him you are working on eradicating it from your life (and you better be!) and remember to envelope any self-critical statements with positive aspects about yourself.  There is no shame in depression.
If his answer is no, that's ok.  Educate him a little on the topic. Whether or not he ends up as your boyfriend, you can help one more person understand mental illness for what it is rather than the stigma it gets in mainstream culture.
If his answer is ignorant or negative - toss him.  Definitely do NOT cover up your situation because you are scared of some man looking down on you.  The boyfriend you need is the one who actually cares, not the one who judges based on things out of your control.
  Again, no matter how sweet or supportive he is, if you are genuinely depressed, he is not going to solve it.  Go to therapy. Meditate.   Exercise.  Read self-help books.  Dedicate at least one hour a day to fixing your mind.
  You may wake up with tears in your eyes while he feels the happiness in a new day.  Being depressed is like living under a dark cloud that no one sees but you. Be open to accept his positivity and love.  If you have to, just fake a smile.  Sometimes that is all it takes to turn your mood around.
  If he asks questions, don't hide.  Answer.  Talk openly about how you feel, but don't make depression the center stage in your relationship.  Do uplifting things with your man - ride bikes, go jogging, visit zoos or aquariums, anything that is uplifting.
 They will make you horrible to your partner, and they will only hurt you in the long run.  You cannot cure your mind if you constantly adulterate it.