 You can watermark your images using Photoshop or Google's Picasa picture program. Always attribute the image of artwork to an artist. You want your photos to be shared, but it is essential that the artist's name follows that image as it gets passed on. Some artists choose to encrypt them on their website; however, this may inhibit sharing an artist's work through some of the art channels in this article.;
, If you are an artist, create pages on all of these sites to share your artwork to different audiences. If you are running a gallery, make sure you have a page dedicated to your gallery on more than 1 social media site, where you can post artwork from many artists and update fans on your gallery's events. When you are naming your social media sites, make sure your username is close to your own name or your gallery's name in order to create a brand that users can easily recognize.


Facebook allows you to create Fan pages or Group pages. Fan pages are designed for businesses because people don't have to ask to see your pictures and contact you, where Group pages are designed to promote discussion based on a selected topics and you must request to join to see content. When you create your Facebook account, whether you are an artist or gallery, you are technically a business that wants to get images out to a wide audience, so choose the Fan page rather than a Group page. Post albums of pictures on your Facebook Fan page every few weeks. Make sure to post links to your site, comments or single pictures at least 3 times a week, to ensure your Fan Page will show up on your Fans' Home pages. Create an invitation to gallery events or open studios and invite all of your fans. Encourage the fans of your page to invite other people. Look into Facebook's low-cost, click-based advertising system for Fan pages, if you are getting a lot of interest directed to your site from Facebook. They will use a photo of your choice to create an ad that will appear in the right hand column of Facebook pages for the demographic of your choice.






Twitter is a great option for networking within the gallery or art community. You can "follow" art fans, and they may follow you in turn. Most of the art is shared through links so it will need to be posted on a website or blog first. The link will redirect followers to the art. To have success with a Twitter account, you need to post links to artwork on a website every day or every other day. Twitter moves very quickly and old posts are hard to find.






LinkedIn is a professional networking tool. The user base is slightly higher in age than Twitter or Facebook. LinkedIn is especially useful for galleries because it focuses on business details of the gallery. You can connect with current and past employees and current artists. People on LinkedIn choose to follow businesses to see their news. Galleries can post links to their website and they can post press releases or links to news stories about artists. Although there are few places to post pictures on the site, like Twitter, you can use links that lead to your website to connect your followers to your images.
 Like most businesses in the 21st century, galleries must have websites to promote themselves and their events online. Although some older clientele rely on postal mailings and email or written newsletters, the Internet is highly visual and allows galleries to advertise a large amount of their artists' work. It is a good idea to pay a professional to produce a visually stunning website that will enhance the artists' work rather than detract from it.


Artists and art students can also make websites using template systems, like ArtDealers.com or Other People's Pixels, or a gallery database like Masterpiece Online. You can also buy a domain name and produce the site on your own if you are familiar with website development. There are a growing number of website-making companies that cater to artists. They can produce slide shows and use high-resolution images for a fee of around $200 (123 pounds or 139 euros) or more per year. Some sites will give you a free 30 day trial before committing to the site. You may also receive a URL with your name in it, which will help people to find you more easily on the Internet.
 Sign up for an account, upload art, and spread links to the work online. A limited amount of artwork posting may be free, but posting a portfolio usually comes with a fee.
 WordPress, Blogger or other free blogging sites design templates for artists and art lovers. Sign up for a free account and choose a theme that focuses on photography or art and allows you to upload large pictures. Blogging must be done on a consistent daily, or at least weekly, basis to develop a fan base.
 Start an account with eBay and set it up to receive funds. A growing number of artists now bypass galleries and go straight to auctions on eBay. This is a great option for a prolific artist who produces art on a consistent basis. At the beginning, these eBay art auctions will produce low bids and then the bids increase as the artist develops a fan base. Set a low minimum bid to start with and then raise it as the number of bids increases.
 Art collectors love to see artists in the process of making their art. Videos are great marketing tools that can be featured on Facebook, blogs or on websites.
 For example, Square Cylinder, Juxtapose, Art Net, Art Limited and Visual Art Source all cater to artists and art events. Many of these sites offer artist user accounts. Sign up for free, choose if you want the basic account or if you want to upgrade and then upload a portfolio. The magazine's readers can browse through the artist lists to find you.


Find the "Contact Us" section of these websites to submit art story ideas. You can often submit events through an online form and upload images of your work.

