 The need for constant attention and validation is often related to another issue. Thinking about what fuels your need to be attention whore can help you identifying underlying problems and put you on the path to changing your behavior.Write some notes about things that make you feel insecure or bad about yourself. Consider things such as your childhood experiences with parents and friends. You may not have had a lot of attention from family members or not had a lot of friends. Both of these can cause you to crave constant attention. Think about when you starting seeking so much attention—maybe it was caused by wanting to be like someone else or feeling like someone didn’t properly recognize you for an accomplishment.
Ask yourself questions such as, “Why do I need this attention? What does it bring to me?” You should also think about what would happen if you stopped getting this attention.
 If you’re realizing that your behavior is problematic and others are making negative comments, talk to a trusted friend or family member about your suspicion. It may be painful to hear, but someone who loves and cares about you will tell you his or her opinion about you being an attention whore in a manner that won’t hurt your feelings.Consider asking family members to help you if your behavior is related to not getting enough attention as a kid. Be very gentle in the way you approach the subject. For example, “Hey mom, I’ve really started to do some things that I’m not proud of to get attention. I realize it’s because I always felt lonely as a kid. Could we spend some quality time together—just the two of us? I’d really love that.”
Recognize that it is difficult to ask a person to tell you how they really feel about your behavior. In some cases, the person may not feel comfortable. Approach the situation delicately. You can say, “Sam, I need your opinion on something. I think I may be trying to get attention at all costs. Do you think I’ve been doing this? Please be honest with me. I know it’s hard, but you mean a lot to me and I really value your opinion. I won’t be hurt by what you say.”

, Hearing positive feedback that reflects others’ expectations of you can spark positive consequences from you and your behavior. Earning specific praise on things such as schoolwork, professional projects, sports performances, and being kind and compassionate is key to changing your attention seeking behavior. It can also help you sustain the changes you make.Make a concerned effort to get positive feedback from your friends, parents, and superiors. For example, study hard for a test or put in extra hours at work without telling anyone. Although you may not get immediate feedback, someone will notice and may say, “Hey Logan, you’ve put in a lot of great work. It really shows and I’m so pleased with your final grade/ project. Keep it up!”

, You may find that your earlier needs for attention are at odds with your attempts to change your behavior. This includes aiming for only positive feedback, which may not be as frequent as you’d like at first. This can cause your mood or feelings to dip. But it’s important to maintain an upbeat attitude by recognizing that you’re making positive changes and getting the type of attention that truly feels good.Recognize that you may have setbacks, which are normal. The key is to remind yourself of what is positive in your life to keep you from reverting to attention-seeking behavior.
Use setbacks as a positive. Tell yourself, “Ok, I didn’t do that well, but I can learn from the feedback and knock the next section out of the park.”
Consider helping someone, which may help you refocus on the positive. Remember to not advertise what you did and let the person thank you and give any public praise he or she wishes. Even simple acts of kindness can help you feel better and may keep you from indulging in your attention-whore behaviors.