 There are a number of medications available that can help reduce the effects of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The medication your doctor recommends will vary, depending on your symptoms and the treatment plan your doctor has devised for you.


Bronchodilators — This class of medications is designed to relax the muscles along your airways to alleviate shortness of breath and chronic coughing. Most bronchodilators are prescribed as an aerosol inhaler, and come in short-acting forms (such as albuterol, levalbuterol, and ipratropium) and long-acting forms (such as tiotropium, salmeterol, formoterol, and arformoterol).Inhaled steroids — These medications involve a form of corticosteroids that are inhaled to reduce inflammation of the airways. Some commonly-prescribed inhaled steroids are fluticasone (Flovent) and budesonide (Pulmicort).Combination inhalers — These medications combine bronchodilators and inhaled steroids into a single inhaler. Some common combination inhalers include Advair, which combines salmeterol and fluticasone, and Symbicort, which combines formoterol and budesonide.Oral steroids — This class of medication is usually prescribed to patients with moderate to severe acute exacerbation of COPD. Oral steroids are usually given in short courses that last around five days.Common oral steroids for COPD exacerbation include methylprednisolone (Medrol), prednisolone (Prelone), and prednisone.Phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors — This medication helps reduce inflammation of the airways and relaxes the muscles that line the respiratory system. The most common phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor is roflumilast (Daliresp).Theophylline — This medication can help improve breathing in patients suffering from COPD and may help prevent exacerbations of COPD. Theophylline is available in a number of oral forms, including syrup, capsules, and tablets, some of which are extended release pills. Common brand names of Theophylline include Elixophyllin, Norphyl, Pyllocontin, and Quibron-T.Antibiotics — Certain respiratory infections can cause COPD symptoms to worsen. Antibiotics can help treat exacerbations of COPD associated with respiratory infections, while some studies suggest that one particular antibiotic - azithromycin - may actually prevent exacerbations altogether., There are a number of lung therapy options that can help patients suffering from moderate to severe COPD. These therapy options are designed to increase the function of a patient's lungs if COPD has made breathing difficult.


Oxygen therapy — This option involves using a tank or portable unit of supplemental oxygen. Some patients only need supplemental oxygen use during strenuous activities or while sleeping, while others may need supplemental oxygen around the clock, depending on the severity of symptoms. Oxygen therapy is the only COPD treatment option that has been proven to extend the patient's life.Pulmonary rehabilitation programs — This option combines training/education, exercise, nutritional guidance, and counseling. Pulmonary rehabilitation programs are designed to reduce the length of hospital stays and increase the patient's quality of life., Surgical options are usually reserved for patients with severe COPD and/or emphysema who have not responded to medication and traditional therapy options. Surgery usually falls into one of two treatment options:


Lung volume reduction surgery involves a surgeon removing small portions of damaged lung tissue, allowing the healthier tissue to expand and work more efficiently. This treatment option may improve a patient's quality of life and could extend a patient's life.Lung transplantation improves the patient's ability to breathe and resume physical activity; however, it is a very serious procedure with many possible complications and side-effects, including the risk of death. There is also a very specific set of criteria which prospective transplant recipients must meet. Talk to your doctor about whether a lung transplant may be right for you.