 It's so flowing and beachy. You can achieve her hairstyle very easily.


First, get your hair cut correctly, so the style turns out exactly or at least similar to Indiana's. Ask your hairdresser for face-framing layers that end around collarbone length and blend out with the rest of your hair. You'll also need long layers. This can be done by cutting upwards into the hair. Indiana definitely has a piece-y look, as well, so ask your hairdresser to also texturize (a.k.a. "shatter") your hair with a pair of texturizing shears. However, bring in a photo to your hairdresser of Indiana, so she can envision the cut you're wanting, thus giving you a more accurate haircut.
Indiana has dirty blonde, yet golden hair. Get your hairdresser's opinion on this and color your hair like Indiana's. Consider temporarily coloring your hair.
Now that your hair is cut and colored like Indiana's, focus on the styling. There are a few methods you can try.

The first method is the heatless braids method. Start with damp hair. Part your hair down the middle and section hair into two sections. Then, section each section into two sections: shorter layers in one section, and longer layers in the other section. French braid all sections, and spray your hair with a bit of texturizing or sea salt spray. Straighten the ends of your hair in the braid. Sleep on the braids. When you wake up, carefully undo the braids, massage your scalp for a few minutes to loosen the hair, and possibly flip your hair over and tousle. Finally, spray and scrunch with some texturizing or sea salt spray. This is the easiest technique.
The next method is using a curling iron. Start with straight hair, and once again, part your hair down the middle. Curl your hair outwards, holding each fairly large section for 5-8 seconds for a loose wave. Hold the face framing pieces for a bit longer, let the hair cool to set it, then run your fingers through and tousle the hair. Make sure you're curling the hair outwards. Also, when curling, leave out about an inch or so of hair out of the curling iron. You can also just straighten the ends of your hair when you're finished. Texturizing or sea salt spray is optional. You may decide to S-wave a few pieces for more texture.

;
, Indiana has what is known as a "baby face." This simply means she has beautiful, plump features.


Use a thin base. Tinted moisturizer or BB Cream works fine. If you have spots that need coverage, use an opaque stick concealer. If you suffer from under eye bags, use an under eye brightening concealer to fix that. Also, powder the T Zone only if you suffer from oily skin. If you don't, you can skip that step.
Bronzer is key for this look since she's very tan. Try using a matte bronzer, like Benefit Hoola or NYC Sunny, and put this where the sun naturally would tan your face. Use this along your cheeks, chin, hairline, temples, down your nose and blend down your neck, too. Use a shimmery bronzer, like one made by Wet N Wild or ELF, and put this onto the apples of your cheeks (like how you would apply blush), as Indiana has a very bronzy glow.
Indiana doesn't have very pronounced cheekbones, but she does have a slender nose. Contour with a light-medium matte brown eyeshadow along the sides of your nose as contour. Be sure to blend. To contour your face, use the same light-medium matte brown eyeshadow along your jawline. Doing this will give you Indiana's round face shape.
Indiana has more of a straight eyebrow in comparison to a soft-angled eyebrow. Indiana also has full eyebrows that are nicely groomed and have a natural arch to them, so be sure to keep your eyebrows groomed and not extremely hairy. Use an eyebrow pencil in a light brown shade to fill in your brows and blend in with a spoolie. Use clear mascara or eyebrow gel to comb through your brows and set everything into place.
Indiana's eye makeup look for the movie is really natural. She is wearing a lot of neutral colors. Begin by sweeping a light brown eyeshadow across the lid as your base color. Then, using a darker brown eyeshadow, and blend this color well into the crease. Next, line your lower lash line and tightline with brown eyeliner. Finally, line your waterline with white eyeliner to give your eyes a rounder shape.
To get Indiana's pout, line your lips with a pinky-nude lip liner. Go slightly over the border edge of the lips for the illusion of fuller lips. Fill in your lips with the lipliner. Then, use a nude lipstick with pink undertones and apply a clear lip gloss in the center of the bottom lip. The sexiest part of the lip is the cupid's bow. To highlight and enhance these little "peaks," use a bit of highlighter above the center of your upper lip and draw in a "V" shape, just grazing each "peak." Apply more in the center of the "V." Then, blend delicately with the tip of the hard-angle brush. As for lipstick, one by Maybelline or Covergirl works best. Find one that suits you, personally.
Pop in some crystal blue colored contacts if you don't already have blue eyes.
 In the movie, it is simple and basic: a baby blue spaghetti strap tank top, blue long-sleeve button-up, blue swim top and bottoms, and denim shorts. She obviously chose the blue color scheme.


Later on in the movie, however, she attends prom. She is wearing a mid-thy length strapless white cocktail dress paired with a clutch and Strappy silver heels.

