 Look for standard identification points, which are details that most book publishers adhere to when printing first editions. These details, called issue points, include:


Codes on the copyright page
Binding type
Dust jacket particularities;
, This is especially important if you are trying to decide if you should purchase a rare book. A book in poor condition, even if it is rare, could have little or no value. Collectors want books that are in new, very fine or pristine condition. If a book is heavily damaged or falling apart, the chances are slim that it will have any real value. Carefully examine the book you are considering purchasing or that you already own, and look for:


Foxing—are any of the pages yellowed, stained, torn, warped or spotted? Are there written notations in the margins? Have sentences been underlined?
Boards—are the front and back boards of the binding firmly attached or are they loose or unhinged?
Plates—are there any plates (pictures) missing or damaged?
Pages—are there any missing pages anywhere in the book? This includes the copyright page and any introduction, forward, dedication or epilogue pages.
Binding—Does the book have its original binding or has it been repaired? Does the book have its original dust jacket?

, You may think your book is in pretty good condition, but a collector can spot imperfections you may not see.
 Determining how many copies of a book actually exist is not an exact science, but you can get a good idea by searching online databases that list the number of copies that reside in libraries and other institutions. It’s impossible to know how many more copies exist in private collections, but an online database will give you a rough idea of how many known copies are around. A rare book in good condition and limited known copies is highly marketable.

Limited edition numbered copies.
First printing of first editions that contain a misprint. For example, Cold Mountain, published in 1997, had a typographical error on page 25 in the first printing. This issue point is important because it tells collectors that the copy was among the first printing of a first edition—the error was corrected in subsequent editions. First printing copies of the book without the error have a lesser value.
Limited editions with leather bindings.
 You can enter the title, author and publisher to begin your search. When a list of matches comes up, carefully compare the attributes of your book to the attributes of the listed books. Look for as many detail matches as possible; the binding, edition, dust jacket, etc.

