 In general, 1⁄3 to 2⁄3 inch (0.8 to 1.7 cm) of water two to three times each week will be plenty but this depends on the soil and weather., When 'Limelight' is planted in soil that drains more slowly, it may only need to be watered twice each week.


If the soil is sandy loam and drains quickly, it may need to be watered every other day when the weather gets hot.
 If the soil is moist, wait another day or two to water.


If it is dry, water immediately.
 After the first year, water 'Limelight' once per week, giving it 3 to 6 gallons (11.4 to 22.7 L) or 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5.1 cm) of water each time, depending on how quickly the soil dries.
, This is to measure how much water is delivered in inches when using a soaker hose. Check the can periodically.


When it is full, the hydrangea has received 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water.
 When “Limelight” is not getting enough water, it will wilt in the afternoon. If this happens, water it immediately, check the soil more often and water the shrub when the soil begins to dry.


This shrub may also wilt when the soil is kept too wet. If it wilts and the soil is damp, do not water it again until the soil begins to dry.
 Use a slow-release fertilizer with a balanced ratio like 10-10-10 or 16-16-16.


This type of fertilizer will give the shrub a steady supply of the nutrients it usually needs.
 Extend the fertilizer out to 6 inches (15.2 cm) to 1 foot beyond the outer edge of the leaves. This is where most of the roots are and where the fertilizer needs to be.


A common application rate is 1/4 to 1/2 cup but this varies, depending on how the fertilizer is formulated. Follow the manufacturer’s recommendations carefully. Do not give 'Limelight' too much fertilizer.
 If 'Limelight' does not bloom or blooms very little, give it fertilizer with a 10-30-10 ratio the following spring. The middle number represents the amount of phosphorus in the fertilizer. Phosphorus promotes better flowering.


Yellowing leaves at the center of the shrub indicate it is not getting enough nutrients. If this should occur, give it ¼ to ½ cup of fast-release, 10-10-10 or 16-16-16 granular fertilizer for a quick boost in addition to the slow-release fertilizer.
If 'Limelight' has plenty of lush, green leaves but does not bloom, it is getting too much nitrogen. If this should occur, use fertilizer with a 0-30-10 or similar ratio. The first number listed on the bag represents nitrogen.

