 Depression can make it harder to take the initiative to get together with others. Set things up ahead of time to ensure you go out and see people a few times a week. If you’ve already committed to an activity, you’ll be more likely to follow through with it.For instance, you could join a club that meets weekly, commit to morning workouts with a friend, or sign up for a class at the local community college.
 Talking and interacting with other people is more beneficial for your mental health than silently watching TV or a movie together. Select activities that get you moving, talking, or thinking.Instead of seeing the latest movie, try taking a walk, visiting a new restaurant, or playing board games with a friend. Tell a friend, “I know you want to see the new film, but it’s so pretty today. Why don’t we go for a walk in the park before we go to the cinema?”

, Remember that your friends will sometimes need help and emotional support, too. Be available for them when they go through difficult times.Helping your friends can be a good way to relieve your own depression. Be a good listener and support your friends.
Healthy, stable friendships are based on mutual benefit. In the words of the old saying, “To have a friend, you’ve got to be a friend.” If you are always complaining and not listening to your friend, then what you have is a one-sided relationship and it will most likely end.
 When you’re depressed, trying to do too much can be a recipe for burning out and giving up. Be gentle with yourself and know your limits. It’s OK to ask to reschedule a visit or modify a plan.For instance, if your friends want you to join them on a night out but you don’t think you can handle hours of socializing, see if you can just join them for dinner and return home when they go dancing.
 Even though you don't want to overload your schedule with social events when you're depressed, you also don't want to be on the opposite end of the spectrum. Try to schedule an outing at least once a week. And, if some of your friends are busy, reschedule or find someone else. Don't give up on building supportive relationships.


If your depression gets to be too much to handle, then seek help from a mental health professional.

