 Fruit juice isn't the only thing that can keep bananas from turning an unappealing brown. For example, soda water and club soda are known for their ability to keep sliced fruit fresh.Best of all, these liquids have the added benefit that they don't affect the taste of banana. Use them as you would use fruit juices, soaking the slices in the soda water before serving or storing them.


Be sure to use soda water or club soda. Tonic water, a beverage that looks the same, has a strong flavor that doesn't go well with bananas.
 Tap water doesn't work quite as well as fruit juice or the other solutions in this article, but it's something you'll always have available and it's basically free.This, too, is used the same as the fruit juices: soak the banana slices in the water before using them how you wish.
 Citric acid (the same chemical that makes citrus fruits like lemons sour) is sold in a purified form as a canning additive. In this form, it is specifically used to keep fruit from discoloring as it stores. However, it's often difficult to find pure citric acid. Your best bet will usually be a health food store or a hardware store. Luckily, it is not especially expensive — less than $10 for a small bottle is common.To use citric acid, add three teaspoons to a cup of water and mix. Soak the slices in the bath as normal. Don't use undiluted citric acid, as it is far too sour.
 Vinegar can be used similarly to citric acid to keep fruit fresh. However, its strong sourness also makes it necessary to dilute it. As with citric acid, add a few teaspoons to a cup of water to make a bath and soak the banana pieces as normal.
 Powdered vitamin C can usually be found in most supermarkets as a cold-fighting supplement. Dissolve this in water (according to the directions on the package) to make a bath and soak the banana slices as normal.


If you're in a pinch, a ground-up vitamin C tablet works as well.
 Since banana slices turn brown when they are exposed to the oxygen in the air, keeping the fruit from physically touching the air will prevent the browning reaction from occurring. There are many ways to do this. A few are listed below.


One easy trick involves wax paper. Cut the slices so that they are all about the same slice, then lay them on a tray. Cut a square of wax paper to fit the tray, then lay it down over the slices and gently press it down so it sticks to each. The banana slices will be sandwiched between the paper and the tray without any air exposure.
If you have the time, you can also cut small squares of wax paper of plastic wrap and lay them individually over each slice. Be sure to remove them before you eat.If you have a vacuum storage device (e.g., Food Saver, etc.), you can also try packing the slices in an air-free container.

