 Peel three heads of garlic (about 30 cloves). You do not need to chop them, but do cut out and discard any green sprouts. Young, unsprouted garlic is best, as it has a less harsh flavor.


You can scale down this recipe, but only if you have a small blender or food processor. A large food processor requires at least this much garlic in order to process it smoothly.To peel a large quantity of garlic, drop the cloves into a metal bowl. Turn a second bowl the same size upside down and place them together to form a dome. Shake vigorously for a minute or two to remove the peel., Combine the whole garlic cloves with salt to taste, or about 1 tsp (5 mL). Run the food processor or blender until the garlic is evenly chopped into small pieces. Stop whenever the garlic is thrown to the sides, then scrape it back down to the center using a rubber spatula., The rest of this recipe will create an emulsion, combining oil and water into a smooth paste. It's important to leave the blender or food processor on throughout the next few steps, or the oil and water may separate and leave you with a broken sauce.


Depending on the endurance of your blender, you may need to move fast to avoid overtaxing the motor.
 Separate the white of one egg and blend into the garlic until smooth. While not required, the egg white contains emulsifiers that will make it much easier to keep the garlic paste together. It may have a slight effect on the aftertaste, but this is barely noticeable under the garlic.Uncooked egg white can harbor salmonella, a bacteria that causes illness. To avoid this, use the white of a pasteurized egg, replace with powdered egg white, or skip this step entirely. Salmonella is most dangerous to young children, pregnant women, elderly people, and people with compromised immune systems., Pour a light, neutral-flavored oil very slowly down the side of the blender or food processor. Adding the oil too quickly is a common source of broken sauces. Keep pouring until you've added about ½ cup (120 mL) of oil.Canola oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil and peanut oil all fit the bill.Traditional recipes use olive oil, which makes a denser sauce. (This may be why toum is often described as a paste despite its usually fluffy consistency.) However, olive oil also lends a somewhat bitter flavor, especially after storing., Now add ½ tsp (2.5 mL) lemon juice, again pouring slowly. Wait a few seconds until the juice is well absorbed. This adds flavor and creates the right ratio of oil to water., Repeat the last two steps, slowly pouring in ½ cup (120 mL) of oil, then ½ tsp (2.5 mL) lemon juice. Continue for the next 8–10 minutes, until you run out of an ingredient or until the garlic paste looks fluffy and smooth.
 If liquid appears, your toum has separated. There are several ways to fix it, though none are guaranteed:


Stop adding ingredients and let your machine process it back into a smooth paste.This may work if you were pouring ingredients too quickly.
Scoop out half the sauce, add another egg white, blend until smooth, then blend in the other half.Add an ice cube.Heat can cause a sauce to break apart, but you may need to add more oil to compensate for the extra water., In Lebanon and surrounding regions, people often eat toum on pita bread or on chicken shawarma. It also tastes great on kebabs, garlic bread, or mixed into any soup or salad dressing that calls for garlic.
 Several outbreaks of botulism, a potentially fatal disease, have been linked to garlic stored in oil. The bacteria that causes botulism can reproduce even in the refrigerator and does not cause any obvious changes in the paste's taste or appearance. This paste is safe to eat within three days. After that, freeze or throw away the leftovers.Store the garlic paste in the coldest part of your fridge, near the back. This slows down the development of botulinum bacteria, and protects against other sources of spoilage. Use an airtight container.
Freeze in airtight containers with 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm) of head space to allow for expansion.

