 Sometimes, people go through a series of emotions associated with grief, often called the five stages of grief. Just because you aren't feeling sadness at the moment doesn't mean you aren't still grieving.While sadness/depression is one part, you may also feel denial or anger. Some people go through a bargaining stage, where they try to make a deal with a higher power. The final stage is acceptance, in which you are able to move forward with your life.
Keep in mind you may experience multiple stages at once, experience them out of order, or experience them repeatedly. You may reach acceptance and move forward with your life, but you may still have periods of feeling sad, angry, or in denial about the loss.
 People often think ignoring the pain of grief will help it go away. Ignoring the pain can make it seem easier, for a time, like you are done with grieving. However, ignoring the problem often makes it worse. You're living under the strain of suppressed emotion, and when you do finally allow yourself to feel, it may be that much worse., Often, grief shows up in the form of a muddled brain. You may have trouble making decisions, for instance, or you may have trouble focusing at work. If you find your thoughts feeling a bit murky, you could still be dealing with grief without realizing it., Some people have what's called complicated grief, which just means they have a more prolonged and difficult reaction to a loss.Complicated grief may seem completely at odds with what you're currently feeling, but one sign of complicated grief is a feeling of emotional numbness. This may make it hard for you to feel sadness, anger, or much of anything.Other signs of complicated grief can include nightmares and memories that intrude upon your daily life. You may want to isolate yourself, and you may notice weight loss or gain. The symptoms are very similar to those of major depression.
If you think you may be suffering from complicated grief, seek the assistance of a grief counselor and consider joining a support group.
 If you do find you are in one of these other states of grief, it may not be obvious to other people that you're still grieving. To help them understand, you could offer them a short explanation of what's going on, if you feel like it's appropriate.


For example, you might say, "I appreciate your concern. The truth is, I am still grieving, but it may not be apparent to you because I'm going through a stage where my grief is mostly showing up as anger and denial. I'll get through this in my own time."

