 Nurseries specialize in propagating various plants, but some retail nurseries may also sell seeds and bulbs. Garden centers sell fewer developed tulips than nurseries do, but they are more likely to sell tulip bulbs than most nurseries are. Since tulips are fairly popular flowers, both small, local garden centers and larger chains are likely to sell tulip bulbs, but the selection of species may not remarkably vast. Finding a garden center with a varied selection may take a little effort.;
, Nowadays, most chain home improvement stores have a "garden center" section. Gardeners tend to have mixed results by shopping for bulbs at these locations, but as long as you know what to look for, you can usually find decent bulbs. Home improvement stores are particularly convenient for buying large bulk amounts of bulbs in common species, but rarer species will be hard to come by at these venues.
 The Internet is your best resource for finding a wide selection of specialized bulb varieties. Since you cannot physically examine each bulb you purchase, however, you must take extra precaution to find out if the online shop you buy is reputable. Shop with retailers with a recognizable name in the gardening world. Look at reviews of each site, and favor online retailers that offer some form of guarantee or pledge of quality.


Consider buying bulbs from retailers based in the Netherlands. The Netherlands regulate tulip production, and as a result, Dutch tulips and tulip bulbs usually end up being top-notch.
 With the dawning of the Internet, the seed catalogs of old are used less and less. Some companies still put out seed catalogs, though, and many of these catalogs are free. The benefits of mail ordering tulip bulbs through a catalog are numerous. Even though you cannot physically examine your purchase, the vast majority of retailers who put out seed catalogs are reputable and worth dealing with. You also have a wide selection to choose from and can order in bulk if desired.
 Technically, tulips are perennial flowers, so one bulb has the potential to bloom year after year. The trouble is that tulip bulbs take a little encouragement to continue blooming. Bulbs need to be planted deep in loose soil that drains remarkably well; otherwise, they may rot. Fertilizing active tulips also helps the bulb gather more energy. Once the flower begins to wilt and the leaves yellow, the tulip must also be cut down so that more of the energy can go to the bulb rather than the dying growth.

