 Is it science fiction? Historical fiction? Historical non-fiction... The list goes on. If this is a super-hero type of story, I advise not to have the good character very strong, and the villain weak. In fact, it draws the reader in more if the villain is much stronger than the character himself!;
, Some writers write a whole outline and start filling in words, others just make up things as they write. If you have a good imagination, then try making up things as you go. When you're not at your computer typing it up, if a thought of what to write comes to your mind, you should either go and continue on the story or write it down on an "ideas" paper.
 For example, if this is medieval-type, then don't put a bratty I-want-everything-my-way and roll-my-eyes girl unless she came from the future or something. It just doesn't cut it to mix up the kind of people there are. For medieval, it's better to put a brave knight or princess, and maybe even a dragon!

, Be the knight for a little bit, and think how he would feel, but with his type of personality. It might be hard at first, but soon you'll get used to it. For example, think of the knight in front of the terrible dragon. Think what you would feel if you were there, and then try again, this time putting on the knight's personality and armor. This will help you get realistic details for that character. If you make your main character have the same personality as you, then it will be much easier to put yourself in the character's place.
 If you have a main character that in your mind likes honey, and honey has something to do with the story, then tell the reader that he/she likes honey. Many times, trying to make characteristics for your characters can give you good story ideas. Another way to bring details up to your head is to pretend you're having a conversation with your character. Writing an interview with your character can help you discover more details that would suit him/her, and help make them more real.


Naming. You need to name your characters with something that reflects the genre of the story. A fantasy story could have names like Rosh, Rowan, Zephyr... while an everyday school life story would have more normal names like David, Brian, Cody and so on. Giving your character a name that ties in with the story can be interesting. Look up the meanings of the names that you want to use to help you out in this area.
 This is important. For the story to be fun, there has to be a lot of speaking. Otherwise, the character is as dry as a cracker. If you're up to the challenge, you can even make a character that can't speak, and has to make hand motions. This would be much harder unless you just say, "Hi there, how are you?" So and So signed. Otherwise, you'd have to either have the person not interact, or take up the challenge of making hand motions.
 Sometimes it can be interesting to make the reader think someone is more important than he really is. For example, if you have read or seen David Copperfield, think of the person who is rather hunched over and who makes very weird faces, (he gets thrown in jail for manipulating someone and stealing diamonds). If you made a character similar to that, the reader's eyes would fasten to that person, then you can make another character in the background that they will wonder about but don't suspect. The first time you see the character that Charles Dickens wrote, you will suspect evil from him. Yes, he ended up being evil at the end, but how interesting would it be to fake it? This intrigues the reader and the element of trying to figure out what everyone's place in the story is draws the reader in., This is very good for the main characters. Usually, the story that they're in impacts the character and changes his/her life or personality, or their outlook on something. Such as, the main character may hate another character, but by the end of the story, the situations they go through together makes them closer.

