 After your child has gained access to the caller, they will need to learn how to address the person on the other end. Showing your child how to answer the phone is the best way to help them learn. You could show them directly by play-acting or actually answering the phone.You could, alternately, choose to show them an instructional video of people answering the phone.
 Instruct your child to say “Hello?” in a friendly manner. Use an upward inflection at the end of the word. Alternately, train them to say, “This is .” This method will let speakers know straight away exactly who they have on the line., If you are indisposed, instruct your child to communicate to callers that you are busy or cannot come to the phone. Tell your child to say, “I’m sorry. They are not available right now. Can I take a message?” Encourage your child to make a note of the caller’s phone number as well as a short message.Do not tell your child to lie, as they might be confused or bungle the lie.
 After answering the phone, your child might find that the caller wishes to speak with someone who is unavailable. Instruct your child that in these instances, they should offer to take a brief message. Explain – then demonstrate – how they can take a message by using their free hand to transcribe the information being relayed by the caller.Leave a pen and paper near your home phone to facilitate this process.
Teach your child that in the event they do not have pen and paper on hand, they should say to the caller, “Please wait a moment while I fetch pen and paper.” Tell them that they should then set the phone down (without hanging up) and obtain something to write with before returning to the phone.
Encourage your child to read the message back to the person who called so as to avoid any confusion later.
 Direct your child to always ask who they are calling for. Explain that if the person does not answer the question, they should say, “No thank you,” and hang up the phone.Additionally, command your child to be wary of anyone speaking quickly. Many phone scammers and telemarketers speak quickly to pressure the person on the other end of the line to give away information.
Remind your child to never share personal info over the phone with anyone who they do not know.
Urge your child to always turn the phone over to you if the caller confuses them.

