 It sounds simple, but in a depression jobs are hard to come by, and you don’t want to give your employer a reason to let you go. Work overtime or volunteer for additional projects to prove your value to your employer. Even if your workplace is a tough environment or you are underpaid, it is much better to have a job than to be searching for one in tight economic times.This can be especially important if you are considering retirement. In a depression your investments will probably take a hit. That money you’ve been saving may not be quite as much as you were anticipating, so you may want to think about putting off your retirement until times are better.;
, Find ways to earn extra income from part-time work. By its nature, part-time work doesn’t pay nearly as much, and rarely comes with other benefits. With that in mind, the more jobs you take, the more income you’ll be able to keep coming in.Your second job doesn’t need to be something serious. Find work that you enjoy doing, or a hobby that people may be interested in paying money for, like writing. Not only will you be able to make a little extra cash, but you might enjoy the extra work as well.
Even if you maintain your full-time job, the extra work can make a nice addition to your discretionary income, maybe meaning a personal treat like eating a meal out. Most discretionary spending is a small fraction of your usual income, so a little extra money can go a long way.
 If you do lose your job, make sure to file for unemployment benefits as soon as possible. You will need to explain why you were laid off, and demonstrate that it was not for anything you did. While you are receiving unemployment, you will also need to demonstrate that you are looking for a full-time job.Every state has different rules for eligibility in applying for benefits. For example, in California, you must be totally or partially unemployed, and be able and available to start working immediately. Each week you claim benefits you must certify that you are actively looking for work.When filing for unemployment, it will need to be in the state in which you were working. which can be important if you live in a different state.
 If the economy takes a turn, and you lose your job, consider going back to college. An advanced degree in a field you already have experience in can be a good way to make yourself more attractive to prospective employers. This is always helpful in a tight job market. You may also consider earning an advanced degree or going through technical training in another field, and using a graduate stipend as income.Taking classes a community college can be a great option, even if you already have a bachelor’s degree. You can find a number of courses in technical or practical skills, allowing you to expand your skill set and potential work a variety of jobs.
Any additional education or broadened job skills can make one more employable and more valuable to an employer.
 While a depression will cause many companies to lay off employees, and prevent opportunities for work, certain fields will probably remain strong, or even become more necessary. If you have, or can develop, skills in these fields, you might have better luck getting employment, either as extra part-time work, or to replace a job that you lost.Accounting. As money tightens, many businesses will want to be more careful about how they spend. People who can help balance the books will be more valuable as businesses try to keep a careful account of their money.
Repairs. Because people will have less money to spend on purchasing new things, they are more likely to look for ways to fix stuff they have instead of replacing it. The ability to perform repairs on your home or car can help save you money, and make you valuable to companies that want to fix their equipment.
Law enforcement. Crime tends to rise during tough economic times, meaning police and law offices will need find more employees to help deal with the increased work.

Clergy. Economic depression can cause emotional depression, and many people will be looking for some kind of spiritual support or guidance in tough times. This is a great field if you enjoy working with people in trying circumstances, and helping them through these trying times. However, only follow this path if you truly believe in the spiritual practice and desire to help others find or deepen their faith.
Government. Even if the economy slows down, the government will still keep on going. Working for governments, especially at the federal level, remains fairly secure, even in a depression. Fields like homeland security, accounting, information technology, and tax collection are necessary to keep government moving.
 In economic hard times, it is more important to conserve your money than it is to make it. Find ways to reduce extra expenditures, and cut out luxury items that you don’t need. This can mean spending on extra cable packages, vacations, fancy clothes, anything else you don’t really need to survive.Food purchases are a good place to cut back. This doesn’t necessarily mean eating less, but finding ways to avoid buying food. Fewer trips to restaurants is a good place to start. Use coupons and circulars to find deals, and consider cutting out extras like ice cream or chips. You can even consider growing your own garden for some fresh vegetables that you don’t need to buy., In a depression, you’ll want to make sure you have fewer debts to cover. If you should lose your job, those payments will eat into your savings pretty quickly. Cut out your use of credit cards, pay off debts on larger items like cars, and find other ways to reduce your expenditures., There are some industries that actually do better in economic downturns. Look for “sinful” products like tobacco, alcohol, and gambling, as well entertainment companies like movie producers. During troubled economic times, people turn to things like this as a way to escape from the unpleasant reality., Tight economic times can be tough on individuals and families as people struggle to make ends meet. Losing your job can be embarrassing, and it can be tough to admit to those close to you that you going to be unemployed. Make sure you have a network of people, friends and family, that you trust and feel comfortable talking to who can provide emotional and economic support.Make sure children in particular understand how their lives will change because of these new economic times. Of course, you can also look for cheap, fun things to do together like picnics, which won’t cost you money as long as you prepare your own food.

