 HFMD spreads through contact with bodily secretions, and primarily through fecal contamination (or touching contaminated poop). If you wash your hands properly and regularly, you will significantly reduce your odds of acquiring or transmitting the virus.Adults usually have built up an immunity to HFMD and rarely display symptoms. They can, however, still spread the virus to children. Washing your hands after using the bathroom, sneezing or coughing, or changing a diaper, as well as when they are dirty or come in contact with potentially contaminated surfaces, can stop you from spreading a virus you probably don’t even know you have.When washing your hands:Use soap and warm water.
Lather and rub for at least 20 seconds.
Make sure to clean the wrists, between fingers, and under the tips of fingernails.
Rinse with clean water and dry with a clean towel.

;
, For their health and safety, make proper handwashing one of the first tasks you teach a child. Establish good habits from the start and you will reduce their odds of acquiring or spreading a host of illnesses, including HFMD.Wash kids’ hands for them until they can do it properly themselves, and supervise their washing afterward when possible.
Repeatedly emphasize the importance of proper handwashing after using the bathroom.
For a wide range of handwashing resources, including instructions, tips, videos, and activities, visit this CDC webpage. Also, this handout offers kid-friendly games and activities to incorporate into proper handwashing instruction.
In addition, keep your kid's nails trimmed and clean. Make sure you scrub underneath them and consider using a soft brush to make they are thoroughly cleaned. If you work around children or in health care, you should keep your nails short and clean as well.
 Fecal contamination on hands is the primary culprit in spreading HFMD, but nose and mouth secretions can also spread the virus as well. Teach kids to cough, sneeze, and blow their noses in the most hygienic manner and you can significantly curtail the spread of HFMD and a host of other illnesses.Teach kids to cough or sneeze into their sleeves or elbows, or a clean tissue, not into their hands. Emphasize the importance of handwashing after coughing, sneezing, or nose-blowing.
Create stories, songs, and games as teaching tools and reminders. Small children in particular will require regular reminders and demonstrations. Make sure you practice the proper techniques yourself — they are watching!, Any parent of a small child can tell you how tough it can be to stop kids from picking their noses, sucking their thumbs, or sticking any number of items in either their noses or mouths. The issue is bigger than these practices being “gross,” however — they can spread illnesses like HFMD.Of course, especially if you’re dealing with small children, you can only expect so much success in this area. Kids will be kids, and will put things in their mouths and noses that shouldn’t go there. This is why regular, thorough handwashing is so important. Teach it, practice it, and expect it. It is your best defense against HFMD.
 HFMD lives in the digestive tract and can spread by way of various bodily fluids, but fecal contamination is the primary contamination method. Unfortunately (and rather disgustingly), virtually any shared object can be contaminated with fecal matter; therefore, be very cautious when it comes to sharing everyday objects.Don’t share — and tell kids not to share — food, cups, utensils, toothbrushes, towels, or clothes (especially socks or shoes).Teach kids that sharing is good, but only when clean, germ-free items are shared.
 Cleaning can seem like a never-ending task when dealing with one or more kids, but keeping common objects and surfaces clean and disinfected will significantly reduce the likelihood of HFMD — especially when paired with regular handwashing.Especially in a school, preschool, or daycare setting, make sure toys are cleaned regularly. Clean common surfaces with soap and water, and disinfect with chlorine bleach diluted with water., If you know or even just suspect that a child has HFMD, keep him out of school and away from large gatherings of children. HFMD spreads most readily when the infected person is symptomatic.If your child has symptoms or a confirmed case of HFMD, keep him home and inform the child’s school. The school should have a protocol in place for informing other parents and disinfecting the classroom.
 The symptomatic period of HFMD may last for only three to five days, or more often for seven to 10 days; however, even after symptoms subside, the infected person may still be able to spread HFMD for several days or even a few weeks.Keep up a heightened cleanliness and hygiene regimen for at least several days after symptoms disappear. A child without symptoms can probably return to school (depending upon school policy), but make sure she understands the importance of being extra-certain to wash hands, cover coughs and sneezes, use tissues, and avoid sharing food or items that contact the nose or mouth., Hand Foot and Mouth Disease is the clinical symptoms that occur when someone is infected for the first time with coxsackievirus. It resides in the digestive tract of an infected person and is spread by contact with bodily fluids and waste products (especially fecal matter) or surfaces contaminated by them.HFMD occurs most frequently in children under the age of five, primarily due to their propensity for less-than-hygienic practices (nose-picking, putting shared toys in their mouths, not washing adequately after using the bathroom, etc.). By adulthood, most people have built up an immunity to HFMD, but can still pass it along.
 As indicated by its name, HFMD symptoms usually appear on/in the hands, feet, and mouth. The most common symptom is painful blisters that can appear in the throat and throughout the mouth. Often, but not as commonly as the mouth blisters, rashes in the form of red spots or blisters may appear on the palms of the hands and/or the soles of the feet. These symptoms usually come and go within the span of about five to 10 days.Beyond the pain caused by the mouth blisters, HFMD can also sometimes cause general aches, a mild to moderate fever, irritability, sleeplessness, drooling, and a decreased desire to eat and drink — although many of these symptoms are also related to the mouth pain.
 There is no cure for HFMD, nor any vaccine to prevent it. At present, treatment focuses on symptom management and “waiting it out.” Thankfully, although it can be painful and very bothersome, HFMD rarely causes serious health problems. Very rarely it can lead to conditions like viral meningitis or encephalitis, however.If you suspect HFMD, take the child to the doctor for a confirmation. The physician may recommend acetaminophen or ibuprofen for pain relief, as well as lots of fluids and a steady supply of throat-soothing foods like ice pops and ice cream (to the joy of many kids suffering through the mouth blisters!).
Hand and foot rashes should regularly be cleaned gently but thoroughly, and the doctor may recommend a special pain-relieving mouth rinse for the sores there. For the most part, though, you simply have to play a waiting game until symptoms subside.
Prevention is definitely the best treatment for HFMD, and that starts with regular handwashing and continues with other hygienic practices.

