 One easy way you can let your kids help you cook is by giving them a spoon. Let them stir things as you prepare a meal. Depending on their age, you can give them small bowls to stir or let them stir an entire bowl. You or your partner can help them stir by holding their hand and teaching them how to mix ingredients.For example, you can let them mix together dry ingredients for a cake, or mix the eggs into the cake mix. You may let them try mixing the seasonings into dips or sauces.
You can also try letting your toddler mix things with their fingers. Just make sure they wash their hands first.Place the bowl on a surface where your child can easily get to it. You may want to prepare ingredients at a table where they are sitting in a chair. If they try to mix ingredients at a counter and are too short, they can easily knock the bowl off the edge and cause a mess.
Don't let toddlers stir things in hot pans. There is a serious burn risk when children are around hot stoves.;
, You may want to let your toddler measure ingredients that go into the recipes. This may be easier for your child and less of a risk. Teach your child to carefully measure out each of the ingredients and use the right measuring spoon or measuring cup.For example, your child can measure out half a cup of flour, put almonds into a ¼ cup measuring cup, or place two cups of already chopped spinach into a measuring cup.
 Teach your child how to use a butter knife or plastic knife by showing them how to hold it, which side to slice with, and how to hold the food being sliced. Then, allow your toddler to help you cut and slice soft foods.For example, you can let them cut bananas, strawberries, soft cheese, and soft vegetables.
You can purchase kid-friendly plastic knives that are appropriate for toddlers when supervised by an adult.
Teach your child the dangers of sharp knives and to only use the kid-friendly ones. Tell them they shouldn't touch knives without adults present.
 One fun thing your toddler may be able to do is crack eggs. First, teach your child the proper way to crack eggs. Then, monitor as they crack the eggs for your next recipe.Double check to make sure no egg shells get into the dish.
You may want to place a towel under the bowl or take other precautions to help keep messes at a minimum.
 If you have already measured out ingredients, ask your child to add them to the dish. You can let your child pick up a small bowl and pour it into the mixing bowl, or have them add cut up vegetables and put them in a pot.For example, if you are making a cake, you can let your child pour the sugar you have already measured out into the bowl. You can let them add raisins to a salad, put carrots into your stir fry, or add the cheese on top of your casserole.
You can open canned vegetables and let your child pour the contents into the pot. However, teach your child about the dangers of the sharp edge of a can.
 Your toddler can help you in the kitchen by helping you with your produce. This means they can rinse or wash fruit and vegetables before you get ready to use them. Show them how to rinse off the whole piece of produce while explaining the importance of washing produce before eating it and why produce is important to eat.You can also have them tear greens, broccoli, or cauliflower into small pieces. You can also have them tear apart herbs or remove stems.
They can mash potatoes, cauliflower, or other vegetables.
This is a great way for you to help your toddler learn the names of different foods and expose them to a wider variety of healthy foods., Another way you can let your child help you prepare food is by giving them a brush and letting them help you cover food. Show them how to dip the brush into the oil, butter, or marinade and then how to gently cover the food.You can let them spread olive oil over fish or brush butter over bread.
 If you don’t think your child is old enough to help with the actual food preparation yet, you can let them do small things, like sprinkle seasonings. Show them how to pick up a few herbs and place it in the dish or gently sprinkle salt and pepper.Measure out how much seasoning should go on the dish if you don’t want too much. If it doesn’t matter, like if you’re adding basil or cilantro to a dish, you can let your toddler pick up some with their fingers and put it on the food.

