 First priority is to make your base more defensive so no one takes away your treasures. Focus on trying to put your town hall in the center of your base so that it is hard to take more trophies from you that come with taking down the town hall.;
, Good initial defenses are walls and the mortar. If you have these, you are much less likely to have someone raid you and steal your gold and elixir. Walls are much better upgraded so make sure you can do that quite quickly.Try to get the walls to level 3 as quick as possible.
 It is great if you can protect the town hall, gold storage(s) and elixir storage(s). Kick the builder huts and army buildings out. Also, do not try to put walls around everything. It's better to have double thick walls than one huge line.
 Do not waste them, especially your gems because they come in short supply. Do not spend your gems! Save them for another builder hut!


Use your gems to build builder's huts. It is tempting to them all right away, but don't. You will need your gems later.
In the tutorial, you are given 5 wizards to destroy the base. If you only use two, you will have the other 3 in your army camp already. This will let you have wizards at Town Hall 1, which you usually don't unlock until later in the game.
The most efficient way to spend gems is to invest in builders' huts as this enables you to upgrade multiple towers and other defenses at once.
Don't spend on extra gold or elixir storage at first, because you don't need it.
 You can buy more gems with real money.There are other ways of getting gems than spending money. So if you don't want to spend your money, not to worry. You can get gems when you remove trees and obstacles from the area around your base.
 Build a strong base to protect yourself from attackers. It is very satisfying to have enemies attack you and fail. Don't rush while upgrading. Upgrading certain areas more than others instead of them being consistent can cause problems, such as only upgrading town hall to have more storage you can't use.
 Many players agree that having most of your base concentrated in the middle is a good strategy.
 Place your storages and town hall in the center of your base, behind the defenses and walls.
 That way, when enemies attack the middle of your base, they won't have time to get to your huts as well.
 After you have gained resources, make your base even stronger by upgrading walls and other defenses and towers.
 Traps do a lot of damage to attacking enemies and are worth upgrading, the one time hit damage can easily take out groups of smaller troops and seriously hurt larger types too. Put them in sneaky places that people wouldn't expect.
 Eventually, you can aspire to other more advanced defenses like archer towers and anti aircraft defenses. Mortars do a lot of damage per shot but they shoot very slowly. Keep these in the center of your base because of their blind spot and their superb range. If you do not protect your air defenses your base will fall to healers.
 Attacking is all good. There is no downside and you can get valuable items and trophies. You may want to lose trophies to get resources from easier defenders. You will not get as much per raid but it's easier and you don't have to spend as much on your army. It is easier to steal resources than mine for them. And, it is fun!

, You can see how much gold each possible enemy base you can attack has. If it has none, don't bother attacking. If it has a very large amount, it may be too well defended for you to attack. However, if it has a large amount and you can take it ,do it. Take a few risks!

, Have your troops attack the storage areas for gold and elixir first.


After a successful attack, you will bring back more gold and elixir, which you can then spend.
If you are losing an attack, there is no shame in just pulling back your troops to your base. You can always train more troops later. Know when to quit.
When you attack a gold storage, the gold will go into your bank account immediately. Even if your troops are killed during the attack, the gold remains in your account.
, To train, tap the barracks and you will see the train menu. The best ones to train at first are barbarians (for 25 elixir each) and giants (for 500 elixir each.)

, The laboratory lets you upgrade your troops so they have more offensive power and can sustain more damage. You can also get advanced kinds of troops such as archers, a wizard, and goblins. You can also build a spell factory after a while. This can create many spells that add different advantages to your attacks.
 As you start collecting trophies, you will go up in leagues, each league has a bonus of extra gold and elixir win winning a match. The higher league level is the higher the bonus becomes. The higher level leagues also provide a dark elixir bonus.
 In a few days after starting, find your clan castle and upgrade it.
 Take your time and check to see which one look good. You probably want one where the people are online around the same time as you.
, You also can have the fun of attacking and defending with people who are your same experience level i the game.
, You may find yourself in a clan where people are all much older or younger than you. Or, they all speak a different language. Either way, no shame in moving on.
,, The global chat is an open chat room for any players online.
