 Walk on the sidewalk, as it's considered rude by many people to just barge through the front yard. Ring the doorbell, put on a smile, and wait.
 "Hi, my name is ______, I am in Girl Scout troop ______, and would you like to buy some Girl Scout cookies?" would be an appropriate opening line. In your sales pitch, you can also include your troop's selling goals, your personal ones, and/or what your troop plans to do with the money it makes. This makes you sound excited, involved, and endears you to potential buyers. However, do not say that you will get a prize. Make it sound like you are just doing it to help out your troop.
 Often, there will be at least one cookie that's sugar free, low fat, or something else that may appeal to diabetics (often, they don't want to buy cookies, but it's possible to convince them - that's why you'll want to have nutrition facts on hand, which should be on the cookie sheet). You can recommend a personal favorite or a cookie that was popular the year before, if they can't decide.
 If you know the person well, it may not be necessary to have them write down their address and phone number, but all other information is necessary. Help them fill out the boxes showing how many of each kind of cookie they want, if they need it, and tell them how much their order will cost. You'll also need to work out payment.



It's best to collect all the money at once. This is a good idea because collecting some money at the time of the sales and some at the time of delivery can be confusing, and has the potential to cause more accounting issues than you really want to deal with. Tell your customers that they can pay when the cookies come in, and only make exceptions for people you know.

If they don't want to buy cookies, thank them for their time and prepare to leave, or try a subtle hint that they can make a donation instead, if they don't offer to on their own. Hey, you can't sell to everyone... you'll probably have more luck at the next house.
 Congratulations, you just made a sale! Now, go forth and conquer the rest of your neighborhood.

