 If you want to lose weight, especially somewhat quickly, you'll need to cut out some calories from your diet. Cutting calories is one of the main methods for weight loss.


If you cut out about 500 calories daily, you'll lose about one to two pounds per week. With this weight loss rate, you could reach your goal in about two-and-a-half to three months.You could cut out more calories, but following a very low-calorie diet is not recommended. If you do not eat enough throughout the day, you're at risk of losing lean muscle mass and having nutrient deficiencies. In addition, your weight loss may eventually slow down and may not be sustainable long-term.Use an online food journal or smartphone app to help you count calories throughout the day and keep track of your intake.;
, Many studies show that if you want to see quicker weight loss results from a diet, that you should follow a low-carb diet.


Low-carb diets are eating plans that focus on minimizing your total carbohydrate intake throughout the day. These result in quicker weight loss and have been shown to help specifically lose more fat tissue.Carbohydrates are found in a large variety of foods including fruits, starchy vegetables, legumes, dairy products, and grains.
Since they are so widespread it's typically not recommended to follow a no or very low carb diet as you'll be missing out on a wide range of nutrients.
Instead of limiting each of those food groups, minimize the most carb-rich groups and those whose nutrients you can get from other foods. Limit: grains (like bread, rice, pasta, crackers or tortillas), high sugar fruits and starchy vegetables.If you do choose to have a serving of these carbohydrate-rich foods, stick to appropriate serving sizes: 1/2 cup or 1 oz of grains,1 cup of starchy vegetables,and a 1/2 cup of fruit., Both protein and produce (fruits and vegetables) are low in calories and high in many nutrients. Together, they make a great combination for weight loss.


Protein is essential for your diet and for weight loss. It helps your body function, maintain lean muscle mass and helps keep you feeling satisfied longer throughout the day.Include a 3 – 4-oz serving of protein at each meal and snack.Try items like eggs, poultry, lean beef, pork, seafood, tofu or low-fat dairy products.
Fruits and vegetables are high in fiber and other nutrients while being low in calories. In addition to protein, they can help bulk up your meals and help you feel satisfied with fewer calories.Include one to two servings of a low-sugar fruit (apples, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries or cranberries) or vegetable at each meal. Stick to 1/2 cup of fruit and 1 cup of vegetables or 2 cups of leafy greens.
 Having an occasional snack can be a part of a nutritious weight loss diet. However, too much snacking can lead to weight gain. Be careful of how much you snack as you try to lose weight.


If you want to lose weight quickly, try to limit snacking as much as you can. These extra calories can slow your weight loss.
If you do include a snack, keep the calories under 100 per snack.In addition, only snack if you're truly hungry and need a snack, or need an energy boost before or after an intense workout.
Examples of low calorie, nutritious snacks include a small piece of fruit, an individual low-fat greek yogurt, 1 oz of mixed nuts or a hard boiled egg.
 Water is a great drink to help you lose weight. Contrary to popular belief, retaining water and water bloat comes from not drinking enough water — not drinking too much. So load up on this calorie-free beverage to prevent additional water weight gain.


Aim for at least 8-13 glasses of water or other sugar-free beverages daily. You can also try flavored water and unsweetened decaf coffee or tea.If you're dehydrated, even slightly, you may feel hunger when in all reality you're only thirsty.To avoid this mistake, stick to the 8-13 glass rule.
In addition, drinking a big glass of water before a meal or when you're feeling a twinge of hunger can you help your stomach feel full and decrease your overall hunger feeling.
Limit or give up sugary beverages, alcohol or drinks with any calories. Liquid calories can easily sabotage your weight loss efforts.
 In addition to changing your diet, you'll need to add in cardiovascular exercise. The combination of diet and exercise can help you lose the most weight and lose it more quickly than diet or exercise alone.Aim to include at least 150 minutes of cardio activities each week. However, you can increase this amount to up to 300 minutes for additional health benefits.When choosing your exercises, aim to pick activities that are moderate-intensity for you. You'll need to be out of breath, sweating and have your heart rate raised.
You do not need to aim for a specific heart rate level necessarily. Aim for a 6-7 out of 10 on the perceived exertion scale (1 being completely sedentary and 10 being the highest intensity exercise you could handle).
Try exercises like jogging, using the rowing machine, doing aerobics classes or using the elliptical.
 One type of cardio exercise is called HIIT or high-intensity interval training. Adding this type of cardio to your exercise routine may help speed weight loss.HIIT exercises increase your heart rate significantly. Studies have shown that this type of exercise burns a significant amount of calories from fat and keeps your metabolism raised long after you've completed the workout.Make 1-2 of your cardio sessions a HIIT workout. The combination of HIIT and steady-state cardio (like jogging for 30 minutes) is great for weight loss.
An example of a HIIT routine would be: sprinting for 1 minute, followed by 2 minutes of a jog repeated 3-5 times or as many as you're able.
 Strength training is another type of exercise that may help with weight loss. However, this type of exercise helps maintain your weight loss long-term.


Strength or resistance training doesn't burn all that many calories by itself. However, it helps increase your lean muscle mass and your metabolism or your body's ability to burn calories.Include at least 1-2 days of strength training each week. Work each major muscle group and spend at least 20 minutes doing these activities.Exercises like weight lifting, isometric exercises, yoga and pilates all can help you build strength and increase lean muscle mass.
 In addition to participating in planned, structured exercise, try increasing how much you move throughout the day. This can also help your overall calorie burn throughout the day.You can burn a significant amount of calories through cardio exercises. Increasing your daily lifestyle activities can help increase the total amount of calories you burn each day.
Lifestyle activities are those things you do in a typical or average day.Anything from taking the stairs, doing household chores, walking to and from your car and standing can count as lifestyle activities.
These types of activities do not burn many calories alone. But if you increase them and are constantly moving or walking throughout the day, the total calories can add up.
Think about your typical day and see when and where you can add in more movement or more steps. Could you park farther away? Can you take extra flights of stairs? Can you take a walk break during your lunch hour?

, Anytime you are attempting to lose weight fast, especially a considerable amount, it is crucial to consult a doctor. It's always a smart idea to talk to your doctor prior to any new diet or exercise plan.


Talk to your doctor about how much weight you want to lose and what he or she thinks would be a healthy weight range.
Also get in touch with your doctor if you're having difficulty losing weight. They may run some general tests on you to rule out any health conditions that could be affecting weight loss.
Your doctor may also be able to refer you to a local registered dietitian or medically supervised dieting program.
 Food journals are a great tool for weight loss.Start keeping one when you start your diet to have a track record of what you've been eating.


Keep track of all your meals, snacks, drinks and any little nibbles you eat throughout the day. The more accurate you are with your journaling, the more useful your journal will be.
If you notice you're not losing weight anymore or have started to regain weight, come back to review your food journal. Look for extra snacking, larger portions or liquid calories. If you notice a trend, try to fix what's wrong to help restart weight loss.
Journaling continuously can also help keep you accountable. You may be less likely to snack or eat bigger portions if you know you have to account for it in your journal., You may have already implemented a new physical activity routine when you started losing weight. However, if you notice you're no longer losing weight or have regained some, increasing your activity might be helpful.


Although it's typically only recommended to do 150 minutes of aerobic activity most healthy adults can increase this amount to 300 minutes per week. With increased levels you can burn more calories and restart or continue weight loss.You may also consider changing the intensity of your exercise. If you're currently walking most days, do 1-2 days of a jog. Increased intensity also means you're burning more calories.

