 The type of policies, coverage and prices can vary widely so make sure you get several quotes. Putting in the time to do some research before committing yourself to an insurance policy will mean that you get the best protection for your money.;
, There are many different landlords insurance policies available. The cover ranges from landlords building insurance (which usually provides cover for perils such as floor or fire) to landlords contents insurance (which usually covers for perils such as fire, malicious damage or theft or malicious damage) up to a fully comprehensive landlords insurance policy, which may include cover for such things as loss of rent and legal expenses. Many policies also offer property owners liability to protect the landlord against liability claims made by a tenant; for example if the tenant fell down the stairs. In the event of such a claim being made by the tenant, the property owners liability section of a landlords insurance policy would usually provide cover.
 Most landlords insurance policies have two main elements to them. The majority of any expense is in respect of insuring the building’s structure. Most landlord insurance policies also cover fixtures and fittings. This refers to items such as carpets, bathrooms, kitchens, white goods, curtains and light fittings. This cover is usually adequate for most landlords when letting out a property that is unfurnished. However, you should always make sure that the landlords insurance policy has provision for cover against accidental breakage of fixed glass, such as windows, and sanitary fittings. These are one of the most common areas of damage and subsequently potential claims on landlord insurance policies. Landlords can also separately insure any contents in the property such as furniture. Again though, the landlords insurance policy will only protect you against damage by the tenants and not property theft.
 Several factors determine the level of landlords insurance buildings cover relating to the rebuilding cost of the property. You can carry out an estimation for a landlords insurance quote using the Building Cost Information Service (BCIS) which is part of the RICS. This calculator takes into account the area that the building to be insured is in, the type of property and its construction. It then creates a reinstatement value on which the level of landlords insurance you need can be based.
 You should know the age of the structure, including the plumbing and electrical systems; the kind of roof; the dwelling's square footage; and the number of insurance claims, if any, that were filed within the last five years.
 Any remodeling or upgrades to existing structures must be reflected in your policy to ensure you have adequate coverage.

