 After you take the puppy out from its nest, you have to immediately introduce it to paper training.  Have it smell all the areas in your house. Have ample fresh water for it to drink.  


Add to the training the crate.  It needs to know where its going to sleep every day.  Make the puppy understand that his place is the crate and not your couch or your room.  
Use only a leather collar leash instead of a choke collar.
Buy toys for the puppy and have it play after every training session.;
, This is trying to establish that you are the alpha instead of it.  

,  Keep a record notebook of the training sessions and the routines that you do each day.  

, For example, bring it to the marketplace, ride a bicycle and have the puppy tail beside you. Make it accustomed to different noises, like trumpets, toy guns, radio, vacuum cleaner and many more. After a month of paper training, introduce it outside the house and have it pee and poop there.


Do this every morning, noon and evening after dinner.  You need to do this routine every day, until it learns the trick.
 When you want to make the puppy sit, just push its rear down while you are holding the leash and at the same time saying the word sit. In this way, it will learn that you want it to sit.  


About 10 to 15 repetitions will do the trick.
 Of course, you need to reward it every time the dog does the right job, like giving it treats such as food or affection.  
Do this routine everyday for ten days until the puppy knows what it needs to do.  

,  First ask the dog to sit. Then push it down at the same time saying the word Down. Keep repeating this routine for a maximum of 30 minutes. Do it again in the afternoon.  


Keep in mind the positive reinforcement technique by saying "Good boy/girl" when it does the right thing.  
Always record your progress in your small notebook. Also record the places that have been introduced to the puppy.
 A well-groomed dog is a happy and healthy dog. You need to bathe your puppy every week. Use the proper shampoo for the dog, introduce anti-lice powder, and dry it properly with a dryer and dry sheets every time. Clean its paws too, as well as its mouth and ears.  


Use clean cotton balls wet with a little water and rubbing alcohol and rub it gently on its inner ears.  
Inspect the body the head and the front and hind legs.  Also inspect its eyes.  

, After bathing have it pee outside the house.  Walk it around for awhile until its body is sun dried.
  When you arrive home from work just go inside the gate and into the house but don't caress it, to avoid the jumping actions. Instead, have the dog sit and pet it about three time and let it down.  This is enough. Or, if you brought home some treats, this is the right time to give the dog the treat when it is in the down position.
 As this dog is a work in progress, you need to teach your Belgian Malinois that it is not proper for it to stand in front you while you're eating your meal.  Instead, have it in the down position near the doorway while you and your family are having your meals. Don't give any food during this time.


Always have the dog in the down position facing the doorway. This will enforce discipline for your Belgian Malinois. When taught properly, every Belgian Malinois will eventually become the apple of its owners' eyes.
 Note how it is walking, the way the dog eats. If anything out of the ordinary shows up, or if there is a manifestation of sickness, go to the veterinarian immediately and have the dog checked. This avoids further complications later on.
 You need to have the dog deloused every month and dewormed every six months.  This is proper health management.  Lice infestation, especially in the ears, will develop into hematomas and will cost you a lot afterwards.  This could also destroy the erectness of its hears, once the hematomas develop, you won't see the erect ears anymore.

