 If you want to help open the crowd up then find some people around you who are into dancing and tell them you want to hardcore dance. Everyone should gather in a group and when the music starts begin pushing people out of the way by walking backwards with your arms extended. This is the more polite way to do it, and there are many other ways such as running as fast as you can at the people around you and jumping toward them.;
, Someone around you is going to know what they are doing, so just watch and see what everyone else is doing. Don't try to rip off peoples moves though, as this could get you tackled for being a rook. Just try to make sure you're not doing the wrong thing at the wrong time.
 This move is performed by taking your right leg and swinging it in front of your left, and then respectively pulling your left leg out from behind your right and throwing it in front(2 steps vary from city to city). If you're doing it right (and many beginners don't), you will have a running in place like effect going for you. You should try to move your arms to the beat as well, maybe by grabbing the air near your feet. Since hardcore dancing is done at hardcore shows making a gangsta limp hand or other similar things is not recommended seeing as most of the people there will not like rap or hip-hop.
 Swing your arms around with a closed fist back and forth in front of your body, perhaps balancing yourself on one foot and switching now and then or planting your feet and bending your knees. It helps add to the effect if you appear as though you have no absolutely no concern for the well-being or safety of anyone around you. This is usually referred to as "the windmill".
 As long as it goes with the flow of the music and is particularly violent in nature, it may be accepted in the circle. You can also try some other trademark moves like "picking up the change", which is performed by standing with your feet shoulder length apart and brutally punching downwards at the ground. This can also be performed instead by punching the sky or air that is directly in front of you.
 Put your fist up in the air and start walking across the circle, and throw it down just as the music starts again, then proceed with step 4. Sometimes this sudden pause is the queue for a Wall of Death. That is where the crowd parts into two sides and slams into each other like in the movie Braveheart (this move is also called such). If you are in the circle, and the crowd appears to be shifting, move to one side or you will be trampled unless you join the fray.

