 A common goal to improve your overall health is to ditch the sugary drinks and increase water intake. This is a great goal as water is essential to your hydration and health.Increasing water consumption is a virtually free and painless way to instantly make a positive change for yourself.


Your long-term goal should be to drink about 64 oz or 2 L of clear, sugar-free fluids every day.Ditch sweetened beverages. Drinking more water is great, but skipping the sweetened beverages will help reduce your overall calorie intake and promote weight loss.If you're not drinking a lot of water now, start slowly. Add in one glass or one bottle of water every day. Or, swap out one soda or one energy drink for an equivalent amount of water. Slowly increase the amount of water you drink and decrease a number of sweetened beverages you drink.
Don't drink your fruits. Give up drinking fruit juice and get all those wonderful nutrients from real, whole fruit. You'll get the added benefit of having the fiber from the fruit in addition to missing out on the liquid calories of fruit juice.
 While you are increasing the amount of water you drink, you can also be strategic about when you drink it. Drinking a big glass of water (about eight oz) right before a meal or snack can help decrease your overall portion size and how many calories you consume.Try to make it a habit to drink water right before you eat. When you're stomach is more full on water, it can help decrease your hunger. This may lead to or help support your weight loss.
You can also consume other no-calorie beverages including: sugar-free, flavored waters, coffee, tea, no-calorie sports drinks, and even low sodium broth.
 Eating enough fruits and vegetables is key for a healthy lifestyle and diet since these foods are essential sources of vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. However, eating the recommended seven to nine servings of fruits and vegetables everyday may be daunting or difficult.If you're not a big fruit or vegetable eater, make a list of your top five favorite fruits and vegetables. Start by adding in just one serving of fruit or vegetables a day. As you get comfortable with this goal, add two servings a day.
If you dislike a variety of fruits and vegetables, go to the grocery and pick out something new or unfamiliar to you. Or try an item that you haven't had in a while.
Keep fresh fruit on the counter and vegetables cut, washed, and ready to eat in the fridge. The less preparation needed, the more likely you'll include them in your diet.
If you enjoy a sweet after dinner, try having fruit with your dessert.
 Whole grains are minimally processed grains that are higher in fiber, protein, and other nutrients compared to refined grains (like white bread or plain pasta).They also have a more nutty flavor and chewy texture which may not be enjoyable by all people.


If you typically eat mostly refined grains, start with making about half of your grain choices whole grains. As you get more comfortable with this goal, you can work up to making most or all of your grain choices whole grains.
Whole grain foods to try include: 100% whole wheat pasta, oatmeal, quinoa, brown rice or 100% whole wheat bread.
Try a variety of whole grains and a variety of brands of whole grains. For example, try 100% whole wheat pasta. If you don't like it, try another brand of 100% whole wheat pasta as each brand has a slightly different flavor.
 Making lifestyle changes to be healthier doesn't mean you can't enjoy a snack. In fact, having a snack can help manage and control hunger and support weight loss.Healthy snacks should contain some lean protein and a fruit or a vegetable. However, start slowly changing your snacks for a lasting change. For example, if you normally have a small bag of chips in the afternoon try swapping to a small bag of whole grain chips with salsa.
 Studies show that packing your lunch can help cut down on your overall calorie intake (and food costs).Brown-bagging your lunch will give you more control over what foods you eat and how they're prepared.


If you typically eat lunch out everyday, start by packing your lunch just one to two days a week.
Also pack an afternoon snack if you typically stop by the vending machine to grab an afternoon pick-me-up.

