 Certain foods may make ADHD symptoms worse, so following a special diet can also be helpful for some people with ADHD. However, you should talk to a dietician or physician before making major changes to your diet.Keep in mind that studies on the effects of diet on ADHD symptoms are mixed. Some have shown improvement while others have not, so make sure that you look at other treatment options along with making dietary changes., It is possible that some of the foods that you eat on a regular basis may be contributing to your ADHD symptoms. Keeping a food diary can help you to determine whether there might be a link between certain foods or beverages and your ADHD symptoms.Start keeping a log of everything that you eat as well as how you feel after eating. If you notice an increase in symptoms after eating a certain food, then try eliminating that food from your diet for a while.
For example, if you notice that you start to lose focus about 30 minutes after eating a bowl of pasta, then you might eliminate pasta to see if that helps. Another option is to switch to whole wheat or gluten free pasta and see if there is a difference.
 Eating lots of sugar and simple carbohydrates can make symptoms of ADHD worse, so it may help to avoid these foods. However, keep in mind that this approach does not work for everyone.Some examples of these foods include:anything with added sugar
white bread, pasta, or rice
baked goods such as cookies, cakes, and pies
sodas and other sugary beverages
sugary cereals and cereal bars

, Eating more protein may help to reduce symptoms of ADHD by helping you to focus and sustaining your energy, but remember that making dietary changes does not work for everyone. You should discuss dietary changes with your doctor first and consider other treatment options as well.If you also decide to include more protein, make sure that your diet includes plenty of lean, high-quality protein such as:skinless chicken and turkey
seafood such as shrimp, salmon, crab, and cod
beans
tofu
eggs
Greek yogurt (plain, without added sugar)

, Some studies have shown that taking a daily omega-3 supplement can improve ADHD symptoms, but more research is needed to determine if this treatment is actually effective.Try taking a daily omega-3 supplement to see if it helps you.It is important to find a supplement that contains both DHA and EPA, but you should look for a supplement that contains two to three times more EPA than DHA. This is the best blend for treating ADHD symptoms., Drinking alcohol can affect your glucose levels, which may also increase ADHD symptoms such as by affecting your ability to concentrate. To reduce the symptoms of ADHD caused by drinking alcohol, try to avoid drinking as much as possible.Do not exceed more than one drink per day if you are a woman and no more than two drinks per day if you are a man.
Controlling glucose levels does not help everyone with ADHD. Make sure that you consider other treatment options as well.