 Many people suffer from dehydration and don’t even know it. Foot cramps are one common symptom, but there are others. Learn to recognize the symptoms so that you can nip dehydration in the bud. Some common symptoms include:Little or no urine, urine that is dark in color
Fatigue
Severe thirst
Dry mouth
Headache
Dizziness;
, There’s no universal answer for how much water a person should drink each day. The amount you need depends on your weight, age, diet, and activity level. Though it’s possible to drink too much water, it’s fairly difficult. Err on the side of drinking a little too much, rather than not enough.A good rule of thumb is to drink six to eight 8oz glasses of water per day.
Drink more than that if you are physically active, live in a hot climate, consume excess sodium, or are pregnant or nursing.
When tracking your water intake, beverages such as soda, juice, coffee or tea can be counted. However, these drinks may contain sugar or caffeine, and so plain water is a better source for pure hydration.
 Don’t try to drink all of your recommended water right at breakfast. Instead, sip it throughout the day. Carry a refillable water bottle so that you always have water when you need it.Know how much water your bottle holds. That will help you keep track of how much water you drink during the day.
If you don’t like the taste of water, you can add sprigs of fresh mint, or cut up fresh ginger, citrus fruit, or mint and let them infuse your water with a subtle flavor.
 Some foods can dehydrate you, but some can actually help you stay hydrated. Fresh fruits and vegetables can be excellent sources of water.Processed foods often contain excess sodium, which can dehydrate you. If you’re trying to stay hydrated, avoid these.
Leafy greens, melons, cucumbers, and apples are great hydrating foods.
 If you’ve already become dehydrated it may take a little while for your body to return to a state of hydration. Track any symptoms you might have had and see if they improve. If they do, keep doing what you’re doing.It’s much easier to prevent dehydration than to recover from it. Stay on top of your water intake as much as possible.

