 The French kiss is pretty basic, but if you want to really turn a guy on, you have to be able to do it right. Though you don't have to kiss perfectly the first time, remember that kissing is the gateway to other sexy acts, so if you show him you're a good kisser, he'll be even more turned on because he'll be thinking about what else is in store for him. Here's how to master the French kiss:


Don't be too eager. Gently slip your tongue inside his mouth and explore. Don't go in for the kill with your tongue until it feels right.
Be gentle. Slowly and gently move your tongue around the guy's mouth. Don't slosh it around and leave gobs of spit everywhere.
Don't ignore the rest of your body. Move your hands around his back, shoulders, and neck, and press your chest up against his.
If you get bored with the French kiss, mix it up with a variety of other kisses.
 This is another sexy variation on the traditional French kiss. Stand about a foot or two away from your guy while you're kissing, so that you have to lean in towards each other, and grab each other to get closer.


You'll end up rubbing your hips against your guy's every time you move back in after pulling apart, and he won't be able to keep his hands off of you.
 Kissing ain't just for lips, honey. You'll turn your guy on even more if you maximize your kissing abilities by kissing him all over his body. If you're just making out, then you can kiss him on the neck, upper chest, and even on the bottom of his earlobes.


If you've taken off his shirt, you can try kissing him above his waistband.
Tell him you'll kiss him anywhere -- except his lips. That will turn him on even more.
 Once you've gotten comfortable with your guy, you can take your kissing up a notch by adding some little love nibbles to your routine. Just try some gentle bites on different parts of the guy's body, and he'll be turned on even more. Here are some places where biting will really turn your guy on:


Give him gentle bites on his earlobes.
Try some gentle bites on his neck -- just be careful so you don't leave a mark.
Nibble on his lip in the middle of a kiss.
If his shirt is off, don't be afraid to bite his chest, or even his nipples. Nipples are an erogenous zone for men, too.

