 If you want to hook up with your ex without any strings attached and to have as much fun as possible, then you have to start off by being spontaneous. Don't call her or text her, asking what she's been up to. Instead, you should run into her at a club, a party, or just out in the middle of the day, and start charming her and letting her know that you want to hook up.


If you call her or start checking in with her, then she may get the wrong impression and think you want something more than just hooking up. Treat it like meeting a new and exciting girl out at a bar and then bring her home.;
, If you want to start hooking up with your ex, you should wait until at least a few weeks, if not a few months, have gone by before you start trying to hook up with your ex again. Even if you had an amicable and mutual break-up and there are no hard feelings, you should let the dust settle before you try to get back in bed with your ex, or things are bound to get complicated.


Enough time should pass that you can see your ex as someone hot who you'd like to hook up with, instead of letting all of your old complicated feelings or emotions well up at the sight of her.
Enough time should pass so you get rid of any anger or lingering resentment or bitterness.
 Once enough time has passed and you've run into your ex, you should make it clear that you want to take her home. Don't tell her that she's beautiful and that you've missed her smile; instead, tell her that she looks great in her new dress and that you've missed her body. You don't have to be too subtle since you should already be pretty comfortable with each other -- just make sure she's feeling it, too.


Don't give her a puppy-dog love gaze. Look her up and down and let her see that you think she looks hot.
Be blunt. Ask her to come over or wait for an invitation to go to her place.
 Before you even touch your ex's lips with your own, you should make your intentions and expectations clear. Tell her you want to hook up without any strings attached, that you're not looking to get back into the relationship, and that you just want to have a little fun. Let her know that you only want to see her to hook up, not to do all the date-y stuff that leads to hooking up.


Don't be a jerk. It's not cool to lead on your ex, hook up with her again, and then tell her that you're not really looking to reconnect.
 Keep in mind that, when you're about to hook up with an ex, it's pretty unlikely that you're both on the same page. That is to say, it's almost always the case that one of you is still hurt, still reeling, and still emotionally vulnerable from the break up. It could be the case that she dumped you and you're pretending that you want to hook up when you really just want to get back together, or that she's totally hung up on you while you just want to get her in bed. But if you really are looking for the same things, then it's safe to go for it.


Look into her eyes when you talk about your hook-up status. Does she really agree that it's a good idea, or does she clearly think it'll turn into something more?
Think about how serious the relationship was in the beginning. If you were only together for a month or two, then you're both much more likely to be okay with just hooking up than you'd be if you dated for a year or two.
Make sure you're both okay with also hooking up with other people. If you're not, then why not just get back together?

