 You want bigger stalks with deep-green or slightly purple tips for the grill. While you can use the extra thin spears, they tend to either overcook in order to get crispy or undercook to avoid drying out. A firm stalk is essential.


Check the bottoms of the spears. The should be even and slightly green. If they are all white and cracked or dried out then you should get a fresher pack.;
, Never throw food on a cold grill. You want the grates to be piping hot, which will get the outsides of the veggies well browned and delicious. Be sure the scrape the grill clean with a wire brush as it heats so the food cooks cleanly.


You only need the burners that the asparagus will be directly over to be on.
 Clean the asparagus with vegetable cleaner, or wash them under water. You should cut away any of the white at the bottom, leaving even, green spears.


If using your hands, bend the stalk near the bottom. It should naturally break right about where you would cut it off.
Optionally, use a peeler to remove about half the skin for less-tough spears. Note, however, that this only works for thicker asparagus.
 You don't want them to be dripping wet, but they should have a nice sheen of oil. Oil holds heat much more evenly than plan asparagus, leading to better cooking and grill marks.


One pound of asparagus needs about four tablespoons of olive oil., Salt enhances and brings out flavor, but it also removes moisture. By waiting until you're just about ready to grill the asparagus you get all the taste benefits of salt without the tough, rubbery, or dry side-effects.
 Make sure you place them perpendicular to the grill grates to avoid losing any of them to the flames. The cooking time will depend on the thickness of the spears, but you should roll them around every minute or so to ensure they cook easily.


Very thin asparagus may only take 3-5 minutes, so move quickly. If you have a grill pan, it may be easiest to cook in this so you don't loose any spears.
 This is the easiest test to make sure they are tender. If your fork easily slides into the stalk, then they are ready to eat.

