;
, For example, descriptions of autographed manuscripts and documents need to include type of autograph e.g. typed letter signed, handwritten letter signed, size, date, and condition. Descriptions of books containing autographs need to include information about the book e.g is it a first edition? and condition of accompanying dust jacket. Potential buyers also need to know details of any inscription that accompanies an autograph on a book or photograph.
, This number is the least amount of payment you are willing to accept on the sale of your item. Setting the bottom limit protects you from having your item sold at an unreasonably low price or at a significant loss.
 Check autograph collecting publications, such as "Autograph Collector", that list advertisers from autograph auction companies, and websites like Roger Epperson's Autograph Alert Truth for reviews of autograph auction houses.
 For example, some auction houses specialize in autographs from famous sports personalities, others may specialize in notable personalities who have autographed stocks and bonds.
 Public records show that "Remember When Auctions" and "RRAuctions" have been involved in lawsuits related to autograph fraud. The Universal Autograph Collectors Club has issued warnings on at least one autograph auction company from New Hampshire.
 Autograph auction houses usually supply their terms on request. Often, this information is downloadable from their website.
 Unless you are a professional autograph dealer, the auction company should take responsibility for proper evaluation of your autographs, and also provide guarantees of authenticity to their customers.
 Is the auctioneer properly licensed in states that require licensing? Is the auctioneer a full-time autograph dealer or a front for an autograph dealer?

, Be prepared to send them copies of your autographs.
 This includes commissions, production costs, catalog photos, mailing and packaging, applicable taxes, and interest on cash advances. Get all of their fees in writing before proceeding further.
,