 Go through your boyfriend’s social media pages to see if he is talking to anyone that you don’t know. See whose pictures he is “liking” and “favoriting.” Also, look for other social media pages that you may not know about. He may be using them to communicate with the other person.


Also notice if he is spending more time on social media than he usually does. Spending more time on social media has been linked to cheating.If you have his passwords, go through his accounts to see who he has been messaging. This is a serious invasion of his privacy. If he finds out that you have done this, he will be upset with you. Be very confident with your suspicions before you do this.
 If your boyfriend has been lying about his whereabouts, talk to his friends to see if they say the same thing. Keep in mind that his friends are on his side and will probably not tell you what he is up to. Be smart about the questions that you ask them.


For example, if your boyfriend says he went out with a friend on Thursday night, you may ask the friend, “Hey, did you and ____ have a good time on Thursday?”
You would also ask your boyfriend, "Hey, did you and ___ have a good time on Thursday? What did you guys do?"
His friends may begin to act differently around you if your boyfriend is cheating. If they know what is going on, they may be uncomfortable around you., Ask him where he was one day. A few days later, ask him again. If he is lying, he may find it hard to remember what he said the first time. Compare what he said each time you asked to see if the stories match.


If he becomes defensive or annoyed that you keep asking him questions, he may be cheating. If he is telling the truth, your questions shouldn’t bother him.
If he uses social media a lot, check his posts and activity around the time that you are questioning about. Look for any inconsistencies.
 Wait until your boyfriend is sleeping or in the bathroom and grab his phone. This will be difficult if he takes his phone with him everywhere he goes. If you do not know his password, try to cuddle with him and look over his shoulder when he puts it in. This may help you figure out what his password is.


You can also try to stand close to him while he uses his phone and see if you notice anything.
Once you have access to his phone, go through his call log and messages as quickly as you can. Look for unsaved numbers.
If your boyfriend does not have any text messages in his phone, he may have deleted all of them because he is up to something.
Going through his phone is another serious invasion of his privacy. He will be very upset if he finds out you have done and this and will not trust you anymore. Use this as a last resort.

