 Get your copy of the contract and make a photocopy. Then take out a highlighter and highlight the statement made in the contract that is false. If there is more than one false statement, highlight them all.


If you can’t find your copy of the contract, then contact the other party to the contract and ask for a copy.
A misrepresentation does not need to be in the contract. In fact, most probably won’t be. For example, you could ask a realtor questions while walking through a house. The realtor’s answers could also be misrepresentations.
A nonfraudulent misrepresentation is any false, “material” statement which you justifiably relied on when making your decision to purchase or sign a contract.;
, A misrepresentation must be false, and you need to prove to a court that the statement is false. Accordingly, gather whatever evidence proves that the statement is a misrepresentation of the truth.


For example, you might have looked at a used car to buy. As you were inspecting it, the seller told you that the tires were in “good” condition. However, when you returned home, you found out that the tires were completely worn through.In this situation, you should take photographs of any problems and get a report from your mechanic explaining the problems with the car.
You might have rented an apartment or bought a house because a realtor told you the neighborhood was quiet. If there is a truck stop at the end of the road, then gather evidence of the noise level. For example, you could record audio or take pictures of the truck stop that shows its location to your house.
 Another element of misrepresentation is that you relied on the misrepresentation when deciding to sign the contract.Only you know whether you relied on the statement of fact.


Accordingly, you should write down a short narrative of what you were thinking when you were negotiating the purchase or contract.
 Before filing a lawsuit, you should talk with an attorney about whether the misrepresentation was sufficiently serious to warrant a lawsuit. The lawyer might have advice for what evidence would be helpful for you to find. In particular, talk about the following with the lawyer:


Whether the misrepresentation was a fact or an opinion. In order to prove nonfraudulent misrepresentation, you must show that the statement made was factual. An opinion cannot be a misrepresentation. Predictions about the future also cannot be misrepresentations. Your lawyer will help you understand whether the statement made was factual in nature.
Whether the misrepresentation was material to your decision. The court will ask one of two things: (1) whether the misrepresentation would likely induce a reasonable person to agree to the sale or contract, or (2) whether the person making the misrepresentation knew it would likely induce your assent.For example, a misstatement that a house was built in 1988 when it was actually built in 1987 is probably not “material” unless it was critical for the buyer that the house be built in 1987.
Whether you can prove you justifiably relied on the misstatement. “Justifiable reliance” is another element you must prove. You have to convince a court that the misrepresentation substantially affected whether you signed the contract. Your lawyer can help you figure out whether you can prove this element.
 At trial, you will prove nonfraudulent misrepresentation with evidence. Documents are one kind of evidence. You should ask the judge to introduce the following documents into evidence:


The contract. If the misrepresentation was made in the contract, then you should introduce the contract into evidence.
Communications containing the misrepresentation. The false statement might have been made in an email, letter, or handwritten note. You should introduce those into evidence.
Documents that prove the statement is false. For example, you can introduce photographs that show the true condition of a car.
 You will also need to testify as to your own state of mind during contract negotiations. For example, you will need to testify that the misrepresentation was important to your decision to sign the contract or make a purchase. In this way, you will prove “justifiable reliance.” Remember the following tips for giving effective witness testimony:Tell the truth. This may sound like common sense. However, some people might try to spin facts or dodge questions that make them uncomfortable. You should always be forthright in your answers.
Always listen closely to the question and ask for clarification if you don’t understand something.
Look at the jury when you answer. Try to imagine that you are talking to a friend and describing what happened.
Don’t get angry. The other side’s lawyer might try to rattle you by cutting off your answers or using an aggressive tone. Try to always stay calm.
 Other people can testify on your behalf at trial. For example, if you looked at houses with a friend, then he or she can testify as to what the realtor said. Getting at least one other person to testify on your behalf would be helpful.


Make sure that any witness you call is credible. A convicted criminal or someone with an interest in the lawsuit is less credible.For example, if you bought a car that is a lemon with your boyfriend, then your boyfriend has an interest in the outcome of the lawsuit since he is co-owner of the car. In this situation, he might not be a credible witness.
Ideally, an unrelated third party makes the best witness. For example, you might have attended an open house. Other members of the public might have overheard the realtor make the misrepresentation. Someone who overheard the statement could then testify as to what they heard.
 The person who made the misrepresentation will also probably testify. You will have a chance to cross-examine him or her. You can use cross-examination as an opportunity to get helpful information from the other side.


For example, the other side might admit that you said you were looking for a car with new tires. This admission would help you establish that the condition of the tires was material to your decision to buy the car.

