 One way to help minimize tantrums to let your toddler make choices in their routine. This can be as simple as asking which fruit they want to eat with lunch or which shirt they want to wear that day. This will give them a little control in their life.

Choose acceptable choices ahead of time. Do not give your toddler a choice if you cannot give it to them.
 One way to feel more at peace during or prior to tantrums is to simply pick your battles. Prioritize important lessons or corrections to make with your toddler and let go of the smaller things. For instance, if your child regularly cries when they can’t have a treat, consider letting that go and correcting them only on more serious offenses., Distract yourself and them from the tantrum so that the both of you can get some peace. Hand them a favorite toy or give them a small snack. Put your headphones in and listen to some music or go into another room to call a friend.Distractions work best before a tantrum has fully erupted. Be alert for the signs of an oncoming tantrum, and distract your child before they are completely distraught.
 Though this may be the last thing that you want to do in the moment, hugs are very effective in stopping tantrums in their tracks. A hug can provide your child the physical soothing that they need in the moment to calm down.As you hug them, practice deep and rhythmic breathing to help soothe them.


Once they have calmed down a little, ask them gently how they are feeling. Is there anything they need? Do they want some space or quiet time to themselves?

, A timeout is a great way to help your child gain control of themselves and their emotions. It is not meant to be a punishment, so do not allow your child to stay in timeout for too long. Keep them in 1 minute for every year of their age. For instance, your two year old should stay in for no more than two minutes., If your child is able to talk and express themselves, you may be able to discuss their tantrum with them. Once they have calmed down, sit with them. Ask them why they were so upset. Coach them through better ways of expressing their feelings.

You can say, "Why were you crying earlier?"
Encourage them to express their feelings. You might say, "How did that make you feel?"
Ask them to think about more appropriate responses. You can say, "What do you think is a better way to ask for what you want?"

, If you can identify the source of your child’s tantrums, then you will be better equipped at preventing them. For instance, if your child often throws a tantrum at around noon when it is time for lunch, then perhaps their anger is sparked by hunger. Consider giving them a mid morning snack to curtail tantrums.If your child has frequent tantrums, you may want to keep a record of when they occur and what causes them. You may notice patterns that can help you get to the root of the problem.
Lack of sleep or an irregular sleep schedule are common causes of tantrums. Make sure that your child keeps to a consistent sleep and nap schedule.
Boredom and overstimulation can also contribute to tantrums.

