 The primary reasons a dog chases cats are because the dog wants to play with the cat (perhaps thinking it's another dog), or because the cat's movement triggers your dog's predator/prey instincts.Both scenarios require you as the owner to step in whenever necessary to prevent the animals from harming one another. Even if your dog is trying to play with the cat, it's possible that he may play too aggressively, and may try to chase or bite the cat as a means of playing with her. If your dog is chasing the cat for predatory reasons, it's even more important for you to step in, as your dog could easily kill your cat, and your cat could seriously injure your dog., The training and adjusting period will most likely take a while. Eventually, once your cat and dog have become accustomed to one another, it may be safe to leave the animals alone together unsupervised, but that will take at least a month, most likely longer. The important thing is to ensure that the animals will not harm one another if left alone., Any time your dog breaks the training and chases your cat, you may want to consider putting him in a time out. Timeouts should never be harmful to the dog; rather, you simply want to remove him from the situation, letting him know that he behaved badly in that situation.Choose a timeout room, and use that room consistently for timeouts. Someplace isolated, like a bathroom, would work well.But be sure that the room is not uncomfortable. For example, an unheated basement in winter would be a bad timeout location. Likewise, an unventilated or un-air-conditioned room in summer would be a bad timeout location.
Calmly say the word, "timeout," when your dog begins to chase the cat.Gently lead your dog by the collar out of the room where he chased the cat and into the chosen timeout room.Wait a short while - about a minute or two should be sufficient - and then calmly release your dog from the timeout room. If he repeats his bad behavior, calmly and promptly return him to the timeout room., If none of your training has worked, you may want to make cats less desirable for your dog. This should only be done as a last resort, and should not involve injuring or harming your dog in any way. Experts recommend simply making your dog associate chasing a cat with a mildly unpleasant experience, like an annoying sound or a gentle repulsive spray scent like citrus.Even a spray bottle filled with clean, cold water may be enough to deter your dog. Over time, your dog will come to associate his chasing of the cat with, say, an unpleasant burst of (dog-safe) citrus spray or a quick blast of cold water to the face, and he will no longer wish to chase the cat.
 If nothing else has worked in deterring your dog from chasing the cat, you may want to consider working with a specialist. Make sure that the specialist you work with is certified, such as a certified professional dog trainer (CPDT) or a board-certified veterinary behaviorist. Though it will take many sessions, a certified specialist with education and training in animal behavior will be able to determine what is driving your dog to chase the cat, and what can be done to break him of that habit.You can find CPDTs and board-certified veterinary behaviorists by searching online for a specialist in your area. Make sure you check a specialist's references, and look for online reviews from other dog owners who have worked with that specialist.