 You will need to take the only road that runs north from Grapeseed. Grapeseed is located in Blaine County, far north of Los Santos and southeast of Mount Chiliad. Once in Grapeseed, there will be a sign on the right side of the road that says “Braddock Farms, Follow Path.” Keep following that road until you reach the farm. When you are near the weed farm, a leaf icon will appear on your minimap to indicate the location.You can check your Pause menu to make sure you’re attempting this random event on a Tuesday. The day appears at the top right corner of the Pause menu.;
, There will be six people guarding the farm, and they will begin attacking you as soon as they’re aware of your presence. One person will be guarding a briefcase inside the building, and the rest will be outside in random locations, attacking with various guns, such as pistols, assault rifles, and small machine guns. You will need to shoot to kill them or use explosives to kill multiple targets at once. Alternatively, you can throw tear gas near the enemies, which will disable them (making them easier to kill) and will kill them automatically if they stay near the gas for too long.


Take cover while attacking to ensure your safety. There are many stacks of wooden pallets on the farm, which you can use for cover. You can also use your car or the building itself as cover.
You can perform stealth attacks by crouching and avoid being detected, then doing a melee attack from behind the target. Crouch behind the stacked wooden pallets or behind another nearby object if you think you may soon be seen by one of the bandits. Once they’re looking in another direction, continue crouching and sneak up behind them to execute them. If multiple bandits are situated closely together, consider a less stealthy approach.
You can use Trevor’s special ability, which will make him nearly invulnerable until his special ability bar depletes. It also increases his damage while doing any kind of attacks (melee or otherwise). The ways in which you can fill his special ability bar during this fight are performing headshots, taking damage, and killing with explosives.
If this is not your first time doing this random event, you can play as another character. If you are playing as Michael, you can use his special ability to slow down time while shooting guns for more accuracy. He will only be able to use this ability until his special ability bar is empty. However, you can refill the bar by allowing his health to dip below 25%, getting headshots, and killing while in stealth mode (crouched and undetected).
 Make your way inside the building, then eliminate the final person guarding the briefcase either through stealth or by shooting him directly.
 The briefcase will be next to the guard you just killed. A random amount of money will be inside the briefcase. Your reward could be anywhere from $4,000 to $100,000.

