 In order to receive the equipment that you need to trade, you'll need to defeat the first Gym Leader. In Black and White, this is the trio of trainers in the Striaton Gym. In Black 2 and White 2, you'll need to defeat Cheren at the Aspertia Gym.


In Black and White, you'll receive an elemental monkey in the Dreamyard which will make the fight for your first badge much easier. Try to catch a Purrloin on Route 2 as well.
In Black 2 and White 2, make sure to catch and train a few Pokémon on your way to Aspertia City. Try to find a Riolu in Floccesy Ranch to make the battle against Cheren a snap.;
, This item is required in order to connect to other players using the IR feature in the game cartridge.


In Black and White, you'll need to find Fennel in Striaton City. You'll be tasked with getting Dream Mist from the Dreamyard. Use the Cut move that you're given to cut the tree in the Dreamyard. After the story sequence and the fight with Team Plasma, you'll be given the Dream Mist. Return to Fennel and exchange it for the C-Gear.
 You'll need to be within about 10 feet (3 m) of your trading partner. Once you have the C-Gear, you can trade at any time. You'll have access to all of the Pokémon you've collected, so you don't need to worry about bringing the right Pokémon in your party., Select the "Trade" option from the menu that appears.
 Your trading partner will need to go through the same process. Once the two DSs are connected, you'll be able to start trading.


Make sure that you are close enough for the IR signal to connect. If you can't get the connection working, try using the Union Room (see the next section). The Union Room is also better for trading with strangers in public places, as you don't need to synchronize the IR connection.
 One of the major upgrades to the trading process is complete access to all of your Pokémon. Select the Pokémon that you want to offer for trade and it will appear in the trade window. Once your partner has selected a Pokémon, it will appear in the other window. After you both accept the trade, the Pokémon will be traded.

