 Avoid swinging with your wrists, as this movement will limit your force and control. Swing so that you're able to feel the movement in your hips.


While your upper body should be limber throughout the movement, keep your feet and legs relatively stable.;
, The most common mistake beginners make is to hit up. Rather, the first part of a successful chip swing will aim down, only moving up once the club makes contact with the ball.
 Both the downward swing and upward scoop should be accomplished in a single, fluid motion.


When you become more experienced with chipping, you may control the chipping force to accommodate the distance you want the ball to sail.
 A proper chip won't end with the ball's impact. In order to maximize your force, you should see the swing through, leaving your club back up in the air. Complete the swing in the same fluid motion you started with.
 After a chip, the ball should fly a short distance and proceed to roll. As with any golf shot, you should keep your eye on where the ball lands. Keeping an eye on the ball is important during practice, as well. It can teach you how much force you need with each club to go a given distance.
 Chipping the ball is a more strategic move than a regular golf shot. It is meant to get your ball out of a tricky situation, such as if you're caught in the grass or trying to navigate past a hill. Chipping the golf ball should not be used in instances where a normal shot can easily be employed.


This rule doesn't apply if you're trying to learn the shot. If anything, you should practice the basics of chipping on a smooth surface before you move on to its usual application.
 Because chip shots are used to get your ball out of the grass and back on course, you can estimate the distance from the grassed ball to the green, plus the distance you want the ball to go on the green. You can measure the distances by using footsteps. For instance, if your ball is five steps away from the green and the hole is ten steps following that, you will have a 1-to-2 ratio.


A sand wedge is good for a 1-to-1 ratio from the grass to the green.
A pitching wedge is good for a 1-to-2 ratio.
A 9-iron is a 1-to-3 ratio.
 Because chipping the ball successfully requires so much control, make sure your hands are placed properly on the club before you attempt to chip the ball.
 You should aim your body slightly ahead of the ball, with your sternum drawing a parallel line with the location of the ball.


The sternum refers to the middle of one's chest.
 Arching your chest will result in a skewed chip because it will change direction of the club. If you're having any difficulty with achieving a proper stance, get someone else to watch you.
 There should be a space between your feet roughly equivalent to one of your feet. Your feet should be parallel with one another, both aimed directly forward.
 Letting your hip on the other side of the club move around will take some of the stress off your wrists.
 Although some golf instructors can be quite pricey (ranging upwards of 100 USD per hour), getting a few lessons in will help you to unlearn bad habits you may have picked up on your own.
 If you swing too far or change your back position, the back of the club will clip you in the back. This slightly painful reprimand will remind you that you're doing it wrong.


Holding a pool stick alongside the club also works in lieu of a long club.
 With a "phantom swing," you will execute the swing, stopping right before the ball itself. This movement will allow you to practice the motion of chipping a ball without having to retrieve the ball each time you go through with it.
 As with any skill, you need to commit to regular practice in order to polish your chipping technique. You should try to golf at least once a week, and when you do, include chipping as part of the skills you practice. Once you figure out the foundation, you can treat it as you would any other skill.
 Experiment with different footings, swings, and warm-ups. Although it's important to have a firm learning foundation in place before getting creative, it should be seen as a natural part of the learning process to find your own style.

