 If your current group of friends puts you down or makes fun of you on a regular basis, it’s time to find new friends. Choose friends who treat you with respect and don’t make you the butt of jokes.Seek out friends that you share things in common with. Part of being tough is knowing what you want. So, don’t join a group just because they “look cool.” Instead, choose your friends based on shared interests.
If you have trouble making new friends, join a club or sports team.
Don’t be afraid to approach new people. If you hear a group talking about something that interests you, such as football, join the conversation and offer your own input. For example, you might say, “Did you guys catch the game last night? That pass in the third quarter was insane.”
If new people reject you, don’t pout. Realize that they’re not the kind of people you need in your life anyway. Move on to a new group.
 Take the initiative in your group of friends. Tough people are leaders because they’re not afraid to voice their opinions and make suggestions to others.If you know of an activity your friends might enjoy, bring it up to the group. Try to be specific. For example, if there’s a concert coming up, say, “Hey guys, let’s get tickets for the concert this weekend. They go on sale this afternoon so I’ll come by and pick you up so we can be first in line.”
Include everyone in your friend group. A good leader never leaves someone out. If you include everyone whenever you talk or make plans, everyone in your group will start to look up to you as tough and reliable.
 Standing up for others and not taking abuse from others means that you might find yourself in a fight, even if you’re not looking for one. It’s important to learn how to defend yourself if someone attacks you.


Attend self-defense or martial arts classes. If your school doesn’t provide classes, try your local YMCA or other gym.
Remember that fighting should only be a last resort. A truly tough person is able to ward off fights and deflect tension before it escalates.
 Being tough does not mean being a bully. Sometimes bullies put on tough attitudes, but this is just a façade. A truly tough person doesn’t need to belittle others to feel good about themselves.If you find yourself being a bully, or realize you’ve been a bully in the past, apologize. A willingness to take responsibility for your behavior is a hallmark of toughness. It shows that you’re not afraid of being wrong or deciding to do the right thing instead of going along with the crowd.

