 Using any information you have available—such as plat maps, old survey deeds, etc.—you may be able to lay your own property lines using basic surveying techniques. Starting from any known corner, measure out the distances and angles listed on the survey deed or plat map. Without precise equipment and training in surveying techniques, however, the result will only be a very rough estimate of your property lines, unsuitable for laying fences, etc. If you want to get a crude idea of your property lines using this method, you will need to gather equipment including: A compass
A calculator
Whatever deeds, plat maps, etc. that you have available
A tape measure or pacing count to measure distance

, If you want or need a precise verification of your property lines, a professionally-trained surveyor will have the equipment and knowledge for the task. Surveyors available in your area will be advertised in typical online and hardcopy business and contractor listings; your local county assessor or recorder’s office may also be able to recommend one to you.


Employing a surveyor is advisable if you are purchasing or selling land, building a fence or other structure on or near a suspected property line, if there is a land boundary dispute, or in any other situation where a precise determination of property lines is needed.Costs for surveying a property can vary widely depending on your location; a typical residential lot survey may cost several hundred dollars. Costs may go up if the property boundaries are unusual or difficult in some way. A surveyor should be able to give you a cost estimate before being hired.
When hiring a surveyor, look for one that is licensed to work in your area.
 After surveying your property, a surveyor will be able to provide you with documents including a certified drawing of the property, listing corners and occupation lines, the location of improvements (such as housing), etc.Since this information can be valuable in the future, you will want to keep all records received from the surveyor in a safe place, whether in digital or hard copy format (or both).


You may also need to (or want to) register the new survey with your county assessor or recorder. Contact your assessor’s or recorder’s office if you are thinking about having a professional survey of your property.

