 This classic decoration will make your dog look stylish and tough. You can simply add a row of them, arrange them in a pattern, or even spell out your dog’s name.Start by marking your design onto the top of the collar with scratches using an X-Acto blade. Then, use the X-Acto blade to cut parallel holes wherever you’d like your studs to go.
Push each stud through its hole, and screw the tails in securely using a screwdriver or pliers. To ensure it’s snugly attached to the collar, tap each side of the stud with a hammer.
Studs are available for purchase online and at most craft stores. Be sure to get ones that match the thickness of your dog’s leather collar.
Remember not to add too much metal to your dog's collar. You don't want to weigh your dog's neck down with studs.
 Tooling allows you to add durable designs and lettering to leather collars. You’ll need to get leather tools with letters and/or patterns that will give you the desired design. Then, soften the leather by using a spray bottle to mist it with water a few times. After you let it sit for two minutes, arrange the tool where you’d like it to be on top of the collar, and strike it firmly using a leather crafting mallet to imprint your design.Remember that the tool pattern is the mirror opposite of what will appear on your dog's collar.
Be sure to strike the tools against a hard surface.
You can decorate the imprints with craft paint to add color.
Let your freshly tooled collar rest overnight, and then apply a coat of leather stain that matches the collar’s color before putting it on your dog.
 Create cut-out designs on your dog’s leather collar using a leather hole punch. You can use this method to decorate without adding extra weight or potentially dangerous metal to your dog’s collar.Mark where you’d like your holes on the collar first, using a piece of chalk. If you’re going for a precise design, use a gridded paper or ruler to ensure that your placement is accurate.
Set the size and shape of hole you’d like on your leather hole puncher. Place the point where you’d like your hole to be on the leather, and compress the handles of the pliers to punch the hole by hand.
If you don’t want to invest in a leather hole punch, you can also create holes using an awl (or, alternatively, a large nail) and a mallet. Position your collar over a scrap piece of wood. Then, place the awl’s point where you’d like your hole to go, and strike it firmly with a mallet to slowly drive a hole through the collar.

