 Add 1 teaspoon of sesame oil to a small saucepan and turn it on to medium heat. Add 1/3 cup (61 g) of rinsed white quinoa and cook it for 2 to 3 minutes. Stir the quinoa frequently as it toasts so you don't end up with burned quinoa.


Ensure that you rinse the quinoa thoroughly. This will remove the bitter part of the quinoa.
 Pour in almost 2/3 cup (150 ml) of water to the saucepan with the toasted quinoa. Bring it to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to low and cover the pot. Let the quinoa cook for 18 to 20 minutes. The quinoa should absorb most of the water once it's cooked.Once it's cooked you can fluff it with a fork and set it aside.
 Pour 1 inch of water into a medium saucepan and turn the heat on to medium-high. Place a steamer basket in the pan and add 1 cup (118 g) of frozen edamame and 1 large head ( about 500 g) of chopped broccoli when the water starts to simmer. Cover the pan and steam the vegetables for 2 minutes.Remove the steamed vegetables and set them in the refrigerator to chill while you prepare the rest of the salad.
 Place all of the dressing ingredients in a small mixing bowl. Use a whisk or a fork to combine the dressing. You'll need 1 tablespoon (16 g) of almond, peanut or cashew butter, 2 tablespoons (30 g) of chili garlic sauce, 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of maple syrup, 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of tamari or soy sauce, 3 tablespoons (45 ml) of lime juice, and 2 1/2 tablespoons (38 ml) of sesame oil.Taste the dressing and adjust the flavors according to your taste. For example, if you like the dressing sweeter, add more maple syrup. For a spicier dressing, add more chili garlic sauce.
 Place the cooked quinoa in a large serving bowl. Add the steamed and cooled broccoli and edamame. Stir in 1/2 of a thinly sliced red bell pepper and 1 1/2 cups (110 g) of shredded cabbage . Pour the dressing over and stir the salad.If you like, you can add 1 cup (70 g) of shredded kale or chopped cilantro for an extra fresh flavor.
 Taste the salad and adjust the seasonings to your preference. You can garnish the Asian quinoa salad with 1 tablespoon (8 g) of crushed peanuts and 1 teaspoon of fresh minced ginger. Serve the salad immediately.You can store the salad in the refrigerator for up to 2 or 3 days.

