 If you suspect you may have Adult ADD, make an appointment with a psychiatrist or doctor. A qualified medical or mental health professional will be able to provide you with the proper tests for diagnosis.


Before your appointment, make a list of your symptoms. You should also include any problems at work, home, or school that these symptoms cause.List personal information about yourself that may be relevant. For example, any major changes in your life can cause symptoms similar to ADD.List your medications. Certain medications can cause side effects that are similar to ADD., At your appointment, you'll likely be asked a variety of questions about your behavior and lifestyle. These will help your doctor or psychiatrist figure out whether an ADD diagnosis is appropriate.


Your doctor will ask about when your problems concentrating started. He or she will also ask whether these problems are continual or only happen on occasion. Your doctor will also want to know the level to which such problems have affected your health and well-being.Your doctor will also want some personal history from you. He or she will ask about your childhood and any traumatic experiences you've undergone in the past. Such things can affect your behavior and change the nature of your diagnosis.Your doctor will also want basic information about things like your diet, sleep habit, stress level, and work., Certain medical conditions, including other mental health disorders such as anxiety and depression, can cause symptoms similar to ADD. Your doctor might want to test for these conditions before making a diagnosis. What tests you will need depends on your personal medical history. Your doctor may request basic blood work to rule out other medical problems.In order to be diagnosed with ADD as an adult, you need to have shown symptoms of the disorder as a child. If you remember displaying symptoms of ADD when you were younger, such as struggling to concentrate in school, mention this to your doctor., If you are diagnosed with ADD, you will likely have a lot of questions about your diagnosis. Make sure you ask your doctor about your treatment options, medications, side effects of medication, and for resources you can use to learn about your condition.