 There are some external factors, such as genetics, that can also influence your child’s weight. Taking the time to think about things that may influence or even raise concern about your child’s weight may help you better realize if your child is too skinny.Think about your family members and their bodies. Does your child look too skinny because everyone else carries a little extra weight? Were you or other family members slim as kids? If so, your child is more likely to be, too.Ask yourself if your child has other health or developmental issues that may influence weight. For example, children with developmental delays may not gain weight easily.
Recognize that children who are active in sports may be skinnier than more sedentary children., Your child is likely not too skinny if they are gaining weight steadily.Regular review of your child’s weight and BMI can indicate if there are any reasons for concern.Notice if your child has any unusual dips in their weight. These could signal that your child is getting too skinny, or they could be a sign of an underlying condition. Schedule an appointment with your child’s pediatrician to ensure that any dips don’t indicate health issues.
If you notice that your child is not outgrowing their clothes over a period of several months, then this may be a sign that your child is not gaining weight at an appropriate rate., Most children eat when they are hungry and stop when they’ve had enough. It may appear that your child isn’t eating enough, which could cause them to be too skinny. By watching the patterns of how your child eats, you can figure out if they are getting enough to eat.Offer foods from each food group at every meal. Make sure your child has a bit—or all—of each choice you provide. Mix the foods up during each meal to ensure that your child likes their choices and feels encouraged to eat.
Be a role model for your child by eating a variety of foods. For example, “Ellie, did you try the cauliflower rice with broccoli and cheese I made? It’s kinda different, but really tastes good!”

, Your child may be a picky eater, causing you to worry that they aren’t getting the nutrients for proper growth. In most cases, picky eaters grow at the normal rate. However, some may not, which a doctor can diagnose. Looking for the signs of poor diet can alert you to if your child is too skinny. You should get prompt medical treatment if you notice any of the following symptoms of poor diet, hunger, or malnutrition:Fatigue and low energy
Dizziness
Dry, scaly skin
Swollen and bleeding gums or decaying teeth
Muscle weakness
Problems learning

, Although rare, some children who are too skinny may have an eating disorder, such as anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. These disorders may stem from a pre-occupation with thinness and dieting and can cause extreme weight loss, although children with bulimia nervosa may maintain a weight that is close to normal for their age.If you’re concerned your child is too skinny because they are not eating, watching for the signs of an eating disorder can help you and your child get prompt treatment from a doctor.Typical signs of anorexia and bulimia include:Extreme weight loss
Restricted eating or refusal to eat
Fear of gaining weight and a distorted body image
Bulimia may cause a chronic sore throat, tooth decay, or severe dehydration

, Children with certain diseases and conditions may not be able to digest their food or absorb its nutrients properly. If your child has one of these conditions, it may cause them to be too skinny. Talk to your child’s doctor about diet and nutrition if your child has any of the following diseases:Celiac diseaseCystic fibrosis
Gastrointestinal reflux disease (GERD)DiabetesChronic diarrhea
Chronic liver diseaseCleft lip or palate