 If you sell property for more than the depreciated value, you will pay capital gains tax on the difference between the depreciated value and the sale price. However, you can use a like-kind exchange at the higher value of the property to avoid capital gains tax. For example, if you have used equipment worth $5,000, but the depreciated value of the equipment is only $3,000, you can trade it in for $5,000 to buy new equipment, instead of selling it outright and paying capital gains tax on the $2,000 difference.
 Individuals or families selling their primary place of residence may be exempt from paying taxes on much (or even all) of the money made from the sale of the home. Using this strategy, an individual can exclude up to $250,000 in capital gains, while a couple filing jointly can exclude up to $500,000. However, to be eligible for this sort of exemption, you must meet certain ownership requirements: You must have owned the residential property for a minimum of 2 years.
You must have occupied the property as your primary residence for at least 730 days (2 years), which don't need to be consecutive, during a 5-year period prior to the sale. You are allowed to rent the residence during the period that you don't live in it.
During the 2-year period prior to selling the property, you must not have excluded the gain on the sale of another home.
 Certain eligible home improvement projects used to get a home in selling shape can be used to reduce (or even eliminate) the capital gains tax on the sale of a home. These IRS-approved projects can effectively count against the sale price of the home, reducing the amount of money you owe in capital gains taxes. If the combined cost of these property improvements makes the effective price of the sale less than $500,000 for couples filing jointly or $250,000 for individuals, no capital gains taxes need to be paid at all. Approved expenses are listed in IRS publication 523 and usually include:Additions of an attic, basement, room, patio, etc.
Plumbing, heating, and air conditioning
Appliances
Insulation and carpeting
In addition, certain fees associated with selling a home (like title transfer fees, etc.) can also be excluded.

