 This can vary from person to person; for the hyper-manic person, any form of sitting still is anathema, while for a chilled-out person, it might take doing absolutely nothing at all before the parent thinks that the child is being lazy.


Be careful that your own standards of how things should be done aren't blinding you to "good enough" standards. For example, perfect house maintenance is unrealistic in a house with kids, so learning to tolerate good enough standards of cleanliness can help ease any tensions that a few things left here and there might otherwise cause. On the other hand, an inability to push past your child's door to access his or her room is not only a fire hazard but is a sign of not doing enough to maintain his or her personal environment. Seek a good balance.;
, What sort of role modeling have you presented the child? In some cases, what you allowed the child to "get away with" by taking charge of everything may have led the child to believe that his or her behavior is acceptable even if it now drives you nuts.


Have you involved the child in household chores or not? Going about the house sighing that someone has to do everything, then doing everything without delegating it to all of the householders is a dead-set way to raise children who couldn't care less about the state of the house as long as someone else is dealing with it. This doesn't mean things are stuck in this rut; it does mean you'll need to expect more and weather some griping until a new routine becomes established.
Are you obsessed with always doing something? As an adult, you have a choice to be "always busy" and never switched off. Children and teens, on the other hand, need downtime to grow, to be creative and to just think. (Actually, so do you but as an adult, it is your choice to do pointless tasks instead of chilling.) Be careful not to confuse your inability to come down from a state of constant busyness with idleness in your normally developing child.
Is someone else in the household, such as your spouse or partner, setting a bad example that your child is following? In this case, you'll need to discuss this with the person concerned.
 Aside from the role modeling previously discussed, there are usually very good reasons behind a lack of will to help out with household chores. Some of these include:


Being tasked with a chore that really grosses out the child. For example, if your child hates touching, smelling or seeing certain things, some household chores can really upset him or her, such as cleaning the toilet, taking out moldy compost or feeding stinky meat to dogs. This doesn't mean your child shouldn't learn to overcome his or her squeamishness but it does mean that recognizing this possible driver can help you to see it isn't laziness but distaste (or even fear) causing the inaction.
A failure to comprehend the extent of what is expected. For example, you yell "go clean your room". The child hears "pick up three items then you're done". Children just don't view mess in the same light as parents until it is drilled into them, and even then, not being fussed is fairly standard.
The chore or action is "boring". So commonplace a reaction, this reason barely needs a mention, except that it is precisely the one major excuse you're likely to be given! Even here, a child is merely expressing the truth, one adults tend to suppress under the veneer of needing to get on with things regardless. Children are yet to learn the ability to forsake fun for things they don't want to do and you'll need to win them over with the "team effort" approach instead of singling them out for being difficult.
It's too hard! Listen when a child says this because it is probably true. Have you shown your child how to do the chore? Does your child have the right resources to complete the task? Is the task too physically demanding for the age and physique of your child? Children don't usually like owning up to something being difficult without good reason, so don't presume this is just an excuse; something real lies behind it.
The child is depressed or ill. In this case, it is really important to recognize that something is wrong. A depressed or sick child will not be trying to be difficult but is bogged down in whatever he or she is experiencing. Love and attention to the source of the problem is in need here.
 The concept of laziness is subjective and dependent on context. Care must be taken not to label the child as a lazy person; instead, focus on the specific actions that indicate a sloppy or unhelpful intent rather than labeling the child "lazy". In all probability, the child is inclined to be unhelpful in only some things and is very helpful in other ways; we are all a sum of many parts and labeling is dismissive and fails to acknowledge the whole.


Calling a child "lazy" all the time is unkind and can cause the child to feel demonized. Insults are not a good way to improve the motivation of any person. Constant berating for being a lazy child can leave permanent emotional scarring, along with embedding rebelliousness to do even less.
 Better late than never; all members of a household have a responsibility to participate in household maintenance and this is a good way to get them started and keep them motivated.


Create household chore charts. Put the names of every household member on the chart. That way, everyone can keep track of what is expected and can also motivate any one householder who is failing to keep up his or her end of the bargain.
Create homework schedules. If a child is failing to do his or her homework, spend some time working out a homework plan together. Make it clear that you will not stand over your child but you will check that homework has been completed at set points and you will speak to the relevant teachers about progress from time to time. This gives plenty of freedom for your child to develop his or her routine, knowing that out-of-the-blue checks are inevitable.
 Avoid general requests to do things around the house. Instead, replace these with a breakdown of exactly what you expect the child to do or achieve. For example:


Don't just ask a child to "clean his or her room" until saying this carries an implicit understanding of what is expected. At the start, state each task required, such as stating the tasks in this order:

"Pick up your clothes and put them in the basket."
"Pull the sheets off the bed and put them in the washing machine."
Wash the sheets and dry them.
Vacuum the carpet.
Throw out old papers.
Put dirty dishes into the dishwasher.


Provide a list if you expect a lot of things to be accomplished at the one time. Make it more interesting by asking the child to check it off and you'll add stars for each checked-off item, or provide some other incentive for an older child.
Space chores out over periods of time, throughout the week, in between things that are enjoyable. Loading an entire week's worth of chores into one chunk such as a Saturday afternoon or Sunday morning tends to make a young person who'd rather be using that time to do fun things rather miserable and disinclined to act.
 Related to the previous step is the need to be absolutely certain that your child knows how to perform a chore. If you expect a child to merely watch your vacuuming as a form of learning, without actually showing how all of the buttons work, how to zap in the cord, how to maneuver corners, stairs and other awkward places, etc., then the child is none-the-wiser.


Each task requires an initial training session, using words that the child understands and allowing the child to ask questions and test-drive the chore under your supervision. Do this before letting go and expecting that the child will be comfortable performing the chore on his or her own.
Don't be afraid to explain why you're doing things a certain way, explaining the benefits of your approach. At the same time, also acknowledge that there are other effective ways (especially if you see your child using them) that still get the same results.
Be prepared for mistakes in learning to do chores. Making a big deal out them contributes to inaction, as the child grows scared to try for fear of failure.
 Rather than getting annoyed that a child hates touching or smelling things, see what you can do to make it as painless as possible.


For example, find a toilet cleaner that smells divine and pretty much covers up the odors the moment it is used. Or, find a compost bin with a handle and a scoop that allows the child to avoid having to touch any gooey days-old rotting vegetable matter. Find a long-handled spoon for the dog food to prevent the stinky meat getting onto your child's hands. Always look for solutions that allow the chore to be done without being too gross.
 Most people don't enjoy chores, but some chores are easier than others. See if it's possible to allocate specific chores to the person who least minds doing them. For example, if Cassie likes mopping, Jay likes vacuuming and Chris prefers hanging out the clothes, enlist their support in just these areas! You can also try these other ways to make household chores more fun:


Use music. A lot of music playing loudly can energize everyone while doing chores. Let the children choose the mix for added fun.
Do chores as a team. Rather than having anyone sitting around, have the whole household get up and do the chores together. This can take away any resentment that Cassie is watching TV while Chris is vacuuming under her feet.
Do something fun after the cleaning, the putting away, the homework. Go for a walk somewhere together, have a ball game outside, walk the dog, watch a favorite show together, etc. By associating post-chore time with positive togetherness, you can reinforce that action is followed by a sense of fulfillment for the child.
 Notice the good things that your child has done and always be encouraging about these things. For things not done so well, or not done at all, explain how to do the things better or show how to do shortcuts or easy fixes; avoid scolding as best you can; mistakes are learning opportunities.


Occasionally give a tangible reward, such as a little money, an outing or a small gift. However, don't tie such rewards to any specific chore; it is best to state that these are for good participation in the household maintenance as a whole.
 One of the most brilliant motivators is money in exchange for work. After all, for millions of people worldwide, it works. It overcomes grumbling, fussing, excuses and more (just don't expect these to go away, it's just that they'll occur while work is taking place).


The important thing is to only give the pocket money if the chores are completed. Avoidance of completing chores is its own lesson here; no money brings its own consequences.
 Some things are intrinsic to well-being of the child and the smooth running of the household. Homework is one good example and taking care of one's own messes is another. For those things that really must be done by the child, refusal should come with consequences, targeted to the child's age. Consequences can include:


Removal of electronic items from their room or banning use for a set period of time. This includes video game consoles, MP3 players, iPads and other tablets, and computers for anything other than homework, etc.
Grounding. For teens, this one can have a very strong impact.
Exclusion from a special event planned for the family.
Non-purchase of something the child wanted. The child was promised the item, but hasn't lived up to the bargain for that item.


Try to focus on consequence invocation as a last resort. It is awful for everyone involved and it takes a lot of courage on your behalf to see it all the way through. Moreover, the more the consequence is focused directly on the offending problem (often digital devices in the current age), the more likely you will get good actions occurring, whereas taking away privileges such as going out can feel terribly punitive and somewhat unrelated to the "laziness". At the end of the day, weigh the need for tough love with the likelihood that the child will change his or her behavior for the better.
 A child needs to see that your family has balance and can chill out in addition to being busy. It doesn't do to suggest that life is one constant stream of doing all the time. There also needs to be room for the quiet moments, for reflection and for a snooze together here and there amid the busier parts of daily living.


Be less tough on yourself if you never give yourself downtime. You deserve a break, and it shows good role modeling to your child to see that you value yourself enough to relax in addition to keeping busy.

