 You can serve pre-made snacks like popcorn, juice, and other little munchies, or you can make your own foods like sandwiches. Whatever you're making, you want to make sure you have enough, and that your guests know what you have.


Be sure you have clean hands when you prepare the food, for you want to prevent damaging someone's health. Plus, no one wants to eat unhygienic, gross food!;
, You want it to be something catchy, like something that rhymes, or is alliterated. Alliteration is when words start with the same letter (ex. Yvonne's Yummies, Fun Foods, etc..)

, You have two choices :


Write it by hand. This is fun because you can design it a lot easier, with exactly what you want it to look like.
Make it on the computer. It will look more professional, and your computer probably has a program where you can pick a menu design and just add your own text. Ask your mom, dad, or whoever owns the computer you're using if the computer has a program like this.
 Don't just assign it randomly, but see what they want to do so that people don't end up with hurt feelings. If somebody got a job that someone else wanted, you can take turns, so that one shift Jessie is chef, and the next shift Savannah is. Another way to fix this is that each job has multiple people. You can also make up fun parts for people who don't already have any. For example, the special Entertainer, who dances while people wait for their food, or does magic tricks.
 First, get small stools, end tables, or even boxes, to use as tables. For chairs, you can use pillows, or just small chairs, depending on the size of the table. Draw pictures of food to tape up on the walls, and get coloring pages and crayons for impatient customers.


If you have a TV or computer in the room, turn on a video and put it in a corner. Put it on MUTE, and it will keep customers occupied. If you have a chalkboard or dry-erase board, you can put up some special food items.
If you don't have either of these, you can get a big piece of paper and do the same. You may want to use paper or plastic plates instead of glass or porcelain plates, so they don't break.
 Make sure everyone is having a good time.
 Everyone should help put away all the restaurant supplies, vacuum the bedroom, and clean up the kitchen. This will ensure that you are allowed to do things like this again! To make cleaning more fun, put on some favorite music, or race to see who gets done first.

