 Look for ways to save money on the wedding and aim for a honeymoon that you can afford. This will not be your only vacation with your new spouse and you should never go into debt to pay for it – if you do, it'll just wind up being stressful. There are many options for cheaper honeymoons that will have just as many positive memories as expensive honeymoons without damaging your finances.


Always plan on spending more money than you think you will need. Little costs add up, especially if you are in a tourist destination. If you think you will spend a thousand dollars, be open to the fact that it could be closer to twice that, depending on your location and how frugal your plans are.
 Do you want to stay in a hotel? A log cabin? A bed and breakfast? A cabin or a small bed and breakfast can be a quiet retreat with few other guests that give your trip a more intimate feel. However, a fancy hotel can make you feel like a red-carpet star. What are you and your partner's preferences?


Once you know what you and your partner would like, make sure to research your options well. Do the places you're considering have good reviews? Do they fit your budget? Are they available for the dates needed? Are there restaurants and things to do nearby? Location is very important, too.
Honeymoon suites are often the most expensive, but don't often offer amenities very different from standard or deluxe rooms (unless you can manage a free upgrade, then they're definitely worth it). While it's understandable to want to broadcast your new marriage, go in with the understanding that you will be spending a lot of time outside of the room and do not need to bust your budget on lodging. Ask about the honeymoon suite, but if it's outlandish, know that your trip will still be amazing – after all, it's about you two, not where you stay.
 Do you want to fly to your destination? Take the train? Drive? A train ride to your destination might give you a change of mood that is also cheaper and often more reliable than flying. However, distance generally determines everything. What's feasible for your situation?


If you do need to fly, do plenty of comparison shopping and book your flights about 2 months in advance, early in the week, and not during prime business hours. Research shows this time will generally secure you the cheapest flight., Once all of the excitement from the wedding quiets down, your first couple of nights will likely be spent sleeping (or doing other things in the bedroom). But beyond that, you'll want an itinerary prepared with a few memories. Don't overpack it, but do find a nice restaurant, a museum to check out, an artsy side of town, or something up your alley to make the most of your time there.


See what free events will be happening while you are there and plan around them. Many times these community events, especially if you're somewhere foreign, will be the most memorable. Also, you'll experience things off the beaten path and it's free, so there's nothing to lose.

