 If other symptoms develop along with your cramp, then you may have passed from simple heat cramping to heat exhaustion before your symptoms arose. You are likely experiencing heat exhaustion if your symptoms also include:Weakness
Headache
Dizziness or fainting
Nausea and/or vomiting
Elevated heart rate
Cool, moist skin
Heavy sweating

, Heat-related conditions result from your body failing to control its core temperature through usual means of sweating and evaporation. Take your temperature to see how elevated your temperature has gotten. A temperature that is elevated above normal but below 104°F (40°C) signifies heat exhaustion.If your temperature is 104°F (40°C) or above, then this indicates heat stroke, which is a medical emergency, and you should seek immediate medical assistance.Other signs of heat stroke include confusion, fainting, excessive sweating, or red, hot, dry skin., It is important to get out of the heat and to begin taking measures to cool your body temperature to prevent heat exhaustion from developing into heat stroke. Get out of the sun and heat and preferably into an air-conditioned space., As with a heat cramp, your body needs additional fluids and electrolytes already lost to sweating. Drink sports drinks, electrolyte replacement drinks (such as Pedialyte), or water mixed with half a teaspoon of salt per quart.Your body will continue trying to sweat as a means to drive down your core temperature. If you skip providing the fluids and salts that your body needs to produce sweat, you can create complications resulting in heat stroke.
 Even lightweight cotton will still trap some heat. Remove as much clothing as you can. Ensure that anything you’re still wearing is lightweight and loose enough to prevent binding against your skin., You don’t need to rely on sweating alone. Some additional measure you can take to help lower your core body temperature include:Taking a cool bath or shower
Misting yourself with cool water and sitting in front of a fan or in an air conditioned room
Soaking towels in cool water and placing them on your skin
Placing icepacks on your armpits and the back of your neck

, Fainting from a heat-related illness (heat syncope) is due to blood vessel dilation that reduces blood flow to your head. To help prevent fainting, rest with your legs elevated above your head to keep blood flowing., Heat exhaustion can quickly develop into heat stroke, so you should monitor your condition closely and know when to seek immediate medical care if necessary. Seek care if:Your symptoms do not subside after an hour
You can’t replace fluids and electrolytes due to nausea and vomiting
Your temperature ever exceeds 104°F (40°C)
You develop confusion, delirium, or have a seizure
You experience rapid breathing and a racing pulse well after you’ve ceased the physical activity

