 Take a long deep look at yourself. That is you. You are unique and you've done some great things in your life. Smile at yourself in the mirror. Pay attention to the way you feel when you smile at yourself. Don’t allow yourself to ridicule anything about your appearance or personality. Just embrace who you are at that moment. This is how you can begin to accept and love yourself. You are who you are and that is it. Remind yourself of your great qualities and say them out loud as you look in the mirror.
 Think about how you feel when someone hugs you. It feels good, doesn't it? Well, hugging yourself has the same effect if you do it wholeheartedly. It has the potential to reduce your stress levels and boost your self-esteem. It allows you to show yourself the affection that you probably haven't shown for a very long time.


Hug yourself by wrapping your left arm around the front of your chest and over the upper part of your right arm. Wrap the right arm around the front of your chest and over the upper part of your left arm. You should then give yourself a soft squeeze. Stay in this position for as long as you would like.
Pat yourself on the back. It's not exactly a hug, but it can give you the same benefits. Just bring your hand and arm up across your chest and over your alternate shoulder. You can then reach your back to give a nice pat.
 The better you feel physically, the better you’ll feel about yourself. Think about those days when you don't have a single thing wrong with yourself. You are probably in a much better mood than when you're suffering from a headache or other ailment, right? Well, this is why it's important to make sure you take care of yourself. You don't need to be tired and sick to drag you down so you feel bad about your shyness. What you need is to feel great, so you can celebrate your shyness.


Make sure to get at least seven hours of sleep. Some people need more sleep and others need less, but around seven hours is average. It's best to test out different amounts of hours to see how long you have to sleep to feel your best. Make sure to go to bed and wake up the same time each day.Yes, that includes the weekends.
Eat foods that nourish your body. Your body is a powerhouse. It needs fuel to make it through the day. When you don't provide the fuel it needs, it starts to slow down and struggle when it comes to fighting off illnesses and getting work done. This can make you feel miserable. Don't allow yourself to feel that way so you can start to feel bad about yourself, eat the diet recommended by the USDA.
Exercise. Your body isn't meant to be inactive. Your muscles and organs need to be exercised or they will become weak and run inefficiently. What results is feeling fatigued, depressed, and sick. You do not want to deal with that, so make sure you give your body what it needs to stay strong with aerobic and weight lifting exercises. Experts recommend that individuals should exercise at least 150 minutes a week if it's moderate and 75 minutes if it's intense.