 Most translucent wedding invitations are the same size as the background paper, although they can be smaller. You can print your own background paper, or you can use plain or patterned cardstock.
 You can do this with a paper guillotine or paper cutter, or you can ask a print shop to do it for you. Make the cuts as precise as you can., Go to the page set-up, and adjust the paper size to match your invitation. This ensures that it prints in the correct scale and proportions., You can download a template from the internet and fill it in, or you can design one from scratch. Play around with the fonts, sizing, alignment, and line spacing. Dark colors will show up the best, especially if the background will be dark.Some people fine that thinner fonts work better with vellum and acetate paper than thicker fonts., Depending on the program you are using, you should be able to get to this simply by clicking "Print." Don't print the test invitation just yet., Choose the type of print quality you want, based on the type of paper you are using. Next, select the paper size.Some people find that a draft setting works best for vellum and a normal setting works best for acetate., Vellum should be printed on the coated, less-shiny side. Acetate should be printed on the rough side.Find the printed side of vellum by licking your finger and taping both sides. The side that sticks is the coated side., Vellum and acetate are slippery, which can result in curling or jams. You can prevent these from happening by folding a strip of tape over the feeding edge of the paper. You can also tape a sheet of plain paper to the back using double-sided tape.Try to use removable or repositionable tape, if you can.
, Most printers will have sliders on the sides of the tray. Push these closer or further apart until they are flush with your paper., Let the ink dry, then inspect it. This will help you see if there are any formatting, scaling, or alignment issues without wasting your pretty paper. If something is wrong with the printed invitation, try printing on the opposite side or changing the print quality settings., Set your printer to print however many sheets are in the tray, and hit print. Once the first batch is done, check your printer's ink level, and print your second batch. Keep doing this until you have printed all the invitations.Consider printing a few extras in case you mess up during assembly.
 This is especially important if you are printing on vellum or acetate. If you don't let the ink dry or the way, the invitations will smear., This is only necessary for vellum or acetate. Carefully peel the tape away from the leading edge and discard it. If you taped paper to the back, peel that off., You can use solid-colored or patterned cardstock. You can also print out your own design.

Choose a color or pattern that works well with your wedding's theme.
Avoid dark colors or the lettering on the invitation won't show up.
 You can cut the background paper down until it is the same size as the vellum or acetate. You can also cut it a little larger, leaving a ½ to 1-inch (1.27 to 2.54-centimeter) border all around.

Use a paper cutter or paper guillotine to do this.
 Turn the invitation over so that the back is facing you. Run a strip of thin, double-sized tape along the top edge. You can also use glue dots instead., Align the top edges and run your finger across the tape. If you cut the background paper larger, make sure that your invitation is centered., This is not completely necessary, but it can give your invitation a nice touch. Punch two holes near the top of the invitation. Thread a piece of narrow ribbon through each hole, then tie the ribbon into a bow at the front of the invitation.

This works especially well with invitations that are the same size as the background paper.

