 Flower presses are made with wood and metal screws and come with pieces of cardboard and flower press paper. They are available at craft stores or through trading or auction sites online.









If you're using a used press, check that the press has clean papers and cardboard inside. If not, you may have to replace these.

Recycle cardboard from boxes around the house. Cut them into pieces that fit inside your flower press.
Cut pieces of parchment or freezer paper to use in your flower press. These should be the same size as the cardboard.


You can easily make your own flower press if you can't find one.

Cut two pieces of plywood to 9 by 12 inches (23 cm by 30.5 cm).
Drill holes large enough for bolts in all four corners of both pieces, making sure the holes in the pieces line up when they are stacked.
Slip bolts through the four holes in one of the plywood pieces. When you're ready to press flowers, you will cover them with the second pieces of plywood and screw the pieces together tightly using wing nuts.
Cut cardboard as sheets of parchment paper that will fit inside your press.

;
, When you're ready to press the flowers, remove the top piece of the flower press and set it aside with the wingnuts. Place one piece of cardboard on the bottom of the press, plus two sheets of flower press paper, the bottom most of which will serve as a "blotter."








, Lay the flowers flat on the top sheet of paper, leaving ample space between them so they are able to thoroughly dry.









Play with the arrangement of the petals according to your artistic sense. You could lay them flat, or overlap some of them to create a windblown effect. The flowers will be preserved just as you position them.
To press flowers with more dimension, cut them in half lengthwise, or press individual petals.
 Place a piece of paper carefully over the flower arrangement you made.









Without disturbing the arrangement add add a second "blotter" sheet.
Add the second piece of cardboard to the stack.
 Fit the top piece of the flower press over the screws, and gently lower it onto the cardboard piece. Use the wing nuts to tighten the flower press. Store the press in a dry place in your house.
 Unbolt the flower press to switch out the blotter sheets every couple of days. They will have absorbed some moisture from the flowers even if you can't feel it. Changing the sheets can help prevent or lessen the flowers from turning brown.
 After a few weeks, the flowers will be completely dry and flat. Gently open the layers of paper and lift them using your fingers or a pair of tweezers. They are ready to use in a craft design.








