 If you've previously lived a relatively sedentary lifestyle and didn't exercise much, you need to start at a lower level than someone who has been exercising consistently throughout their life.Be realistic about your starting goals. Just getting up and walking out the front door may be all you can do for a few days. Get used to the habit and go a little further each day.
At the same time, you'll get physically – if not mentally – bored if you stay too long at the same level. Increase your time or distance on a weekly or bi-weekly basis to keep yourself constantly challenged.
Aim to walk between 20 and 30 minutes a day, four or five days a week. You may want to start with five minutes the first week, increasing to 10 minutes the week after that, and 15 minutes a week later until you've reached your goal.;
, A pedometer or electronic step-counter can be a good way to measure your progress as well as set goals and motivate you to maintain your walking regimen. Downloading a fitness tracker on your phone also can help.Fitness trackers often add a social element to your exercise. You can team up with friends on social media, compete with each other, and keep track of each others' progress.
If you're a fairly competitive person (even against yourself), these trackers may work well for you not only to motivate you but to keep you on track every day.
 Even though walking is not as intense as many other forms of exercise, it is still exercise. Skipping warm-ups and stretches can increase your risk for injury.Walk at a slower pace for a minute or two to warm up. Then stretch out your legs for a minute or two and start your regular walk.
To cool down, slow your pace for the last minute or two of your walk.
You may find it helpful to measure your walk using location markers instead of time. For example, you might say that you're going to walk at a slow pace until you reach the corner, stretch on the corner, then walk around the block. When you make your way back, you can use the same corner as your marker to start your cool-down.
 If you're walking for 20 or 30 minutes, you won't have the same eating routine that a bodybuilder would have. However, that doesn't mean you shouldn't have a snack before and after your walk, as well as drinking plenty of water.Before your walk, a snack such as a banana or other piece of fruit will give your body the carbohydrates it needs to provide energy for your walk.
Take a bottle of water along with you on your walk. Sip from the bottle rather than guzzling – too much liquid sloshing around in your stomach can make your walk uncomfortable.
After your walk, you need something with protein that will help repair your muscles. A handful of almonds or a glass of milk provides plenty of post-walk fuel.
 Walking is moderate cardio exercise. It shouldn't be so intense that you're gasping for breath. Generally, you should be able to carry on a conversation through the entirety of your walking regimen.Talking pace is ideal for general health. If you're walking for weight loss or cardiovascular fitness, you should walk at a faster pace. You should be breathing harder – maybe not able to carry on a long conversation – but still not gasping for breath.
To get more exercise, walk for a longer period of time – not at a faster pace, at least not until you have the strength to handle it.
If you get worn out or out of breath, it may be that you're going too hard. Slow down or cut a few minutes off your walk until you can handle that level of exercise.
 For general health, you want to walk at least three or four days a week. However, you may want to walk more often at first so you can get in the habit of doing it regularly.Walking every day also is helpful if you're just starting your walking regimen, and can't walk for a longer period of time. For example, if you're only able to walk for 10 minutes, you should be walking every day.
If you've tried to start a walking routine and have problems maintaining your regimen, doing it every day for at least a couple of weeks can help you develop a habit and solidify walking as a part of your daily routine.
 It will generally be easier for you to establish a habit if you're doing it consistently. This means trying to find a time in your schedule where you can fit in walking every day, which can be difficult if you have to work around many different commitments.Many people find mornings to be easier than afternoons or evenings. You want a time when there will be very few possibilities for interference, and mornings typically are clearer.
In contrast, many things can pop up in the evening, particularly if you work or go to school during the day. You may have to stay late at work, or have a community meeting or social engagement that interferes with your regularly scheduled walk.
Another reason it may be best to start your day with exercise is that you won't have the excuses a hard day can generate. In the morning when you're looking at a fresh day and your mind is clear, you'll have fewer reasons to avoid the exercise.
 One of the easiest ways to turn a new activity into a habit is to "lock it" to something else that you already do all the time. Over time, you'll come to associate walking with the established habit in your mind, and if you do one you'll do the other.If you've decided to walk in the morning, and you already have a morning routine, figure out where to fit your walk into that routine. For example, if you make coffee every morning, make the coffee and then go for a walk. When you come back from your walk, your coffee will be hot and ready for you.
 If your goals are too far away, or impossible for you to meet, you'll quickly lose heart and be tempted to give up on your exercise. To maintain your walking regimen, you need constant encouragement.Set your goals based on your performance, rather than attaching them to something else. For example, if you started walking to lose weight, don't attach your walking goals to your weight loss goals. It can make it seem like you're not getting anywhere if you follow your walking regimen for two weeks straight and don't lose a pound.
If you have a fitness tracker, it can help you with this. You may want to set goals in terms of steps, such as setting the goal of walking 500 steps a day for a week. When you achieve that goal, increase it to 550 or 600 the next week, and so on.
Make a walking calendar for yourself, and put it up on the fridge or in another prominent place. Mark off the days you meet your goal for the day, and give yourself a reward if you meet your goals for the entire month.
 Particularly if you walk outside, there are a number of different ways that your schedule could fall through. When this happens, having an automatic "Plan B" that you can fall back on ensures you're able to maintain your regimen.For example, it might be tempting to say "Oh well, guess I can't walk today!" when you see that it's raining outside. However, if you already have a back-up plan to use a treadmill, you've eliminated that excuse.
Having a go-to alternative also will keep you from scrapping exercise entirely for the day just because you slipped up.
For example, suppose you've scheduled your walk for every morning before work, requiring you to wake up 40 minutes earlier than you did before. If you happen to hit the snooze, it can be tempting to just skip the entire walk. However, you should still go for a walk anyway – even if you can only get in 10 or 15 minutes.
 Taking along a media player and headphones when you go on your walk gives your mind something to focus on so it doesn't wander and cause you to lose interest. It'll also make the time go by faster.Listening to an audiobook can be a good way to multitask – especially if you have trouble finding time to read your favorite novels or other pleasure reading. You also could choose a nonfiction title to learn about current events or gain some background knowledge about a new issue at work.
Music can put a rhythm in your step, especially if you're walking at a faster pace. Look for songs that are between 120 and 130 beats per minute – this is the typical speed for most pop songs, and the beat will closely match your pace.If you decide to listen to music while you walk, make sure the volume is low enough that you can still hear what's going on around you – especially if you're walking next to a busy street.
 If you're walking outside, such as around your neighborhood, it can get easy to get stuck in a rut when you're walking down the same streets every day. The fact that the terrain doesn't vary also can bore you physically.Open up a map application on your computer and map your main route. Then use the information from that route to design two or three other routes that are roughly the same distance.
Throughout the week, you can switch the routes randomly or based on your mood or personal preference.
If you're walking on a treadmill indoors, you can't exactly change your route. You might want to watch something on television (if the option's available) to give yourself some visual stimulation. If you have programs available on a portable device, you could even use your regular walk as an opportunity to catch up on your favorite show.
 Walking with a friend is a good way to keep from getting bored, as well as add a layer of accountability. Your friend can keep you honest about your exercising and help you meet your goals.Your companion doesn't need to be another person, however. If you have a dog, taking your dog for a walk can make the walk more enjoyable for you.
If you don't have a dog, ask a friend or neighbor if they'd mind if you took their dog walking with you. They probably won't, and that way both you and the dog can get a little extra exercise.
 If walking isn't doing it for you anymore, adding other activities or motions into your routine can challenge your body and help keep your walking regimen fresh.For example, you might walk a block, then do jumping jacks on the corner for a minute or two, then resume walking.
You can also add brief jogging intervals into your walk. If you're just starting to amp up your walking regimen, start slow with very short jogging intervals and long breaks of walking in between.
As you progress and feel yourself falling into a rut, add more intervals to continually challenge yourself.
 Never underestimate the power of positive reinforcement. If you attach good performance or meeting a goal to something you enjoy, you can motivate yourself to maintain your walking regimen.If you have the money in your budget, you can use material items such as a shirt you've had your eye on as a reward. However, you can reward yourself without spending a dime.
For example, you might treat yourself to a bubble bath, or time watching your favorite television show or movie, as a reward for meeting your goals with your walking regimen.

