 There are some medicines used to lessen the symptoms of infection and remove facial warts. These treatments usually require several months for the infection to clear, and are often associated with intense inflammation and discomfort. These medications are:


Retinoid (Tretinoin) Cream. Daily topical application of this cream may trigger resolution.Retinoid cream disrupts the wart's skin cell growth. When applying Tretinoin cream to the facial warts, the following guidelines must be followed:

Apply once a day at bedtime.
First, wash the wart with soap and water and wait at least 15 to minutes for it to dry. Then apply a pearl-sized portion to the facial wart. If applied on moist skin, it can cause peeling and irritation.
Tretinoin cream can cause sensitivity to sunlight because it makes the skin soft and thin. Remember to wear sunscreen when going outside.


Cantharidin or other topical agents containing trichloroacetic acid. Cantharidin contains an extract from a blister beetle. When it is applied to the skin, a blister will form around the wart. The blister will then lift the wart off your skin and the dermatologist can remove the dead portion of the wart.Cover the affected area with a clean bandage afterwards.
Follow all instructions given by your doctor when using this.


5-Fluorouracil. This cream will stop the replication of DNA and RNA, which should stop wart growth.Apply the cream twice a day for three to five weeks.Protect the area from the sun, as this can worsen irritation., Keratolysis involves the abrasive removal of dead skin from the surface of the skin. This works through a combination of chemical treatment (usually, the use of salicylic acid), which softens and kills the cells of the virus, and manual exfoliation. When the wart becomes soft from the chemical treatment, and then a pumice stone or an emery board is used to remove it., Liquid nitrogen is used to freeze and destroy warts,which are then scraped off with a curette. Cryosurgery is a good way to treat stubborn warts that have resisted all noninvasive treatments. Talk to your doctor if you wish to seek this treatment, though there are over-the-counter versions of this treatment.


With liquid nitrogen, a blister may form at the treatment site, but it will slough off in two to four weeks.
It should be noted that cryosurgery and curette scraping are not painless procedures and the application of liquid nitrogen may cause burning or stinging at the treated site that may persist for a few minutes after the treatment.
Scarring or loss of color can complicate this treatment.
 Laser therapy uses heat energy to destroy the wart and the red blood cells that feed it. The therapy is usually well tolerated, and does not leave scars or pigment anomalies. The pulsed dye laser is fast and efficient, but its cost makes it less accessible than other options. This treatment has an 80% or greater efficacy when used on warts.The lesions usually resolve without scarring at about two weeks.
This treatment is used for a variety of skin problems.
 If you have severe facial warts, you may wish to try this highly effective procedure.The doctor will inject your wart(s) with intralesional bleomycin, which is a drug usually used to treat cancer. A single injection may be enough to remove the wart, or you may need to follow up for more injections every three to four weeks.This therapy causes little or no scarring and may cause slight pigmentation that usually fades within a year of treatment.This treatment may be very expensive, but it has a very high success rate (92% in one study)and is more effective than cryosurgery., For warts that have not responded to other treatments, immunotherapy is another option. Your doctor will try to rally your immune system to attack the wart, either by applying a chemical (such as diphencyprone) to the wart or injecting it with a molecule (usually Candida antigen).The hope is that these will cause a reaction from your immune system, which will attack both the injected substance and the wart, eliminating it naturally.It may also help decrease the reoccurrence of warts, since your body will learn to defend against HPV virus.