 You will need to be rested and your patience gauge must be full. Don't expect to do observing in the same night you start collimation if your telescope is way out of alignment, otherwise you'll rush things.;
, Remember: a LITTLE hole. You can do it using a pointed scissor. Put it into the eyepiece.
 You realize it needs collimation if you don't see the entire secondary mirror through the collimation cap and if you don't see the three locks over the primary mirror (the concave one, in the back of the scope).
 So don't mess around with it unless you're certain of its misalignment! You may need to collimate the secondary if you bought the scope second hand or if you have already messed up with it.
 Place a colored paper behind the secondary mirror, inside the tube of the telescope. For this step, you'll need to open your scope.
 WARNING: keep your scope in a horizontal position, so the secondary mirror won't fall on the primary.
 Now you need the center the reflection of the primary mirror in the secondary. Still using your homemade collimation cap, screw one of the three secondary screws, and start screwing the other two gradually until you see the three locks over the primary mirror. These locks are 120° apart from themselves, so they're easy to spot.
 It is a little easier then the secondary. Most new telescopes come with the exact center of the primary already marked, but if yours is not marked, you can do it by simply sticking a round piece of white paper in the exact center (take your time doing it: it must be the EXACT dead center). It won't trouble your observing as long as your piece of paper is smaller then the secondary mirror's diameter. I recommend using a piece of paper with half inch diameter (or 1 cm).
 Use the screws under the primary to do that. In most telescopes there are six screws, grouped in pairs. In this pair, one them is a locking screw, and the other is the adjusting one. Take your time to learn how they move the mirror.
 If your telescope has what we call a "secondary offset", the spider may be off center in the final results. But don't be bothered by that if the reflection of your eye is centered.
 You may stop the collimation process here. But if you want to observe the planets in the Solar System and binary stars, you NEED to do a fine tuning in your collimation, in a process called "star test".
 People in the Southern Hemisphere are not as fortunate, because finding a stationary star is way more difficult for them. But worry not: be smart! You can use any bright dot-sized light source to do the fine tuning, like antennae or far (really far) away street lights. This way you can do the fine tuning in cloudy nights and the light source is absolutely stationary. The results are the same.
 Use your highest magnification lens. Focus it. Now continue gradually rotating the focusing knob until you see a pattern that resembles a target (it may be off center) or a Doppler-effect illustration. If your scope is way out of fine alignment, you won't see this effect. But any slight over-focus will do the trick.
 Use the screws in the back of the primary mirror to do that. Be aware that your light source will MOVE A LOT and go out of view. Keep track of where it goes so you can find it again. This process may take a few hours of trial and error, but it is rewarding.
 No need to buy a 50$ piece of plastic or an abhorrently expensive laser collimator (even this laser may need collimation!).

