 Consider the similarities and differences between how you act in private versus when you're around lots of people. Ask yourself, “How do I represent myself to strangers, to people I’m more comfortable with, and to myself?”Try to think of what really makes you who you are. Write down a list of character traits that are important to you, like honesty, loyalty, or humor. You can also ask trustworthy friends and family members to help you think of things.
Spend some quiet time reflecting on your traits, talents, and favorite things. Try to develop an appreciation for what makes you a unique individual.
 Make choices that are consistent with your priorities instead of doing what other people think is cool. For example, suppose your friends want to go to a party and get drunk, but you have a soccer game the next day, and soccer is really important to you. Instead of going to the party just to look cool, choose to be well prepared and well rested for your game because it's important to you.Do not feel like you have to defend yourself or your values to other people!

, Think of how to incorporate your interests, likes, and dislikes into your clothes, surroundings, and lifestyle choices. Focus on creating a style that makes you happy instead of just going for what's trendy or popular.For example, if you find that you love to mix and match patterns in your wardrobe, don’t be afraid to wear what you love just because of what one person might think.
Decorate your apartment or room with knick-knacks that have sentimental value, even if someone suggests you should use trendier items or go for a more minimal look. On the other hand, skip out on decorative objects altogether if you can’t stand clutter. Just go with whatever will make your space most livable for you.
 When developing your sense of clothing style, check out fashion magazines and blogs to search for inspiration. Save or cut out images that motivate you, and use them to put together a digital or paper "look book" or inspiration folder. Using your new library, assemble looks that make you feel unique and confident.Signature items like a particular piece of jewelry, scarves, funky hats, or pattern can also help put a unique stamp on your style. Think of a specific item or aesthetic element that makes you happy and expresses something you love about yourself. For example, if you love sailing or boats, maybe an anchor necklace and bold nautical stripes would be a unique touch., If someone says something about your taste, remember that their style opinion isn’t the final word. Taste is subjective, and you might not love everything about their fashion or decor. Variety is a great thing: imagine how boring it would be if everyone’s clothes and houses looked exactly the same!While it’s great to dress in a way that expresses your individuality, remember to consider degrees of appropriateness for every situation. Dressing professionally or in accordance with the dress code at work will probably earn you more respect than wearing a tee shirt and ripped jeans., Social media is a great way to stay connected with people. However, it also gives people plenty of opportunities to judge your lifestyle choices. For example, if you don’t want to invite people to criticize your clothes or image, consider sharing fewer selfies on social media platforms.You can also unfollow or unfriend people who are judgmental, rude, or who make you feel bad about yourself.

