 The first step is cleaning the mattress is removing the vomit from the surface of the bed. Use a paper plate to scrape any solids off the bed, and place it in a plastic bag to discard in the trash.Before cleaning up the vomit, it’s a good idea to put on rubber gloves. That will protect you from any germs.
You can also use a dustpan to scrape the vomit from your bed and dump it in the toilet to dispose of it. Hose the dustpan down outside to clean it.;
, If the bedding is still on your bed, remove them before moving on to cleaning the mattress. Strip the sheets, comforter, mattress pad, and any other items from the bed, and wash them in the washing machine.Wash the bedding on the highest temperature setting that is available on the washer. That will help kill any lingering germs.
 Once you’ve removed the sheets from the bed, use a dry cloth to soak up any liquid from the vomit that may have reached the mattress. Avoid rubbing the stained area, though. Instead, blot it to help remove the liquid without spreading it around.It’s a good idea to use an old rag to blot the mattress because you may want to throw it out when you’re done.
 After you’ve blotted away any remaining liquid from the mattress, sprinkle some baking soda over the area. The baking soda will help absorb any remaining liquid and remove the lingering odor.If you don’t have baking soda at home, you can substitute cornstarch. However, cornstarch doesn’t have the deodorizing properties that baking soda does.
 Once you’ve spread the baking soda on the stained section of the mattress, it needs time to absorb any leftover liquid and odor. Let the baking soda sit on the mattress for 8 hours to overnight, or until the baking soda is completely dry.If you or someone else needs to sleep on the bed, you can lay a clean towel over the baking soda on the mattress so you can place sheets over it.
 When the baking soda has sat on the mattress overnight, use a vacuum cleaner to remove the residue. Be sure to empty the vacuum and wash the canister or change the bag afterward so bacteria doesn’t grow inside the machine.Using the vacuum's hose attachment is the best bet to ensure that you remove all of the baking soda residue.
If you don’t have a vacuum cleaner, you can sweep the baking soda residue into a garbage can or bag.
 If there are still stains on the mattress from the vomit, you may need a targeted cleaner. Combine 1 cup (237 ml) warm water and 1 cup (237 ml) of white vinegar in a spray bottle and shake well to mix thoroughly.For extra cleaning power, you can also mix in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of liquid dish soap. Just make sure it’s not a moisturizing formula., After you’ve prepared the vinegar mixture, apply it to the stains on the mattress. Don’t oversaturate the mattress; spray the stained area until it is just damp. Next, blot the mattress with a clean towel to lift the stain.Choose a towel that is extremely absorbent for blotting the mattress.
 Depending on the stain, one application of the vinegar solution may not be enough to remove the stain. Apply it to the mattress and blot it as many times as necessary to completely remove the vomit stains.Make sure to have plenty of clean towels on hand for the blotting. You don’t want to blot the mattress over and over with the same towel because you can wind up spreading the stain.
 After you’ve removed the stain from the mattress, it’s important to let it dry. Give the mattress at least 6 to 8 hours to dry. You can help the drying process by turning on an overhead fan, aiming a freestanding fan at the mattress, or opening a window near the bed., Even after you clean the mattress, there can still be germs left behind after someone vomits. When the mattress is dry, spray the affected area lightly with rubbing alcohol to kill any lingering germs.Instead of rubbing alcohol, you can dab some unscented hand sanitizer on the mattress to kill the germs.
 After you’ve applied the rubbing alcohol, allow the mattress to dry completely. It should take about 6 hours, but it’s a good idea to let it air dry overnight to be certain it’s dry.Be sure to keep children and pets away from the mattress until the alcohol is dry.

