 It’s easy to feel too busy to write. You have social, academic and professional obligations that are always jockeying for your time, so you may be tempted to push your writing back in order to address things that seem more pressing at the time.


Set aside times that you are going to write and stick to your commitments.
Treat the appointment with yourself as though it’s an important meeting and don’t allow other obligations to interfere with it., Set aside some space in your house, dorm or office that you use specifically for getting work done and sit in it during the times you set aside for your writing. If you make writing a priority regularly, you will begin to accept it as one and not feel anxious about setting aside time for it. Make it a part of your morning or evening ritual and be consistent with your choices. Using Pavlovian Conditioning, you’ll come to feel like it’s time to get to work when you sit down at your desk.Many of the most successful creators and scientists aided their creative methods with routines. It helps you establish good habits and focus on your work.Incorporate other important elements into your routine, like eating healthy meals and getting exercise.
Some common elements of a successful routine include keeping a clean and organized work space, going for walks, establishing a way to hold yourself accountable for your progress., Producing good quality writing requires a great deal of focus and effort. Develop your brain-muscle by training it like an athlete would train their body.Practice free writing regularly to give your mind and body an opportunity to get used to the writing process as well as to get your ideas down on paper.
Become a natural observer. Focus on the things going on around you and how they relate to the larger world. Becoming conscious of the things that seem trivial in your daily life can help you better appreciate and write detail.Say yes to new experiences. Developing a mental library of experiences to pull from can help make you a stronger writer, and provide you with insights into subjects you may not otherwise have had. That doesn't mean you have to travel the globe; try to train yourself to be a student of the world (and its experiences) around you.