


In a septic tank, solid waste settles to the bottom and scum rises to the top. Excess liquid goes out to the drain field, either by gravity or with a septic pump. If the system has a filter (typically located in the outlet tee) learn how to clean and care for it. If a pump system with alarm, periodically test the alarm for function. Bacteria break down solids in the tank but they need to be pumped out periodically.





;
,


Your septic tank can handle only so much water at a time. The tank needs time to separate the solids and liquids and send the liquids to the drain field.






Check for running toilets and leaky faucets.






Consider installing low flow or high efficiency toilets.






Choose the right load size when doing laundry. Washing a small load on the large load setting wastes water.






Spread out laundry days. Instead of doing all laundry on one day, spread it out to allow time for the septic tank to recover.



Do not put anything heavy on the ground over your tank or drain field, such as a shed, parked car or RV, cement, asphalt, or above ground pool. These can damage the tank and pipes, compromise the effectiveness of the drain field, and are in violation of laws in most jurisdictions.
 These can clog the tank and drain field; chemicals can kill bacteria that help break down solids.


Dental floss






Feminine hygiene products
Diapers






Cigarette butts






Cat litter






Kleenex






Cotton swabs






Coffee grounds






Paper towels
Condoms
Household chemicals






Gasoline






Grease (no bacon fat, no oils, etc.)
Paint






Bleach.



If you have a septic tank, don’t install a garbage disposal.






Use a garbage disposal sparingly. It can clog the drain field and leads to more waste water.






Using a garbage disposal means more frequent pumping of the septic tank, ideally every year.
 Great bacteria!,
Use septic-safe toilet paper and septic-safe pre-moistened cloths.
Flush "RID" (in toilet) every few months.
 Keep it clear of roots; the roots of trees can damage pipes and the tank. Be especially careful of trees with aggressive roots such as willow trees.






If the leach field is near rain fall-off from the roof, install gutters to divert water away from the drain field.



Pumping the septic tank costs around $200-$300 but can vary by region. Cost will be higher if digging to locate the tank is required.






How often to pump depends on the size of the tank and number of people in the household. Average is about every 1-5 years.






Garbage disposal use increases the frequency for pumping needs.
For a 1,000 gallon (3,785.4 L) tank providing service to four people in a household with no garbage disposal, pumping every 2-3 years is normal. With only 2 people in the household, 4-5 years.
When having the tank pumped, consider having it inspected it to make sure it’s in good working order.
 Surprise: one could carpet a living room with the amount of tiny non-biodegradable fibers entering a septic system each year.

