 Make it a part of your daily routine of self-care, as you would with meals, hygiene, and exercise. As you face triggers throughout the day, allow yourself the ability to confront the resulting stress later, at a time of your choosing, rather than be overcome by it in the moment.Devote 15 to 20 minutes each day, at the same hour, to create structure. Allow plenty of time between your worry session and your bedtime to avoid bringing your worries to bed with you.
Jot down triggers as they happen. Create a to-do list to go over later, during your session. Assure yourself in the moment that the situation will in fact be addressed.
Keep a journal. Commit your troubles to paper so you don't have to keep them bottled up. Use this time to create lists of steps that you can take to resolve issues.
As your problem-solving skills become more ingrained with repeated practice during your sessions, apply them in the moment to resolve situations that demand immediate attention.
 It can be easy to see certain self-care practices as expendable or put them last on your list. When you're busy, overwhelmed, or tired, it's easy to think "I'll just skip yoga class today," or "I can shower tomorrow," or, "It's not really that important that I meditate. Getting this other stuff done is more important." Don't think of your stress-reducing activities as optional. Schedule time to do them daily and stick to it.

Identify things that help reduce your stress, such as yoga, meditation, exercising, deep breathing, and schedule a time to do it every day.
Managing stress is all about balance and prevention (consistent de-stressing) so it's important that it's scheduled and made a priority.
 Understand that stress and anxiety often stems from overthinking the past or the future. Recognize that the past is just that: past. Expect the future to be shaped in part by your current actions. Center your attention on what you can do here, in the moment, to improve your situation.To reorient yourself to the present, quit what you are doing. Breathe deeply and slowly. Expand your senses to note your environment. Observe what is going on around you instead of what’s going on inside your head. Close your eyes if necessary and focus solely on smells and sounds.
 Expect chronic issues to distort your outlook. Determine whether you are viewing situations objectively or if you are perceiving them through a biased point of view. Resist viewing situations as being either black or white. Perceive them as shades of gray instead. Note the positive as well as the negative to ensure a more balanced view of the world.Treat each situation as an isolated incident, rather than one link of an unbreakable chain that is doomed to repeat itself. For example, don't assume that all future relationships are doomed to fail just because your last partner broke up with you.
Break each situation down into separate components and analyze each in turn. For instance, if you are stressing out over your job because it won’t lead to advancement, don’t overlook its positive aspects, such as its proximity to home, your relationships with coworkers, and the skillsets that you can now include in your resume when seeking other employment.
Avoid assuming the worst. Say your boss calls you into their office when it isn’t their habit to do so. Think of ALL the possible topics they might want to discuss, rather than focusing exclusively on negative ones like, “You’re fired!”

, Avoid holding yourself accountable for other people’s choices. Where your own actions are concerned, allow yourself the freedom of choice. Don't try to live your life by a single code of unbreakable rules, since this is often impossible and only creates more stress when you end up breaking those rules. When you do make mistakes, view each one as a single action that you once took, rather than internalizing it as a definition of who you are as a person.When analyzing a situation, use verbs to describe what happened to better identify possible solutions or alternatives.
For example, think, “I missed my last bill payment because I worked three double-shifts in a row and forgot all about it due to exhaustion,” rather than, “I missed my last payment because I’m forgetful.”

, If you find that you are unable to cope with stress and anxiety on your own, seek treatment. Speak with your doctor about a referral, ask trusted friends and families about therapists who may have treated them, or search online for a practice that seems to suit you. Expect counseling to possibly utilize one or more of the following techniques:Discussing your feelings and personal history.
Sharpening problem-solving skills.
Supervised exposure to simulated and real-world triggers of anxiety.
Rebuilding your outlook on life to reduce negative mindsets.
Recognizing and mastering your body’s responses to stress.
Practicing relaxation techniques.

