 In layman’s language, on-page optimization refers to the optimization of all pages of the website with regards to name, text and context so that it can become crawl-able by the search engine spiders and get higher ranking. On-page optimization technique makes it easy for a webpage to be indexed on the top position of the SERPs, drive higher traffic leading to better conversion rates and increase the user-experience.;
, Title tags optimization is significant and the foremost step in on-site optimization. During this process, title tags are optimized with targeted keywords and the content is created to give the correct description of the site. This is the best way to get your website the attention of search engines and target audience.
 For a better performance, the HTML tags including the header tags of the website need to be optimized. The h1, h2 and h3 tags are optimized for better assessment by the major search engines. Important elements such as bold, italics and underline in the header content are included in the header content so that they are recognized easily.
 By optimizing the meta tags of your website, you are bound to get the users’ attention as the Meta tags are displayed as a snippet on the SERPs along with the link to your website.
 No matter how cliched it sounds, content is definitely king! While refining the site structure, capturing content is created to provide your visitors all the information they require on your product/services.


The content is created in a manner to convince a first time visitor to become a regular customer. The right density of the keywords is used for the search engines to appreciate and rank your website.
Proper research should be performed to make sure that your website ranks high.
 To take care of the outbound and inbound links, links of the website are optimized with appropriate keywords.
 This is the most ignored part of website optimization; however, it holds a great value because along with the web search, major search engines also provide a different segment of search known as ‘image search.’


This also plays an important role in bringing up the ranks of any website. If your site consists a lot of images and videos, it is important to optimize them to get the attention of the search engines and rank well.

