 Don’t get sucked into focusing only on your spouse’s needs and forget about your own. Take care of your body by eating nutritious meals, sleeping well, and exercising. Do activities you enjoy and stay socially connected with friends and family. Get the support you need to get through by having someone to talk to and resources to fall back for your own health and safety.Don’t ignore your own needs and wants. You might feel guilty for taking a night to be with friends or family, but remember that it’s important for you to take care of yourself.
 You might feel like your spouse’s self-harm is too much for you to deal with and feel overwhelmed by how much it affects you and the marriage. Perhaps you feel trapped in the marriage or that you can’t leave your partner. These are normal and common reactions.However, you might need some support and someone to talk to, which is where a therapist can help. Especially if you’re keeping your spouse’s self-harm a secret from family and friends, having someone to talk to can be a relief and a way to work through your thoughts and feelings.


Find a therapist by calling your insurance provider or by calling a local mental health clinic. You can also get a recommendation from a physician, friend, or family member.
 Self-harm is a way to cope with stress. Encourage your spouse to cope with stress in more beneficial ways that don’t hurt their body. Offer to engage in coping strategies together, like going for a walk together or exercising together. That way, both of you can work through stressors and support one another in dealing with stressors effectively.Take the dog on a walk together, complete a puzzle, or go to the gym together.
 Make sure your own stress doesn’t compound from day to day. Deal with each day’s stress by engaging in daily relaxation exercises. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help keep depression at bay and can help stabilize your moods.Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, or meditation.

