 For puppies under 18 months of age, self-directed play will fulfill your puppy’s exercise needs. In other words, the majority of your puppy’s exercise should be exploring, digging, and free play. Therefore, let your puppy roam around your backyard, or an enclosed grassy area that is safe.While your puppy is exploring, supervise your puppy to ensure that it is safe at all times.
If you don't have a backyard, then take your puppy to a park and let your puppy explore a small section of the park. Supervise your puppy at all times.;
, Burying treats is a great way for your puppy to exercise and hone its tracking instincts. Dig up various soft patches in your backyard. Bury treats and toys in the patches and cover them up. Lead your puppy to the patches and encourage it to dig up the treats and toys., Kibble trails will also keep your puppy busy both mentally and physically. Start with half of the amount of kibble you feed your puppy in a day. Drop the kibble every few inches making a trail as you go along. Start out with straight trails and work your way up to trails with turns.Make sure to put a lot of food along turns since a change of direction is hard to follow.
 Puppies begin teething around three months of age. Therefore, make sure your puppy has a lot of safe and sturdy teething toys, for example, a Kong-type toy or Nylabone toys. In general, opt for hard rubber toys, or toys that have multiple textures that your puppy can explore.Avoid toys that are too small or contain small pieces that can be chewed off and ingested.
Avoid toys that have sharp edges. These toys can harm your puppy's mouth and/or teeth.
 Playing with other puppies is another great way to fulfill your puppy’s exercise, as well as socialization needs. Puppies are ideal playmates for each other because they have similar needs and limits. Invite your friends to bring their puppies over for a much needed play session.At seven weeks of age, you can begin to gradually expose your puppy to a variety of situations, people, and places.
Try not to let your puppy play with larger dogs or puppies. Larger dogs, especially ones that like to play rough, can inadvertently hurt your puppy.
Do not take your puppy to the dog park until seven to 10 days after it has received its full series of puppy vaccinations.