 Keep books in one pocket, assignments and class folders in another, and school materials like pencils and calculators in another.;
, You can use multiple notebooks (one for each class) or just one big notebook separated into sections with dividers for each class. Listen carefully to your teachers or professors and write relevant material in the corresponding notebooks.
 Order them by due date. For instance, if your math homework is due tomorrow, your history test is in four days, and your physics homework is due in two days, complete your math homework, then your physics homework, then study for your history test.


If you have two assignments due on the same day, do the easier one first. This way you will be able to get it out of the way and have an accomplishment under your belt to keep your momentum and motivation high.
When you get new assignments, projects, and tests, write them down in a daily notebook. At the end of the day, consult the notebook and revise your larger list of existing assignments and tests by incorporating the new assignments.
Get a planner. A planner is a special notebook specifically designed to help you schedule your time and keep due dates for tests, homework, and projects organized.
 Use folders of different colors, and try to match them to the covers of the corresponding textbook for that class.Within each folder, it is helpful to have (at least) two pockets. You can use one pocket for completed assignments that you wish to turn in, and one pocket for assignments which you have not completed and need to finish. If you have a third pocket in your folder, place returned and graded assignments in there.
 For instance, you could place a pink sticky note in a text book with half of it sticking out over the top edge of a page you want to study later. You could apply a green sticky note to assignments that are due next week. Use a system which makes sense to you in order to indicate due dates or levels of importance.


If you’re using non-colored sticky notes, write the relevant information on the sticky note. For instance, you might write “Due Tuesday, 2 November” to help you remember when something is due.
 This way, your eye will automatically be drawn to it when you flip through the text later.


Do not write in textbooks that you do not own.

