 While a degree is not always required for a job as an executive administrative assistant, it will make you more competitive in the job market.


Study a variety of subjects. English is especially important, as you will need to have good writing and communication skills. Math classes will help with expense reporting, and computer classes will keep you up to date on the latest programs and technology.;
, Look for jobs that will give you exposure to the duties of executive administrative assistants. Work as a receptionist, office assistant or administrative assistant. Most executive assistants have at least 3 years of experience in these roles.


Ask for additional responsibilities. Look for opportunities to help your co-workers and supervisors. This will help you gain additional experience, and give you a favorable reputation with those who may give you a reference in the future.
Take advantage of professional development opportunities. Look for places to learn. Take additional classes, read books on leadership and management, study the industry you would like to work in as an executive administrative assistant.
Demonstrate professionalism and poise. Executive administrative assistants need to maintain confidentiality, diplomacy and a professional demeanor at all times. Dress conservatively, avoid gossiping and speak clearly and assertively at the workplace.
 In addition to demonstrating your skills and experience, your resume should show your ability to take initiative, solve problems and be reliable.
 Look for opportunities to get promoted in the company you already work for, or find a new job elsewhere.


Check online job websites such as Monster, CareerBuilder and Simply Hired. Type "executive administrative assistant" into the Search box as well as the city and state you want to search.
Work with a staffing agency. Companies such as Office Team, Apple One, Kelly and other placement agencies can find you work as an executive assistant on a temporary or permanent basis.
 Get to know people you work with who you respect. Talk about professional development, and opportunities in the field.

