 Using a chemical drain cleaner is one of the most common ways to unclog a drain. Always follow the manufacturer's instructions when using chemical drain cleaners.Make sure you buy a drain cleaner that is compatible with your system. If you have a septic tank, you will need to find drain cleaner that is suitable for septic systems.Don't mix drain cleaners. If one brand doesn't work, do not try another one immediately after.;
, Many chemical drain cleaners on the market have caustic chemicals in them that could be harmful to the environment. If you don't want to use a chemical drain cleaner, you could try making your own from baking soda and vinegar.Make sure your sink is dry, and pour at least 1 cup of baking soda down the drain.Pour about 2 cups of boiling water down the drain. Wait a few minutes and then pour another cup of baking soda down the drain. Follow the cup of baking soda with 1 cup of white vinegar.Plug the drain with a wet rag or drain stopper. The vinegar and baking soda will start foaming. Keep the drain sealed to push the foam down the drain and release the clog.Once the foaming stops, pour another 2 cups of boiling water down the drain to flush it., You may be able to unclog your drain using a plunger. If you are using your plunger in a kitchen sink, be sure to cover the drain of the adjacent basin.Fill the sink with a few inches of water. You want to force water down the drain, not air. When you put the plunger in the sink, roll the head of the plunger so that it fills with water.Make sure you get a good seal around the drain. If you are having trouble making a seal around the drain, try putting a layer of petroleum jelly around the rim of the plunger.Vigorously work the handle up and down. On your final pull, pop the plunger off the drain to try and break the clog. Wait a few seconds, and then repeat the process. It may take several tries to break the clog.Don't use a plunger immediately after using a chemical drain cleaner. You may get serious burns if the chemicals splash on your skin., Your clog may be stuck in the P-trap for your sink. To find the P-trap, look beneath your sink for a curved pipe attached to the drain.If you have any standing water in the sink, remove it. Use a cup and a bucket to get as much water out of the sink as you can.Place a bucket beneath the P-trap. Dirty water will flow out of the trap when you remove it, so make sure the bucket is beneath both connections.To remove the trap, use a pair of slip-joint pliers to remove the slip nuts connecting the pipes. If your pipes are plastic, be careful not to snap them. If the pipes are metal, the slip nuts may be difficult to remove. Remove the slip nut between the P-trap and the trap arm, the pipe that leads into the wall, first. Then remove the P-trap completely.If your P-trap is dirty, remove any debris. Inspect the pipes for any breaks or thin walls and replace them if you need to. Check the trap arm for any debris, and remove it as well. Rinse the P-trap and reattach it. Check the drain for leaks., If plunging doesn't unclog the drain, you may need to snake the drain. Depending on the type of sink you are unclogging, you may be able to run the snake directly through the drain. If you can't run the snake through the drain, you will have to remove the P-trap and run it through the waste line.Feed the snake into the drain until you feel an obstruction. Continue to push the snake through the obstruction until you feel the tip of the snake push through. The tension in the cable will drop when this happens.Turn the crank on the snake counterclockwise to pull the snake out of the drain. The cable will be filthy so make sure you have rags and a bucket handy to clean the mess.Repeat this process until you no longer feel any obstructions in your pipes. Reattach the drain traps and flush the drain with warm water.You can also flush the drain using baking soda and vinegar to keep your drain smelling fresh and remove any remaining build up. Pour 1/2 cup of baking soda down the drain followed by 1/2 cup of white vinegar. Plug both drains and wait a few minutes before flushing with warm water.