 It may seem obvious, but the easiest way to avoid an alligator attack is to avoid these territorial predators. Alligators will often stand their ground when on land. They don’t flee like other animals, so as soon as you see an alligator, move away from them. Alligators are unlikely to attack unless you get too close to their nest or corner them, so leave at least 15 feet between you and the alligator. If it shows aggression, move further away or find a safe place in a house or car. Alligators are very adept climbers, so getting to higher ground may make it easier for you to watch the alligator, but it does not mean they won’t be able to reach you., Warning signs of aggression include hissing, opening the mouth, and moving their heads or bodies towards you. Move away from these alligators immediately. Another less obvious sign of aggression is not retreating into the water as you approach. If an alligator is partially in water, they will typically move back into the water where they feel more comfortable when humans approach. If they don’t do this, they may have a nest near by, see you as a food source, or perceive you as a threat.


Alligators are surprisingly fast. If they don’t move away from you or they otherwise show aggression, be proactive and get to a safe place as quickly as possible., Alligators tend to get hungry and active between dusk and dawn. Alligators are "opportunistic feeders." This means they eat anything in sight, including other alligators. Your best safety measure is to always be aware of your surroundings when alligators could be present, but this is most important at nighttime, when alligators are hunting. Do not go into water where alligators are known to habitat during the night, especially if you’re alone.


Most alligator attacks happen when people are in the water and are unable to see clearly or are not alert to their surroundings. Never swim when alligators are hunting, and always swim in pairs. This way, one person can keep watch for alligator activity., This can cause an alligator to lose its fear of people, which means that the next snack you feed the gator might be yourself. Feeding alligators also endangers unsuspecting people who may get attacked by an alligator who associates people with food. Feeding an alligator is against the law, and it could lead to a fine or even jail time. Additionally, it is a death sentence for the animal. Officials will need to "harvest" an un-intimidated alligator immediately.


Feeding alligators makes them harder to find because sated gators, those no longer in need of food, are able to dedicate more of their energy to finding adequate habitation and coverage.
You should also avoid throwing scraps into the water. You may not be intentionally feeding alligators, but if they learn that there will be food in a specific spot, they’ll begin to spend more time there., People often get injured attempting to move alligators out of the road. This is never a good idea. Leading the alligator with food, honking, or throwing objects at the alligator is just as likely to trigger an attack as it is to achieve a cleared road. Drive around the alligator whenever possible, or wait the alligator out., You may not realize right away that you’re looking at an alligator nest, but if you see large piles of sticks and grass along the waterline with eggs or small alligators, four feet or shorter, it’s likely the mother is nearby. Approaching, touching, or otherwise tampering with an alligator nest is one of the easiest ways to trigger an attack., These deadly predators were not intended to be domesticated. While they’re beautiful and majestic creatures, they are unlikely to be tamed despite the best training efforts. Even if a so called domesticated alligator never harms its owner, they are much more likely to harm other humans, since they have developed the expectation that humans will bring them food. It is also important to remember that it’s illegal to keep alligators as pets., They are more likely to attack if they feel threatened. Because they are territorial, alligators feel threatened when trapped where they don’t feel they can defend their habitat or their young. If you inadvertently corner a gator, move away quickly., The greater your understanding of typical alligator habits, the more likely you are to notice when something is wrong. Male alligators prefer open waters such as canals and ponds while female alligators dwell in marshy areas to protect their young. If you see alligators outside of these areas, something may be amiss.


The majority of alligator attacks occur during breeding season, which is typically between March and July. During this time, they are out more often, and the males especially are more aggressive. Females who are nesting will also show increased aggression.
Alligators are territorial. They attack other alligators who invade their territory, and they will not hesitate to display aggressive behaviors towards people who enter their territory at any time of the year.Alligators are nocturnal, so if you see one out in the open during the day, they are likely lost, scared, and confused. Get away from them quickly, and contact wildlife agencies like the Department of Natural Resources or Wildlife Department to alert them of the alligator’s presence.