 It's the black, apple-shaped icon in the upper-left corner of your screen.
 It's in the second section of the drop-down menu.
 It's on the left side of the window.
 It's in the lower-left corner of the window.


All of your iCloud data, including calendar entries and iCloud photos, will be removed from the Mac.
If you get an error message while trying to sign out, it may be caused by a conflict with your iPhone or other iOS device. Open Settings on the device, tap your Apple ID, then tap iCloud, tap Keychain and slide the "iCloud Keychain" button to the "On" (green) position., It's the black, apple-shaped icon in the upper-left of your screen.
 It's in the second section of the drop-down menu.
, It's at the top of the dialog box.If you want to create a new Apple ID, click on Create Apple ID... below the Apple ID field on the screen, then follow the onscreen prompts to set up your free Apple ID and iCloud account.
 Do so by typing the email address and password associated with your Apple ID into the labeled fields in the right pane of the dialog box.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box.
 Do so by entering your Mac's admin name and password.


If prompted, enter another device's unlock code. This is because you have enabled two-step verification.
 Check the upper selection in the dialog box to if you'd like the calendars, reminders, contacts, notes, and other data stored on your device to be merged with your iCloud account. Check the lower box to enable your Mac to be found in case it's lost or stolen.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box.


Click on Allow to enable your Mac's location to be used by "Find My Mac."

, Do so if you want to store files and documents on iCloud.


Select which apps have permission to access iCloud Drive by clicking on the Options button next to "iCloud Drive" in the dialog box.
 Do so by checking the boxes below "iCloud Drive". For example, check "Photos" if you want to back up and access your Photos on iCloud. Now, your selected data can be accessed on iCloud and on any devices signed in to your current iCloud account.


You may need to scroll down to see all the selections.

