 These handy cleaning products can be found in the same aisle as your household cleaners at the store. A “magic eraser” is made of melamine foam packed with air and uses no chemical solvents. It lifts stains from your surfaces using a type of physical reaction, rather than a chemical one, and it essentially works by sanding the stained surface on a microscopic level.Simply scrub the marked wall with the "magic eraser" until the stain lifts out.
Wipe the wall with a moist cloth when done to remove any melamine residue left behind.
Do not use a magic eraser on glossy paint because it can dull some of the glossiness away.
 You may also be able to lift a stain from a tablet screen, countertop, or other hard surface just by using a regular pink eraser.Rub a large pink eraser over the surface of the Sharpie stain as if you are erasing it. You may need to go over the stain several times to see any progress.
 You can create a solution of alcohol and water to use as a stain remover. Mix one part isopropyl alcohol with two parts water. Then, use a clean white cloth to rub some of the solution onto the stain. You may need to repeat this treatment several times before the stain comes out.
 You may also be able to get rid of a Sharpie stain by coloring over it with a non-permanent dry erase marker. This method works best if the stain is on a dry erase board or similar surface, such as a window or computer screen. The chemicals in the dry erase marker cling to those in the permanent ink, thereby lifting it out of the surface and away.








Color over the Sharpie stain completely with the dry erase marker.
Wipe the colored area with a paper towel.
Repeat as needed until the stain lifts away.










Cover the bottle of nail polish remover or acetone with a clean cloth. Tip the bottle upside-down briefly, just long enough to soak the portion of cloth above the bottle with the product.
Rub the portion of your cloth soaked in nail polish remover on the stain. You should notice the stain lifting out with only moderate pressure. Increase pressure as you scrub only if necessary.
Wipe clean with a dry portion of the cloth.

