 Exercise has been shown to help mild to moderate depression.It is also extremely beneficial for your overall health. Keeping active can influence your mood, increase energy, distract you from the worries of life, help you sleep, and even change the chemistry in your brain. Exercise has been shown to increase levels of endorphins, serotonin, and control stress hormones—all of which can be linked to depression.Try to exercise for a little bit each day. If you are feeling down, go for a walk to clear you head. Even walking around the block can help your body produce serotonin, a chemical that makes you feel happy.
Try some relaxing exercises like yoga and stretching. Yoga is great for both the mind and body.
 When you choose a nutrient-rich diet, you promote a sense of well-being (think of the expression “you are what you eat”). Try to eat a balanced diet that includes all of the food groups. These food groups include:


Fruits.
Vegetables.
Healthy proteins.
Whole grains.
Healthy oils that provide you with good omega fatty acids, like olive oil and flaxseed oil.
 Sometimes talking to others can really make a difference. Studies have shown that peer support groups can help to reduce symptoms of depression.In a support group, you get to interact with people who know and understand what you're experiencing. You can connect with others and learn from them.


If you would like to meet up with a group face-to-face, check in with your local community center or hospital. You can also talk to your doctor or psychologist about support groups in your area.
With the power of the internet, there are various online support groups available.
 This will be a learning process, but you can do it. It may seem overwhelming but once you've taken that first step, you may find that your life is much improved. Positive thinking can help you reduce your symptoms of depression.Treatments such as CBT can help you understand exactly how to turn your thoughts around.
A therapist can help you devise a treatment plan, which may help you recognize your progress in reducing your depression.

