 The most important part of caring for a wound is following your doctor’s instructions. If you have not yet seen a doctor for a wound, then do so as soon as possible. Your doctor may advise you to:Keep your wound clean and dry.
Cover your wound when you bathe or shower to avoid getting it wet.
Clean your wound with soap and water or with a special wound cleaner.
Replace your bandages regularly and when they become dirty or wet.;
, Use an antimicrobial hand soap and warm water, and wash your hands for 15 to 30 seconds. Always wash your hands before and after cleaning the wound.Avoid touching the wound unless you’re cleaning it, and never scratch it if it’s itchy.
 If your doctor has advised you to soak your wound in a saline solution a certain number of times each day, then make sure that you do so. If not, then do not do this. Remove its dressing and soak a healing or closed infected wound in a container of warm saline solution for 20 minutes. If it’s not easy to soak the wound in a bowl, cover the wound with a clean cloth soaked in saline solution for 20 minutes.You can create your own saline solution by mixing two teaspoons of salt with one quart (about a liter) of warm water.
 If you wouldn’t drink the water you’re using to clean the wound, you shouldn’t use it. You can use distilled or filtered water, and heat it with salt on the stove.You can also just boil tap water and let it cool until it’s safe to use.
 Dab an antibacterial cream onto a cotton swab, taking care not to let the tip of the nozzle touch the swab. Use enough cream to apply a thin coating over the entire wound. Use a fresh swab if you need to squirt more ointment from the bottle.Use an over the counter cream if you haven’t been prescribed one from your doctor. You can also ask your pharmacist to recommend an over the counter antibiotic ointment.
 When it comes to treating wounds and skin infections, rubbing alcohol and hydrogen peroxide actually do more harm than good. Both interfere with the processes of healing and fighting infection. They dry your skin and kill white blood cells, which your body uses to kill the germs that cause infection., After cleaning the wound and applying ointment, use a clean cloth to dry the area around the wound so you can affix the dressing. Covering the wound will encourage healing and prevent the infection from spreading.Avoid using a dressing that sticks to wound. Go for a sterile bandage instead of gauze., If your wound is infected, then you need to be under the care of a doctor. If you visited your doctor or another medical professional when you were injured or to treat an infection, be sure to follow all of their instructions. Apply prescribed topical antibiotic cream or take oral antibiotics as they've instructed.Take any other medications, such as pain relievers or anti-inflammatory drugs, as directed.
If you received stitches, don't get them wet for 24 hours unless directed by your doctor.

