 Prior to applying makeup, you must properly prepare your skin for the application. To remove dirt and oils, thoroughly cleanse your skin with a gentle facial wash product. Dab your face dry with a clean towel.If there are any traces of makeup remaining, scrub your face in small circles with a cotton ball or swab dipped in makeup remover.Avoid face washes that contain exfoliants. Exfoliants cause your skin to redden.;
, Moisturizers soften and hydrated your skin. Evenly spread a pea-sized amount of moisturizer over the contours of your face.Allow the moisturizer to dry for approximately five minutes.If you are prone to skin irritation, avoid scented moisturizers.
If your skin is naturally oily, avoid moisturizers that contain additional oils. Moisturizers with oils can cause acne., Primer is formulated to provide a smooth base for foundation, combat shine, and keep your makeup in place throughout the day.Dab a pea-sized amount of primer onto your fingertip. Dab the primer along your cheekbones, above your brows, and along the bridge of your nose. Use your fingers to evenly spread the primer out to the edges. Allow the primer to set on your face for a few minutes. This application method produces a light, even layer of primer that will help your foundation appear to rest naturally on your face.Primer, like all of the products listed, is optional.
 Uneven skin tone is caused by hyper pigmentation. Uneven skin tone is characterized by isolated dark spots, blotches, and freckles. The presence of scars, especially acne scars, and sun spots are also markers of uneven skin tone. Note the areas of your complexion that are uneven.When applying foundation and concealer, take extra measures to cover these problem areas.
 Foundation is designed to even out the areas of your complexion that are overly pigmented, red, or contain imperfections. To achieve a natural, light look, apply foundation only to the areas of your face that need the coverage. Use a foundation brush, makeup sponge, or your fingers to blend the foundation seamlessly with your natural complexion., Concealer is meant to cover the problem areas that your foundation could not even out. Use a brush to apply a sparse amount of concealer to blemishes and around the edges of your nose. Apply a generous amount of concealer under your eyes to mask dark circles. Pat the application areas with your fingers to blend the concealer.For a natural look, use a concealer that is one shade lighter than your skin tone., Powders help to combat oil and set your foundation. You may use a translucent powder or a tinted powder that perfectly matches your skin tone. Apply the powder to your face with a large brush. With the brush, create a “W” pattern on your face. Begin at the top left corner of your hairline, bring the brush down to your cheekbone, to the bridge of your nose, down to the opposite cheekbone, and up to the top right corner of your hairline.Translucent powders are universal and may be used on any skin tone.They reflect light, which enhances your skin’s a natural glow., When striving for a natural look, opt for blush over bronzer. Choose a blush that is subtle, soft, and as close to your natural flush as possible. Apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks. Blend the product until it subtly falls where your natural flush occurs., Keep your eye makeup simple and clean. Prior to applying mascara, curl your lashes. Apply up to two coats of mascara to each set of eyelashes with a thin-wand mascara comb.If you have naturally dark lashes, skip this step or simply curl your lashes., Complete your simple look with a lipstick and or gloss that intensifies the natural pigment of your lips. Select a light pink, peach, or sand colored lipstick.Lightly dab the lipstick on your bottom lip and rub your lips together. Apply a dash of clear lip gloss.For an even simpler look, skip the lipstick and just apply a gloss.