 The right foods can increase blood flow to your sexual organs. Better choices will increase your libido.Eating fruits and vegetables every day can decrease risk of anemia, increase your overall energy and improve blood circulation.


Replace red meat with protein from plants as saturated fats can affect libido. Try nuts, seeds, legumes and soy instead of red meat.Eat fruits and veggies instead of junk foods. Junk foods reduce blood while fruits and veggies provide lasting energy needed for increased sex drive.Sprinkle red pepper flakes instead of salt as peppers contain a chemical the encourages blood flow while salt increase blood pressure and lowers the libido.Eat whole grain cereals for zinc as it preserves testosterone.Though women do have lower levels of testosterone, it is still present and provides a strong libido.
Eat small amounts of chocolate with 70% cocoa content or higher. Chocolate can provide the same arousal as an orgasm., These supplements are available over the counter, and they claim to target mood and sexual desire.Taking a supplement may result in improved libido because of the placebo effect. A certain percentage of people will always see an improvement in their condition because of a belief that they will improve. For this reason, it may be a better idea to use a supplement while you look for other possible causes of sexual decline.
Do not take ginkgo biloba if you are taking blood thinners. Consult your doctor before taking either supplement if you have a health condition or are taking other medication. Supplements can interact with prescription drugs.
 This amino acid is essential to many body functions including blood flow. It is the main source of nitric oxide, which is responsible for sexual arousal in women.Nitric oxide increases blood flow to the genitals and can increase the intensity of the orgasm., Vaginal dryness is a common symptom that can be treated with a vaginal lubricant and hormone therapy. While natural oils can be used to treat vaginal dryness, persistent symptoms may indicate a greater medical issue.Vitamin E can improve vaginal lubrication when applied daily in and around the vagina. Open a vitamin E capsule to obtain the oil, or use a dropper bottle to directly deposit liquid vitamin E to your hands.Try Zestra, a topical oil. This over the counter vaginal oil contains vitamins C and E, primrose oils and Angelica root. Studies claim to produce better libido increases than a placebo.