 Look for your closet and remind your self what you have from last year. Make a list of what you need to buy, then go shopping and purchase it all. Make sure to try things in to ensure they fit perfectly. Some items that are gorgeous for summer include:


Crop tops. Don't think you have to have a flat stomach to wear these: they look great on everyone. Popular styles include tight lace, and cropped t-shirts.
Denim shorts. A couple of pairs of denim shorts will be useful, because you can wear them most days. Don't be afraid of different colours and prints.
Summer dresses. It's good to have at least one cute cute day dress, and one sexier one for evening parties.
Skirts. Little skirts are so cute for day or night. Try skater, mini, wrap and denims;
, Summer is one of the only times you can show off your amazing body in a swim suit. Bikinis are probably the most popular style, and for good reason, but tankinis and one-pieces can also look super hot. Look for cutouts, lace-effects and bold colours, as these are in fashion right now.
 You may think you have to show a lot of skin to be sexy, but you don't have to. Wear what makes you look amazing and feel confident.
 Summer isn't a time to hide away in dark colours. Try turquoise, coral, pink or mint. Don't shu away from spots, stripes, florals or chevrons too. These will ensure that all eyes are on you.
 Summer clothes look best with sunkissed skin, so try some fake tan or glow-enhancing lotion. Remember to wear sunscreen though, because damaged, burnt skin is anything but sexy.
 When putting together an outfit, it's all about balance. If your wearing tight, short shorts, balance it out with a looser cropped t-shirt. If your wearing a super-revealing crop top, match it with a longer length skirt. Just pick one or two features to show off, ie. legs or stomach or breasts.
 There are lots of YouTube tutorials with different looks you can try out.
 Shoes and accessories can make or break your outfit.


Essential summer shoes are: Sneakers for day time, flat sandals or flip flops for the beach and some sexy high heeled sandals for evening.
Accessories you should purchase include: a statement necklace, a floppy hat, bracelets and anklets and, of course, sunglasses. You could also try out some temporary tattoos, but make sure to choose classy designs, such as metallics.
Don't pile on the accessories. Just wear no more than two or three things with each outfit.
 A lot of people feel uncomfortable showing skin in summer, but don't worry, no one is judging how you look. Walk with good posture and strut your stuff. If you act confident, people will believe that you are.

