 Use a wire whisk to beat the egg yolks, vanilla, and sugar together in a mixing bowl. Beat everything together until the ingredients are evenly combined. When done, the mixture will have a pale yellow color.This generally takes around five minutes.
 Place your evaporated milk in a medium sauce pan. Heat it over the stovetop until it comes to a simmer. Stir the evaporated milk constantly as it heats., Add the milk to your egg mixture gradually. Pour in small amounts at a time while whisking the batter constantly. Make sure all the ingredients are evenly mixed before proceeding., Transfer the milk and egg mixture back to the sauce pan. Heat the mixture until it forms a thick, custardy texture. It will be about 180 degrees Fahrenheit (about 82 degrees Celsius) when done. Make sure not to overheat the mixture, as this will cause the eggs to scramble., Place the mixture in a freezer-safe bowl. Place it in the freezer or fridge until it's cool throughout. Times vary depending on the precise temperature of your fridge or freezer., Place one cup (240 mL) of your heavy cream in a mixing bowl. Whisk it together vigorously using a wire whisk until it forms whipped cream.The amount of time varies depending on how fast you're able to whip the cream.
 Pour the whipped cream into your chilled ice cream mixture. Use a spoon to gently fold the ingredients together. Everything should be completely incorporated when you're done. You should be left with a smooth batter without any visible lumps., Take an ice cube tray. Use a spoon to fill each component with your batter. If necessary, use more than one tray. The amount of trays needed depend on the size trays you're using., Place your ice cube trays filled with batter in the freezer. Freeze them for about four hours. Most freezers should freeze the batter in this time frame. However, do not remove the batter until it's solid. Warmer freezers may require more time., Add your ice cream cubes to the food processor. Pour in the remaining cream. Turn on the food processor and allow the ingredients to mix together until everything is smooth. This usually takes about 30 seconds., Place the mixture in a sealable freezer-safe container. Freeze your batter for about four hours before serving.