 On a weekly basis, get one cup of boiling hot water and pour it slowly down the drain. The heat will help to loosen up any grime, smoothing out the interior of your pipes so that they do not gather hairs and create clogs. But be careful to only pour the water into the drain or you could risk damaging the surface finish of your tub or shower.Always be careful when handling boiling water. It may be easier to pour the water directly from a hot kettle into the drain.
 Every month or so, pour one to two tablespoons of table salt directly into the drain. Follow this with ¼ cup white vinegar and allow your drain to sit undisturbed for one hour. Come back and turn the faucet water to hot. Run it for ten minutes. Repeat this process one more time for the best results.For extra difficult clogs, pour ¼ cup Borax into the drain immediately following the salt and continue with the steps above., Once a month, pour one cup of baking soda and one cup of apple cider vinegar into your drain. Let the drain sit for a few minutes. Don’t be surprised if it foams up past the drain cover, as this is normal. Flush out the drain with hot water until the foam is no longer visible. Repeat a second time for maximum cleanliness.If you dislike the smell of vinegar, it can be replaced with lemon juice instead.
 No more than once a month, pour a cup of bleach down your drain and let it sit for one hour. Turn the faucet on hot and run it for a while to flush everything down. Be careful when working with bleach, however, as it can damage your shower or bathe finish on contact., If the at-home methods do not work to your satisfaction, then get a commercial drain cleaner to try. Read and follow all of the directions on the package closely and do not use more than once cleaner at the same time. Also, make sure to flush out your pipes with water after using a commercial cleaner in order to protect your pipes from corrosion., Take off the strainer or stopper by unscrewing the edges or popping it off. Shine a flashlight inside the drain and look inside. You may see a clog right at the surface of the drain. If that is the case, put on some rubber gloves and then reach in and remove it with your hand. If you can’t see anything, then the clog is probably deeper and will require a tool or chemicals to remove or break down., If your drain repeatedly clogs and nothing seems to help, then go ahead and call a plumber. They will assess the drain and be able to provide you with immediate assistance and a long-term care plan. A plumber will also be able to unclog the drain without damaging the shower or bath surface.