 Position a sheet of square origami paper directly in front of you so that it looks like a diamond, with one corner at the top and one at the bottom. Fold the right corner over to meet the left corner. Crease well, then unfold.









When you start, the outside of the paper should face you.
Note that "pureland" refers to a type of origami that only uses basic mountain and valley folds.;
, Fold the top right edge of the paper in until it meets the crease at the center of the paper. Fold the top left edge in the same way so that it meets at the center crease.









Note that a "valley fold" refers to a type of origami fold in which you fold the edge in your hand in, toward you, rather than folding it out and away from you.
 Valley fold the lower left side up and in until the edge of this side meets the bottom edge of your previously folded top portions. Crease well, then unfold.









For this step, you should only crease the center of this fold and not the entire length. The center of your creased portion should intersect with the first pre-crease you created in an earlier step.
When done, turn the paper over so that the inside side faces you.
 Bring the top tip down until it meets the point at which your two pre-creases intersect.









When done, flip the paper over so that the original side shows again.
 You should see what appears to be a large triangle on the bottom and two quadrilaterals on the top. Take the inside bottom corner of each quadrilateral portion and valley fold it outward as far as the paper will allow you to fold before tearing.









Turn the paper over to the other side again.
 You should be able to distinguish a downward pointing center triangle. Take the tip of this triangle and fold it up, straightening it out.









You will be left with what looks like a diamond with tall upper half and a short lower half.
 Fold the lowest corner of the center diamond up so that it meets somewhere along the center of the upper tip, but not quite at the very top.









More precisely, look at the rectangular portion lying behind the diamond shape. This section needs to be folded in half as you fold up the bottom tip.
When done, turn the paper over again.
 You should notice two triangular flaps meeting at the center of paper. Fold these flaps outward as far as possible while still remaining flat and without tearing them.
 Feel the back of the paper. There should be a flap along the back that is loose enough to move without affecting the rest of the structure. Unfold this flap and bring it straight down.









When done, turn the paper back over.
 Pleat the top of the shape, positioning the pleating so that the mountain fold hits the crease separating the tip of the structure from the main part of the rectangular body. Valley fold the diagonal bottom sides in as far as they will go without ripping.









A mountain fold refers to a fold made in which you fold the edges outward, creating a "mountain" peak facing you.
When you pleat in origami, you use both a valley fold and a mountain fold. Make the valley fold to the inside of the intended mountain fold. Then, mountain fold the edge back along the instructed point.
When done, turn the paper over.
 Valley fold along the bottom-most crease you can find. Mountain fold a narrow strip just above this valley fold to complete the pleat.
 The first mountain fold should be at the very tip of the paper. For the second, mountain fold the model in half lengthwise.
 There is no set position for the head, so use your eye to determine what might look best. The head lies at the top tip right now. As a general rule, do not fold the head so far that it overlaps any of the legs or body.









Rotate the model until the largest triangle, which forms the tail, can rest on the table.
This step completes your origami T-Rex.

