 Only apply to programs that are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE). You must graduate from an accredited program in order to be a pharmacist in the U.S. You can look up specific programs to check accreditation status on the PharmCAS website or contact the program directly.Plan to apply early. This will give you a competitive advantage at schools with rolling admissions, and will increase the likelihood that your application is processed quickly and smoothly. Further, if a program requires additional information, you will be able to supply it before the formal due date.
 Make a list of all the steps you need to complete during the application process. Include the date that each step must be completed by. If you usually don’t get around to tasks until the last minute, assign yourself due dates that are a week earlier than the programs requires. Confirm program application deadlines well in advance. Note that PharmCAS deadlines will not correspond with specific program’s deadlines, as the service requires time to process and submit your application.
 You will not be charged a fee until you submit an e-application through PharmCAS. Accordingly, the resources made available by PharmCAS can still be useful, even if you do not use the platform to formally apply to specific programs. Considering this high cost, you may not want to use PharmCAS. The main advantages of the portal involve the ability to easily apply to multiple programs. If you only apply to one or two PharmD programs through PharmCAS, the cost is $205. Of course, the higher the number of schools you use PharmCAS to apply to, the higher the cost. Applying to 3 programs costs $260, applying to 4 costs $315, and so on.
 You have the option to apply to one PharmD program for an Early Decision (ED). If you have a first choice school that you know you want to go to if admitted, see if they offer ED. If so, considering applying for ED, with the understanding that you must enroll in that program if you are accepted.Due dates for Early Decision in most programs will be in September the year before you would start the program.

