 There are currently ongoing laboratory tests on the long-term effects of chlorine exposure. However, some health officials are advocating the dechlorination of drinking water.


An increased risk of bladder cancer may be seen in communities that drink chlorinated water.
Chlorinated water may have an effect on lipid levels, such as increases in high density lipoproteins (HDL) and low-density lipoproteins (LDL).
Chlorinated water may elevate the cholesterol and HDL ratio.
Asthma may be triggered by chlorinated water.;
, Federal recommendations and research indicate that people should drink water containing no more than 4 ppm (parts per million) (equivalent to 4mg/l) of chlorine.
 A water report may also show the level of generated by-products compared to federal regulatory guidelines.



Place the chlorine test strip into a glass of tap water. Swirl the paper in the water for 10 seconds. Remove the strip from the water, and compare the color of the water to the chlorine test kit indicator guide.
 The chlorine will escape the water in the form of a gas. This method is helpful for dechlorinating swimming pools just before they are drained so that damage is not done to surrounding areas. Lawns, landscaping, and animals may be adversely affected by heavily chlorinated swimming pool water if it is not dechlorinated and drained correctly.


Setting the water out also works well when preparing aquarium water.
 Place the water in a large pot, and boil for 20 minutes.
 Depending on the brand, 1 tablet can treat up to 100 gallons (378.5 L) of water. Dechlorination tablets work well for bathwater and hot tubs.
 These tank systems come in a variety of tank sizes, but they may be the most expensive dechlorination option. This method provides total dechlorination of the home water supply. The filters require some care, such as washing out the carbon filter every 6 months and replacing it as recommended by the manufacturer.
 The filters in these units need to be replaced more often than a whole house filtration system, but they are an inexpensive option.

