;
, Certain airlines will do what they can to assist pregnant women who need or want to fly, but can only provide assistance if they know about your particular circumstances. So be sure to ask what an airline will do for you before booking your ticket.Ensure the airline will support you. Shop around, if necessary, to find an airline that supports and assists pregnant women during travel by plane. Just as some airlines are more permissive than others, certain companies are also more responsive to the needs of pregnant passengers.Provided the airline has received notification of the pregnancy, some immediately offer choice seating, wheelchair escorts and other conveniences not routinely offered to most passengers.
Flying during pregnancy can be a much more pleasant experience when your chosen airline treats pregnant passengers with care and respect, so choose wisely.
 Inquire whether the airline in question has restrictions on how far along in pregnancy a woman is still allowed to travel and whether a physician’s release is required under any circumstances.


The closer a woman is to the expected delivery date, the less likely an airline will allow travel without the written consent of a physician or midwife (dated within a few days of the travel date). This is not only to limit their own liability but also to insure the safety and comfort of the woman and the other passengers.Most airlines do not allow travel after 36 weeks gestation.Trans-national and trans-oceanic flights may make traveling when pregnant more difficult, as some airlines require a note from a physician or midwife any time after the 28th week of pregnancy indicating that there are no complications with the pregnancy., Make sure you provide accurate and comprehensive information about your pregnancy to your doctor and your airline before attempting to travel while pregnant.Tell your doctor about any problems you have had during your pregnancy, such as excessive nausea, pain in the stomach or abdomen, or other physical problems you have experienced. This is the only way your doctor can accurately assess whether or not you are fit to fly.Be exact when providing the airline with a timeline for your pregnancy. Estimating how far along you are or deliberately misleading the airline so that they will allow you to fly could have potentially damaging effects on your health and the health of your unborn baby.