 When you speak to your teen about wanting a tattoo, you might feel tense or feel tempted to yell or lash out. However, doing so will likely only make your teen want a tattoo even more and will escalate your anxiety. Rather than being overly emotional, go into the situation calm by breathing deeply beforehand and keeping an open mind.


Remember that you can always step away from the talk if it becomes too much and revisit the conversation later.;
, Should your teen continue to bring the issue up, it can be tempting to say ‘no’ immediately, in hopes that this will end the discussion. However, an immediate ‘no’ may make your teen feel disrespected and as if their own wishes are not worth a moment’s thought to you. Acknowledge their request without affirming it by saying “We’ll talk about it later.” This will give you more time to think and calm down. If you set aside a time to talk, this will prevent your teen from constantly badgering you about it in the interim.Listening to your child shows that you care about their opinions even if you do not agree with them.
 Before you speak with your teen about this, you will want to have a fully developed reason on why you feel the way you do about them getting a tattoo. This will help you to understand your reasons and keep a level head when it's time to talk with your teen. Though you are the parent and you simply saying “because I don’t want you to” is enough, children need some level of reasoning to understand your decision, particularly if they are older. Consider all the reasons you feel so strongly about tattoos.


Some reasons might include health risks, age, future employment, maturity level or the type of tattoo they want.
 During this time of frustration for you, rely on your child’s other parent, caregiver, or godparent. If they feel similarly to you about the teen getting a tattoo, then it will be easier for the both of you to tell your teen ‘no.’ However, if they think that it should be permitted, ask them why. Their perspective might provide some clarity and peace for you.See if they would like to be a part of the talk about tattoos with your teen.
Do not allow your child to get the tattoo without their permission, as well.
 If your child is 17 and on the precipice of turning 18, then perhaps their desire to get a tattoo should be seriously considered, as they are nearing adulthood. If they are a younger teen however, maybe this could be put off for a few years. Also, if your teen has been asking about getting a tattoo for months, then you should recognize that this is something important and persistent for them and should be considered seriously.


If your child has only mentioned it once and seemed a bit flippant about it, then perhaps having the discussion about tattoos could wait until the issue seems more pressing.
 Rather than speaking after you’ve had a stressful day at work or while your child is busy studying for exams, talk during a time of mutual calm. This will allow your child to get a better understanding of your reasoning and you can get a better understanding of their understanding. Choose some time during the weekend, perhaps over dinner or while watching a movie, to discuss your teen’s desire to get a tattoo.Also, allow this to be an ongoing conversation. Don’t just talk about it once. If your teen is serious, it will require multiple discussions.
 Before making judgements or a decision, you should speak with your child about why they want to get a tattoo. Allow them to speak honestly and openly. Don’t interrupt them and avoid making negative facial expressions. Don’t cross your arms, frown, or furrow your brows. Ask them the following things about the tattoo they want:Location of the tattoo
Size
Design
Significance

, After your child is done speaking about why they want a tattoo, now is the time to air your concerns and feelings. Talk to them about the permanence of tattoos and that once you get them, they’re there forever. Tell them that it’s not like makeup or a t-shirt that they can just remove or change at their whims.Encourage your teen to try out a temporary tattoo first so they can get an idea of what they might be in for. For example, if your teen wants to get a tattoo on a visible area, then they could wear the temporary tattoo there and see how it feels.
 In addition to permanence, tattoos can also come with risks. Should the tattoo artist use an unclean needle, your teen could contract Hepatitis. In addition, an employer might not want to hire them if the tattoos are visible. Talk to them also about the regret that many feel after getting a tattoo. Tell your teen about these potential issues and encourage them to research it on their own., If you have tattoos, this can be a great time for you to bond with your teen and share the story of your tattoos. Talk to them about your regrets or your happiness with them. Tell them why you got them and what you would have done differently.


Answer any questions should they have them.
 After you both have said your peace, let your teen know that you can revisit the conversation after you have had some time to consider their case. Spend some time reflecting on both sides and encourage your teen to do the same.


Consider setting a time limit after which to reconvene and discuss the issue.
 In some states, teens who are sixteen years of age or older are allowed to get a tattoo without the permission of a parent. In other states, you must be at least eighteen. In addition, some cities have specific laws about tattoos that are more stringent than the state laws. Research the law in your state and town and communicate that to your teen., If you are still feeling uncomfortable about the idea of a tattoo, simply tell your teen that they cannot get one while in your house or while relying on your financial support.Once they are out of your house and paying their own bills, they can get a tattoo of their choice.
 Perhaps you are on the fence about allowing them to get tattooed but feel that they are not mature or serious enough about wanting one. In this instance, tell your teen that if they still want the same tattoo in a year, that they can get it. Often times, teens want things in the moment, but those desires diminish over time.If they still want the tattoo after a year has elapsed, then you will know that they are serious and this is something important to them.
 Rather than getting an actual tattoo that is permanent, suggest a temporary tattoo to your teen. You can purchase temporary tattoos online and in some stores. Have them apply it and see how they enjoy rocking that ink for a few days., If you want to allow your teen the freedom of getting a tattoo but are concerned about the placement, tell them the areas of their body that you will allow. For instance, perhaps you could allow them to have a tattoo on their upper arms, stomach, back, or thigh. These areas are easily covered by clothing.Don’t allow your children to get tattoos on the neck, face, or forearms. Talk to them about the professional implications of such tattoos.
 After you have communicated your decision or an option to your child, hold firm in your decision. Don’t allow them to guilt you into accepting more than you are comfortable with or that you find appropriate. Your child may not like it now, but later they will come to respect you for your standards.