 Your doctor may want to see you if you have a persistent or serious cough. If you go to the doctor, he or she will likely ask you about the duration and characteristics of your cough. He or she will examine your head, neck, and chest, including listening to your heart and lungs with a stethoscope, and may take a nasalor throat swab. Rarely, a chest x-ray,blood test, or breathing treatment may be necessary in the office.


Be sure to take any medications as prescribed by your doctor. In the case of antibiotics for a bacterial infection, be sure to take the entire course of antibiotics until they are gone, even after you begin to feel better.
 You should speak with your doctor before taking any medications, particularly if you have chronic medical problems, have medication allergies, take other medications, or you are administering medication to a child under the age of 12. Pregnant or breastfeeding women should also consult care providers before taking any medications.


Be aware that studies don’t consistently show benefit for many OTC cough and cold medications.
 Expectorants can help clear secretions from your upper and lower airways. The best ingredient to find in an expectorant is Guaifenesin. After you take it, try to make your coughs as productive as possible, and spit out anything that comes up.Expectorant that contain guaifenesin include Mucinex and Robitussin., Antihistamines may be helpful with allergy-related symptoms such as coughs, sneezing and runny nose.


Antihistamines that may help you include Loratidine (Claritin), Fexofenadine (Allegra), Cetirizine (Zyrtec), Chlorpheniramine, and Diphenhydramine (Benadryl).
Be aware that antihistamines make most people sleepy, particularly Chlorpheniramine, Benadryl, and Zyrtec. Claritin and Allegra generally cause less sedation. Try taking any new antihistamine before you go to bed and do not drive or operate heavy machinery until you know how you will react to it.
 There are many decongestants available, but the two most common are pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine. Be aware that if you have thick secretions and just take a decongestant, your secretions may become very thick.


You may have to get medications with pseudoephedrine from the pharmacist. Sales restrictions necessitate these medicines being kept behind the counter at the pharmacy. Be sure to ask your doctor whether these medications are safe for you to use.
If you are trying to clear thick secretions and are having a great deal of congestion, your best bet is to combine an expectorant (Guaifenesin) with a decongestant.
 If your cough is productive, don’t use a cough suppressant. However, if you have a persistent dry cough, a cough suppressant may be helpful.


Over-the-counter cough suppressants commonly have the ingredient Dextromethorphan, but they aren’t always effective. For a severe persistent cough, see your doctor. She will need to rule out more serious causes and may prescribe a prescription strength cough medicine (Typically containing Codeine).
 Making your throat feel as if it's "coated" in a substance can reduce your urge to cough non-productively (that is, you're no longer coughing up mucus or phlegm).Take an over-the-counter cough syrup.
Suck on a lozenge or cough drop. The gel-like substance inside the lozenge can coat your throat and minimize coughing. Even hard candies can help.
Do not give lozenges, hard cough drops, or candy to children under the age of 4. Young children may choke on them.Choking is the 4th leading cause of accidental death in children under age 5.