 Always exercise at a level that is appropriate for your fitness and energy levels. For instance, if you are riding your bike and feel fatigued, do not continue. End your bike ride and relax until you feel that you have the strength to continue, or combat your cancer fatigue with exercise another day.Drink water to stay hydrated while exercising. Avoid drinking sugary drinks like soda and sweet juices, alcohol, and caffeinated beverages.
Know when to stop exercising. If you begin feeling dizzy, lightheaded, nauseous, pain that does not recede (especially in your chest or heart), or your heart is racing, end your exercise routine for the day.;
, Your medical team will be able to advise you about what sort of exercise is best for you given your specific condition and medical history. They will also be able to answer any questions you might have about the impact of certain exercises on your cancer fatigue., To get started, strap on a pair of comfortable walking shoes.


Start small. For instance, you might walk briskly for five minutes around your block. After a few weeks when you begin to feel less fatigued, you might increase your walks to ten minutes daily. A few weeks beyond that, you might increase your walks to fifteen minutes daily. You can build endurance by taking multiple short walks per day instead of one long one. For example, instead of taking one 30 minute walk, take three 10 minute walks throughout the day.
Aerobic walking can relieve cancer fatigue., Bicycling is a low-impact exercise, meaning it does not put too much strain on your muscles, bones, and joints. It’s also a great way to exercise your whole body.You could bike in the bike lane around your city, or ride your bike on the paths at your local park.
If you have poor coordination or balance, you might be better off using a stationary (non-moving) bike at your local gym. Call your local gym to find out if they have stationary bikes available., Swimming is a fun and relaxing exercise that could reduce your cancer fatigue. There are many places to swim. If you live near the sea, you could swim in the sea. If you live near a large lake, you could swim in the lake. If your community offers a community swimming area – for instance, a high school pool – go swimming there.Don’t swim out too far. Stay in view of the shore.
Only swim where there are lifeguards on duty.
Never swim outside during storms and hurricanes.
 Common forms of resistance training include pushups, sit-ups, and weightlifting. There are many types of weightlifting, including free weights, barbells, bench presses, and dumbbells.One advantage of resistance training is that you can do many of the exercises at home. For example, you can lift milk cartons or large food cans instead of free weights.Start out easy. Lift a small amount of about five pounds. If you feel that you have the strength to lift more, or you are not mildly worn out after 10-12 repetitions of the particular resistance training exercise you’re engaged in, add weight in small increments of about five pounds.
Never lift more than you can handle. Be honest with yourself and don’t push your cancer-fatigued body beyond what it can handle.
If you need help developing your resistance training form, consult an athletic trainer.

