 When a hot flash strikes, you don't want to be trapped in a heavy sweater with nothing underneath. Wear a light undershirt or camisole with a cardigan or pullover on top, then a coat over that in the winter. Be prepared for hot flashes by wearing layers you can shed easily and quickly when necessary.There is menopausal friendly clothing available for women to help regulate their core body temperature. Wearing menopausal t shirts can help soak up any sweat and keep you cool.;
, Keeping the heat down and the air moving can help you cope with hot flashes. Reduce the temperature to the lowest possible temperature at which you and your family are still comfortable.You can also turn on the air conditioning or use fans to regulate the air in your home.
 It can be difficult to sleep when you are hot and uncomfortable. Prevent sleeplessness and insomnia by turning on a fan at night when your warm bed may make it difficult to sleep.You can also put an ice pack under your pillow to help lower your body temperature when you sleep. Flip your pillow over in the morning so you sleep on the cooler side of the pillow at night.
There is menopause friendly bedding available that soaks up any moisture and helps to prevent sleeping on a wet surface. It is also softer on your skin when you are sweating, unlike cotton or poly-cotton sheets.Keep a change of clothes next to your bed in case you wake up with night sweats and do not want to go back to sleep in wet clothing. Some women find it helpful to wear socks in bed at night to regulate their body temperature.
 Studies show that practicing deep breathing can actually reduce the frequency of hot flashes.A particular technique called paced respiration can be especially beneficial.


To perform paced respiration, take slow deep breaths through your nose, expanding your diaphragm. Then, exhale slowly, contracting your diaphragm. Do this for about six to eight breaths per minute. Practice this technique twice a day, once in the morning and once at night before bed, for 15 minutes. You can also do paced respiration when you feel the beginnings of a hot flash.
 Many strands of yoga emphasize proper breathing techniques during class. Taking a yoga or meditation class will allow you to practice paced respiration and to learn more about deep breathing.


Yoga can also help to reduce your stress levels. Stress is a big trigger of hot flashes and addressing your stress levels can reduce your hormone levels, thereby cutting down on your hot flashes., Smoking raises your risk of hot flashes.If you can, quit smoking altogether. If it seems impossible for you to quit, try to cut back on smoking as much as possible during menopause.

