 How has it affected your daily routine, and think about the things which you could have been doing if you weren't so obsessed with these social networks such as:


Learning a new language
Learning how to cook
Becoming healthier
Read
Dance;
, For example, if you go on Facebook for 3 hours, go on it for 2 hours and 30 minutes, then slowly get off it. Substitute the time you were on Facebook for something else (such as the ideas mentioned above). This way, you will see there are so much more interesting things to do, and you can let go off the social networks.
 Learn how to become a people person. At first it may be hard, but as you get the practice it will soon become easier. Start with something simple as when you are waiting on the cue, and the person in front of you looks friendly. Or perhaps you could join a group; that way you will meet people with the same interests as you. It's not about becoming popular; it's about realising you can have an awesome conversation without it being online.
 So why not make a phone call? If you don't have theirs yet, ask through a social network, but be disciplined enough to get off as soon as possible. Imagine how they would feel when you call to ask them how they are. It makes a person feel more important and strengthens the relationship between you and the relative.
 You can do this by joining a group, or just at home, with the examples mentioned in Step 1. Analyse what your talents are and work at them, breathe, eat and sleep them. Make sure it is something you enjoy, not something you think will impress people. After all, if you enjoy and become awesome at it, it will become impressing no matter how unusual it is.
 Visit a new city or country. Take pictures of wonderful sights (with a camera not a phone so you won't be tempted to post in Instagram), try new food, meet people from other cultures instead of adding people you don't know from other countries on Facebook. Being in a different place will distract you, as you are in a different environment.
 Staying away from social networks, may be a hard task. But it will be worth it in the end. There might be times where you won't resist and you take a sneak peek which will turn into an hour. Just get back up and you'll soon see how great life can be without depending on social networks!

