 In a small mixing bowl, use a whisk to combine the buttermilk, eggs, and red food coloring until well-combined. The result should be watery and red.;
, In a separate large bowl sift the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, and salt until light and fluffy.
 Use a pastry blender to blend the butter into the dry ingredients. Keep blending until the dry ingredients resembles sand, light and easy to handle. There should be no more butter pieces.


If you do not have a pastry blender you can also use your hands or a fork.
 Add the wet ingredients to the flour mixture and use a wooden spoon to combine the ingredients. You may also have to use your hands as the pastry dough is forming now. The pastry dough should be slightly sticky and should be a velvet color.
 Slightly knead the pastry dough and tear off half of it. Use your hands to roll it into a medium-sized ball. Place it in a Ziploc bag. Do this again with the rest of the pastry dough, rolling it into a ball and placing it in another Ziploc bag. Place in the fridge for about an hour so the pastry dough can stiffen and not be as so sticky.


You can also roll the dough into four small balls.
While your dough is in the fridge move to the next step and make the cream cheese filling.
 Blend all the ingredients in a mixing bowl. Using an electric blender or hand blender, cream the cream cheese, powdered sugar, and milk until the mixture is creamy and fluffy. Leave in the fridge until you are about to use it.
, Flour your cooking space and rolling pin to prevent the pastry dough from sticking. Roll out the pastry dough using the rolling pin until it's very flat.
 Using a knife, cut out rectangular shapes into your dough. You can also use a rectangular cooking cutter if you have one on hand.
 Figure out which pieces will be the tops of your pop tarts and poke holes through them using a fork or toothpick.
 Lay each bottom layer tart on a baking tray covered with parchment paper. Place a tablespoon of the cream cheese filling on top of it and close with the tops of your pop tarts. Use a fork to press and secure the ends of the pop tarts. Repeat until all the pop tarts are on the baking tray.
 In a small bowl, whisk the water and egg together with a fork or whisk. Beat until well-combined and the egg is beaten properly. Use a pasty brush to cover all the tarts with egg wash.
 When all your pop tarts are properly made, place them in the oven and have them bake for about 22-25 minutes. The pop tarts should be lightly crisped and the edges should be golden.
 Have the pop tarts cool for about 5 minutes when released from the oven. Lay a pop tart on a serving plate and spread cream cheese filling on top of it. Enjoy!

