 Outlines are a great way to help you learn and retain material. You can also learn to improve your reading skills so that you can become a more efficient learner. There are several things you can do to read faster and retain more information at the same time.In order to read efficiently, you do not need to focus on every word in the chapter. Instead, skim the chapter quickly to get a clear picture of the material covered.
Scanning does not mean that you should read in a sloppy manner. It simply means that you are reading with the purpose of finding specific information.
When you scan, consider your objectives when reading. For example, if you are looking for information about the root causes of the Civil War, don't let yourself get bogged down in a paragraph about the distance that a rifle could shoot.
Reading more efficiently will help you figure out what material belongs in your outline. The more effectively you read the material, the easier it will be to outline the chapter.
 The introduction and conclusion are often the most important parts of a chapter, book, or article. In the introduction, the author will generally lay out the thesis and other main points. The conclusion should reiterate the points that are most important.Read the chapter and the conclusion first. This will help you discern the main points and you will know what to focus on when you read the rest of the text.
Look for signposts. Authors will often help you by clearly stating what is most important.
For example, a sentence that begins, "I will argue..." is a good indication that the thesis will follow. You should also take note of paragraphs that begin with phrases such as "It is important to understand..." or "One of the key points is..."

, Do not just let your eyes slide over the words without really focusing. Reading is an activity that requires you to engage with the content. Try using the SQ3R method to help you read more efficiently."S" stands for "survey". Scan the material, paying careful attention to the introduction, conclusion, and subheadings.
"Q" is for "question". Write down any questions that you have about the material that you skimmed.
The 3 "Rs" stand for "read", "recite", and "review". Carefully read each section to answer your questions.
Recite your answers out loud. Verbalizing can help you retain material. Then, review your notes.
 As you are reading, make sure to take notes. Try to get in the habit of using an outline as your note taking method. If you can format your notes, they will be much more useful to you.Don't try to write down everything that you read. Focus on noting main points and any questions that you have.
Prepare the outline before you read the chapter thoroughly. Then you can fill in the numerals and letters as you read.
Avoid over-highlighting. Many students find highlighting very helpful. Just make sure that you are also reading and retaining, not just marking passages.

