 There are a lot of practical matters that you’re going to have to deal with during the divorce, especially if you have kids together. Work on getting these matters resolved as quickly and smoothly as possible so that you can focus on the process of moving on with your life.For example, if you have kids together, you’re going to have to figure out how you’re going to share custody (or if you are at all). Until this is managed, it’s going to be difficult to move forward.
If you have a home that you’ve purchased together, you’re going to have to figure how to split the things inside the home (e.g. furniture, electronics, etc.), and what to do with the house. Will one of you continue living in the home, or should you sell it?

, As you move forward, you will probably have good days and bad days when it comes to dealing with your emotions. You may feel fine and think you’re finally healing, and then wake up one morning feeling hopeless. This is all part of the grieving process, and you should expect to have some setbacks along the way.Keep in mind you and your ex will likely be processing your emotions at different times. It often happens that the spouse who initiates the divorce began the process long before the legal act of divorcing — possibly even years before. The spouse who did not initiate the divorce, however, will likely just start processing the emotions (shock, anger, disillusionment, fear, etc.) when asked for a divorce. Try to understand that you and your ex may not be on the same page emotionally while going through the process and have empathy for whatever your ex is experiencing.
Remember that processing emotions is an active process, not a passive one. While you can just sit and stew in your emotions, you’ll probably do better if you find ways to actively deal with your emotions. For example, through talking with a professional or with a trusted family member or through journaling. You can also try other methods such as expressing feelings through a creative activity (such as painting or music).
Many people find exercise to be a great way to deal with negative emotions. A tough workout that gets you sweating and out of breath will help you work off some steam. Try taking a boxing class where you can let out anger in a healthy way.
 Now that you are divorced, your life is different. You may have more free time, and you now have one less person to answer to. Take this new life you have and set goals for it. Although divorce is difficult, try to look at the positive. You now have an opportunity to reinvent your life.These goals can be very small goals or big life goals. Setting lots of goals that are both small and big will help you develop a sense of achievement.
You could set a goal for yourself to join a new social group where you can meet new people who didn’t know you when you were married.
Set new goals related to travel. Travelling solo can be scary, but many say that it is very rewarding.
If you want to, you can also set a goal related to when you’d like to start dating again (if you think you’d like to again).
 There are new challenges you may also have to face now that you are divorced. Make plans about how you will deal with these new challenges so that you don’t panic when, and if, they arrive.For example, you may have to deal with feelings of loneliness. Make a plan about how you will deal with this. You could make a plan to get involved in local social groups, or decide who you can call to talk to when you feel lonely.
Another example involves finances. If you and your ex shared your income, you may need to make plans about how you will cover your costs. If you didn’t work before, think about how you will find a job.

