 The best and safest way to clean leather cushion covers is to make use of a professional service, like a dry cleaner. Remove the cushion cover from the cushion, and take it to a cleaner of your preference.For general cleaning, you can use a commercial based leather cleaner in water or equal parts white vinegar and water.Damp a soft cloth in your solution and wipe the cushions clean.
Avoid using any harsh cleaners, including bleach and ammonia based cleaners. These can easily damage your cushion beyond repair.
 You should mix one part vinegar per two parts linseed oil and put this solution in a bottle.Shake it well, then rub it into your leather with a dry cloth. After 10 minutes, take a dry cloth and buff out any residual solution.
 Suede is a material that requires attention and care to maintain. Remove your cushions from the couch to a clean area of the floor, and in a criss-cross pattern, vacuum all dust, dirt, and hair from the fabric, preferably with the upholstered attachment of your vacuum.
 There are suede rubbing cloths and suede nap brushes that you can use to polish and restore the luster of your cushion. Thoroughly and completely rub down your cushion on all sides to remove debris with your brush or cloth.
 Create an equal parts warm-water and rubbing alcohol solution in a bottle to treat your stain.Shake the bottle vigorously to mix the solution well, and then moisten a terry cloth rag with your solution. Taking care not to apply too much solution to the fabric, lightly dab the cushion cover.









Rub the stain gently in an X-shaped pattern for best results.
 Vinyl cushion covers usually don’t have to be removed. You can wet a cleaning rag with warm water and add a cap of dish detergent to it, then wipe your cushion clean. Rinse the soap from the rag thoroughly, wring out the rag until it is only damp, and then you should wipe any remaining detergent residue from the cushion. Allow the cushion to air dry, or wipe it down with a clean towel., Some fabric cushion covers are machine wash friendly, though to be certain you should check cushion tags for cleaning instructions. Turn the cover inside out before placing it in the washing machine.To protect colors and the fabric, you should wash your covers on a gentle cycle in cool water unless otherwise directed by the tag or manufacturers instructions.
 Drape your cover somewhere warm and dry and wait until it is dry to the touch.

