 Wrinkles are the creases in your skin that form over time in areas of repeated muscle movements. For example, smiling and squinting causes creases that become wrinkles. Even though most factors that cause your skin to wrinkle as you age are beyond your control, there may some things you can do to minimize those unwanted wrinkles.As we get older, our skin naturally loses elasticity and flexibility, accompanied by natural changes in the texture and fragility of our skin.
Three primary factors cause the development of wrinkles: genetics, sun exposure over the years, and smoking.
Other environmental causes of early wrinkles include prolonged exposure to pollutants in the workplace and possible in the air, depending on where you live.
 Genetics set the stage for changes that occur in your skin that lead to wrinkles.Those changes include the gradual loss of elasticity in your skin, decreased production of natural oils, and loss of fat in the deeper layers of the skin.
The fat deposits in the deeper layers of your skin help to prevent the development of wrinkles over time, or at least help to minimize the appearance of some wrinkles.
Research suggests that your facial wrinkles linked to genetic changes most likely come from your mother. In other words, if your mother has very few wrinkles compared to other people her age, then you will likely follow the same pattern.
 Regardless of your age, protect your skin from the sun. Sun damage is a major contributor to the development of wrinkles. Always apply a sunscreen product that has broad spectrum coverage against UVA and UVB light and has a SPF of at least 30.Exposure to the ultraviolet rays of the sun is a major cause of wrinkling.
Ultraviolet light rays from the sun cause the connective tissue in your skin to break down prematurely.
Connective tissue contains collagen and elastin fibers. Protecting your skin from connective tissue damage results in maintaining flexible skin that is less susceptible to premature aging and the development of wrinkles.
 Smoking contributes to premature skin aging and causes wrinkles. The more cigarettes you smoke and the length of time you have smoked contribute to the severity of the wrinkles.The nicotine in cigarettes causes narrowing of the blood vessels in the outermost layers of your skin, which restricts blood flow and reduces oxygen to your skin. As a result, skin begins to sag and wrinkle prematurely because of smoking.
Many of the chemicals in tobacco smoke also damage collagen and elastin, which are fibers that give your skin its strength and elasticity.
 Products are available with a prescription that contain tretinoin. This is an agent derived from retinoids found in vitamin A.Regular application of topical retinoid products can help to reduce fine wrinkles, minimize the appearance of rough areas, and even out blotchy areas of discoloration.
Topical application of retinoid products can cause your skin to be more sensitive to sunlight and burn easier. Be sure you wear protective clothing and use the appropriate sunscreen.
Common changes with the use of retinoids include a burning or tingling feeling in the skin, redness, and dryness.
If you experience any type of unwanted skin reaction, contact your doctor. These products come in a range of strengths. You many need to stop using the product, or you may be able to try a reduced strength.
 Alpha hydroxy acids are a group of chemical compounds that restore some of the skin's natural elasticity. Topical products have proven to be somewhat helpful in reducing wrinkles in the skin. The best results cause only slight to modest changes in the appearance of wrinkles.Alpha hydroxyl acids are derived from natural sources.
Examples of alpha hydroxy acids and their common sources include glycolic acid which comes from sugar cane, lactic acid which is available from many sources including sour milk, malic acid which comes from apples, citric acid which is derived from citrus fruits, and tartaric acid which is an extract of wine products made from grapes.
 For any alpha hydroxy acid product to improve the appearance of wrinkles, the chemical has to be able to penetrate deep into the layers of the skin. This group of chemicals are included in a variety of cosmetics, or pharmaceuticals, and are available in a range of concentrations.Alpha hydroxy acids can help to restore oils and flexibility of the skin. The agent in this group of compounds that has the best absorption into the skin is glycolic acid.
Cosmetic products contain lower concentrations of glycolic acid, or other alpha hydroxy acids, at a concentration of 5 to 10%.
Slightly higher strengths provide greater benefit, but continued use is needed to maintain the results even if you use a product with a higher concentration.
The highest concentrations do the most good, but are not available for general purchase. For example, concentrations of glycolic acid as high as 50-70% are used in chemical peels that are done only with medical supervision.
 Medical procedures used to treat wrinkles have the greatest visible benefit and the longest lasting effects. Some people get the greatest benefit from using a combination of procedures under the supervision of their doctor.Regardless of the procedure chosen, be sure to take care of your skin by using protective clothing, wearing the appropriate sunscreen, and stop smoking if you are a smoker.
Cost is a consideration in pursuing medical procedures, as is the potential risks associated with some methods.
Talk to your doctor and be sure you have all your questions answered before you proceed.
 All three procedures involve some form of physical and/or chemical resurfacing the outermost layer of the skin.Dermabrasion uses a hand tool that sands away the surface of the skin. New skin growth is promoted and has the results of fewer and minimized wrinkles.
Dermabrasion can usually done in one office visit.
Microdermabrasion follows the same principle but removes only the fine outermost layer. It often takes several treatments to get good results.
Chemical peels use acids to dissolve the outer layers of the skin. It may take more than one treatment to get the results you want.
 Methods used to resurfacing the skin with laser light sources use either ablative or nonablative techniques to reduce the appearance and size of wrinkles.Ablative treatment destroys the outer layer(s) of skin. At the same time, layers beneath the outer layer are heated to promote the growth of new skin and new collagen.
Laser resurfacing done in this manner may require several months for the skin to grow back in a healthy manner.
Non-ablative treatments use the same general process, only this type of treatment often needs more than one treatment. Nonablative treatment means less skin is damaged or wounded. New laser technology has improved these procedures.
 Botulinum toxin and dermal filler injections are the most recent approaches to getting rid of wrinkles. These methods of treatment are effective and last for several months or even longer. Variables that impact the duration of efficacy include the product used, the depth of the wrinkles, the overall size of the wrinkle, and location of the treatment area.Botulinum toxin, or botox, injections prevent the muscle tissue from contracting causing the wrinkles to be more obvious. The results of botox injections can last as long as four months.
Botox injections work well in the areas between the eyebrows, the forehead area, and sections of wrinkled skin along the outside edge of the eyes.
Dermal filler injections involve injecting material into the areas on your face where the deeper and more visible wrinkles have developed.
Ingredients used in soft filler injections include fat, collagen, and hyaluronic acid gel. The agents work to fill up the areas that are the sunken part of the wrinkles. This serves to plump up those areas making the skin surface even.
This type of procedure is less costly than a face-lift but requires repeat treatments. It depends on the severity and depth of the original wrinkles and the success of the treatment to determine the time frame for repeating the filler injections.
 Recent developments have led to the use of radiofrequency treatment devices that use electromagnetic waves to heat the skin. Once the target temperature is reached, collagen is stimulated to develop from within the deeper layers of the skin. The collagen production significantly reduces the appearance of wrinkles.Heat treatments involve promoting collagen development and skin tightening by the use of a heat source. The procedure is relatively inexpensive and is noninvasive.
Different devices are available for use to tighten the skin using applications of heat. Expect to receive several sessions of treatment and wait four to six months for best results.
 Face-lift surgery is still a good option for those that want to tighten their facial skin and reduce wrinkles and imperfections.Face-lift surgery is the process of surgically removing skin and fat in areas of your face and neck, then tightening the muscles and connective tissues.
It takes several weeks for bruising and swelling to subside after surgery but the results can last for as long as five to ten years.
Choose your plastic surgeon, the specialist who does face-lifts, very carefully. Check reviews and use word of mouth to find out which doctor is the best in their field. Research where they doctor went to school and for how long. Make sure they are accredited in the field of plastic surgery as well as reconstructive facial surgery.

