 Most competitions will have the standard rectangular runway shape. However, some shows and competitions like to get creative with the runway. If possible, find out what this shape will be in advance so you can prepare a few different poses. When in doubt, prepare a few different poses just in case.


Some runway competitions have a shoe height requirement. Make sure you know about this in advance and bring the proper shoes.
Do an internet search to find videos of past competitions to get an idea of what you’ll be doing.;
, If you walk with a slouch you will make yourself look heavier than you are. Plus, walking with good posture shows off your figure and can make you look weightless as you move. First, straighten your back and your neck. Pull your shoulders back, tuck your stomach in, and lift your chin slightly.If you’re having trouble keeping good posture, you may need to see a chiropractor.
Bear your weight primarily on the balls of your feet if you’re walking in heels.
 Take a step, crossing your leg over your body slightly and keeping your foot pointing forward. Take another step and roll your hips slightly to help you move forward. Balance your weight on your hips by leaning your torso back slightly. Find a flirty rhythm while you walk.If it feels natural, lightly swing your arms and shoulders.Relax your face and resist the urge to grin or sing along to the music. A small smile is acceptable. Don’t look down as you walk. Keep your chin up and your gaze forward.
 There are many great poses to choose from. However, the most common pose involves standing with your leg out and your opposite hand on your hip. When you reach your last step down the runway, step forward with one foot and then extend the opposite foot to the side. Place your hand on your hip and push your hips forward.


Lean on your back foot when posing. This makes your body look more balanced.Watch videos of popular runway models to find alternate pose options.
 After posing, turn by pivoting on the balls of your feet. Keep your face towards the end of the runway as you turn until you’ve turned around completely. Step forward again with your lead foot and return to your starting position. Depending on the desires of the show director, you may need to pose again. Turn by pivoting on one of your feet and strike a pose. Pivot again and leave the stage.When you reach the end of the runway you may have the opportunity to do more than one pose. If so, keep pivoting and shifting your weight back and forth to keep the maintain your rhythm.If you have a long train, walk in a semicircle around the end of the runway instead of pivoting to show off the garment., Put full length mirror at the end of a hallway and walk back and forth.As you walk, ask yourself if you look graceful and confident. Experiment with alternate poses and walking rhythms. Walk until you can confidently walk forward without looking down or tripping.


Watch videos of popular runway models walking. Take note of how they position their bodies and show a walking rhythm.
Ask a friend to watch you walk and give you feedback.
 Wash your body and hair thoroughly before the competition. Make sure any unwanted hair is plucked, shaved, or waxed away.Pluck or wax your eyebrows to highlight the arch. If your skin looks ashy or dry, exfoliate yourself with a loofa or exfoliating scrub while you shower. Lastly, get a trim if your hair has visibly damaged ends.


Most models have long hair. However, there are many successful models with pixie cuts. Wear what makes you confident!
Moisturize your skin with an unscented moisturizer to help you glow.
 Unless your competition says otherwise, try to only wear the essentials. You want to show off your natural beauty. Apply some concealer and powder to even out your skin tone and highlight the apples of your cheeks with a natural-looking blush. If your eyebrows are too light, darken them a little bit with eyebrow makeup and shape them with wax or hairspray. Last, apply some mascara. If you have naturally dark hair, use black mascara. Otherwise, use brown mascara.Don’t wear colorful nail polish. Instead, clean your nails and apply a coat of clear nail polish.
Pull your hair back from your face in a tight ponytail to show off your features., Each competition has different requirements. If you are allowed to choose your own outfit, pick something that is flattering for your body type and makes you feel confident. However, many competitions have strict clothing requirements. For example, the Charleston Fashion Week competition requires that models wear black tank tops with black leggings and three inch heels.If you’re having trouble choosing something to wear, see if you can find any pictures or videos of past winners to get ideas.
When in doubt, don’t wear jewelry.
 Walking with a slouch won’t flatter your figure at all. Straighten your back and square your shoulders, pushing out your chest slightly. Keep your chin up and look forward. Bend your knees slightly as you walk.Use good posture even when you aren’t walking on the catwalk. Practice makes perfect!
If you have trouble maintaining good posture, visit a chiropractor.
 Take a step, keeping your hips stationary and your feet pointed forward. Instead of swaying your hips while you walk, move your shoulders. Keep your back and hips straight and swing your arms slightly. IF there’s music playing, try to walk in time to the music.Watch videos of successful male models on the catwalk for tips and inspiration.
Look forward as you walk, not down.
 Make sure you stop for three to five seconds. There are a lot of great poses to choose from. However, the most common pose for men is the “c” pose. Place your left hand on your hip and arch your back away from your hand. Point your right toe out towards the audience and turn your face to the right.Watch videos of popular male models on the runway to find new positions.
Balance your weight on your back foot when you pose., Pivot on the balls of your feet and walk back to the beginning of the runway. Keep your face forward as you turn. When you reach the end of the runway, you may have the opportunity to pose again. Pose for three to five seconds then exit the runway.


Your face should be the last part of you to turn away from the audience., Most male models wear natural looking makeup that highlights their skin and eyebrows.Choose a foundation that matches your skin tone and apply a thin layer on your face with a foundation brush. Next, brush a thin layer of translucent powder over your face to hold the foundation in place. Lastly, groom your eyebrows. Pluck any stray hairs and darken your eyebrows with brown eyeshadow if they’re too light.


Apply a moisturizer thirty minutes before you put on makeup. This will make your skin look full and healthy.
Make sure to blend the foundation really well around your nose and mouth. These areas are easy to overlook.
 First, get a haircut. Before the competition, get a haircut at a salon or a barbershop. These days, most male models have short haircuts that are faded on the sides, although there are always exceptions!Additionally, make sure you wax or shave any chest, shoulder, or back hair before the competition.


Practice doing your hair in the weeks leading up to the competition. If you do, you won’t be nervous about doing it when it matters.
You may need to buy products such as hair wax or combs to style your hair properly.
 Each competition will require different clothing. Some competitions let you choose your own outfit. If so, try to wear something that’s flattering to your figure. However, most competitions will ask you to wear flat shoes, black leggings, and a black tank top. If you’re not sure what kind of clothing flatters your body type, visit a nice men’s department store and talk to an associate to get fashion advice.
If you don’t wear the proper attire you will most likely be disqualified.
 Many cities host local versions of famous modeling competitions. For example, Austin, TX hosts an “Austin Top Model” competition every year.Most of these competitions don’t require any previous experience modeling and can lead to modeling contracts with large agencies.


Make sure you fulfill the physical requirements for the competition. Many competitions have a height and clothing size requirement.
Research the application process in advance to make sure you have everything you need. Some competitions have applications and fees.
 Research the company hosting the competition. There are many companies that try to take advantage of aspiring models by tricking them into bad contracts. Look online for reviews of the company or of the competition to find out if it’s a legitimate competition.


It should be easy to find photos of past winners and reviews of the agencies hosting the competition. If you can’t find these things, the competition might be a scam.
Similarly, many “modeling schools” are scams as well. Be prepared to do heavy research before signing up., A “headshot” is a professional photo that highlights your natural beauty. Not all competitions require a head shot with your application. In fact, some competitions include free headshots as a part of the package. However, if you need to get headshots done, go to a professional photography studio. A professional photographer will know how to take photos that fulfill headshot requirements and flatter your figure.


Be prepared to pay between $100-$700 for professional headshots. This is an investment in your future!Wear minimal makeup when getting headshots done.