 Looks like it could be a dicey job, but is actually quite easy as long as you remain patient and work slowly.

Penetrate the top of the egg with your stick pin. Gently tap the top of the egg with the pin until you’ve broken through the shell. Make sure the shell has not cracked around the pinhole and then remove the pin.



 


Repeat this process on the other side of the egg. Consider making a smaller hole on the opposite side of the egg if possible.






Blow (gently) on one side of the egg, while holding the egg over the bowl. Avoid sucking the raw egg into your mouth as you blow. Just gently blow the yolk and whites into the bowl.





;
, Because you will be inserting a message inside the egg you want to make sure it is completely dry. Speed up the process by using a hair dryer on the coolest setting and blowing the air directly into the hole.


Give the egg a day or two to completely dry.
 Get creative with your design or add a hint on the outside. Such as painting, “Will You…” on the outside (and the message could be “Marry Me?”).


Provide ample dry time before adding your message (otherwise your design and message could be compromised).
 Using a very thin strip of paper, write your message. The paper width should be approximately 2”, with the length being only slightly longer.


Use a fountain pen or a special pen to write your message. Go for a handwritten instead of typed message as well.
If you use a fountain pen, make sure the ink is completely dry before you insert your message inside the egg.
 You will need to tightly roll the message up, being sure you create the tightest roll possible as you will be squeezing that message through the hole you created on top of the egg.
 You may need to widen the hole by gently twisting the tops of a small pair scissors into the hole. Do this before adding your message or try to insert your message and if it doesn’t fit, use the scissors.


Make sure the entire sheet of paper fits completely inside the egg. You don’t want any part exposed or sticking out of the hole.
 Line the inside of the gift box with paper grass and then lay the egg in the middle of the box.

