 Before doing a complete reinstall, determine if your problem can be fixed by performing a Startup Repair. This will replace your operating system files that may have become corrupt. The most common use for a startup repair is fixing the Windows load sequence.


If your computer no longer loads Windows, then a startup repair may fix your boot process and allow Windows to load again.;
, Make sure your computer is set to boot from CD. To do this, enter the BIOS immediately after your computer starts. You will see the key to press underneath the manufacturer’s logo. The most common keys are F2, F10, F12, and Del.


In the BIOS menu, navigate to the Boot submenu. Select CD/DVD or Optical Drive as the 1st boot device.






Save your changes and exit the menu. Your computer will automatically restart.
 Press a key when the message “Press any key to boot from CD or DVD…” appears on the screen. This will take you into the Windows setup. Files will be loaded for a few moments, and then you will be presented with a screen asking for your Language and Time preferences. These should already be set correctly. Click Next to proceed.
 This option will be on the bottom left of the screen underneath a large “Install now” button. Clicking “Repair your computer” will take you to the System Recovery Options.


The program will take a moment to search for your Windows installation. Select your installation from the list and click Next. For most users, there will only be one installation listed.
 The Startup Repair tool will begin searching through your Windows files, looking for errors. Depending on the errors it finds, it may suggest solutions or repair them automatically.


Remove any flash drives or external hard drives, or Startup Repair may not function properly.






Your computer may reboot several times. Do not boot from the CD while this is happening, or you will have to start the process over again.
 Once the repairs are complete, click the Finish button to start Windows normally. If Startup Repair did not detect any errors, then you will not be presented with this screen.

