 Marking helps protect your defensive zone of the field by covering space or opposing players to keeping them from scoring. The two main types of marking techniques are zone and man-to-man, and many teams use a mix of both depending on the situation.Zone marking means a player is responsible for the space around them. For example, the right back is responsible for the back right corner of the field. Any opposing player who enters that space is their responsibility. This marking strategy is best when gameplay is spread out and opponents are interchanging positions, so that you can simply “switch” marks with your teammates instead of chasing them down the field.
Man-to-man marking means each player chooses an opponent to mark and always sticks with them, no matter where they go on the field. A useful trick is to memorize the number on your mark’s jersey so that you never lose her. This marking strategy is best when gameplay is past-paced and confined near the goal you are defending because it limits confusion on who is marking whom amidst potential chaos. Every single opponent who enters your defensive circle surrounding the goal should be closely marked at all times.Marking is not just for defenders. Make it clear to your team (especially the midfielders) that they should be helping out with marking as well. Even your forwards should be sprinting back during a counterattack.
 Sometimes it is best to step in front of your mark to block her from receiving a pass and intercept it yourself. Other times it is better to stay close behind your mark (in between her and the goal) so that even if she receives the ball she cannot go straight to goal.


Deciding the best way to position yourself while marking should come naturally as you assess each scenario. When in doubt, ask your coach for advice.
 Since you can see what is happening on the entire field front of you, your role as a center back is to make sure all “dangerous” attacking players on the opposing team are marked.


In a clear, loud voice, direct your teammates in front of you on where to position themselves and tell them to mark up if they are not doing so already.
You can say something like, “Hey Sarah, mark #5!” or give them more directional instructions like, “Watch #13 behind your left shoulder!” to give them an idea of where their marks are.

