 Find a time when they have eaten recently, and you'll have a stretch of time where you can talk. Long car rides and evenings can be good times to discuss things.


Choose a time when you have the patience to sit through the conversation, too!

, This will help reassure children. If you sound angry or disgusted, they might worry that it is their fault, or that there is something awful about the topic.


If you're explaining something sad, such as sickness or death, it's natural to feel a little sad. You can explain why you are sad.
 It can be tempting to fall back on cutesy stories (such as babies coming from storks), but children can often suspect when you aren't being truthful with them. Be honest with how things work, and if you think they can't handle the whole picture, then give them a simplified version of the truth. You can expand on this as they age.


For example, explaining sex: "Babies happen when a mommy and a daddy go through a special process in their bedrooms. The daddy's sperm and the mommy's egg meet inside the mommy's belly. The sperm in the egg turn into a baby that grows in her belly, and when the baby is ready, it comes out."
Or about disability: "DNA is the instructions that tell your body how to build itself, kind of like computer code. Your sister has extra DNA in her body. This causes Down Syndrome, which is why she looks special and goes to the Special Ed classroom to learn."

, The child might be curious on the subject, and this is your opportunity to clear up misconceptions and assuage fears. Give them honest answers.
 If this is a matter that personally affects you or them, one or both of you may have strong feelings. This also provides you a chance to model coping skills by sharing how you handle these difficult feelings.


"Yes, I do worry about Mommy's cancer. I love her very much and want her to feel good. When I feel worried about her, I focus on what I can do, like doing nice things for her and being there to hug her and hold her hand."
"Daddy and I aren't getting along. It's very frustrating for both of us, so it's better off if we don't live together anymore. Sometimes I get mad and need to take some quiet time to calm down. This isn't your fault; it's just part of divorcing."

, If your child is struggling with the concept, comfort them and let them talk it out. Show patience and understanding towards their feelings.


You don't need to say "It'll be all right" if it truly might not be all right. (Your child can usually tell.) Instead, try "I'm here for you" and "We'll get through this together."
Remind them that you're always here to talk.

