 When traveling alone, it's always a good idea to stay at a hostel. Not only are hostels generally cheaper than hotels, this will help you meet people during your travels. While there are many events you may enjoy alone, Vienna has a booming nightlife. On occasion, you may want company for a night out, so a hostel is a good option for this.If you do stay in a hostel, remember you will be sharing a room with others so basic security is important. You should invest in a small safe to keep expensive items, which can put under your bed or in a closet at the hostel.
If you're uncomfortable with staying in a hostel, consider options like couch surfing. You can find hosts online through the couch surfing website.
If you'd rather not stay with strangers, you can look into affordable options like AirBnBs, which you can also find online. You can always find people via other means, like taking classes in the city.;
, Take a few index cards with you wherever you go. On these cards, write down your emergency contact information, as well as any medical conditions you have or medications you take. In the event of an emergency, people will know who to contact. This is important when traveling alone anywhere., Vienna has a bus system, so stop by a local bus station and get a pass right away. Buses are the easiest way to get around in Vienna, and this will save you from overspending on things like cabs.If you buy a vacation pass for your trip, however, this includes passes for bus tours and a Hop On Hop Off bus pass. This can be purchased online, before you leave for Vienna.
Opt for the option that makes the most sense for you. If you're only staying for two days, for example, see if they have a two day pass. If you're staying for a week, see if you can get a weeklong pass.
 Walking tours are a good idea when you're traveling alone. For one, you will be in a group, so that's great for safety. Also, this will be an opportunity to socialize with others and be shown around the city.Look for various walking tours online. Some walking tours are offered in package deals where you also gain things like access to various museums and tourist attractions.Something like the Vienna Pass, for example, will give you walking tours of places like the Schönbrunn Palace, the state opera house, as well as a few combination bus and walking tours.
 Without another person helping you make decisions, it can be easy to feel overwhelmed. It's a good idea to have a fairly specific itinerary written out for your first few days. After you've seen a chunk of the city, you'll have a sense of what sorts of attractions you like and dislike, allowing you to be a bit more flexible later in your trip.Write down the most important things for you to see and then review transportation routes. See which attractions are in the same area and try to visit these attractions in the same day.
Have a rough timeline. For example, you might hit the museums in the morning and then move on to the zoo in the afternoon.
 When traveling alone, it's a good idea to know where you're going. Try not to rely too heavily on maps or asking directions. If you look like a tourist, this may make you vulnerable to things like theft. People may be more likely to target someone who looks lost., The Austrian strudel and the weiner schnitzel are two well known specialties in Vienna. Make sure to try them while you're there. They're often sold on the street for cheap rates from food carts.There are also several large outdoor markets in Vienna where you can purchase things like fruits and vegetables, as well as meats and treats like ice cream. The biggest of these is Naschmarkt. Save your money eating out one day and fill up on food at the market., Vienna is home to a variety of art and cultural museums. Try to see at least a couple of museums while you're visiting Vienna.To see many different types of museums at once, stop by the MuseumsQuartier. This is a complex that contains museums featuring contemporary art, as well as performance spaces.
If you want to expose yourself to Vienna's art, stop by the Museum of Fine Art. It features art from a variety of eras and countries.
 The Schönbrun Place is Vienna's most visited site, so make sure to see it during your time visiting. The palace housed royalty in the past and has an extensive garden. Audio and walking tour guides are offered, which can help you learn a bit about the palace's history.Do not take pictures inside the palace. This is not allowed.
 Vienna's zoo is fairly small, so it is easy to see in a single day. It's also one of the oldest zoos in the country, making it an interesting piece of history to visit. Despite its size, the zoo has a wide range of animals such as panda bears, lions, and tigers., The Sigmund Freud musuem is located in the former office and living quarters of Sigmund Freud. It contains many of Freud's old belongings as well as educational material. It only costs 8 euros (or $10) for entrance, so it's one of the cheaper exhibits to see in Vienna., The Opera House is a major cultural draw of Vienna, and performances have been taking place since 1869. You can purchase tickets online prior to your visit. If a whole show is not within your budget, you can also peek inside during operating hours.Make sure to read up on the dress code if you do attend a show. The dress code is strictly enforced.
 You want to make sure you're able to communicate in Vienna, so learn a few basic German phrases. You do not need to be fluent, but having a basic grasp of important terms helps. This can also be useful in an emergency if you need to communicate something to, say, a hospital staff or police officer.


There are many websites you can use to learn basic German phrases and terms you will need to help get around in Vienna. Try to commit some of these terms to memory prior to your trip.You can also download translation phone apps, as well as phone apps that help you remember basic phrases.
 Do not be afraid to talk to people. If you're out alone and someone makes eye contact, for example, strike up a conversation. Ask them where they're from, what brings them to Vienna, and so on.If you're on a walking tour that takes a break midday, it's a good idea to ask fellow tourists if they want to get lunch. Having lunch with people you meet on tours is a great way to make friends in the city.
If there is a language barrier, see if you can find someone who speaks multiple languages to help translate. You can also try to learn a few phrases or terms in someone else's language or use gestures to communicate.
 Many hostels have pub crawls for those staying. See if your hostel hosts a pup crawl, or any similar events. This is a great way to meet friends in your hostel, giving you people to hang out with for the duration of your stay. Vienna has a very active nightlife, and it's fun to experience this with others., Create an account on MeetUp.com before your trip. You can enter your interests and then be matched with likeminded people throughout the city. Try attending a meeting and see if you can meet people looking for friends while vacationing.MeetUp has groups for people with a wide array of interests, such as writing, movies, traveling, and so on.
 Hostels usually have flyers for things like cooking, art, sports, and language classes. Try taking a class for a day. Not only will you learn a new skill while traveling abroad, you can meet people through taking classes.A popular choice is a cooking class. You will come home with a few new recipes in hand and also have the opportunity to make friends.
 As you'll be traveling alone, you do not want to lose track of yourself. It's also important not to lower your inhibitions too much, as you want to be able to use common sense when meeting new people. Drink in moderation so you can get yourself to and from your hostel without trouble.