 Buying insurance for your cat will always involve a calculation of risk versus reward. If you have a healthy cat who seems to have good genetics, the odds your cat has a long-term health ailment is less likely. If you have an older cat, you may want to be preventive and proactive knowing potential problems looming.


This can also depend on your financial situation. If you will have no problem coming up with quick funds for an emergency, you may have no issue going without. However, if a monthly premium is doable for you, but not the large sums of money necessary for an emergency, hedging your bets may be a worthwhile risk.
 Most vets require you to pay a bill up front. Your insurance provider may have a waiting period before they release funds. Make sure you are either able to front the costs or have an arrangement with your vet. If this is a problem, choose an insurance with a very short payout period.
 Sometimes there is a period between when the insurance coverage actually starts and when you are expected to first begin paying your premium. These can be different for injuries, illness, and diseases. If you are buying it for a cat who is recently diagnosed with a disease, make sure you know how long you will have to wait until you get help with vet bills, or whether they exclude pre-existing illnesses.Just like any health insurance, there may be restrictions on pre-existing illnesses. Make sure you are aware of this so you are not expecting help with something the insurance company does not cover.
 You may think you should look for the best deal and lowest monthly premium. However, a lower premium may also mean that they are excluding key services, have high deductibles, or low payout caps that reduce the effectiveness of the policy.Make sure to know the deductible, co-pays, and caps very clearly because this will define how much the insurance company will help you when those vet bills begin to appear., You can easily get quotes online but reading the details of each policy carefully is important. The premium you can expect to pay will vary on a number of factors including your location, cat's health, age, and what you want covered. However, typically with most plans you can expect to pay between $30-50 USD a month.Talk to your vet. They may have certain recommendations based on their experiences.
Look out for extra fees. Some insurance companies will charge you a one-time fee up front, or extra money per month if you elect to pay your premium monthly, rather than annually. Make sure you take these into account as you shop around for the best price.
 The four largest that specialize in pet insurance include Hartville Group, Veterinary Pet Insurance, Pethealth, and Petproject. This does not mean they will be the best, but you should look first at reputable insurance companies to get a common baseline for comparison sake.Sometimes your house or auto insurance company may be able to include a pet policy in your current monthly plan. Bundling plans together can usually help you save money.

