 Brush up on your conversation manners. For example, don’t interrupt or dominate the conversation. Don’t use crude or naughty language. Stay focused on the conversation, even if you receive a phone call or text message. Keep the conversation pleasant by not telling off-color jokes or stories or saying something that may be offensive.Generally, you want to stay away from controversial topics like political opinions, details about a health problem, pet peeves, anybody’s weight, and financial problems.
 Find ways to keep her engaged in conversation by asking open-ended questions. Avoid asking yes or no questions, as the conversation can drop quickly. Instead, ask her opinions on things, or ask her to tell you more about something. If she answers a question abruptly, ask a follow-up question.For example, instead of asking, “Are you going to class?” ask, “What class are you going to?” Then, follow up with, “How do you like that teacher?”

, You might want to show her what a great catch you are or tell her all the great things about yourself. Save it. Show your interest in her by actually being interested in her! Give her your attention and listen to what she says. Show that you’re listening by asking questions built on what she has said. Don’t get distracted by other things happening around you and instead, put your full attention onto her. Listen not only to the words she is saying, but how she is saying them.Listen to her tone of voice, how engaged she is, and how much she is interacting with you.
 Ask her questions, laugh when she’s funny, and engage with what she says. She’ll get bored if all you do is talk about yourself. Your main part of the conversation is to focus on listening and understanding her.This doesn’t mean ignoring her when she asks you a question or glossing over any interaction she has with you. Do interact with her, but put most of your attention in being interested in what she says.
Let her ask about you instead of telling her. For example, if you want to tell her about the sports you play, let her ask. If she asks, “What do you do for fun?” you can respond with, “I love playing water polo. I’m actually the captain of the team.”

, Girls are often quick to lose interest in a conversation if they clearly see that you're flaunting and bragging about all of the things you have or can do. Bragging can also give off the impression that you are insecure with who you are and that you are seeking approval . Bragging is another way of covering your true self up by all the things you have, or all the talents you can do.

Think of the way a salesman might approach you in selling a brand new car. It may look beautiful on the surface and have all of the new technology, but does that mean that it is a smooth running vehicle that you will want to keep around? Probably not. It is what is under the hood that matters, what makes it run even when it gets messy. So, instead of bragging, try approaching a conversation with a sense of humbleness and groundedness.
 While it’s important for you to act interested in her and ask her questions, make sure that you’re giving quality responses to any questions she may ask you. Try to split the conversation 50/50 so that each of you are both listening and talking about equally. If you realize that you’re talking too much, ask her a question. For example, say, “Where did you grow up? “ or, “Tell me about what you like to do for fun.”

