 Ligatures can be made of metal or leather - metal ones are silver colored and usually tighten with two screws. Leather ones are more expensive, are usually black, and normally have only one screw. They usually come with the instrument, but can also be bought separately. Ligatures are universally designed for right-handed players: the screw you turn will point to your right side.



Metal ligatures are cheaper, and can work just fine, but tend to have a tendency to "bite" the reed (create indentations on the bottom where the clamps are that make it difficult to change the positioning of the reed after being played once)

Leather ligatures are more expensive, but often can create a better sound, and do not bite the reed. The system with one screw is easier and quicker to adjust, and the pressure on the reed is more evenly distributed. They usually come with more expensive instruments, or can be bought separately.;
, Look at color (a green looking reed will not play well, but a yellow or golden brown one will), condition (check for cracks or splits), and the grain of the cane (it should all be going the same direction and should be relatively smooth). The article here will detail this further. Also, be sure that the reed is the strength you're used to, or, if you play with different ones, that it fits the current playing situation.
 The saliva and acids in your mouth deteriorate the reed. Constantly dry the reed once warmed up because remember, saliva is constantly distributed on the reed as you play. Also, dry by sliding the tip of your finger along the length of the reed toward the point. Reeds are essentially thousands of little straws, so sliding along the reed allows all the straws to point the same way, allowing smoother playing.
, Line it up so that it is perfectly centered, the edges are in line with the rails on the mouthpiece, and you can just barely see a tiny sliver of mouthpiece over the tip of the reed.
 Many reeds have a vibration line visible on them. Try to get the top of the ligature below this line to allow the top of the reed the full range of vibration.

