 Before you begin looking at other job options for yourself, figure out why you think your current job is dead end. Your reason could be everything from no growth potential to you don’t like the company.Ask yourself questions such as:


Is my work routine with little change or little possibility for change?
Am I using my skills and education to the fullest? Am I challenged?
Do I feel fulfilled in my position and are my superiors interested in promoting my career goals?
Am I treated fairly and are my thoughts and contributions valued? Do I feel like an important part of the team? Am I compensated adequately?
Do I support the company values?;
, Review your answers to the above questions. Make a list of what you can and cannot change and take action from there to the best of your ability.Identify alternatives to your current position.Consider the advantages and disadvantages to leaving your current position.You don’t want to jump from bad situation to another.Consider what your career goals are and see if your current company can meet them.
For example, if its your specific job you don’t like, but you like the company and your colleagues, there may be opportunities within the company that are better suited to you., If it is just your position you don’t like, have an honest talk with your boss. If the company is truly invested in you, she can help you formulate a plan to get you into a more fulfilling position either within the company or in some other company.No matter what, keep your comments positive. For example, say “I’ve really loved my time here, but I would like to explore other challenges within the company.”Discuss your strengths and weaknesses with your both, and the ways in which you think you could contribute to the company further.Don’t get upset if your boss isn’t receptive. This could be a good sign that it’s time to move on to greener pastures., In the event that you want to change your company and job altogether, don’t announce it. This can backfire and undermine your ability to find another position that you will love.Be careful when telling colleagues about your decision to look for another position. People often have loose lips and this can hinder your efforts to get out of your job. It may also leave your current company to fire you or withhold a positive reference.You can discuss your situation with a trusted colleague or mentor. They may be able to advise you on the best strategy to finding a new job or they may have leads on new positions.Only use your personal computer to research new jobs. Many companies monitor internet use and this could set up red flags for your employer about your commitment.
 There are many different ways you can find a more exciting and challenging job. From talking to friends and family to internet research and even contacting companies about job opportunities, you can find a wealth of potentially challenging and engaging positions for yourself.Word of mouth is a powerful tool when looking for new jobs. If someone else likes their job, it may be worth looking into her company and contacting it about possible openings or opportunities.You can also register for online job services or even meet a headhunter, who can help match your skills and goals to specific companies.Make sure to read about or get opinions on potential jobs to help minimize the risk that you end up in another dead-end position., When you find positions that you feel might me excellent matches to you, contact these potential employers. You can send letters of interest and resumes or submit an application and cover letter. This may help you land your dream job!


Applying for positions has changed dramatically since the Internet has become a way to seek employment. You can send letters of interest and applications through the regular mail or by email.You can also call companies and set up a meeting with a human resources representative to discuss the company and how you may fit into it.
 No matter how you feel about your current position, continue to do your job to the best of your ability while you’re looking for a new job. In addition, maintain respect and cordiality with your superiors and colleagues.This can help minimize the risk of you burning bridges, especially if you may need good references.Even if you are courting a new company or job, keep doing the best job that you can. People often talk and you wouldn’t want the new company to get cold feet or hear negative information about you., Gather data about the company and any other relevant information you can use to demonstrate your interest.

Employing this extra bit of information further shows your desire to work with company.Research the company for the name of the human relations director or the person in charge of hiring. This makes you appear engaged and polite and also shows your interest in the company.Keep an updated copy of resume on hand. You can use information from your professional experiences in your letter or you may want to attach it to your email., Take the information you collected to compose a preliminary draft letter. This ensures that you set the right tone and don’t forget to include any important information.


Refrain from placing the recipient’s email address into the “to” field. This can help prevent accidentally sending before you are ready.
Emails of interest should be between three and five paragraphs in length. Letters that are longer run the risk of not being read in their entirety, which means the potential employer could miss vital information about you.Your draft and letter should strike a professional, yet personable, tone.Write a brief introduction that includes your name, the job in which you’re interested or the types of positions that interest you. You may also want to include what prompted you to establish contact as well as that you feel you could make a positive contribution to the company and its mission.
As an example, you could write “My name is Catherine Smith and I am interested in working at Strategic Marketing. I have heard very positive reviews of your company from friends and colleagues, and am I writing to inquire about opportunities in your advertising department. I think my qualifications and experience can make a positive contribution to the company’s mission.”
The main body of the letter should range 1-3 paragraphs. They should discuss your qualifications and experiences, any specific skills, and other relevant achievements. You can also discuss the ways in which you feel that you could benefit the potential employer. You’ll also want to point the addressee to any attached documents such as a resume.Close your text by thanking the company or person for considering your possible employment. Also provide a time at which you will contact the addressee to follow up, as well as how the company or HR director can contact you.For example, “Thank you for considering my potential employment at Strategic Marketing I will contact you to follow up on my letter on Monday, January 5 at 3:00 to talk about potential opportunities. Please contact me at any time by email or phone. My phone number is (888) 888-8888.”, As you draft and revise your letter, make yourself as attractive to a company as you can. This helps potential employers get a better sense of what you have to offer. It also helps present a more positive and professional image of yourself.Use verbs including cooperate, collaborate, and promote.Use nouns including asset, responsibility, and team-player.Adjectives including intelligent, diligent, and reliable are attractive to potential employers.Combine these words together in phrases. For example, “I collaborated on a large international advertising project and was a significant asset in my company gaining several new multi-million dollar clients. Taking part in a vibrant team was integral to developing my company’s current successful advertising campaign with a Fortune 500 company. This work helped raise our company profile and increase our annual profits.”, Sell yourself in the best way you can while remaining honest about your qualifications. There is a fine line between honesty and exaggeration. Avoiding statements that can appear overblown or are false can help potential employers see you as genuine.Avoiding saying that you are the best unless they actually are. As an alternative, write something along the lines of “My current employers told me that I am one of the most responsible and collegial co-workers with whom they’ve had the pleasure of working.” When assessing your technical skills and abilities, write something that is quantitative. For example, “I am among the top 1% of advertising executives based on sales.”

, After you have composed your preliminary letter, revise it to strengthen the text and expand any areas that need more development. You can also copy edit the email for any spelling, punctuation or grammatical errors at this time.


Check to make sure that your revised letter has an introduction, body, and closing. They should be honest as well as incorporate positive vocabulary and present the most positive picture of yourself possible.You might want to read the letter out loud as you proofread it. This makes it possible to hear mistakes and also makes sure it sounds professional.Tailor the information in each letter to specific companies or jobs., After you’ve revised your draft, compose a proper greeting and closing for your letter. This can make you appear professional and attract potential employers.Greet the person with “Dear Ms. Smith”. Follow this statement with a comma.If you cannot locate a person in HR, use the more formal “To Whom It May concern”. Follow this statement with a colon.If your contact has a gender neutral name and you can’t figure out if the person is a man or women, be cautious and use the person’s full name. For example, it’s better to say “Dear Pat Smith,” than writing “Dear Ms. Smith” to a Patrick Smith.
Your closing can read “sincerely” followed by a comma. If you want to make it a bit more jazzy, write “I look forward to hearing from you” followed by sincerely.Include your name and contact information underneath the closing.
 If your letter mentions additional documents that you will provide, add relevant files. This may help the employer get a better sense of you and your qualifications.


Update and revise your resume before you send it to a potential employer.
 In order to email your potential employer’s HR director, add the email address in the “to” field. This helps ensure the mail is directed to the proper person or office.Consider blind coping yourself to confirm that the email successfully sent., Read your text one final time before sending it to the potential employer. This minimizes the risk of mistakes or omitted information.

