 The first symptom of binge eating disorder is frequent instances of excessive, or binge, eating. Eating is considered binge if, over a short period of time (a two-hour period), you eat way more than is considered normal.There will also be a feeling of a loss of control over what you are eating and over the ability to stop eating.To be considered binge eating disorder, these episodes must occur at least once a week for three months., There are certain feelings associated with binge eating, both during and after. If you have binge eating disorder, you will feel uncomfortable and unhappy during your binge eating. You will also feel overwhelmingly distressed following your binge eating episodes. These can include physical feelings as well as mental feelings. If you have binge eating disorder, you will experience at least three of the following:

An urge to continue to eat even though you are not physically hungry
Eating much faster than normal
Needing to eat past the point of being full, causing discomfort
Being embarrassed about how much you are eating, causing you to eat alone
Being disgusted with yourself, depressed, or extremely guilty after a binge

, Binge eating disorder manifests itself in additional behavioral issues within your life. When you are trying to decide if you have BED, you can look for other behaviors in addition to binge eating. These behaviors include:Secretive eating behaviors, such as eating behind closed doors, in your car, or away from others
Stealing, hoarding, or hiding food
Cyclical bouts of strict, extreme dieting or fasting in between binges
Obsessive food behavior, such as eating only one type of food, not allowing different food types to touch, or excessive chewing
Making lifestyle and schedule changes to make time for binge eating
Eating constantly throughout the day with no strict meal times
Skipping normal meal times or limiting portions of foods at meal times
Feeling depressed often or being clinically diagnosed with depression
Being disgusted with your body size

, Binge eating disorder may be confused with some other eating disorders. Bulimia is often confused with binge eating disorder, but there is a major difference between the two disorders: If you have binge eating disorder, you never try to purge the food you eat after an episode of binge eating. With bulimia, you do purge after you eat, even when you eat small meals.Purging includes forced vomiting, misuse of laxatives, or other unnatural ways to get rid of food.