 It isn't required by law that a babysitter be paid above the minimum wage, but knowing the minimum wage might give you a good idea of where to start. A babysitting arrangement may feel casual and informal, you still deserve to be paid what you're worth. Remember of course that babysitting is a job, and you don't want to undervalue yourself anyway.;
, If you know others who babysit in your area, ask them how much they charge. By doing this, you can determine the "going rate" for babysitting in your area, which will help you price your own services. Whether you set your rates a bit higher or lower than the prevailing rate will depend on various factors such as experience.
 After deciding on a basic hourly rate for babysitting based on the prevailing rate, you can adjust it down or up based on other factors. Consider charging an additional amount per hour based on headcount. Caring for 4 children will generally be more taxing than caring for 1, and your rate should reflect this.
 Another variable that can affect your price is age. You may decide that teenagers require less effort to care for than infants or toddlers, for example. Charging a slightly higher rate for watching infants and toddlers would then be a good strategy for adjusting your babysitting rate.
 A common cost incurred when babysitting is the cost of the fuel to drive to each client's home. In general, this cost should already be accounted for in your basic hourly rate. However, if a client requires you to drive a long way you can raise your rate accordingly. You can also consider raising your rate to accommodate rising fuel prices.
 If you have little babysitting experience and cannot secure good references, you will not be able to charge as much. As you gain experience, ask regular clients if you can use them as a reference. This will improve your perceived reliability and allow you to charge a higher hourly rate.
 After determining your pricing structure, do not be shy about working your price out with the client beforehand. You want to avoid surprising clients with your price at the end of the job, and you also want to be able to decline clients who simply refuse to pay you a fair amount.

