 You need to be Town Hall level 7 to be able to access one. Be sure you have plenty of shards to donate and use for the guild, and that your max gold capacity is 500000, as creating a guild will cost that amount of gold.;
, Join a different guild and gain some experience about it.


See how many vice leaders there are and how strong they are. You will need these tips on how to promote your members - one vice leader could kick out a lot of people in the guild, and before you can kick them out, they would have left and you would have no members left in your guild.
Check then guild's ranking. There is an event called a torch battle in a guild where you haul torches from other guilds to earn shards and Honer Badges. If the ranking is in the top 3000, the guild will be able to do torch battles. If not, they will not be able to do torch battles. Boss battles are for every single guild. Learn tips on how to get your guild ranking up.
View the other members' bases. Check if they are strong. Keep in mind these tips if your members are vice leader, since vice leaders need to be strong. Vice leaders have the privilege to kick out lower ranking members, and one low level vice leader could possibly kick out all the powerful members. You wouldn't want that.
 In order for members to want to join your guild, you need to be a strong leader in order to gain their trust. Some people don't want to join a guild with a low level leader. Upgrade your Town Hall whenever possible, have upgraded defenses and walls, as well as your heroes and other buildings.
 Shards are used to activate boss battles, send out guild invites, and improving your guild. Shards can be donated to transform into credits in the guild. The credits are what are used for these things.
 Have enough might to at least have unlocked Lost Realm or Wretched Gorge, which takes 10000-20000 might. This will make you look like a strong leader. Upgrade your base equally however.
 Tap the tab that says Create Guild. Be sure you have enough gold, at least 500000, to be able to create your guild.
 They usually would want to join a guild that has a cool name, with no spelling mistakes, or any other mistakes in them. Don't choose something like The Killers, or The Guild Clashers. People wouldn't be intrigued in that. Consider something that sounds like you are powerful, but be nice, like Skyhigh Warriors or Night Killers.
 Select a badge that would match your Guild's name. For example, if your Guild's name is Phoenix Power, choose a badge that looks like fire or the flames from a Phoenix. If it is something like Night Killers, choose a badge that looks dark like it is at night. Have a badge that seems as if you mean what your Guild name is.
 Good might requirements can be 1000, 5000, or even 10000 might. Be sure you have the same amount of might that your requirement is. If you have 5000 might and the requirement is 10000 might, it wouldn't make sense. Soon, once you have more might, you will be able to change the might requirement to get stronger members. Change the might requirement at least 5000 more might up every time you and a few other members have moved up.
 Mainly type in how many shards your guild members should donate each day, week, etc. You should also type in when boss battles will start each day or week. Put the server time since there may be people who join your guild that live around countries that have different times in them. If there is enough space in the description box, you can list things like no cussing or info about promotions. You can also just type in a friendly summary about how your guild will be like.
 Once you type in the name of the guild, you cannot change it. You can only change the badge, might requirements, and the description. Fix spelling mistakes to make a good impression on members who join, as well as mistakes in the description.
, You will need to start it off first.
 A good amount of shards to donate would be 500-1000. Don't waste all your shards on your guild though. this will convert into credits, which will let you gain more members at first and let you do boss battles once you have a certain amount of members.
 Be careful of who you accept into your guild. As soon as you invite people, most clashers will see your invite and apply if they meet the requirements.
 There should be a number on there - that is the number of people that applied. Tap on a member (not apply or reject yet) and view their base. Be sure the base is settled in one area, the Town Hall and loot is protected, and other defenses are protecting the base. Their heroes should be a high level as well.


Accept members with legendary heroes only. These people will do better in boss battles and are stronger for the guild. If they have at least 2-3 good legendaries, they can also be accepted.
Choose members that apply with high level might. People that join should have might that is a bit farther than the requirements. Accept any of those clashers.
 This will make them want to stay in the guild. Discuss how they can become more powerful, how to improve their base, and other topics in everyday life as well. You don;t want to bore them with stuff about Castle Clash only - talk about other things and events that are happening in your life. Don't reveal any personal information though.
 The maximum number of members for your guild is 50. However, if you want to level up your guild, it can have 55 members instead. Ask others to recruit members and donate shards so you have enough to invite members. It costs 60 credits to send out a guild invite.
 Be sure they stay strong and have donated a good amount of shards. They should have donated at least 100. If they haven't been active or donated for a few days or at least a week, demote or kick them out.
 There are all kinds of ranks such as Elite, Soldier, Vice Leader, etc. A bad vice leader could easily take over the whole guild by kicking everyone out. It doesn't happen much, but you never know if it could. To promote a vice Leader, create requirements for people to become one, such as having donated at least 300 shards, are active, and fight in boss battles.


If a person is really trying to become one, wait a few days and see if you trust them since they may actually be plotting to take over the guild. They may trick you however.
 This way, you can defeat the boss and get honer badges and merits. Start a boss battle by spending 50 credits. Let everyone know and they should start fighting it. If you can defeat the boss in one battle, do only a few million damage to let others have a chance to kill it.
 Torch Battles are where you haul torches from other guilds to earn shards and honer badges. Make sure others are participating in them as well, as this can be a difficult event and you can possibly get no shards or HB if no one participates. Let them all know about the torch battle in guild chat.
 If you kick out members just for the fun of it, everyone will leave and join another guild. You would find your guild empty. Kick out members that aren't active/not participating in events, don't have enough might, or aren't powerful.

