 If you have a social media account, you probably want to share photos of your children. You do this because you love them and are proud of them. But sharing photos of your children might be putting them at risk. When you share photos of your kids, use the privacy settings for the photos so you can control who sees your photos.Use settings to allow only the people you follow to see your photos. You can also set custom privacy settings, where you choose who you want to see the photos.
You may also consider making your entire social media account private so you will know who sees your information.
 Your child is not the only one who needs to turn off location settings. You should also turn off location settings when you post pictures of your child. By keeping the location of your child off of social media, you protect her from potential predators., Social media is used to meet new friends, and some people even use it to play games with strangers. If you post pictures of your child or talk about her, refrain from friending people you don’t know. Don’t accept friend requests from people you don’t know. You never know if someone is a predator or not.Talk to your child about accepting friend requests from strangers. Encourage her to never friend strangers.
 People often overshare on social media. This includes details about their children. You should never give away personal details, such as your child’s full name, the school she attends, her birthday, or other details. These things may seem benign, but put your child at risk., If you want to post pictures, make sure to post pictures at a lower resolution. This can help reduce the risk of someone printing it out or enlarging it.If you are really concerned about people stealing photos of your child, place a watermark on your photos.
 When your child has a party or a sleepover, make sure to never post pictures of other people’s children. Only post photos of your own child. If you want to post photos from a party with someone’s child in it, make sure to discuss that with that parent first.