 You probably have a big stash of photos and other materials that you want to organize in your scrapbook. Now's the time get them out and make some decisions about how you want to proceed.


Let your materials dictate your direction. Go through your photos, cards, ribbons, awards, newspaper clippings and other materials and group related things together based on their relevance to an occasion or event (graduation, summer vacation, Christmas, etc.) Choose the background paper that works best with each layout idea.
Decide on a color and theme ahead of time. Maybe you had a wedding with a black and white theme or your sister just gave birth to a baby girl. Pull background papers from your collection in the color(s) and styles that work with that theme and go through your materials and gather together all the photos and other memorabilia that you'll use on those pages.
 Before you jump in and start gluing things to paper, you want to have an idea in mind for your page layout. Some people plan everything down to the last detail before they begin attaching things to the page; other people develop a general idea that includes the basics and then allow the details of the layout to develop on their own.


Get a plain piece of paper the same size as your page. Use a pencil to sketch out a plan of how you want your layout to look. Pencil in the places where you'll put your photos, title, text and other pictures.
You can simply rough in your photo placements and take it from there or go in a more detailed direction and plan everything including the placement of all embellishments or other decorative bits. Experiment a little and work in a way that feels creative and comfortable for you.
 A spread is made up of two side-by-side pages in your album. Instead of treating each page as stand-alone, consider what the pages will look like when the album is open and when they're displayed next to one another. Consider creating your rough layouts two at a time so you can plan your spreads.


When you take a spread into account, it's easier to avoid creating pages that clash or compete with one another for attention.
While you don't have to go as far as to use the same background paper for every spread, at least choose papers that coordinate either in color or design.
 Once you've decided where your photos will go on the page, you may have to size them down in order to make them fit. Use your scissors, paper trimmer or plastic template to create the size and shape you want for you photographs.


If you're concerned about ruining an important photo, make a copy of it and use that in your album. Or take a picture of your picture and use the duplicate image.
 Once your have your photos cropped, lay everything in place as per your rough layout. Something that initially looked good on paper, may not completely appeal to you once you see it in place on the page, so be willing to move things around a bit if you feel as though you need to. Be sure you're 100% happy before you glue anything in place.
 You might want to add a title, captions or a short block of text that sums up your memories in a catchy way. You may have already planned for these in your sample layout, or you chose to wait and see where you'd like to put text after you had your photos in place.


Don't write too much. Your photos and other images/materials will likely tell the story of your page, so limit your text to one or two sentences that sum up something interesting you want to remember about the event/experience.
Consider including the date somewhere on your page. You may find it difficult to believe that you'll ever forget when something took place, but life gets busy and experiences accumulate, and you may find yourself puzzling to come up with a date. Besides, scrapbooks can be passed down through the generations, and those who enjoy them in the years to come will appreciate pages that are dated.
 Embellishments can add interest, support your theme, guide the eye and create unity among pages with a common theme. Ultimately, if you decide to embellish your layouts, you should do it in a way that you find visually pleasing and meaningful. There are a few ideas for using embellishments to give them added impact.


Group them. In the same way that collections are best displayed in groups, so are embellishments. Consider clustering decorative elements together on the page for added emphasis.

Depending on the number of embellishments you're using, you can create a couple of groups on the page. When you do, consider following the rule of three--the eye likes things grouped in threes or at least in uneven numbers.


Put them in the corners. Put embellishments in the corners of photos or text blocks to help anchor them to the page. They'll give the images or text a bit more "weight" and ground them in place.

You can also put embellishments in the corners of your pages. If you have several pages that are a part of the same theme, using the same decorative elements in the corners of each of those pages helps to unify them.


Stack or layer them. Glue two or three decorative elements on top of one another. Keep in mind that this will add thickness to your page, so choose your items with care. If you're using a bound album with no removable pages, you won't have plastic protective page covers to contend with, so you could allow for a little more bulk.

