 Before you start this process, you will want the game to be closed. Otherwise when you close the game, it will write over the changes you made and you will have to start over again.


One issue that may arise is that you might think your game is closed, when it actually is not. Make sure to press “CTRL+ALT+DELETE” and then click Task Manager.
Find Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 - Multiplayer in the list of applications running. You can click on “Name” to sort the list by application name to make it easier to find or you can sort by CPU or memory usage which should bring Modern Warfare close to the top.
Once you’ve found Modern Warfare 2, select it and then press “End Task” to kill the process. This will make sure the game is closed.;
, You will notice multiple drop-down menus to choose from. You will want to stop Modern Warfare 2 from communicating with Steam servers during the reset process.


The default landing page when you open Steam is the Store. Click on “Library” at the top. This will bring up every Steam game that is connected to your account.
 Look for Modern Warfare 2 - Multiplayer in the library list. Once you’ve found it, you should access the game’s properties.


Right-click on the game and select “Properties” at the bottom of the list and then click the “Updates” tab.
All Call of Duty games actually are two applications. One is the single player campaign and the other is the multiplayer game. You want to access the multiplayer version.
 At the bottom of the Updates tab you will notice a checkbox called “Enable Steam Cloud Synchronization for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 - Multiplayer”. Uncheck this box to disable cloud syncing.
 You’re going to want to delete some files that correspond directly with your player ranking in game. It is important to understand how to navigate Windows.


Open up “My Computer / Computer” either via your desktop or through your start menu.
Navigate to C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\SteamApps\common\call of duty modern warfare 2\players. If you are on a 32-bit version of Windows, you will want to navigate to C:\Program Files\Steam\SteamApps\common\call of duty modern warfare 2\players instead.
These locations are default install locations. If you know where you’ve installed Steam, the directories you follow from there will always be static: \Steam\SteamApps\common\call of duty modern warfare 2\players


, These files represent all of the ranks, emblems, titles and prestige levels that you’ve achieved. Make sure to delete every .stat file.


Do not delete your .cfg files. The configuration files save your keybinds which you will likely want to keep.
 There are likely going to be many folders here. You want to find the folder named, “10190.” Not every player will have this folder. If you don’t have this folder, skip down to Step 9.


It is highly recommended that you use the Windows search feature to find the folder if there are many folders here.
 Delete all of the files inside of this folder. You can do this quickly by pressing CTRL+A to select all of the files at once.


Right-click the highlighted files and delete them or simply press delete on your keyboard.
 Return to Steam and launch the game or launch from your desktop, as there is likely an icon.


You will notice that your rank is reset to a Private and Level 1. All of your stats will be reset now.
It is recommended that you play for a few levels and earn some achievements, which will lock in the change. A good benchmark is playing to Level 5. For some players this could be a few games, but for an experienced player this may only take 1-2 games.
 Now that you’ve reset your stats, we want to make sure that the game is communicating with the Steam cloud again.


You want to make sure that you re-enable the cloud because this will keep your local client synced back up with the Infinity Ward servers and with Steam.
 Go to the multiplayer game properties, and select “Enable Steam Cloud Synchronization for Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 - Multiplayer.”

