 Don't assume that your roommate can read your mind. Nothing can change unless you acknowledge it. It's possible that your roommate may not even be aware of the problem. Discuss any issues with your roommate in person and directly—no texts or emails, and don’t bring it up through a friend of a friend. Don't be afraid to speak your mind. If something's bugging you, your roommate deserves to know.
Bring up behavior, not personality. It's not reasonable to ask people to change who they are, but you can ask them to tone down behaviors that are making life difficult for you. For example, it would be unfair to criticize someone for being "perky," but you can ask someone not to talk so much while you're studying.
Focus on one pet peeve at a time. There are probably tons of things your roommate does that get on your nerves. Don’t nag your roommate about every little thing that aggravates you—only bring it up if it’s really bothering you. Invite your roommate to discuss any pet peeves with you.
 When you are preparing to discuss your problem with your roommate, thinking through what you need to say and considering how you'll say it will prevent you from getting flustered and forgetting what you wanted to say, especially if you struggle with standing up for yourself.


Start by asking, “Can we talk?” This will usually get a person’s undivided attention. Give your roommate the option to set the conversation up at a later time and place, so that she doesn't feel cornered and immediately get defensive.
Write down a list of the things you plan to bring up, as well as a few examples. This will help you stay on track with your point, and will also make you prepared to answer any questions your roommate may have. If your complaint is that your roommate leaves dirty dishes around, be prepared to give examples of when this occurred. Examples will help her to see your point.
Be positive and kind, and be patient. Don't make the situation bigger than it is. It is hard to hear that you’re doing something that’s bothering someone, so your roommate may be hurt, surprised, or even angry to hear the news. Soften the criticism by speaking kind words. Tell your roommate anything that she is doing right, so she doesn’t feel like she's doing everything wrong. This will also help you see the good in your roommate even when you are exceptionally agitated. For instance, you might say, "Hey, I appreciate how much effort you put into keeping the kitchen clean. But it really bothers me that you never take out the garbage."

, If you live in a college dorm, contact your RA. Roommate conflicts are common, and your residence hall staff members are trained in how to help you through conflicts. Sometimes simply having someone to mediate the conversation and help you take turns expressing yourself is incredibly helpful. 