;
, Note the following:



Colouration: White Parks, like British Whites, are white with black points--nose, rims of eyes, ears, hooves, teats/tip of scrotum, and tongue, but not the tail switch. The upper portion of the tongue should be black, while the bottom is pink. The intensity of these coloured points varies with each herd and each individual bovine, as some can be more speckled with black than others, and still others may have a black muzzle where others lack this colouration.

Body type and characteristics: White Parks are beefy animals, with the typical squarish body and muscularity in both the cows and bulls. White Parks are a medium-framed breed, with bulls weighing around 2100 lbs, and cows around 1400 lbs.

Head characteristics: All horned White Parks have horns tapering out and up much like that of Texas Longhorns, though they are half the length of a typical longhorn's, more the same length of that of a Highlander's horns. Registered American British White Parks are not horned. They are either polled or scurred.

Other characteristics: White Parks are an ancient breed of bovine, dating back to 2000 years ago when they were first mentioned in the old Irish sagas. They were later found again in Welsh law which was created at Dinefwr Castle in Deheubarth by a series of rulers dating from 856 to 1197 AD. More details of the history of this breed can be found at OSU Breeds of Cattle site on White Parks.

This breed, though listed as Threatened on the The Livestock Conservancy site, and Critical on the Rare Breeds Canada site, and Rare on the Rare Breeds Survival Trust site.
White Parks are known for their high meat quality and ability to increase heterosis in cross-bred calves since it is genetically distant from many other breeds. White Parks are actually more closely related to Highland and Galloway cattle than any other breed like British Whites or even American White Parks.
, Take pictures of what you thought were White Park cattle, and compare them with pictures of White Parks on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

