 Apply glue the length of the rabbet groove and put the top in place. Add pocket screws to secure the top.
 If you'd like, you can use support blocks for the center and bottom shelves; they'll strength the frame without adding excessive bulk. If you do add these blocks, be aware that your center shelf will be fixed; you won't be able to adjust it.

Glue 1" x 2" support blocks in place for the center and bottom shelf and secure them with finish nails













Drive the nails until each head is just above the surface of the wood, then use a nail set to drive it just below the surface.


Drill and countersink pilot holes for the top of the bookshelf. Attach it with glue and 2" wood screws.
 Once the top of the bookshelf is secure, attach the bottom shelf.









Apply wood glue to the support blocks for the bottom shelf and set the shelf in position.
Drill and countersink pilot holes in the side of the bookshelf and attach the shelf with 2" wood screws.
If you decided to use support blocks for the center shelf as well, install it now as you did the bottom shelf.
 A back panel gives a bookshelf a finished look and protects the paint on the wall behind the bookshelf.









Make sure the bookshelf is square. Tighten any screws if necessary to get the shelf to stand in place with perfect right angles.
Measure and cut the back panel.
Start in one corner and use 1" brads to fasten the back panel in place.
 Trim or molding will give your bookshelf a custom look. If you've measured it to fit a particular nook in your home, the addition of trim can create the look of a built-in unit.

Attach 1" x 2" trim pieces to the side and bottom edges of the bookshelf with sixpenny nails and glue.













You may want to miter the corners of the trim pieces; the finished look is up to you.


Once the trim is in place, use a router with a 1/2" round over bit to smooth sharp edges.













Glue and nail edge molding to the shelves taking care not to split the molding.
If you'd prefer to a sleeker look, use veneer banding instead of molding to cover the plywood edges.













Using an iron set to a low heat, apply iron-on birch veneer edge banding to the front edges of the plywood sides, shelves, top and bottom.
Then press the veneer tightly to the plywood using a J-roller. Cut the veneer to length with a utility knife.
Use a veneer trimmer to slice off the overhanging edges of the veneer and hand-sand the edges with 120-grit sandpaper so that it's flush with the plywood.



