 If you've got a ton of belongings in your car, you're doing it wrong. Start by cleaning out all that clutter. If it's trash, throw it out. If it's items that need to be stored at home or delivered to someone else, take care of it. Your car is a means of transport, not storage, and if you want to really stay organized there, you need to bust the clutter and stick to that plan. Pull everything out to start with, get rid of everything you don't need, and make a pile of items that you do (insurance papers, a few coins for the meter, a first aid kit, car maintenance and emergency supplies, maybe an umbrella and a jacket, etc; think "car essentials," not "life essentials").
 If your car was in dire need of organization, it's probably also in need of a clean. Start there, vacuuming out the inside and wiping down any dusty, sticky, or smudged surfaces and windows. You can even clean the outside while you're at it, if you're eager.
 When organizing your car, consider that if you really are in any kind of automotive emergency, you might not be conscious when someone goes to look for items like identifying registration/insurance information or emergency supplies. Or, you might lend your car to a friend who ends up with a flat tire. Try to put things in their logical place for this turn of events: most people keep important car documents in the glove compartment, and emergency/car maintenance supplies (jumper cables, emergency warning triangles, etc) in the trunk or perhaps back seat. It's unlikely someone else will need to find them without you, but if they do, those are the first places they'll look.


More personal items like an umbrella, jacket, etc can go where you want them, most likely either in the trunk or the back seat.
 Some cars accumulate more clutter than others; for example, if you've got kids, you've probably got a back seat full of car seats, toys, trinkets, food, and bottles. Some of this is unavoidable, especially with young kids, but try to keep it as contained as possible.


Try getting a seat-back organizer or a big box or tupperware bin to store some of the clutter in; with infant/toddler seats, a bin or box should fit nicely under their feet and can be used for toys, snack containers, etc. Just make sure to hand them anything they need before you start driving so you avoid the temptation to try to find something while you're behind the wheel.
 Like any organization system, car organization requires maintenance. Clean out your car once a week to throw out any trash and wipe down any spills. If you do it regularly, it should only take a minute or two, and it's much more pleasant than letting the clutter accumulate to the point where you feel disorganized again.

