 This is one of those instances where the better quality the ingredients you have, the better quality product you will produce. The saltpeter and the sulfur can be found in most drug stores.;
, Willow, birch, fir, oak, beech ash, pine, and spruce, when charred properly, are good woods to choose when selecting wood for your charcoal. Place the wood chips in a large pot with a lid or a 55 gallon (208 liter)barrel with a lid, just make sure there is a little open area (a crack where the lid meets the container or a small hole) so some steam can escape. Build a fire under your container. When steam begins to exit the container, light the wood inside and reclose the lid. Let the fires burn out and wait for everything to cool. What is left inside your container is your charcoal.
 Use a mortar and pestle or hand mill to grind the potassium nitrate. Set it aside. Grind the charcoal. Set it aside. Grind the sulfur into a powder as well, and then set it aside. It is very important to grind everything individually. You may also choose to use a ball mill. If this is the case, place your crushed charcoal and your sulfur in the mill, and run the mill for several hours. Once ground to a fine powder, remove from the mill.
, The components of black powder used to be measured by weight. This has been calculated out, nowadays, as 75 parts potassium nitrate, 15 parts charcoal and 10 parts sulfur (or 25% charcoal/sulfur mix).
 Measure 1/4 cup (or 40 ml) of water for every 100 grams (about a 1/2 cup) of potassium nitrate in an old pan. Add your potassium nitrate. Bring to a boil. Stir continuously. Add little bits of water at intervals until the potassium nitrate is completely dissolved.
 Stir until all ingredients are completely combined.
 Add the hot mixture to your isopropyl alcohol. Stir together.
 The more quickly you can chill this to 0ʡC (32ʡF), the better.
 This will remove all the liquid from the solution. Throw out the liquid that got filtered out.
, Spread it out on your paper again and allow it to dry some more.
, Make sure to choose a place that is out of the reach of children.

