 Stick out your lower lip to the point where you are making a pout. Hold that pose for a few seconds. Next, lower your jaw while keeping your lower lip stuck out in the pout and your face still. Repeat this exercise about 10 times.This move focuses on building strength in the chin and upper neck area, which is prone to developing a "waddle."
You can do this exercise several times a day, anywhere and everywhere.;
, Sit in a chair with your back straight. Slowly lean your head back until you are looking up at the ceiling. Your lips should be closed but loose. Purse your lips like you are kissing the ceiling. Hold the exaggerated kiss pose for a couple seconds. Repeat about 10 times.


Repeat this exercise several times a day. You should feel this exercise as a stretch through the neck and underside of your jaw.
 Stand up straight with your arms loose at your sides and shoulders down. Bring your lips into a pout and hold the position. Take a deep breath through your nose. Slowly turn your head, looking over your left shoulder. Hold for several seconds. When you are finished, repeat by looking over your right shoulder.


When doing this exercise properly, you should feel a stretch underneath your chin and along both sides of your neck.
Repeat on each side 10 to 15 times up to twice a day.
 Turn your head to the right as far as you can comfortably. Simulate a chewing gum motion with your mouth about 20 times. Repeat on the other side.


When performing this exercise properly, you should feel a stretch in your jaw muscles, the sides and front of the neck, and your chin.
In a variation of this exercise, make the chewing motion with your mouth while you tilt your head back and look up at the ceiling.
 Lie on the floor with and lift yourself up on your forearms, with your elbows positioned under your shoulders. Push up so that your body is in a reverse C position and tilt your chin out. Hold for several seconds and then repeat., Look at the ceiling and tilt your head backward. Stick your tongue to the roof of your mouth and swallow. Bend your head to the right and swallow then bend your head to the left and swallow. Repeat 4 times in each direction.In order for this exercise to strengthen your turkey neck, your tongue must be planted on the roof of your mouth throughout the entire exercise.
This exercise may be difficult to perform, so remember to relax and just keep trying if you don't get it right the first time.

