 Locate the app on your mobile device. The app icon has the 4shared “4” logo on it. Tap to launch the app.;
, A registration form will appear. If you already have a 4shared account, you can skip this part and go ahead to logging in.
 Enter the required information, such as your email, password, and first and last names, on the form. When you’re done, tap the “Sign Up” button to proceed. 4shared will create your account so you can use the mobile app., This will take you to the login screen of the app.
 Type in your username in the first field, and then your password in the second field.
 You will be directed to the Playlist view of your account. All the playlists on your account and device will be listed here., A menu will appear with several options. From this menu, you can start playing the playlist, download, delete, rename, or edit it.
 To begin playing the songs in the playlist, tap “Play” from the menu.
 If you want to download the playlist to your device, select “Download” from the menu.
 Tap “Delete” in the menu to remove the playlist from your account.
 From the menu, tap “Rename” to edit the name of the playlist. A small window will appear where you can type the new name. Tap “OK” to save the changes once you’re done.
 The “Edit” option in the menu allows you to rearrange the order of the songs in the selected playlist as well as delete a song.


To rearrange, tap “Edit” and the list of music files in the playlist will be displayed. Tap and drag the files to reorder them.
While editing the playlist, you can also remove the files you don’t want. Long-tap on the file you want to delete, and a menu will appear. Tap “Delete” from it to remove the song.
 All the music files under it will be displayed.
 It will be highlighted and start playing.
 As the song plays, you’ll find control buttons on the bottom of the screen to help you navigate and manage your music and playlist. There are buttons for previous (plays previous song in the playlist), play/pause, and next (plays next song in the playlist). You can also see the current file being played and its play time, or duration., Tap the file button on the top right corner. The “Upload to 4shared Music” screen will appear. Tap the button beside the header title to scan for all music files on your device.
 They will be placed under a default playlist. Look over them to make sure that all the music files you want to upload are there.
 Tap the playlist title to begin uploading the files to 4shared., Tap the magnifying glass button on the top right corner. The search screen will appear with a search field at the top of the screen. Tap on it and type the keywords (title or artist) for the music you’re looking for.
 The list of music files from 4shared matching your search will be displayed. Swipe up and down to see them.
 It will be highlighted and start playing. There are control buttons on the bottom of the screen to help you navigate and manage your music and playlist. There are buttons for previous, play/pause, and next. You can also see the current file being played and its play time, or duration.
 You can add the file you found to your playlist. Do this by long-pressing on it. A menu will appear. From here, tap “Add to playlist” from it. A list of playlists will appear. Select the playlist you want to add the music to, and tap “OK.”