 If you’ve bitten your tongue, rinse it off with cold water. This can remove any dirt, food, blood, or debris from the area and help prevent an infection.If you have bitten all the way through your tongue, make sure to get to your doctor as soon as possible.Once you’ve rinsed the tongue with cold water, you can try sucking on some ice to help with swelling and pain.;
, Suck on an ice cube or ice pop if you have pain and/or burning sensation on your tongue. The cold will help to numb any feelings of pain, reduce swelling, and make your tongue feel more comfortable.


Sucking on an ice cube can be especially soothing if you’ve bitten or burned your tongue.The melting liquid will also help you stay hydrated and prevent your tongue from drying out, which can make pain from a bitten or burnt tongue worse.
 A warm rinse with salt water will clean your tongue and may help relieve the pain of a sore tongue. You can rinse every couple of hours until your pain and discomfort ease.Add one tablespoon of salt to a glass of warm water and stir to dissolve. Swish a mouthful around 30 seconds, concentrating on the sore area of the tongue. Spit out the water when you're done.
 When suffering from a sore tongue, it's a good idea to avoid consuming anything that may make the pain worse, such as spicy or acidic foods or tobacco. Although this won't speed up the healing process, it will likely make you more comfortable.


Eat soft, soothing and even cooling foods that won't aggravate your tongue as you eat, such as smoothies, porridge and soft fruits like bananas. Yogurt and ice cream are also good options because they are cooling and soothing.
Acidic foods and beverages, such as tomatoes, orange juice, soft drinks and coffee can make your pain worse. Also avoid cinnamon and mint, which can increase your discomfort.Try toothpaste that is formulated for sensitive teeth or something without mint or cinnamon.Don’t smoke cigarettes or chew tobacco, which can exacerbate your discomfort., Make sure that you’re staying hydrated throughout the day. Not only will this help ease the feeling of a dry mouth, but it also can help speed the healing process.Drink plenty of cool water or juices to keep your mouth moist.Try to avoid hot beverages like coffee or tea so that they don’t worsen the burning or painful sensations on your tongue.
Avoid caffeine or alcohol, which can irritate your tongue., If you are experiencing a sore tongue and home remedies don’t help, consult your doctor. He/She will help identify the cause of your pain and the right kind of treatment for you.A sore tongue can have many causes including fungal, viral, or bacterial infections of the mouth, nutritional deficiencies, ill-fitting dentures, teeth grinding or over brushing your tongue, allergies, stress, or anxiety.A sore tongue may also be the result of burning mouth syndrome.You may not notice any physical changes to your tongue or mouth with a medical condition.Or, you may experience common signs of irritation or infection, such as the white plaque coating the tongue in oral thrush, bumps, ulcers, or a burning sensation., If you’re experiencing a sore tongue or the symptoms of burning tongue syndrome, your doctor may order tests to determine the cause of your pain. Tests often can’t determine the cause of a sore tongue, but your doctor will help develop the best treatment plan for you.


Your doctor may use different diagnostic tools to determine the cause of your sore tongue. These include blood tests, oral cultures, a biopsy, allergy tests, and stomach acid tests. She may also give you a psychological questionnaire to rule out whether your sore tongue is related to anxiety, depression or stress.Your doctor may also tell you to discontinue certain medications to rule them out as a cause of your sore tongue., Depending on the outcome of your tests, your doctor may prescribe medication to help alleviate the condition causing your sore tongue. If the tests can’t find a cause, she may also prescribe medication or home treatments to relieve the pain and discomfort.Three medications commonly prescribed for a sore tongue are amitriptyline, amisulpride, and olanzapine. These drugs work by blocking the action of gamma-butyric acid, which may be responsible for the pain or burning sensation in the tongue.Your doctor may also advise that you take an over the counter pain reliever to help relieve the discomfort of sore tongue, especially if you are having trouble sleeping.Popular over-the-counter painkillers include acetaminophen, ibuprofen and aspirin.
Follow your doctor’s orders for taking pain relievers or the instructions on the packaging., Throat lozenges or sprays that contain mild analgesics can help soothe a sore tongue. You can purchase throat lozenges and sprays at any drug store or their online sites.


Use throat lozenges or sprays every two to three hours, or according to the package or your doctor’s directions.Make sure to suck on the throat lozenge until it has completely dissolved. Don't try to chew it or swallow it whole, which may numb your throat and make it difficult to swallow.
 Capsaicin cream is a topical analgesic that can help relieve pain. You can apply capsaicin cream to your tongue three or four times a day.The cream will initially increase the pain sensations on the tongue, but these will subside quickly.Be aware that the prolonged use of capsaicin cream can damage fibers in the tongue tissue, leading to a permanent loss of sensation., Use an antiseptic mouthwash such as benzydamine or chlorhexidine to treat infections of your tongue or mouth. They may also help relieve pain and swelling on the tongue.Benzydamine relieves pain by blocking prostaglandins. Prostaglandins are chemicals that are produced when there is pain from inflammation.Pour 15 mls of benzydamine into a cup and then swish it around your mouth for 15 to 20 seconds before spitting it out.

