 Though you may be tempted to complete other errands or chores while you're working, or even to set up a personal engagement, it's not professional to mix your errands with your actual work. You may feel that this saves time, but you'll actually be losing time by trying to get everything done at once.


If you have errands to run, don't get up in the middle of your work day to do them. You can quickly try to do an errand like running to the post office during your lunch break, just as you would during work.
Avoid the temptation to clean your home. Though you may want to scrub down your floors and put away your dishes during a conference call, this will actually distract you from communicating with your colleagues and listening to what they have to say.
Don't spend an hour catching up with your best friend on the phone, or hanging out with your friends during the day. You can catch up with a friend during a quick lunch break, but don't socialize too much during the day or you'll get off track. You wouldn't spend an hour catching up with a friend on the phone if you came in to the office, would you?
Avoid texting your friends with silly messages during work hours. This will slow you down tremendously.
 To be professional when you work at home, you need to have top-notch communication skills. When you have a phone conference, you should be even more prepared than your colleagues who work at the office because you'll need to speak up to get heard and make sure that people know who you are even though you work from home.


When you talk on the phone with colleagues, make sure there are no distractions. Go to a quiet place and make sure your kids or family members don't interfere.
Set up a Skype-friendly environment. Chances are that you'll be using Skype a lot for your conferences, so make sure you set up your computer in a space with a lot of light and with a plain, pleasant background.
 Your friends and family may not understand that "working from home" means "actually working." They may call you just to chat during business hours, or invite you out for a long brunch or even ask for a favor because they don't understand that you actually need to be at your desk and take your work seriously.


First, communicate the importance of your schedule to your friends and family. Tell them to call you only if it's important -- just as they would call you at the office.
If you have children, create a schedule that works around their schedule so you have designated work hours when you don't need to be picking them up, making them lunch, or tucking them in for a nap. Don't try to do your work at the same time as you're taking care of your family.
 Though you're working from home, you should still get to know your colleagues and to develop professional relationships with them. This will make it easier for you to work with them and you'll feel more excited about coming to work. Here are a few things you can do to stay connected while working from home:


Make sure that you can be easily reached at all times. Check your email and work chat program (if you have one) as often as possible and keep Skype open on your phone if you use the program often and need to leave the house. Your colleagues should feel that you're just as accessible as someone sitting next door.
If you can, visit your office from time to time so people know who you are. Take the time to meet the people you've been talking to, and let them know how much you appreciate them. If you regularly come in to the office for meetings, make yourself known by making great points and asking questions.
 One of the downsides of working from home is that everything you need to work will be available to you. This means that you can work every single hour of the day if you wanted to. However, if you want to stay sane, you have to set designated work hours, and be determined not to do some extra work in the evenings or early mornings when you're supposed to spend time with your family.


If you think of something that needs to be done for work after your work day is over, write it on your to-do list and get to it the next day.
To help create this distinction, you can change out of your work clothes into your everyday or relaxing clothes after work, so you feel less inclined to spend more time at the office.

