 These sweeteners are used to provide sweetness to foods and drinks without adding extra calories. Using artificial sweeteners in place of sugar can also prevent dental decay and control your blood sugar levels. However, all artificial sweeteners are chemically processed. There are many concerns about the health and safety of artificial sweeteners, but there is currently not enough research to link these sweeteners to cancer or other health issues.All artificial sweeteners sold or used in prepared foods in the United States are regulated by the FDA. The FDA has set an acceptable daily intake amount (ADI) of artificial sweeteners, about 15 mg/day, for most sweeteners., These are three very common artificial sweeteners that may be detrimental to your health. They are all made of chemically tweaked versions of sugar and are often hard for your body to break down.Aspartame is 220 times sweeter than sugar and is found in diet drinks, sugar-free gum, and as a sugar packet. It is a synthetic sweetener sold under the brand names Equal and NutraSweet.
There is currently no conclusive evidence to link aspartame to cancer. But it can trigger headaches or stomach discomfort for certain people and it can create a bitter aftertaste when it’s cooked, so avoid using it in cooking. People with a rare condition called phenylketonuria (PKU) cannot break down phenylalanine, which is a component found in aspartame. People with PKU should not consume aspartame.
Saccharin is 200-700 times sweeter than sugar and is sold as a “tabletop sweetener”, commonly known as Sweet n’ Low or NectaSweet. It is approved for use as a food additive in beverages and processed foods by the FDA, but it is known for its unpleasantly sweet and metallic taste. It does not break down well under high heat so it should not be used for baking or cooking.
Sucralose, also canned Splenda, is sold in yellow packets and is 600 times sweeter than sugar. This sweetener is found in many products, including soft drinks, cereals and baked goods. Sucralose can withstand high heat, so you can use it for cooking and baking. However, like aspartame, sucralose can cause headaches and digestive issues.
 This sweetener is derived from the leaf of a South American shrub and is a natural substance that is 200 times sweeter than sugar. Stevia-based products include Truvia and Pure Via.Stevia is a natural sweetener than is free of artificial chemicals. You can also use stevia in cooking and baking. The FDA has approved the use of Reb A (Stevia leaf) as a sugar substitute but the whole leaf and crude extracts, commonly sold as supplements in health food stores, have not been approved.
Keep in mind Stevia has a more potent taste, so always follow the recommended conversions on the Stevia label for baking and cooking.

