 Green onions, or scallions, are the green shoots that come up before an onion bulb begins to form. They are essentially immature onions. Look for a hearty scallion seed, such as the species A. Welsh onions, or simply choose your favorite white, red or yellow onion to grow.If you'd prefer not to start the green onions from seed, choose red, white or onion "sets" to plant. These look like bare-root mini bulbs that come bound with twine or rubber bands. You can pick up a few sets to use as scallions, and let the others mature into onion bulbs.;
, Choose a spot in your yard or garden that gets full sun and has soil that drains well. Till the dirt to a depth of 12 inches and work in compost, blood meal or another organic material to enrich the soil with nutrients. This will ensure that the green onions grow strong and healthy, and continue to produce shoots throughout the growing season.


Be sure rocks, sticks and weeds are cleared away before you till and work the soil.
You can till the soil using a garden rake if you're working with a small patch. For a bigger area, buy or rent a soil tiller to make the job easier.
If you just want a few green onions, you can prepare a pot with a compost-rich potting soil instead of planting them in the ground.
 As soon as the soil is workable, about four weeks before the last frost, it's time to plant the seeds or sets you have ready. If you have seeds, sow them thickly about 1/2 inch deep in rows spaced 1 foot (0.3 m) apart. If you have sets, plant them root-side down 2 inches apart and 1 inch deep, in rows 1 foot (0.3 m) apart. Water the garden bed thoroughly.


The onion seeds will germinate when the soil is anywhere between 65 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit (18.33 to 30 degrees Celsius). It may take up to a month for onion seeds to germinate.
If you live in a cold climate with a late spring, you can start the seeds indoors about eight weeks before the last frost. Plant the seeds in peat seed starter pots and keep them well-watered. Put them in a warm, sunny room to during the germination period. When the ground outside is warm enough to work with, transplant the seedlings to the garden or a larger pot.
 When the first green shoots begin poking up, determine whether to thin them to give them each a bit more room. Green onions grow well in bunches, but for best results the mature plants should be spaced 2 to 3 inches apart. Take a look at your garden bed and remove weaker seedlings if necessary.
 Cover the soil around the seedlings with grass clippings, pine straw or fine pieces of bark. This will prevent weeds from growing and keep the soil evenly moist.


If you're growing your green onions in a pot, you can skip this step, since weeds won't be an issue and you can more easily control the moisture level.
 Green onions need evenly moist soil throughout the growing season. Provide the onion plants with about 1 inch of water per week. For optimal plant growth, the soil does not need to be soggy, but it should be moist. Water the garden bed every few days, or when it begins to look dry and dusty.


Another way to determine whether the onions need watering is to test the soil conditions. Insert your finger, up to the second knuckle, in the soil close to where the plant is. If you feel that the soil is dry, water it. If you think the soil is wet enough, don't worry about watering, and repeat the test again in a few days. If your area has received rain recently, you may not need to water.
 After three to four weeks, the green shoots will be 6 to 8 inches long and ready to eat. Harvest them by pulling the entire plant from the ground. The plant will not yet have formed a bulb. Both the white and green parts of the onion are flavorful.


If you want to let some of the plants mature into storage onions, simply leave them in the ground. The bottom of the plants will begin to form a bulb, which will be ready for harvest in the fall.
If you only want to use the green part of the onions, and not the white part close to the roots, you can use a pair of scissors to simply cut off the green tops. Leave an inch or two of growth. The onions will continue to grow, and you can harvest the greens again once they're 6 to 8 inches long. Note that they will become stronger-tasting as the plant matures.

