 Jeans don't just need to be recycled into other types of clothing. Denim is fairly strong, so it's perfect for making sturdy tools and accessories as well. One easy project is to make a tote bag. This is perfect for carrying groceries and using as a purse replacement. To make a tote bag:


Cut the legs off just below the crotch (as if you were making a very short pair of cutoffs).
Cut the crotch seam and trim both sides to get something similar to a very short skirt.
Stitch the bottom flaps of the "skirt" together to make the bottom of the bag.
Cut two long, skinny strips of fabric from the leftover leg material. Stitch these to the top of the bag to make two handles.
 Denim isn't terribly absorbent, so it's not great for towels. However, it is quite durable, so rags cut from it are great for the garage or kitchen. Making denim rags and mats is easy: just cut square sections of fabric from the jeans as needed.


One simple way to get good-looking rags is to trace two straight, parallel lines across the front of one leg. Cut across both these lines to get a looped section of denim. Slice down one or both seams to get either one or two rags.
To make pot holders, fold the rags to double- or triple-up the material, then stitch them shut.
 This easy project is a must for treating back pain or sore muscles. Cut two identical squares of fabric from the jeans (see the trick above for cutting sets of rags). Stitch up three sides tight, leaving the fourth open. Scoop uncooked rice into the opening. Stitch the final side shut. Microwave the pad in 20-second increments until it is warm, then hold it against your sore spots.Use a large tube-shaped pad instead of a square to make a neck pillow that's great for painful kinks.
 This is a good choice for leftover sections of denim or jeans that are too ragged or worn-down for other tasks. Cut your jeans into many long strips, then soak these strips in a borax-and-water bath for about five minutes. Squeeze the moisture out of the strips and press them into small gaps in your walls or framing. The denim will dry into a hard, water- and insect- proof insulator.Borax is a safe, cheap laundry additive. You can usually find it in the laundry section of department stores or via online retailers.
 Denim is durable enough for heavy-duty use, but it's still soft enough that it will never scratch other surfaces. Use scraps of denim to "scratch-proof" objects around the house. Just use glue or adhesive to fix pieces of denim to scratch-prone spots.


For example, if you want to keep your ladder from scratching your gutters, cut two wide strips of fabric from your jeans. Glue them to both sides of your ladder at the top. When you rest the ladder against the gutters, the soft denim will make contact, rather than the hard metal.
Another easy idea is to cut small circles of denim and fix them to the bottom of furniture legs to keep them from scratching the floor.
 The thick, doubled-up line of stitched fabric inside each pant leg makes a strong, durable string-like material. You can use it to tie up a wide variety of things. For example, use jean inseams to tie loose tools together for easy transport. You can also use it like a keyring to organize things like measuring cups, wrenches, and other similar sets of objects.

