 In order to gain weight in any part of your body, you need to take in more calories. You also want to make sure that you are taking in the right kind of calories. Take a healthy approach when trying to gain weight. Don't use it as an excuse to fill up on calorie heavy items such as fried foods and sweets. You won't see the type of results that you want, and you'll risk health issues.Try to increase your calorie count by eating healthy foods. Eat starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, and peas. These have higher calorie counts than other vegetables, but are still full of nutrients.
Add more fat to your diet. Fat contains nine calories per gram. You can add olive oil, butter, or coconut oil to your meals to add more fat to them. Olive oil in particular is a healthy fat. It contains about 120 calories per serving. Try stirring some into whatever you're eating--oatmeal, soup, salad dressing--to boost your calorie intake for that meal.
Read labels. Avoid items that are "low fat", "light", or "diet". For example, eat regular cottage cheese rather than the light version.
 When you're trying to gain weight, it can be difficult to get all of the calories that you need from just three daily meals. Try eating five mini-meals throughout the day. Depending on your food choices, you may end up consuming more calories.Add in healthy snacks. Look for foods that are high calorie, but low volume. Nuts are a great option, as they contain lots of fiber and protein. Try keeping a bag of almonds on hand.
Try adding snacks that also contain healthy fats and carbohydrates. Hummus and multi-grain crackers is a tasty one to try.
 Eating five meals a day, plus snacks, can add up to a lot of food. Smoothies are a good alternative for when you need a change. Make your smoothies with whole milk or yogurt and some fresh fruit. You can also add in some flax seed or protein powder to get extra nutrients.Try adding some spinach to your smoothies. It's a great way to sneak some more vegetables and nutrients into your diet.
Avoid filling up on beverages such as diet sodas. The liquids will make your stomach feel full, but won't be adding any calories to your diet.
 If you are underweight (even just in your arms) it is a good idea to talk to your doctor. Being underweight might be an indicator of an underlying health problem. It's also a good idea to speak to your doctor before undertaking any type of weight gain program.Your doctor can serve as an excellent resource for you. Ask them for a referral to a registered dietitian. A registered dietitian will help you figure out the right foods to eat to help you to gain weight in a healthy manner.

