 Think about the things you would like to change in your life. Then ask yourself why you haven’t changed them yet. You might find that your inaction rests on flimsy excuses instead of insurmountable difficulties.For instance, if you’ve been putting off doing something important because you feel like you don’t have time, examine your habits and ask yourself if there’s any way you could manage your time better.
 When something goes wrong (or right), think about what you did to make it happen. Don’t try to blame the event on some external cause. An internal locus of control means that you accept your power over life circumstances. You realize that your choices typically lead you to a certain outcome.Having an internal locus of control doesn’t mean beating yourself up for making mistakes. Instead, it means empowering yourself to change your behaviors for the better.
For instance, if you get a bad grade on a paper, don’t think, “This teacher’s grading is so unfair.” Instead, tell yourself, “I probably could have started working on this sooner to get a better grade.”

, Overcoming learned dependency means putting yourself first sometimes. Make decisions based on what you want, instead of asking for other people’s permission or opinions.For example, if you want to change jobs but your partner is pressuring you to keep your current job, explain to them why changing is important to you. Then work up your courage and do it, regardless of what they think.
 Make sure your goals are specific and realistic, so that you can measure your progress. If your goals are big or overwhelming, break them down into smaller steps that are easier to tackle.For instance, if your goal is to take a trip, your steps would probably include booking a flight, finding a hotel, and planning an itinerary.
 Hold yourself accountable for what you do. If you’re not making progress towards your goals, or if you find yourself slipping back into feelings of dependency, re-evaluate your goals. Review what happened and look for ways you can change your behavior so you get a different result next time.For example, if you planned to save money, but you find yourself shopping frivolously, you need to look back at your goal. Are you being too strict on yourself, which leads to frivolous spending? Or, maybe you should stop reading magazine or watching TV commercials that prompt you to spend needlessly.

