 This will guide what you do together, talk about together, give her, and what you'll need to swot up on! Geek girls include computer geeks, science fiction (SF) geeks, fantasy geeks, math or science geeks, history geeks, music geeks, writing geeks, etc. and many geek girls are a combination.;
, A geek girl will often prefer dates where you're able to talk together rather than having to shout because you're being drowned out by loud music and drunks.


Find out where her favorite watering hole is and reserve her favorite seats - by the fire, by the window, etc.
Meet up in her favorite bookstore or cafe with books. This might also be a comic store, the library, or a used bookstore.
Visit a museum, a nature park, an art gallery, or state of the art exhibition.
Go geocaching or treasure hunting together.
Never overlook the value of staying for a Lord of the Rings or Star Trek marathon.
 Be a guy who loves reading books and talking about them. Geek girls love their books; be sure you've really read the stuff you're talking about.
 Many geek girls will love video games as much as you do; just be sure to pick games they enjoy and not only yours alone.


Enjoy board games and card games together as well. Plan a board game night now and then.
 Listen to the news and be prepared to discuss current events in detail.


Don't presume you're smarter than she is. If she's clearly smarter than you, let it go and love it! If she has more acronyms after her name than you do, revel in it!

, Let her know you're able and willing to cook. Make it delicious. And end it with a cake made in the shape of her favorite SF character.
 If she's into knitting, crochet, sewing, baking, calligraphy or tatting, ask to see her works. Ask to see her online photo album or blog following her craft pursuits.
 Many geeks collect something of interest, from Star Trek figurines to comic books. What have you got stashed away to impress her with?


In turn, love what she's collected; compliment it excessively! Ask if you can take photos of it so you can look at them when you're not together.
 Geek girls aren't fond of repeats of the standard gifts of flowers or perfume. She'll melt if you give her books, book vouchers, DVDs of favorite movies or TV shows, collectibles, or a new video game.


Potted plants can work better than flowers – they continue to grow. Look for unusual types, such as cacti, pitcher plants, rare orchids, etc.
Like most people, a geek girl will appreciate chocolate but aim for the better quality chocolate, with clarity as to source and cocoa percentage - the more boutique, the better.
 Get out your diligently prepared costume and wow her with your enthusiasm to go to a convention together and meet other like-minded people for fun.


Be prepared to spend time together making chainmail, sewing cloaks, and sourcing the right wood for wands!

, If she's into NaNoWriMo, proofread her work for her before she enters it. Send her poems or works off to publishers for her.


Love her blog or photo collection online. Leave supportive comments!
Love her imaginary world; let her know often just how awesome her imagination is.

