 You should brainstorm to identify people who should be on your crisis communications team. Once you identify them, ask them to join you in drafting your crisis communications plan. Consider the following:Does anyone have prior crisis management experience? If so, you’ll probably want that person to participate.
Is someone in your organization already known in the community? Is this person well-regarded? If so, they should be on your crisis team.;
, Generally, your purpose will be to lay out guidelines for coordinating a response to any crisis or incident that arises at your organization. By including a purpose at the start of the document, you reaffirm the driving purpose of the plan.


Sample language could read, “This plan creates guidelines for communicating within the company, and from the company to the public and news media, in the event of a crisis, incident, or emergency when providing accurate information immediately is vital.”, You will need several different people to handle all of the crisis communication during the incident. Once you identify the roles, you should define their responsibilities. Make sure there is as little overlap as possible. You will probably need people to fill the following roles:Spokesperson. This person should be the only one who speaks to the media.
Assistant to the spokesperson.
Command center coordinator. This person coordinates all responses to the crisis. In a small crisis, this can be the spokesperson. However, larger crises will require someone to act solely as the coordinator.Liaisons for each of your audiences. Hand out this person’s name for people to contact.
Phone bank workers. They can answer calls and provide scripted information to audiences.
Media coverage collector. This person can gather all coverage of the event on television, in the newspaper, and on the web.
Press release and speech writer.
Scenario planner.
 The spokesperson is the most critical person. They should have direct knowledge of the events and will communicate directly with the news media.The spokesperson might change, depending on the crisis.


Alternately, you could identify one spokesperson in the crisis communications plan. For example, you could name the head of media relations. However, you should realize this person might not have the best information during the crisis.
You could have your head of media relations choose the person who will act as the spokesperson.
 Every organization has certain audiences it needs to communicate with. The audiences will differ depending on your organization. Generally, every organization has three to eight publics it must communicate with during a crisis, though the exact number will depend on your business. Consider the following sample constituencies:Employees. You can also subdivide employees into different groups. Full-time employees may need to be a separate unit from freelancers, for example.
News media. Since the news media reaches a wide audience, you’ll want to include them as a constituency.
Customers, or anyone who uses your products or services. If you’re a university, this would be your students.
People located near a crisis site.
Government officials or regulators.
Owners or other stockholders (if you are a business).
 You don’t want to be searching for contact information during an emergency, so compile it now. Get as much contact information as possible, including the following:organization name
name of an individual to contact at the organization
business telephone number
mobile number
email address
fax number

, Once you become aware of an incident at the organization, you need to notify management. The crisis communications team will not make decisions on behalf of the organization. Instead, management will need to make those decisions, so they need to be notified as soon as possible. You should come up with a checklist of items to do in the first few hours, including the following:Notify the CEO or president.
Notify head of marketing or communications about the incident.
Confirm details about the incident.
Notify any other executive board members.
Convene the crisis communications committee.
Alert other team members.
 In an emergency, you’ll want your team to gather at one site, so that you can bounce ideas off each other. This site will be where you coordinate your response to media requests and telephone calls. You can also use this space to hold a press conference, if necessary. Look for the following when choosing a command center:It should already have telephone lines, Internet connection, and other technology (such as computers, copiers, and a fax machine).
Stock your center with materials you will need, such as building diagrams, pens, paper, clipboards, and white boards.The space should be available on short notice.
The command center should ideally be centrally located.
You should choose at least two possible sites in case one is not available.
 Your crisis communications team will want to create fact sheets and distribute them. You can also post them on your website. Fact sheets help prevent misinformation from spreading. Include a provision in your communications plan for creating the fact sheet and having it checked for accuracy before distribution.For example, a sample provision might read: “A fact sheet shall be prepared soon after the incident. The purpose is to supplement communication with our key constituencies and with the news media. The command center coordinator shall approve the fact sheet and check it for accuracy with those who have direct knowledge of the incident. Fact sheets will be posted or distributed with a time stamp, and will be updated as information becomes available.”

, Spend extra time thinking through how you will keep the media apprised of new developments. Unlike your other audiences, the news media can influence the public at large through their coverage of the incident. Consider the following:Who will be responsible for briefing the media on extended crises? For example, if you have an on-going investigation, someone may need to talk to the media daily.
Will you create a news media briefing center? News media often have satellite trucks, so you will need an area that can accommodate them.
Will you allow reporters into your organization, and who will decide who to admit? Ideally, you will want to allow some access, since shutting the media out entirely could result in negative coverage.
How will you handle news media requests to talk to people other than the official spokesperson? How will you assure only factual information is given out?

, During a real incident, you will probably feel overwhelmed. Calls will come pouring in and the news media will be asking you for any information you can share. Accordingly, you should think through ahead of time how you will handle common crises. Begin by identifying any that might occur at your organization:Property damage at your facility.
Accidents or incidents that injure employees and other people.
Production or service interruptions, including issues with the quality of products or services.
Natural disasters.Criminal investigations or other legal actions such as lawsuits against the company.
 Each audience will have different questions based on how the incident may affect them. Thinking about these questions will help you draft template answers to use during the crisis. For example, consider the following questions:Employees. “Should I report to work? When?” “Is it safe to return to work?” “Will I be paid during the shutdown?” “What happened to my coworker?”
News media. “What happened?” “Do you know who caused the incident?” “Were there injuries or fatalities?” “Who is responsible for this?” “What’s your plan for keeping this incident from happening again?”
Customers. “When will my product arrive?” “Will you compensate me for the inconvenience?”
Government officials and regulators. “What happened and when?” “How is the community impacted?” “When will you be back in service?” “How many employees are affected by this?”

, You should write out answers and include blank lines for information that will change (e.g., names).These templates will help you during a crisis, when you might not be able to think clearly.


Avoid “no comment” as an answer. Instead, tell the caller that you will investigate and get back to them.Some issues should not be discussed, such as personnel matters or issues that relate to ongoing legal cases. In those situations, explain why you cannot give out information.
 If the organization is at fault, you should admit responsibility. The public is forgiving.You will also increase your trustworthiness.


Ultimately, however, it’s up to management to decide when to admit mistakes, so have your crisis coordinator in contact with management.
 As part of continually improving your crisis communications plan, you should convene meetings of your crisis communications team after an incident. Include a provision for creating an AAR.


For example, you can write, “Within 10 days of the crisis or incident, the team will convene to review any lessons learned. These lessons will be included in an AAR, which can then form the basis of a more comprehensive AAR to be shared with management.”, You should assess what crisis situations are most likely to strike your company. Have a practice drill and run through the plan to confirm you have not ignored any challenges or opportunities. When you finish the test, convene the communications team to identify any weaknesses. Revise the plan before distributing.
 Plans sometimes become outdated. In particular, you will want to constantly update your contact information for team members.Double check quarterly to make sure contact information is up-to-date for your constituencies.
Assign one person responsibility for updating the plan.
 Key personnel should receive a copy of the crisis communication plan as soon as it is completed. Make it available in printed form and in electronic format.You can also post the communications plan to a secured server.Remember to limit access only to those authorized to see it.
Remind people that the communications plan should not be distributed to unauthorized personnel. You can include the label “For Official Use Only” on the plan.

