 You don't need a wormhole to take a walk down memory lane. Instead, travel to the past using your memories. Long-term memories can be hard to dig up at first, but with a little stimulus you will soon start remembering vivid details and recalling long-forgotten emotions from days gone by. You'll feel like you are traveling back in time, even if your body stays in the present.
 Your former neighborhood, your primary school, your old church, the site of your first job, places you took memorable vacations. Even if these places have changed a lot, you will still start to remember details about them—and your time there. Try to remember what each room was for, the people you saw in each house, the colors and details of the buildings.
 These can be college or high-school friends, or even earlier friends if you can get in touch with them. Go with them to visit your old haunts and talk about everything you had lived together before you separated. If you haven't seen this person in a long time, meet in the last place you saw each other.
 Photos can be a great way to rekindle your lost days. Take a deep look into your albums whenever you want to revisit your past life. Take out any memorable objects you kept from your past and examine them, hold them in your hand, try to think about where you got them and how you used them.
 Smells are very evocative for triggering memories. If you never applied a distinctive scent, try to find a scent that one of your loved ones once applied.
 Maybe you're a bit embarrassed about your childhood musical tastes, but if there are songs you haven't heard in many years, listening to them again can be a great way to feel like you are back in the past. Try finding them on YouTube.
 Don't worry if you don't remember the rules exactly. Find the games that made you the happiest as a child, and give them another shot. You'll be surprised at the memories that they can bring back.
 Once you get the time travel train going, keep the ball rolling by writing down every detail that comes to mind.

