 Nyota was a very elegant woman: she had poise, grace and most importantly assurance (self-esteem). If you are suffering of lack of self-esteem, you’re not the only one. Ask yourself "Why am I so down on myself? Have I always been like this or is it something recent?" If you’re able to answer those questions, write them down and see how you can build your esteem back up. If it comes from something deeper, such as rape, childhood abuse, then seek help from a counselor.;
, Remember when Kirk kept on bothering her to be his communications officer for the Kobayashi Maru test? Be there for those who need you because you don’t know what demon they are battling.
 Stand your ground. Defend your beliefs, make yourself heard and give your opinion on the matter. Be tough but not rough, know when to say ‘no’ and when to say ‘yes’. Nyota always spoke her mind, "We're outnumbered, outgunned. There's no way we survive if we attack first. You brought me here because I speak Klingon. Then let me speak Klingon."

, Nyota always kept Kirk on his toes, "For a moment I thought you were just a dumb hick who only had sex with farm animals."

, Spock once said , "Lieutenant Uhura is unmatched in xenolinguistics. We would be wise to accept her conclusion." Vulcans do not lie nor do they give compliments, they just state the facts. She didn’t become unmatched by being lazy, she sacrificed and put in extra time/work for her feats.
 In order to exude elegance and poise, dress in a classy manner. Nyota was always in assigned uniforms, however those uniforms were ironed and kept clean.
 Due to being in the military, Nyota’s hairstyle was limited: it varied between a ponytail or a bun while on duty, and letting her hair down while off duty. Whatever hairstyle that you choose, it needs to be appropriate for your workplace. Remember that the way in which you present yourself is an expression of your personality.
 Keep a healthy lifestyle/routine: brush your teeth/floss, shower, wash your face, your hair (some people wash their hair daily, others weekly, others biweekly––just make sure your hair doesn’t stink), and put deodorant on.
 Make up should be appropriate for your workplace. Nyota’s make up wasn’t natural, but it wasn’t flashy either. She mostly focused on her eyes and added some rosy/natural lip gloss.
 Keep them clean and at normal length. Use shades that are complementary to your skin tone.
 The first thing is knowing what you want. Take a moment and imagine exactly what you want to accomplish––once you figure that out, outline it.
 When you’ve figured out your goal, write down a path on how to achieve it. See it as a road map for getting from point A to point B.
 Write down every single thing that you think you’ll need to accomplish the goal. There is no such thing as being too detailed. Overall details will help you see the bigger picture. Since Nyota’s goal was to be the best communications officer and to specifically serve on the USS Enterprise, she created a map on how to achieve it. She had to 1) apply and get accepted to university, 2) enroll into classes for communications majors, 3) study hard to get extremely good grades, 4) apply and get accepted to Starfleet Academy, 5) enroll in a class specifically for communications majors, self-defense and weaponry, 6) study even harder to get extremely good grades, 7) work out in her spare time, not only to be in shape, but also to have endurance, 8) know/understand how to use a weapon, 9) spend extra time in the library to do extra research (go above and beyond), 10) with any doubts, ask questions to the appropriate professor.
 Once you’ve written down every single detail on how to achieve you goal, put it in a schedule. Your schedule should be weekly and daily.


It’s important to have down times. The brain needs a break from all the seriousness of achieving your goal, so some distractions are necessary.
 That is the key to success for anything in life.

