 These are typically the sweet white wines that you will have to choose from, with various brands represented from each category. Refer to the list below to start eliminating tastes that are not of interest to you:Chardonnay – Fruity and smooth-tasting. Chardonnay often features flavors of green apple, citrus, pineapple, and papaya.
Pinot Grigio – Lighter and more dry than Chardonnay. Pinot Grigio is flavored with the taste of citrus, fresh pear, and melon.
Riesling – Usually sweet, with fruity flavors. It is typically more bitter than Moscato.
Moscato – Arguably the sweetest white wine, being a lighter-bodied white. It can act as a great accompaniment to brunch or to fruit-themed desserts. Fresh floral, ripe stone fruit, and exotic spice stand out as flavors in this wine.Sauvignon blanc – More dry than Chardonnay and very acidic. It includes tropical flavors.;
, Wines such as Chardonnay or Chenin Blanc work best for chicken pairings, since they are full-bodied selections. 'Body' refers to the perceived “weight” and viscosity of the sweet white wine. A full-bodied wine feels thick, coating the sides of a glass as you swirl it, while a light-bodied wine will behave almost like water., Consider the type of cheese for any cheese and wine pairings. For creamy soft brie or camembert, try Champagne, Chardonnay, or dry Riesling. If you're having strong goat cheese, pair with Sancerre, Sauvignon Blanc, or Pouilly-Fume. Smoked cheese is best paired with Gewurztraminer, Sauternes, or Shiraz. For blue cheese, try Sauternes, Banyuls, Port, Late harvest wines, Madeira, or Amarone., For fish pairings, your best bet is to use a light to medium-bodied white wine, such as Sauvignon Blanc, Vinho Verde, or Chablis. White wine is ideal to be paired with fish, so you cannot really go wrong in your selection., For spicy foods, try a wine with a low alcohol content. This will allow the beverage to be more refreshing, and less harmful as you may be drinking more of it to counteract the spiciness. Try out Riesling or Gewurztraminer.
 The label will list the region where the wine was made, and this can help inform your decision. Learn which grapes are grown in various regions to get a better idea of which wine you'd prefer.The only way to know for sure whether or not you will like a sweet white wine is to try it. Go to a wine tasting event to try a lot of wines at once, or simply ask for recommendations at your local liquor store., Many wine labels include the grape type that was used to create the wine. This can help you to choose wine that is sweeter and more suited to your taste.Varietal wines are named after the primary grape variety that the wine was made from. Merlot, for instance, contains mostly Merlot grapes.Chardonnay uses chardonnay grapes from Burgundy. The grape flavor is similar to that of a green apple and makes for a crisp tasting wine.The Riesling grape can produce such a wide range of aromas, and is grown in northern Europe, and in parts of Australia and New Zealand. They have a sweet, sugary taste to them., Some wines contain a higher percentage of alcohol than others. This will always be listed on the wine’s label, so carefully compare these before purchasing.White wines tend to have one of two extremes: they are either very low in alcohol content, such as a German Riesling (Kabinett, Spatlese and Auslese), or very high, such as an Australian Chardonnay or white Sherry., Acidity in white wines allows them to be refreshing. However, a high acidity can taste sour and a lower acidity can make a wine taste saturated with fat. Wines that are associated with high levels of acidity include New Zealand Sauvignon Blanc, Champagne, Loire Valley wines, such as Sancerre and Vouvray.


White wines tend to be more acidic than reds. Cooler growing climates produce wines higher in tartaric and malic acid.A wine high in acidity that also emphasizes its flavor of sweetness will seem less acidic. A sweet white wine could thus be high in acidity without tasting sour.
 The year of the wine is typically boasted on the front of the label, especially if it is a vintage selection. Wine is known to grow more potent as it ages, so select the wine that has an older date for better quality.