 In some cases, there are no obvious signs that a dog has a kidney stone. Kidney stones might be found during an x-ray or ultrasound for another condition in the affected dog. In other cases, there are certain clues or signs that might make a veterinarian suspicious that a dog has a kidney stone. These include:Blood in the urine
Frequent urination and increased drinking
Recurring urinary tract infections
Loss of appetite
Vomiting
Weight loss
Difficulty urinating
Lack of energy
Painful belly

, Kidney stones are the result of minerals found in the urine. The kidney is the urine formation organ in the body. In some cases, as the urine forms the minerals which should dissolve in the urine do not dissolve. Instead, they start forming into stones.


These stones can be microscopic or large enough to fill cavities in the kidney. Regardless of size these are not normal and can potentially damage the kidneys., Kidney stones can block your dog's urine flow and cause his kidneys to swell if the stone is too large. A blockage may result in serious illness and even death, so it is crucial to contact your veterinarian right away if you suspect that your dog has a kidney stone.Kidney stones may also lodge in the bladder or start to form in the bladder itself. This process is more common and some dogs’ bladders may fill completely with stones. No matter where a stone forms, it will cause infection and on-going damage to the kidney or bladder.
 Certain dog breeds are more susceptible to kidney stones than others. It is good to know if your dog is one of these breeds so that you can check for symptoms more often.Lhasa Apsos, Yorkshire Terriers, and Miniature Poodles are more susceptible to kidney stones made of calcium and oxalic acid
Dalmatians, Yorkshire Terriers, and English Bulldogs. are more susceptible to kidney stones made of uric acid.
 If you think that your dog has a kidney stone, you will need to take him to the veterinarian as soon as possible. Do not wait or the stones may become much worse. Treatments for kidney stones vary depending on the severity of the stones. Treatments may include medication, dietary changes, and even surgery.Keep in mind that if your dog requires surgery, then he may need to be hospitalized until he recovers from the surgery.

