 There are many different factors to consider when planning a trip to Hawaii, like the price of lodging, thick crowds and expected weather conditions. Do a little research to find out when airfare and other expenses will be the cheapest, then carve out a time that fits your personal calendar, decide how many days you want to stay and try to work around the pricier seasonal tourism.Resort fees tend to be highest during busier times of year like late spring, the height of summer and toward the winter holidays.
The weather in Hawaii is warm and hospitable year-round, making it possible to enjoy a tropical vacation on your own schedule.;
, Look into places to stay that are big enough for the number of people that are going. There’s an abundance of places to stay across the Hawaiian isles, from cozy bed and breakfasts to full-fledged resorts complete with amenities. Take into consider your budget and the distance from your accommodations to the things you want to see and do, then call or get online ahead of time and make reservations.When traveling with a big group or young children, it will most likely be easier to snag a couple of rooms at a larger hotel chain for the sake of space and affordability. Some resorts even offer amenities just for kids, like special games and play areas, educational activities and appearances by their favorite animated characters.
Consider renting condos, villas or private Airbnb residences for short-term stays if you plan on making multiple stops., Once you’ve decided on the best time to go, buy a plane ticket for each member of your party. Double-check to make sure the times of departure and arrival fit your own timetable and your flight details are correct. If possible, try to fly directly to the island you’ve chosen to visit in order to avoid multiple connecting flights or long layovers.Shop around online for special deals on airfare.Plan on flying out in between peak travel seasons. Things tend to be less crowded in early spring and the tail end of summer, which means they’ll also be less expensive.You’ll need to carry your passport to enter Hawaii, unless you’re traveling from inside the United States., Some essential items you’ll want to bring along include t-shirts, shorts or skirts, tennis shoes, sandals, sunglasses and a swimsuit or two. Be sure you bring enough clothes to last you the whole trip and allow you to dress for different activities and occasions.Don’t forget to load up on beach accessories like towels, sunscreen, an umbrella and any toys or sporting equipment you want to have with you.
Hawaii is a very laid back, casual place, so don’t worry about packing anything too fancy. A simple collared shirt or dress will usually be enough for an outing at even the ritziest places on the isle., Stake out a patch for your clan among the dunes, then kick back and spend your day basking in the sand and sunshine. Some people prefer the relaxed atmosphere of the beaches and nearby restaurants and shops to always being on the go. And there couldn’t be a more perfect place for it—the weather in Hawaii is warm, sunny and inviting all year long.In addition to getting a tan, you’ll also find opportunities to go snorkeling, kayaking, windsurfing, or play a few games of beach volleyball.Bring extra sunscreen, and maybe some snacks, if you intend stay out on the beach all day.
 Transportation in Hawaii is set of up to make jetting around the nearby isles fast and easy. Depending on the length of your stay, you might find time to visit popular tourist destinations like Maui and Oahu or stop by older, more rustic islands like Lanai or Kauai. Many of these smaller islands are less commercialized and offer a glimpse of traditional island life. There’s always something new to see no matter where you go.Work these stops into your travel schedule in advance to ensure that you’re not rushed.For shorter vacations (a week or less), limit your island-hopping to one or two places, or else you could spend more time packing up and commuting than actually sightseeing., Of course there’s also a long list of sights to see and fun to be had. Plan a day trip or two during your time in the Pacific to go horseback riding down the coast, hire a helicopter tour for an overhead view of the islands’ beautiful vistas or take an exhilarating ride on a zipline. Just make sure you have enough room in your schedule. You could spend months in Hawaii and only see a small part of what all it has to offer!Take a poll within your group to find out what activities everyone is interested in, then narrow down a list of adventures that you’ll have time to fit in.
 You’ve got to eat, so you might as well do it in style. Polynesian cooking has a rich and diverse history, incorporating native ingredients like fresh seafood, pineapple, coconut and sweet potatoes as well as foreign influences such as barbecue, Portuguese sweet breads and east Asian dishes. Savor five-star dining experience at a renowned bistro, pay admission for a pig roast or simply pop down the street and grab some fish tacos for a couple of bucks.Browse travel and dining websites for restaurant recommendations and reviews.Give local favorites like poi, poke and Spam Musubi a shot.Calculating a food budget before you depart can help you plan your meals.
 One of the most celebrated parts of Hawaiian culture is the luau, a large party or feast that usually takes place right on the beach. In many cases, it’s possible to book admission to a luau directly through the hotel or resort where you’re staying. At these events, you can expect to find an array of scrumptious foods, along with traditional entertainment like live music and hula and fire dancing. Don’t miss out—a luau could be the most fun you have on the whole trip!Luaus are also often hosted by Polynesian cultural and historical centers, where they are designed to showcase the ritual character of the Hawaiian people.
This may be one of your only opportunities to savor authentic kalua, a time-honored method of cooking that involves wrapping succulent meats in banana or taro leaves and roasting them over hot coals dug into the ground., Set aside a day to visit museums and local sites of historical significance. All of Hawaii’s outlying islands have a fascinating story to tell, dating back long before their induction into American statehood. You and your loved ones will be able to learn about rulers and legends of times long past as you roam the lush, beautiful landscapes of the countryside, and leave with a deeper respect and understanding of the island and its inhabitants.


Tour important military landmarks like Pearl Harbor or the U.S. Army Museum in Waikiki.To get the full benefit of an educational jaunt, plan on seeing multiple islands. Each is a treasure trove with its own unique history and customs.
 Hawaii, and the island of Oahu in particular, contains a wealth of mountains just waiting to be explored by eager adventurists. If you’re looking for a change of pace from sunbathing, strap on a pair of boots and hit the trails. There are miles and miles of ground to traverse that cut through dense jungles, rise into the clouds and even circle around dormant volcanoes.If you plan on doing any hiking, take along a small backpack filled with bottled water, sunscreen, bug spray and your phone or camera for capturing the breathtaking views you’ll encounter.
Long hikes may be too difficult for young kids, but there are many shorter treks to choose from as well.
 What tropical escape would be complete without catching a wave or two? Those who are up for it can easily find equipment for rent or take some quick lessons from a local surfing instructor and try their hand at hanging ten. The waves in the Pacific are world famous, so whether you’re a daredevil chasing a big-wave ride or it’s your first time on a board, there’s a good time awaiting you.Surfing is ingrained in Hawaiian culture, which means it’s something that you owe it to yourself to try at least once on your trip.
No matter where you stay, you’ll be able to take your pick of any number of spots to paddle out to and get radical.