 If anything looks digitally added, you know that the product may be a potential scam. Many times commercials have to enlarge the item so you can see it, but only if it says, "Picture enlarged to show detail," across the bottom. Google the picture to be sure.
 All products will have some faults. But when they tell you it's waterproof, fireproof, unbreakable, never needs to be charged, foolproof, takes less than a minute to set up, and is also portable, it is almost impossible to be so perfect. You should also check for mistakes such as, "This item is too big to take along, but call in the next half hour to get a free portable version!" and a couple minutes later, "Wow, amazing! This article is even portable!" Make sure to always check realism.
 Remember that although they tell you "everything to know" and offer you a 30 day money back guarantee, obviously they are probably making this all up. Remember the product name and Google it. Look at all reviews and decide for yourself. Some may like it, some may not, it depends on how they use it, or how it's shipped to the person, so go by the majority of people's opinions. Also, if you would like, find out the company that manufactures your product and Google them for information.
 But wait, there's more! That's a extremely common quote in infomercials. They tell you if you call in the next 10 minutes you'll get something else free, just pay processing and handling. But what if you don't want the item? It's a scam because it will be shown in every airing of the infomercial, so it doesn't matter when you call, because basically, that "extra" is really just apart of the deal.
 The most common price is $19.99, but they may say "Just 7 easy payments of (ex.)$13.99!" First of all, the payments are not easy. They are cleaning out your wallet. But secondly, this causes more work for you to figure out how much the product is worth.
 Many infomercials, even ones for such small and maybe even useless items, will tell you it's worth a larger sum of money and they reduced it for you. That's another lie. You actually end up paying about that price because they make you pay processing and handling for the main item, the "extra", and for the product. Sometimes companies will even keep billing your credit card falsely. If you find out they're doing so, immediately report the company!, Usually after all these judgements, you will realize the product isn't worth it. To judge it decide that 0-1 mistakes means a really good item, 2-3 is a good item, 4-5 means an okay items, and 6 mistakes means it's a terrible item.
 Your item made it further ahead, but now is the harder part. You may deal with rude operators or kind operators, but it just depends on the company. Slowly explain your answers to their questions. Never answer any personal questions such as social security numbers, because they're most likely frauds. If this happens, say loudly but slow so they can understand you, "I will not tell you this, and I am going to cancel my order. If you still send me the (item name), I will report your company." but if not, answer any questions they may ask.;
, It may take quite a while for your item to arrive. Just wait. If it takes several months, you may want to call the company to ask why.
 If it's damaged, looks as if opened, or is just useless, call the company. If they won't accept it, and you still have your trial pending, you have a right to report them or insist it be sent back.
 Go on review websites, and help any others who may buy the item. No matter you love or hate the item, others want to know your opinion!

