 As stated previously, checking the stats on an enemy can be crucial to determining what unit to use to defeat them. However, the class of an enemy should also be taken into consideration. For example, enemy Mages and Dark Mages are dangerous because your units have a nearly non-existent Resistance stat unless they are a Mage or Pegasus Knight. Therefore, using one of these classes is the best way to deal with them (Dark Mages have good Defense while normal Mages do not, so defeat them accordingly based on these differences). A Knight has extremely high Defense but low Resistance, so magic-based weapons or tomes are the way to go., If you want to know how much damage a Fighter does to your Chrom but he's out of range, you can do a simple calculation to determine how much damage he does, excluding skills and damage modifiers. If a Fighter has 9 Strength and he's wielding a weapon with 5 Might (Mt), then simply adding the two together comes out to 14. This is the amount of damage he would do to a unit with no Defense. However, your Chrom probably doesn't have 0 Defense, so subtract his current Defense from that 14. If Chrom has a 7 in Defense, then 14-7=7 total damage. This can be useful if you want to know how much damage a potentially dangerous enemy could do to any given unit, and know what to expect., If you calculate an Archer doing 6 damage to Sumia, it's highly unlikely that is the actual number. Bonus damage is x3 the actual number of damage a certain weapon will do to a unit. A weapon that can do bonus damage will have a little icon next to the name of it. Chrom's PRF (personal weapon) is Falchion, and it does bonus damage to wyverns based on the green dragon icon on it. Bows do bonus damage to flying units, Rapiers and Armorslayers do bonus damage to Knights, and so on. Make sure to watch out for these weapons. The damage output in the battle forecast will be highlighted in green if your unit is being attacked with a weapon that does bonus damage.
 If you have at least 5-speed points over an opponent, you can double them and do the same amount of damage twice, or vice versa if the opponent has 5-speed points over you. This is incredibly important to know and is crucial in the early part of Lunatic, as doubling an enemy means you will be able to deal with them faster and gain more EXP.