 Quickly kiss her cheek, grab and squeeze her hand, or whisper something kind in her ear. Gauge how she responds. Every girl is different, and some will like more obvious affections (like a kiss in public) more than others. Some ideas include:


Pull her into you, lean in and kiss her. Let her do the same. When it comes to kissing, don't always take charge.
Hug her from behind and kiss her on the cheek as a surprise "Hello."
Cuddle with her when you lay down or sit together. Put an arm around her shoulder or kiss her shoulder.
Hold her from behind and rest your neck on her shoulder.
 It doesn't have to be a big conversation every time. Simply showing her that you think about her is enough. Send her a link to a new recipe to try together, a potential date, or a funny picture. Ask her how she's doing. Let her know what you're up to, or something interesting that happened to you. Even a quick Snapchat or two shows that she's on your mind, and that you don't just ignore her when she's not around.
 Take her on a moonlit walk, or out to get a cone of ice cream. Grab some nice take-out and a good movie for a surprise night in, cook her a meal before she gets home, or just ask her to come eat lunch on a park bench instead of in the cafeteria or break room. These little acts of kindness show that you are thinking of her and are willing to go out of the way, just a little bit, to keep her happy.
 Going on dates isn't just about spending money, it is about carving out time to be alone together. A great date is just a chance to enjoy each other's company, learning more about each other and exploring the world together. Movies, concerts, and dinners are all classic dates, but they are not the only things you can do. Think about her passions and interests and find dates that she might enjoy.


Head to the local SPCA and play with some animals for a cuddly free date idea.
Go out for a hike or walk in the local park and pack a picnic dinner or lunch for the ending.
Check your local paper for events, from street festivals to outdoor music and theater.
 Take initiative on the big days and plan a surprise, even if it is something small like flowers or breakfast in bed. Having the foresight to celebrate these little milestones will make her feel special and show her that you value the relationship as much as she.


Occasionally, have a little fun by celebrating a goofy holiday or anniversary, like the first time you cooked together or National Talk Like a Pirate Day.