 While it is important to do what you can to prevent a binge, make sure that you do not allow these measures to ruin holiday celebrations for you. Make sure that having fun at holiday parties is your top priority since this is a once per year activity.


Try to focus on all of the non-food aspects of the party that you can enjoy, such as conversations with friends, listening to holiday music, and looking at all of the beautiful decorations.
 When you're at a party or holiday gathering, distance yourself from the food tables. While you may not be able to completely avoid such temptations, there are ways to minimize them. Choose areas of the home, office, or party location where the food is less in eyesight.Sit or stand far away from the food area.
Surround yourself with friends or family to help distract you both physically and mentally from the food.
Be willing to say "no" when offered something that you'd like to avoid. It's important to communicate your needs in a honest and polite way.
 Don't focus on comparing what you eat to what others are eating. This may be a trigger for you. While social gatherings may make you anxious about how you may come off to others, remember to focus on your goals for recovery. You are the best judge of what's right for you in this process of recovery.Focus your attention on other things that may catch your eye, such as the holiday decorations, pictures on the wall, or other mementos.
Remember that we are often our own biggest critics. Focus on getting to know the other people at the party, rather than feeling judged and isolating yourself.
 Holidays are often centered around food and eating. When you're at a large family meal, you may feel judged or excluded due to your condition. Be willing to handle questions about why you're eating -- or not eating -- certain things. Most people are not judgmental but just want to understand.


Consider talking with the host before the meal is served, so that there is an understanding of what you may or may not eat. Be clear that it is not due to their cooking, but rather due to your health.
Have a response ready for those who may be curious about your behavior at the event. For example, "I am currently on a plan to help me have a better diet and healthier eating habits. It's very beneficial for me to stay happy and healthy." However, keep in mind that you don’t have to respond in detail, especially if the person is not someone who you know well. You can simply say something like, "It's a food item I like to eat and that is why I chose it."

, When you're hosting your own party, you're more in control of what is served, and the food options available. You can create a party with healthy and festive treats that appeal to your meal and dietary planning. And when you're heading to other people's parties, consider bringing a healthy dish you know you can enjoy.Keep portion sizes for your party goodies smaller. You'll be less tempted to overeat when are smaller portions.
Choose healthy options such as fresh fruit, vegetables, whole grain crackers, cheese slices, and lean meats. By decorating your plates in a more festive and appealing way, even the simplest of snacks can be more appetizing.

