 You may feel the desire to kiss your partner anywhere, anytime. But if you plan on making out, it's best to find some privacy. Having privacy while you make out will make you and your partner feel more comfortable.

There is nothing wrong with kissing in public, but strangers may not appreciate watching an entire make out session.
Go to a room in your house where you can be alone with your partner. If you're away from home and you just can't wait, try to find a safe, quiet spot outside.;
, Candles offer low light, which is relaxing and flattering. Light some candles across the room to help set the mood. You could also try stringing some holiday lights around the room.

Use scented candles for added effect. Choose warm scents that work well together, and avoid anything overpowering.If you don't have access to any candles, try replacing your white light bulb with a softer toned yellow one. The goal is a low, relaxing light in the room., Make a playlist with some romantic songs that both you and your partner enjoy. Keep the music low enough so that you can talk to each other.

Find songs that are slow and easy to listen to. Avoid anything too energetic. Try to set a quiet, romantic mood., You don't have to whisper everything, but keep your voice down when you talk to your partner. Soft tones are soothing and help build passion.

Using a softer voice also means your partner will have to get closer to you, which could create an opening for a kiss., The majority of making out is kissing your partner. When the mood strikes, lean in for a kiss. Make sure your partner is leaning in as well. If they aren't, they may not be in the mood to kiss.

Pay attention to the tilt of your partner's head. The last thing you want is an awkward head bump when trying to kiss. Go in slow.Close your eyes. It's not a hard and fast rule to close your eyes when you kiss, but it does add to the romance. However, some people enjoy kissing with their eyes open. Play around and find what you like.Put your lips on your partner's lips and kiss. Don't smack their lips, just apply light pressure to theirs and see if they kiss back. You'll know it when you feel it., Keep the kiss soft and don't immediately start using your tongue. Kiss your partner's lips and then slowly start to open your mouth. Try to read your partner's reaction and make sure they are willing to go along with your kiss.


If things are going well, try to use your tongue. Open your mouth a little and touch your tongue to theirs. Don't shove your tongue in their mouth, and don't use too much tongue. Think of playing with your partner's tongue and see how they use theirs., When you kiss your partner, pull away for a second and run the tip of your tongue around the edges of your partner's lips.

Don't do this all the time, but do it enough to playfully tease your partner.You can also nibble on your partner's lips in between kisses to mix things up.
 Pull your partner in close to kiss them when they aren't expecting it. Place one hand on their waist and another behind their head and go in for a long, strong kiss.

This is a good technique for an opening kiss. If you're in the middle of making out, stop kissing for a moment. Look your partner in the eyes and then pull them in close., Take a break from kissing your partner on the mouth and play with their ear lobes. Use your tongue to trace the edges of the ear.


Don't stick your tongue in their ear. Suck or nibble on their ear lobes, and then softly run your tongue around the outer ear.
You can also use your fingers to trace the edges of the ear while you are kissing.
 Keep a glass of water with a few ice cubes in it next to you during your make out session. Stop kissing for a second, take a drink of water and hold one of the ice cubes in your mouth. Get your mouth cold, and then kiss your partner to give them chills.

Kiss your partner's lips, neck, ears, and chest. Tease them a little with your cold lips., Don't settle for just one kissing technique. Keep things interesting by using a variety of kisses when you make out.


Start with slightly open mouthed kissing and move into slow kisses around the neck and ears. Then go back in for more kissing on the lips. Whatever you do, have fun and experiment with your partner.
 When making out, try to stimulate your partner by touching them in various places. Don't grope your partner, but use soft touches to keep your partner interested.

Touch the neck, back, arms, and legs. Gently run your fingers across your partner's skin while you make out.Run your fingers through your partner's hair while you kiss.
Play with your partner's hands while you kiss. Hold their hands, interlock your fingers, or softly rub your fingers over theirs.
 You can face each other while you kiss, but feel free to mix it up. Sit in your partner's lap and wrap your legs around their back to really take control.


Try kissing from behind your partner. Lie behind them and hug them close. Start kissing their neck and ears and gently turn their head to yours.
 Take a few breaks every now and then to make eye contact with your partner. Kissing is a big part of making out, but so is keeping the passion high.


Don't forget to keep touching your partner while you look at them. Rub their shoulders and arms, or run your fingers over their lips. Try to keep them aroused without kissing them. Give them compliments and let them know how you feel.
 Making out is a full body activity. While kissing your partner, don't forget to move. It's important to feel your partner's body. Pay attention to what they like, and how they respond to your touch.


If you feel things getting heavy during your make out session, you may feel your partner grinding on you. They may want to take things to the next level. If you aren't ready to have sex, don't feel pressured. Making out can be fun on its own, and does not always have to lead to sex.