 Write down whatever comes to mind. Do not think, "What could I have done to change that they are together now?" You've done what you could! The harsh truth of the matter is that he or she did not like the real you and you should never change who you are for someone else. It is important to stay true to yourself. Someday you will find someone who loves the real you.;
, Have you talked to either of them since? If not, talk to the one who was your friend first, not the boyfriend or girlfriend, but the friend (do the talking outside so it won't be awkward to leave their house, or to kick them out of yours). Likely you'll be angry with the girlfriend or boyfriend, but your friend knew that you loved him or her, and should have been able to walk away for your sake! So talk to your friend, and ask why, and figure out whether you're still friends. Most likely, the friend that took your boyfriend or girlfriend was not a true friend; otherwise they would not have taken your boyfriend or girlfriend but would have found someone else to date.


A true friend would have discussed the matter with you personally and told you how they felt about the person you're dating. A true friend would also have discussed this matter with your boyfriend and girlfriend and told them that they cannot date them because they respect and care about you as their friend.
If you made a deal to go meet up with your ex and you are very nervous and about to back out, think about this: He or her is still the same person, and they are probably as nervous as you are, and if you have kissed them, they are still the same person you kissed. The only thing that changed is his or her status with respect to you. Plus, you will finally get the apology and explanation you truly deserve! If they still argue and do not think that they've done anything wrong, dump them. They're not worth your time.
 This might sound a bit weird or weak right now, but you do not want to see those two making out in front of you. You set the boundary line for them around you, if you're still friends with the one who took you boyfriend/ girlfriend. If you're no longer friends, you are still free to ask them to not parade their betrayal around you.
 Talk to your parents. They can help you. They have probably also been through tough breakups and they know what kind of ice cream is your favorite flavor! Also, talk to your other friends. Maybe they don't understand you or your decisions but they are trying to understand and they are listening. Also, you can complain to each other about the two new love birds... Even talk to your school counselor. It's always good to have people to talk to and support you. though it will be hard, you'll realize that neither of them are worth your time. If they were truly you friends, they wouldn't have done what they did.
 This is a life lesson. Right now you are slowly rolling down that big iceberg and it is first when you get down you can get up on your feet and climb that mountain one more time! But this time you have more equipment to hold tight to the mountain and not fall off!


If you have a hard time building a new life on these experiences, build on the old one.
Become better friends with your other friends, or start in a new activity that you haven't thought of trying before.
 However, don't bottle up your emotions either. If you're not okay, say so. Don't pretend that everything is peachy when it isn't. That could cause more problems for you. Just go with the flow and take each issue as it arises. But really, don't worry about your friend or your ex. If they're so careless as to hurt you like that, they aren't worth it. Move on!

