 Make a list of objective questions you can ask yourself to challenge your reasons behind your anxiety. By taking some time to rationalize your anxiety, you may feel like it has less power over you. Some questions you might ask yourself include:What evidence is there to support that something is really wrong?
What evidence is there to support that the situation is actually not as bad as it appears?
What are the odds that the worst case scenario can actually happen?
What are some of the more likely outcomes?
How would I advise a friend who had this worry or one similar to it?

, Since you are bound to feel anxious sometimes, you might find it helpful to schedule in some daily worry time. This will help you to put limits on your anxiety, rather than allowing yourself to feel anxious all day.


Schedule a span of 15 to 30 minutes each day to worry and feel anxious. Ideally, it should be the same time each day and your worrying should be done in the same place.
If anxieties come up outside of your worry period, jot those anxieties down on a list. Remind yourself that you will have time to worry about it later.
Reflect on your anxieties during your worry period. You may even find that some of your anxieties have disappeared by the time you are ready to worry about them.
 Identifying your feelings and putting them on paper may also help you to feel better. When you are feeling anxious, sit down and just write about how you feel. You may even want to start a thoughts journal to keep track of all of your anxious thoughts. One way to organize your entries in a thoughts journal is to divide what you write into three columns.The first column can be something like: What is going on? Or, what is the situation? In this column, you can describe where you are, what you are doing, who you are with, etc.
The second column can be something like: What am I thinking? In this section, you can write about the anxious thoughts that you are having.
The third column can be something like: How anxious am I? For this column, you can just write a number from 1 (not anxious at all) to 10 (extremely anxious) to represent how anxious you feel.
 Sometimes when you feel anxious, you might feel like it is permanent and worry that you will never feel good again. This can be quite frightening, so you may need to remind yourself that your feelings are only temporary.Try saying something like: “This is only a small moment in time.” Or, “These feelings will not last.”

, Dwelling on the past or future can provoke anxiety, so training yourself to focus on the present can also be a good way to reduce anxiety. Focusing on the present can also make it easier for you to deal with the issues or tasks that are facing you right now.To make yourself more aware of the present moment, pay attention to what is happening around you. Who is there? What do you see? What do you hear? What do you smell? What do you feel?
You may want to practice meditation to become more focused on the present. Meditation is also a great way to reduce anxiety.