 Roundworms, tapeworms, whipworms and hookworms are found in the intestinal tract of dogs and are shed in the feces of infected animals. These worms share several common symptoms that can be identified in some cases.Some intestinal parasites are transmitted from one dog to the next by what is called “fecal-oral transmission.” The worm eggs are deposited by an infected dog through the feces and enter the dog’s intestinal tract by mouth. Even though you cannot see the eggs or even the feces anymore, there can be eggs in the grass waiting for your dog to walk through. Your dog will lick their paws and ingest the eggs which begin the intestinal infection.Tapeworms specifically are transmitted by dogs accidentally ingesting fleas.While you may not be able to determine which type of intestinal worms your dog has, keeping an eye out for these symptoms can help you determine if your dog may need treatment for intestinal worms.;
, Intestinal worms can often be detected by observing changes in a dog's normal feces. Be on the lookout for any of these issues:


Roundworms and whipworms can both cause diarrhea. If your dog suffers from this condition often or for an extended period of time, this merits a trip to the vet.Hookworms and whipworms can both cause blood to appear in a dogs stool. If you notice blood in your dog's feces, contact your vet immediately.Tapeworm segments can often be seen in the dogs feces or clinging to the hair around its anus. If you notice something that looks like grains of white rice in the dog's excrement, this is most likely a sign of tapeworm., A dog with intestinal parasites may vomit frequently. In particular, this can be a sign of roundworms or tapeworms., In some cases, a dog with worms may develop a cough. More specifically, this may be a symptom of roundworms.A cough can be a sign of several different health conditions, so if your dog develops a cough, it is wise to contact a veterinarian promptly.
 If your dog suddenly becomes swollen around the mid-section, or loses weight rapidly, either of these may be a sign of intestinal worms.A swollen belly may be a sign of roundworms, whereas weight loss could suggest roundworms, tapeworms, or whipworms.
 Some intestinal worms can be detected by their impact on sheen of your dog's hair or the condition of its skin.If your dog's normally lustrous coat has become dull and flat, this could be a sign of roundworms.
Skin irritation could be a sign of hookworms.
 If your dog has been more flatulent than usual (i.e. is "farting" a lot), this can also be a warning sign, specifically of whipworms., Because these parasites steal vital nutrients from your dog, they may cause your dog to become iron-deficient.Anemia can be observed by looking at a dog's gums. Dogs' gums should be pink, like a persons. If they are pale, this is a likely sign of anemia, a condition that can result from both hookworms and whipworms.
 There are number of behavioral changes that can occur if a dog has intestinal parasites. For example:


A dog with tapeworms may become agitated, experience abdominal pain, or experience itching around the anus, leading it to drag its hindquarters along the ground.A dog with hookworms or whipworms may become lethargic. A sudden decrease in your dog's energy can be a warning sign that merits a visit to the vet., Heartworms are a blood parasite and are transmitted by mosquito bite from one dog to the next.Unlike the other types of worms discussed in this article, early infection with heartworm has no symptoms, and the dog can look and act fine for years.As such, it is important to have your dog's blood tested for heartworm regularly.


In most areas, an annual blood test is sufficient for both detecting potential cases of heartworm and ensuring any heartworm preventative medications are not making your dog unhealthy.In the advanced stages of infection, a dog may display symptoms such as a swollen belly, dull coat, coughing, rapid or labored breathing, or lack of energy.
For a dog displaying these symptoms, it may already be too late, as many advanced cases of heartworm are fatal. Thus, it is very important to have your dog checked regularly by a professional.
 If you suspect your dog is suffering from intestinal worms, your first step should be to make an appointment with your veterinarian, who will be able to properly diagnose the problem and prescribe the appropriate treatment.Your vet will most likely ask you to collect a stool sample before your appointment. She or he will use this sample to determine whether and what type of intestinal worms your dog may have.
 Most intestinal parasites can be treated with one of several different oral medications. Which type you use and how frequently is must be administered will depend on your veterinarian's recommendations and the type of worms your dog has.


For roundworms and hookworms, you'll most likely need to give your dog oral medication, called a "dewormer," and the dog will probably have to be be checked for reinfection every 3-6 months for a certain period of time after the treatment has begun.More than one medication will treat roundworms and hookworms, some of which can be found “over the counter,” while others require a veterinary prescription. Pyrantel pamoate and fenbendazole can be found over the counter as a treatment for both roundworms and hookworms.Pyrantel is safe enough to give most puppies starting at 4 weeks of age. It is best to contact your veterinarian before administering any medication to your pet.In the case of roundworms or hookworms, the dog will also most likely need to have monthly heartworm medicine that contains roundworm prevention administered to manage reinfection.The drugs, Praziquantel and Epsiprantel, are commonly used to treat Tapeworms.Whipworms can only be killed by certain medications. These include fenbendazole or febantel. This treatment will last for five days, and will need to be repeated after three weeks. Monthly heartworm medicine that contains medication to prevent Whipworms is also often recommended., A dog that has been infected with heartworm should receive treatment as soon as possible The treatment for adult heartworm infection requires a veterinarian.The severity of the infection and the amount of damage the worms have done to the heart and lungs needs to be evaluated by your veterinarian so that the proper treatment plan can be developed.There are several steps to a typical heartworm treatment that take place over a period of six to twelve months. These steps include oral medication, as well as a series of injections (typically three) of special medicine into the back muscles of the dog.Heartworm is a very serious condition, and even with treatment, some dogs with advanced infections will not survive.
 To ensure that any type of worms are caught and treated before the case becomes advanced, see a veterinarian regularly.


For preventative purposes, it's a good idea to get your dog's feces tested at least once a year.If your dog spends a lot of time outdoors or with other dogs, if your dog hunts and eats live prey, or if you live in an area where any of these parasites are especially common, it is a good idea to have your dog's stool tested more frequently.
 Preventing heartworm is safer and cheaper than treating it, so you should start puppies on heartworm prevention medication as young as 8 weeks of age. Many of the preventatives available for heartworms are are also effective in reducing the risk of intestinal parasites, making the use of these medicines doubly important.There are many forms of Heartworm prevention medications available and your veterinarian can advise you of your options.The most common heartworm preventatives are available in both oral and topical forms.
Many heartworm preventatives also help to prevent fleas and ticks. While no one product prevents all parasites, your veterinarian will help you decide which product is most appropriate for your pet’s health.Heartworm prevention is typically administered or applied monthly, although there is one variety that can be administered as a long-acting injection and lasts six months.This medication only prevents heartworms and does not protect against intestinal parasites.
If you live in an area where heartworm prevention is not required, there are medications such pyrantel pamoate, fenbendazole and praziquantel that can be administered that treat only intestinal parasites., Tapeworm infections occur most commonly as a result of dogs eating fleas, so keeping your dog free of these nuisance insects is the best way to prevent tapeworms.There are several over-the-counter topical and oral flea prevention medications, as well as prescription flea products, that effectively manage fleas and therefore control tapeworm infection.Although not as effective, this can also be attempted with flea collars and flea baths., Hookworms and whipworms are both commonly transmitted through feces. Clean up your dog's poop often, and keep your dog away from the leavings of other dogs.