 Aloe vera is well-known for soothing and moisturizing damaged skin, but it can provide the same benefits to your hair as well. You will need:


Plain, full-fat yogurt (Greek or standard) – 3 tbsp
Aloe vera – 4 tbsp
Olive oil – 2 tbsp
Mix these ingredients together, then rub them into your hair just like you would with conditioner. Let them sit in your hair for half an hour. Rinse without shampooing for glossy, shiny hair.
 Egg whites are another wonderful remedy for dry hair. They are cheap and can add enough moisture to damaged hair to make it much easier to style and manage. You will need:


One egg
Water – 3 tbsp
Separate the white of the egg from its yolk. Place it in a small mixing bowl. Add the water and blend well. Apply all over your hair. Wait for 30 minutes before washing. You’ll be surprised by your hair's new shine.
 Egg mixed with full-fat yogurt can be used to make a great protective "mask" that will add moisture back to dry hair. For this recipe, you'll use whole eggs, rather than whites. You will need:


Two eggs
Plain, full-fat yogurt (Greek or standard) – 2 tbsp
Beat the eggs in a medium-sized bowl. Add the yogurt and mix. You’ll end up with a creamy, smooth paste. Rub this throughout your hair. Leave on for at least 20 minutes before washing with cold water.
 This is an excellent way to get lustrous hair in minutes. You will also love the smell of your hair once it’s dry. You will need:


Honey – 2 tbsp
Rice milk – 1 cup
Blend the ingredients together with the help of a spoon. Spread the mixture over your hair and allow it to sit for 10-15 minutes. Rinse off.
 Though it may not seem like it, vinegar can be a sure-fire ticket for super-soft and shiny hair. You will need:


Vinegar – 1 tbsp
Pour the vinegar in your hair as you wash it the next time you’re in the shower. Rinse well and shampoo as normal. This will help get the smell out.
 When used regularly, baking soda repairs damage and absorbs only the excess oil in your hair, keeping you hair soft and luxurious. You will need:


Water – ¼ cup
Baking soda – 1 tsp
Make a smooth paste of the ingredients and comb it into your hair. Follow with a thorough rinse and wash. Alternatively, substitute one beaten egg for the water.

