 When possible, try to figure out the solution to your problem on your own before you ask your teacher for help. Teachers like it when students try to problem solve before asking for help.It shows independence.


Try to use your resources. For example, see if the answer to your question is in your textbook or notes.
Some teachers tell students to “phone a friend” or ask another student for help before asking the teacher.;
, A lot of times people won’t ask for help because they are afraid they will look stupid or embarrass themselves.The truth is, not asking for help is usually worse because you don’t get the help you need. If you’ve tried to problem solve, but still need help, then be brave and ask your teacher.


Take a deep breath and remind yourself that asking your teacher for help is a mature thing to do.
Say to yourself, “Asking for help means I’m mature. It’s what I should do when I don’t understand.”
You can also remind yourself, “There’s probably someone else that has the same question, but is afraid to ask. So I’ll be brave and ask.”

, Yelling “I need help” or just blurting out your question while your teacher is talking is not the best way to get your teacher’s attention. Your teacher has probably let you know how you should get their attention when you need help.


Raise your hand or use the signal your teacher taught you for getting their attention.
For example, your teacher might have taught you to hold up an American Sign Language ‘a’ to silently signal that you want to ask a question.
Sometimes you may need to approach your teacher to get their attention. If you do, politely say “Excuse me.”
For example, your Math teacher is at his desk looking over papers and doesn’t see your raised hand. You could walk up and say, “Excuse me, Mr. Jenkins.”

, But, it will be a lot easier for you to ask for help, and get the help you need from your teacher, if you let them know exactly what you need help with.You can start by saying something like, “Mr. Golden, could you help me with the fourth discussion question?”
Then you can be more specific. For example, “I don’t understand what the second part of the question is asking.”

, That doesn’t help you learn and most teachers won’t just give you the answer anyway. Instead, ask your teacher for help finding the answer or remembering the steps to find the answer.


This will help you figure out similar questions and show your teacher that you want to be a good problem-solver.
For example, instead of asking, “What’s the main topic of this passage?” You could ask, “How do I find the main topic of a passage?”
Or you might say, "How do I multiple two-digit numbers?" instead of, "What is 30 times 15?"

, Paying attention to your teacher’s answer will get you the help you need with your schoolwork. It will also show your teacher respect which will encourage them to help you next time you ask.


Don’t get inpatient if their answer turns into a mini-lesson. Your teacher is just trying to help you and make sure you understand.
Their answer to your question might answer another question you have or teach you something else.
Ask more questions if you don’t understand. For example, you could say, “And how do I know if it’s a right angle?”

