 Gifts mean more when they show that you put some time and effort into them. They don’t have to be expensive, either; anything that shows that you thought about what would make your mom happy will probably have the effect you want.


For example, if your mom loves Star Wars, fold her an origami Yoda! While it’s also very cheap to make, this gift shows that you pay attention to her interests and will take the time to brighten up her day.You could also make your mom a “coupon book” with things she can redeem, such as “one breakfast in bed” or “one bad joke upon request.”
Mix tapes may be too “old school” for you, but you can put together a playlist of songs that remind you of your mom, or songs that make you happy when you’re feeling down. Share this playlist with her, and whenever she hears that song, she’ll think of you.
 Maybe your mom always slipped a note into your lunch telling you that she loves you and always will. Why not try it out yourself? You can even pack her lunch for her and leave it in the fridge so she doesn’t have to do a thing in the morning.
 Sure, it can be embarrassing to bring your friends home to your mom. You never know if she’s going to try to haul out your baby pictures or talk about that “cute”thing you did when you were 5. However, making your mom feel involved in your life will remind her that you care about her -- even when she’s embarrassing you.
 Doing chores can be stressful and a huge time-suck. Take some of the pressure off your mom by helping out with things you’re able to do. This works even better if you surprise her; for example, if she gets home from work and finds all the dishes done already, she’ll probably be really happy.
 Getting dinner together can be incredibly stressful. If you know your mom is having a busy week, tell her you’d like to cook dinner one night. Even if you can’t do it all yourself, offer to help her in the kitchen. You’ll learn some sweet cooking skills and get to spend quality time together.


Breakfast in bed is a tried-and-true classic. While many people save it for Mother’s Day, the truth is that your mom will probably appreciate breakfast in bed on any weekend!
Take time to figure out what her favorite foods are and make them for her. If she likes something that’s too complicated for you, or that you don’t know how to make, ask her to teach you how to make it a few weeks before you want to make it for her.
 It can be incredibly stressful and time-consuming for your mom to manage everyone’s schedules, especially if you are part of a large family. Keeping up with your appointments and outings on your own will help take the burden off your mom. A mom with less stress is a mom with more happiness!, Ask to hang out just the two of you, or suggest you see a movie that she’s said she’s really excited about. You can offer to play video games with her or just go on a walk; the important thing is to show that you’re interested in spending time with her.


Outings don’t even have to cost anything. For example, if you’re both animal lovers, suggest that you and your mom go to the local animal shelter and play with the animals. Many rescue animals need socialization, so in addition to making your mom happy, you’ll also be helping cats, dogs, and the occasional ferret.
 Nothing makes a mom feel more special than her children remembering her birthday or anniversary. Send her a heartfelt letter, card, or e-card that expresses how much she means to you.


To help you remember important dates, put them into your phone’s calendar. If you’re friends with your mom on Facebook (yeah, it happens!), Facebook will remind you about her upcoming birthday.

