 If you suffer from seasonal allergies, you should always check your local newspaper, TV station, radio station, or the Internet for pollen forecasts. These resources will also tell you about current pollen levels. Once you know how much pollen is in the air, you can plan your daily activities accordingly.Take allergy medication before symptoms begin when pollen counts are high.;
, Avoiding allergens is the best way to minimize seasonal allergy symptoms. If the pollen count is high, or if pollen is in the forecast, avoid spending time outside. Stay inside between the hours of 5 a.m. and 9 a.m., when most plants are pollinating., If you must go outdoors when pollen counts are high, consider wearing a mask. A standard respiratory mask can help reduce the amount of pollen you inhale while spending time outdoors. Make sure the mask is firmly fitted to your face.If you are allergic to grass, make sure you wear a mask while you mow.
 It is important that you wash your hands often during allergy season. Pollen can get on your hands, and you can easily transfer it to your respiratory system when you touch your face. Washing your hands will mild soap and warm water will help remove allergens.
 It is easy to transfer allergens from your hands to your respiratory system. One way to reduce this transfer is by avoiding touching your mouth, ears, or eyes when pollen counts are high. This can help reduce seasonal allergy symptoms., Shoes and clothing can carry high levels of pollen, especially if you have been wearing them in grass or areas of dense vegetation. To prevent the transfer of pollen from your shoes or clothes, try leaving them on the porch or in the garage. This can help you decrease allergen levels within your home., An easy way to reduce exposure to allergens is by washing your clothing and your body after being outside. Take a shower and run a load of laundry as soon as you come inside.Make sure you put on clean clothes after you take a bath or shower.
 To reduce the presence of allergens in your home, you will need to make cleaning a priority. Vacuum your home at least twice each week, and mop hard floor surfaces after vacuuming or sweeping. You should also dust your home after vacuuming.Make sure your vacuum has a HEPA filter, which will help remove allergens.
 Using an air conditioner will help you reduce allergens in the indoor environment. Keep your windows and doors closed and cool your house with air conditioning instead. Make sure the air conditioner has a HEPA filter., If your pet spends time outside, they need to be bathed on a regular basis. Pet fur can carry allergens into your home, so it is important that you maintain your pet’s hygiene during allergy season. If you can’t bathe your pet after it spends time outdoors, try to wipe it down with a damp cloth or pet cleaning wipe.

