 If you are suffering from these symptoms, this can be a sign you should start treatment and maybe contact a doctor. The sooner you take action, the quicker you can get relief. Symptoms of swollen veins only occur in the area where the swollen vein exists.Common symptoms include fullness, heaviness, aching, and pain in the legs; mild swelling of feet or ankles; and itching. You will probably also see visible swollen veins, particularly in your legs.
More severe symptoms include leg swelling, leg or calf pain after sitting or standing for long periods; color changes to the skin of the legs or ankles; dry, irritated, and scaly skin that cracks easily; skin sores that don’t heal easily; and thickening and hardening of the skin in your legs and ankles.
 This causes strain on your legs, which can lead to pain and poor blood flow. Find ways to take a break and sit down for a while, breaking up the time when you are standing.When you sit, make sure you avoid crossing your legs. Keep them raised when possible, which will let the blood flow away from them. If possible, probably while lying down, raise your legs above your heart level to further reduce blood flow.
 Sitting in this position will lead to a restriction of your blood flow. Your restricted blood flow can cause the lower veins to dilate (because the venous drainage to the heart is restricted., Look for workouts that helps to stimulate your legs muscles. The contraction of skeletal muscle in the legs will help blood flow back into your heart and through the rest of your body, putting less pressure on the veins in your legs.Even just flexing your foot up and down when sedentary can help propel blood through the veins of your legs.Exercises that are recommended for people dealing with this condition include walking, jogging, and swimming. Swimming, in particular, is good because it keeps your body horizontal, which means that your blood is less likely to accumulate in your legs and cause your veins to become swollen.
 If you are overweight, you should consider losing some weight to help treat your swollen veins. When you are overweight, more pressure is put on your lower body, including your legs and feet. This can cause more blood to go to that area, which can lead to swollen veins.To best lose weight, find ways to control your diet. Limit portion sizes and get a good balance of foods. Look for lean proteins, low-fat dairy, whole grain cereals and fibers, healthy oils, and fresh fruits and vegetables. Avoid eating sweets, fried or processed meals, and foods high in trans or hydrogenated fats.Talk to a doctor about your weight loss goals. She can tell you if they are realistic or manageable, and can provide additional guidance to help you reach them. Your doctor can also help you create a diet plan that takes into account any medications you are taking.
 Aside from being generally unhealthy for you, smoking can also increase pressure in your veins. Some substances in cigarette smoke have very negative effects on your blood vessels, including the venous walls. It is better to stop smoking so that your veins will not become too dilated, leading to swelling.