 You can run a Google search on different zoos and aquariums - not necessarily in your city but anywhere in the world - to see which have a clean record and treat their animals with care and respect, as much as a zoo or aquarium environment allows. If you feel that the dolphins at a zoo or aquarium are not being cared for properly, look for other options or adopt from a recognized wildlife organization instead.


If you live near a zoo or aquarium that offers dolphin adoption, you can also ask employees at the zoo or aquarium whether:

the dolphins are healthy
the water condition is good
the dolphins are being fed well
the tanks are large enough to keep the dolphins happy and active



, Many zoos and aquariums offer adoption of their animals as a way to offset the costs of food and veterinary bills.Some packages may include an adoption certificate, photo, and/or a plush toy.Prices for these packages range widely and are generally tax-deductible.


Animals at zoos or aquariums might have more than one adoptive "parent" due to the popularity of the species., You can do this by visiting the zoo in person or by looking at the establishment's website. Usually, you'll be asked to choose the dolphin you like the most out of several, select a package, and then make a payment.
 If you adopt a dolphin from a local zoo or aquarium, you have the bonus of being able to visit them in person whenever you want to check up on them. Seeing the subject of your donation up close can be rewarding; people tend to respond more to charitable causes that have one, clearly identifiable recipient.You can also introduce family and friends to your sponsored dolphin this way.
 There is ample research to suggest that being in captivity is detrimental for dolphins and other cetaceans. Dolphins are highly intelligent, emotional creatures who live in complex societies in the wild, and travel and move regularly;in theory, no tank is big enough to accommodate dolphins, who swim up to 100 miles a day in the wild.Keep in mind that when adopting a dolphin from a zoo or aquarium, you may be inadvertently supporting animal captivity. Be comfortable with what your donation will be used for, be it research, education, or maintenance, and don't forget to check that the zoo or aquarium you're adopting from is legitimate, well-established, and treats its animals with as much dignity as possible.

