 Those with social anxiety may feel comfortable with close friends and family, but feel unnerved by unfamiliar people. When you are looking to plan social activities, be sure to only include the people with whom you can be yourself around.That way, you know you will actually spend your time enjoying the activity rather than being worried over something you said in the presence of a stranger.;
, If you want to make an effort to engage with others despite your social anxiety, seeing a movie at the cinema is a great way to start. This activity drastically drops the pressure level for people with social anxiety because there’s not much opportunity to actually talk. All you have to do is show up, buy some popcorn, and be entertained.Suggest to a group of friends or peers that you’d love to see a movie with them. If asking in person seems to intimidating, send out a group text message or email.
 Another outlet for social interaction and stress relief is art. Artistic expression gives you an opportunity to channel your feelings or worries into something tangible, and hopefully beautiful. Many cities have studios where groups can register to paint together. You might have to recreate a specific image or choose one of your own.Look for an art studio in your area and check it out with one or two close friends. What’s more, you may even notice yourself relaxing due to the relaxing qualities of painting coupled with the side-by-side setup of the studio.
People with social anxiety often feel intimidated by prolonged eye contact, so you may find it easier to chat while working beside each other., Individuals with social anxiety are unnerved by speaking or performing in front of others. Therefore, you are more likely to have fun when you engage in activities in which there is no center stage. Laser tag is an option for spending time with your close friends without having to talk or be put on the spot. Just run around and act silly for a change.
 You probably feel less intimidated with immediate family or a few close pals. Hosting a game night gives you and loved ones something fun to do while keeping the circle small and close-knit. You can better enjoy their company and even learn things about them without the awkwardness of direct one-on-one conversation.


What’s more, planning a game night offers you the opportunity to actually spend time with a group of friends or family without having to go out on the town or be in crowds. You can laugh and relax in the comfort of your own home., Outdoor activities can be relaxing, and they often include healthy exercise. Plan an outing with your friends or family to go out into nature. You can visit a local park, beach, or lake. You might go:

Hiking
Biking
Golfing
Fishing
Kayaking

, If you enjoy stand-up comedy, you might go see a show. As an audience member, you can laugh without becoming the center of attention. Look to see if any comedians are visiting your area. You can also search for local open-mic nights to watch local talent perform.