 This method uses basic items found around your house, though you may have to purchase distilled water and pH test strips.


Feminized cannabis seeds.
1 to 2 gallons of distilled (nonchlorinated) water.
2 clean dinner plates.
1 roll of paper towels.
A warm, dark place to store seeds.
Tweezers (do not handle seeds with your hands).
pH test kit.
Good potting soil.
Seed tray with 1x1 inch cells or plastic cups.
Compact fluorescent Lights.Grow light timer.
 To distill water at home, fill the container you will use to soak the seeds with tap water and let it sit in the open for 24 hrs to evaporate chlorine. You can also purchase distilled water from a grocery store or plant nursery.


Test the pH of the water with pH test strips.It should measure between 5.8 and 6.5. You want pH of water and soil to be as close to ideal as possible to ensure proper germination.The seeds will float at first, but eventually sink. You can give the seeds a little tap with the tweezers to help them sink. If they still float after 24 hours, they might not be viable (able to germinate).
 Use distilled water at room temperature to moisten the paper towels. Drain-off excess water.
 Use tweezers to remove seeds from water and place on moistened paper towel. Cover these with two additional moist paper towel sheets. Then, place a second dinner plate over the paper towels and seeds. This will help keep the seeds warm.


Keep the seeds covered and store in a warm, dark place. Ideally the temperature should be between 70-90 degrees Fahrenheit for the seeds to germinate.
Check seeds and paper towels regularly. Re-moisten the paper towels as needed, making sure to drain any excess water.
 After about 5-6 days (though it may take longer depending on the variety) you should observe a small white taproot extending from one end of the seed. Fill a small plastic cup or seed tray with good potting soil and water until saturated.Use your finger to create a 1/4 in (0.75 cm) hole and drop your seeds in with the taproot facing down. Cover with loose soil - do not pat or tamp down soil over the seed.
Use a spray bottle to ensure the soil remains moist, but not inundated.
A sprout should appear within 4-6 days, and seedlings should have leaves after 10-14 days.
Set tray or plastic cups with seedlings under a fluorescent (T5, T8, or T12) grow lamp positioned no closer than 2-4 inches above the surface of the soil. Set grow light to a 24 hour light cycle. Germinated seeds and seedlings require 24 hours. This can be reduced to 16 hours of light once the seedling produces leaves.