 You can either use self-hypnosis or have someone else hypnotize you. Since you want to be as responsive as possible, it may be helpful for you or your hypnotist to use a hyperempiricinduction, based on suggestions of alertness, mind expansion, and enhanced awareness and sensitivity, instead of a more traditional hypnotic induction based on expressed or implied suggestions of drowsiness, lethargy, and sleep (Gibbons, 2000, 2001, 2010).;
, These include: Beliefs, Emotions, Sensations and physical perceptions, Thoughts and images, Motives, and Expectations, which can be summed up by their initials, "BEST ME," as in this illustration.


(B) The presentation you are about to see will be one of the most interesting and thrilling experiences of your life, because you are going to feel like you are part of the action instead of part of the audience. But any time you want to, you can let yourself out the experience just by touching your thumb and index finger together in a circle, to make the letter "o," which will immediately return you to an everyday state of consciousness.
(E) You will be able to feel just as much of the excitement and emotion as you want to, but never more than you want to feel.
(S) The experience will be so real to you that it will involve all five of your senses: sight, hearing, touch, taste, and smell.
(T) Your mind will be filled with amazement at how real everything around you seems to be.
(M) And you will want to experience more adventures like this again and again.
(E) Now, your anticipation and excitement is going to get stronger and stronger until the performance begins, and when it is over you will always remember it fondly as one of the most enjoyable experiences you have ever had.
 A person who enjoyed the motion picture, Sea Biscuit, for example, might be able to derive a considerable amount of satisfaction in hypnosis or self-hypnosis by riding the horse to victory, with considerable elaboration to capture the full detail and excitement of the race as it progresses, using suggestions such as these:



Belief systems. You are a jockey mounted astride Sea Biscuit, ready to ride him to victory in the race of his life.

Emotions. Feel the excitement in both you and Sea Biscuit rise to a fever pitch in the starting gate as the race is about to begin.

Sensations and physical perceptions. See the assembled throng cheering you on as the race begins, and hear their roars of approval mixing with the sound of hooves all around you, as you feel Sea Biscuit giving his all in just the right manner which will lead you to final victory.

Thoughts and images. You already know are headed for a certain success, which will provide memories and inspiration to last a lifetime.

Motives. As you approach the finish line, your desire for the inevitable triumph rises to an intensity stronger than anything you have ever known before.

Expectations. You cross the finish line, dismount, and walk your steed to the winner’s circle to bask in the glory of your victory. And the triumph you have just experienced will be but echoed in the satisfaction you feel in the future in the fulfillment of a job well done.



For example, you may be able to use YouTube find out what what it would feel like to receive a Nobel Prize, win an international beauty pageant, or be crowned a British monarch, or elected President of the United States.
If you prefer fictional adventures, you could watch DVDs to feel as if you actually are Juliet on her balcony, or Indiana Jones in pursuit of hidden treasure, or Dr. Who and his companion traveling through time. The choice is yours!

,