 Look for an icon on the MLB.com siderail of games in progress that looks like a baseball diamond/baseball field. Revel in the beauty of what the screen looks like with all the good information it broadcasts to you.
 Each part has several other pieces of information it is broadcasting to you., This advertisement will more often portray baseball issues faced, though sometimes it will display events that MLB is a proud supporter of.;
, Although the earphone icon (for Gameday Audio) and TV icon (Gameday Video) are always displayed, if you don't have these services, you can pay for them, otherwise, when you click them, they won't do anything. If you already have these services, you'll be able to listen or watch the game's radio or TV feeds utilizing additional web page data for these games.


Sometimes, there will be additional links to change the date from one days games to another. This way seldom works, and will only be available for a limited time after the 11AM EDT cut-off thanks to MLB not refreshing these by 1PM and can sometimes be seen at that time. For most games at night, you won't see these buttons nor the date in this area of the screen.
Due to the cost of these services changing from day-to-day, the cost to purchase these services will change and therefore not be described in this article. Click these icons to find out the purchase price for that particular service.
 The middle layer has three real parts - a left siderail, a center real-time image and a right siderail - with the left siderail being a text-based representation and information collection of the direct center's field-of-view area.
 Not only will the left-hand siderail ticker tell you who's at bat, but it will also tell you the pitcher and his current pitching details (including name, jersey number, his pitching hand, ERA data, and total pitches (which are subdivided into strikes and balls) the batter details (including the name, jersey number, his position, game At-bat to hit ratio, batting average, total amount of home runs and total RBI's to date) has to face. Also the left ticker is the current score and additional details of exact breakdown of how each pitch fared in relation to the balls and strikes issue and a breakdown of each pitcher-batter matchup along with any substitutions the feed may have encountered.


Look for some of the additional details in the left siderail as to indicate what types of pitches are being thrown along with the speeds on these balls as they are being tracked on radar. Also, look for the result of the batting performance in this siderail.

This siderail contains data such as the radar gun speed on the pitch, the type of pitch that MLB believes could have been thrown due to curvature of the ball portrayed in the center area, along with the markup of how the balls and strikes were thrown along with the resultant to the player workup.
All pitches and information is tracked in almost realtime (with little delay after real pitch is thrown).
Look for the details that display times when runs are scored. This is denoted by the words "in play. Runs scored" along with how many runs were scored in that play.
 On top of the center tile looking like that of what the player may see when they step up to the plate (with some iconic backgrounds at the back wall of the stadium), this center tile of the center layer also shows the approximate location the ball was thrown, along with where the batter is most comfortable hitting.


The center of the middle layer of the screen provides a detailed look at the hitting location of the batter, along with his "hot zones" (where the player is good at batting). The hot-zones also show the approximate projected path of the thrown ball.

The zones where the player is great at hitting is indicated in a red coloring. The zone the player tends to miss pitches is indicated in blue, and when the player has a 50-50 chance of hitting this zone is indicated in white.


The background remains unclickable throughout the entire game.
The background of a spring training game is generically made, since the MLB doesn't have these illustrations to show it's users.
Read the results of each pitch thrown. Balls are denoted in green, strikes are denoted in red, and blue icons denote pitches thrown that resulted in a hit ball to somewhere that was on the playing field which is/was playable.
Understand about the makeup of what shirts these players are shown to wear are made to represent. The shirts the players on the screen are wearing, are supposed to look identical to the ones the player is wearing in real-life.

Look at what the player looks like. Along with the current jersey that look's like the current batter's jersey, you can also observe the side the player is currently batting from. For switch hitters though, this may not work too well, as the system isn't currently set up to monitor this situation very well and hasn't been fixed to show these batting position changes.
 You can also obtain other miscellaneous media about the game from either the "Plays", "Video", "Field" or "Feed" buttons above the boxscore.


No longer is the field information shown to the viewer as a default option. You must access the "Field" tab here instead to see field dimensions for that particular stadium's playing field as well as which players are on which bases (players on the bases appear with a darker colored brown background)
Look for the current box score along with the current lineup and stats for all players who have played a pivotal role in the lineup for both teams. If your current team is up to bat and you haven't yet touched the icons from the right side, you can switch between the two teams' lineups by clicking the appropriate team name icon button.
Watch the pitching situation's stats below the batting stats under the team stats chart. This will tell you the order each pitcher's has pitched in, along with their pitching stats. (No, only pitching stats are displayed in that displayed box below.
Look for additional pitch stats below the pitching information. These stats include ratios of pitches to strikes, along with groundouts to flyouts, total batters faced per pitcher, names of the umpires, weather at time of first pitch (temperature and weather conditions), wind speeds, time of first pitch (adjusted to locations time zone) and the name of the venue.

Look for the names of each of the umpires listed below the "batters faced" line of this screen, if you scroll this siderail down enough with your mouse's scroll wheel. This is no separate scrollbar for these siderails and scrolling on the page's scrollbars won't help the situation any- but will make this situation a lot worse.
 The bottom has quite a lot of information for the viewer to understand the game.
 However, here, you also get an icon that designates the status of the Manager's challenge. The yellow dot indicates if the manager still has a challenge that they can utilize to help their team better win and challenge the calls on the field.


The Manager's challenge icon is an almost new feature to professional baseball games. This new feature first began in the 2014 season, and can be changed, and there are so many ways these can be utilized, that these will not be provided here. The rules for this are written here for anyone to read, though this shouldn't be an everyday need when this page is needed to verify whether it was a contributable play that could be challenged.
 As each base fills up in color, these base indicates that there is someone on-base.
, This information is also given to you from the bottom of the screen.
 This area shows a short animated clip of what happened. Although it displays this animated clip, the clips are only text-based and can fly in and change quickly, but change back out prior to the game continuing.
 Look for Gameday Mini and Classic Gameday to be shown to you, if this Gameday View is too powerful for your computer, or is way too appealing to look at that you can't stand looking at it for too long. Look for the "Game Preview" either before the game or during the game to see what's about to happen in the game as the game takes center stage. Classic Gameday has a lot fewer features and is less pleasing to the eye than the current rendition of the PC app, but there are still some who still like the less pleasant taste to this day.
 The footer of the MLB.com site includes such links as the MLB.com Terms of Use, Privacy Policy, Legal Notices and a Contact Us button which don't tend to have much to-do with the game itself unless someone has a question about the MLB in general or a feature about the Gameday screen that isn't/wasn't answered already.

