 The first screen you'll see is the sandbox. This is a little empty space where you can play around with objects, run and jump. The small notepad icon in the top right corner is where you input any object you want to "summon" or create.;
, You can think of anything you want to use, but there are limitations. If you attempt to break any of the following rules, it will take it as "misspelled" and you have to think of another one.


You can only create physical things, for example, a hammer or a doctor. Expressions like love or happiness can't be made.
No illegal or illicit objects like porn or beer.
It can not be copyrighted like Nintendo.
Words can be summoned if found in the in-game dictionary. There are more than 20,000 available objects in the game.
Adjectives can be inserted in the game if you have Super Scribblenauts.
 The top image is to play challenges, the house & hammer is the level editor, the register is the dollar store, and the tree with the "plus" sign is to play extra levels.
 Some of it is general information and others you will need to focus on.


Ollars: This is the Scribblenauts currency. Each time you do something special in the game or complete a level, you earn ollars. You can use dollars to buy different game worlds, avatars, and songs.
Stars: The stars represents the level difficulty. One star means easy while four is hard.
Objects: Tells you how many objects you have created so far.
Par: Tells you how many objects it should take to complete the level. If you complete it by using a lesser amount of par, you gain more ollars for that level. This is omitted in Super Scribblenauts.
Thermometer: Tells you how much object space you have. Think of it as a "storage box" - the more objects you have at once, the more orange the thermometer gets. Also, the larger or bigger an object is, the more "space" it will take. To delete objects, use your stylus to drag the item to the notepad/recycle bin.
 Action levels initially show you where the starlite is and you need to perform an action to get it to complete the level. Puzzle levels allow you to perform tasks in order for the starlite to show up and complete the level. If you want to switch between the two, tap on the corresponding icon in the level chooser screen.
 Use the directional arrows to view your surroundings and in a few seconds, it will automatically snap back to Maxwell. Tap with your stylus to move Maxwell.
 You make the game and how each level ends. Whether you want to use a UFO to fly somewhere or kill a Giant Crab with a black hole, the sky is the limit.

