 Everyone wants to know the causes of the War. There’ no better place to begin your search than by reading the Declarations of the Causes of Secession. While all eleven Confederate Sates didn’t issue such declarations, South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Georgia, Texas, and Virginia did. All but Virginia’s are long documents.You can find the declarations at http://www.civilwarcauses.org/plat.htm


, War diaries have a way of conveying the immediacy of the War in the way an academic history can’t, and even the worst diaries allow you to see what the authors thought of their experiences. There are hundreds of diaries available to view, whether held in private collections or widely published.


To get an idea of the soldier’s experience, read All for the Union, by Elisha Hunt Rhodes, and Co. Aytch, by Sam Watkins, a Confederate soldier.For a view from the home front, try A Diary from Dixie, by Mary Boykin Chestnut, and Volume 3 of The Diary of George Templeton Strong, who was a New York attorney who helped found the US Sanitary Commission. Both works are masterpieces of the diary format; pithy, insightful, and representative of the larger thinking., Another great way to research the Civil War period is by looking up newspaper articles that are contemporary with an event you are studying. The Civil War was the heyday of the “partisan press” period of US history, when the media made no effort at conveying the news objectively, so the tone is quite different than what you might find in a modern newspaper.


For example, if you’ve developed an interest in the battle of Antietam, a good way to research the contemporary impressions of the battle is by searching a newspaper’s archives for the dates surrounding the battle.
Almost all extant newspapers will let you search their online archives for a fee, and many allow the public to search the archives for free. The most comprehensive free source is probably the New York Times, but there are thousands of digitized pages available for free on the web. One of the most comprehensive is the collection curated by the Virginia Polytechnic Institute. You can view the indexed listing of archived papers at https://dcr.emd.vt.edu/vital/access/manager/Browse/sm_description.

