 The table is structured from left to right in order of increasing atomic number. The atomic number is the number of protons in a single atom.


Not every row or column is complete. Although there may be breaks in the center, reading the table will continue from left to right. For instance, Hydrogen has an atomic number of 1 and it is in the top left. Helium has an atomic number of 2 and it is in the top right.
Elements 57 through 102 are usually pictured as a subset at the bottom right of the table. These are the “rare earth elements.”

, There are 18 columns.


Use the term “reading down a group” to read from top to bottom.
Numbering will usually be above the columns; however, it may appear below other groupings, such as metal.
The numbering used on the periodic table will differ greatly. They can be Roman (IA), Arabic (1A), or numbers 1 through 18.
Hydrogen may be placed in the halogen family and the alkali metal family, or both.
 There are 7 periods. Use the phrase “reading across a period” to read from left to right.


The periods are usually numbered 1 through 7 on the left hand side of the table.
Each period is bigger than the last. This is associated with increasing energy levels of atoms on the periodic table.
 The colors will vary greatly.


Metals are shaded one color. However, hydrogen is usually shaded and grouped with the non-metals. Metals have luster, are usually solid at room temperature, conduct heat and electricity and they are malleable and ductile.
Non-metals are shaded together. They are the elements C-6 to Rn-86, including H-1 (Hydrogen). They do not have luster, conduct heat or electricity and are not malleable. They are usually gasses at room temperature and can be solid, gas or liquid.
Semi-metals/metalloids are usually shaded purple or green, as a combination of the other 2 colors. The line is a diagonal, stretching from elements B-5 to At-85. They have some properties of metals and some of non-metals. , These are alkali metals (1A), alkaline earth metals (2A), halogens (7A), noble gases (8A) and Carbons (4A).


The numbering can be Roman, Arabic or standard numbers.
 It is a 1 to 2-letter combination that is used as a standard across different languages.


The symbol can be derived from the Latin name of the element or the widely accepted common name.
In many cases, the symbol follows the English name closely, such as Helium, which is “He.” However, it is not a rule to base a chemistry lesson upon. For example, Iron is “Fe.” For this reason, the symbol/name combination is usually memorized for quick reference. , This will appear just below the symbol. It will change depending upon what language the periodic table is written in.
 As stated before, it moves from top left to bottom right. Knowing the atomic number is the fastest way to locate more information about the element.
,, Atoms have equal numbers of electrons and protons.


Keep in mind that there is an exception to this rule. If the atom loses or gains electrons, it is an electrically charged ion.
If there is a plus next to the element’s symbol, it indicates it is positively charged. With a minus symbol, it is negatively charged.
If there is no plus or minus symbol, and your chemistry problem does not consider ions, the protons and electrons are likely equal.
 This is the number below the common name of the element.


Although it may appear as though the atomic weight increases in number from top left to bottom right, this is not true in all cases.
 The atomic weight is the total of the particles in the nucleus; however, it is a weighted average of different isotopes.
 Round the atomic weight to the nearest whole number, called the mass number. Then, subtract the number of protons from the mass number to get the number of neutrons. For example, iron’s atomic weight is 55.847, so its mass number is 56. It has 26 protons. 56 (mass number) minus 26 (protons) is 30. There are usually 30 neutrons in a single atom of iron.
Changing the number of neutron in an atom creates isotopes, which are heavier or lighter versions of the atom.

