 If not, get that checked out.
 If you are going to be hit hard, board windows, secure doors, fasten your roof, take anything that can be blown around and put it inside, cut off dead tree branches, clean your gutters, and turn off or unplug anything electrical (Yes, the fridge).
, Try cereal, peanut butter, pudding cups, applesauce, granola bars, crackers, dried fruit, trail mix, rice, beans, pretzels, fruit snacks, and canned food. Also try things that don't need refrigeration, like apples, oranges, pears, potatoes, bread, and tomatoes. If you want milk, meat, etc, get a good, cold cooler and put new ice in it every day. Put your refrigerator on the coldest setting if you really need it. Dispose of perishable food. Throw it out or eat it now.
 Also get books to read and toys for the kids to play with.
, This way you can start a fire if it gets cold, whether it be at night or in the day.# Get a fire pit with a grill for cooking meat, too. This way, you can have that meat you are storing to eat.
 You should be able to dim it and make sure it is battery powered.
 This way, you won't run out of power for that lamp you have or anything else that requires batteries.
 They should all be bright and battery powered so you can still have lights if for some reason. The crank flashlights are a good idea too.
 This way you can hear the news.
 If your pet uses a litter box, make sure you have extra litter.
,, You won't be able to shower if the plumbing is out.
, Try a Red Cross First Aid Kit. Also get any refills of medication, even if you don't need it. Make sure to stock up on toiletries too.
, If there is an emergency, call someone using the cell. This is also good for SHORT calls checking on family and friends.
 Sleep all together in one room.
,,, Note: The good thing is that a baby's milk can be warm, so it won't go bad. Therefore, make sure to back plenty of bottles.
 If you can't, find a room with no/minimal windows and no exterior doors.;
, This should go in the safe room.
,