 Put the philosophy of feng shui into practice by reordering anything that’s not bolted down. Sometimes, just swapping the positions of a few pieces can be enough to breathe new life into a room. Give your furniture trial runs in new configurations and see what you like best. Don’t be afraid to get a little daring—once you hit on that perfect new setup, you’ll know it right away.There’s no right or wrong way to decorate your space. Go with your gut.
Flip through interior decorating magazines to get ideas about how to organize your furniture in unexpectedly energizing ways.
 It’s not always about the furniture itself, but what else is going on around it. One surefire way to make a boring set worthy of a second look is to simply spice it up with other objects. A basic HEMNES nightstand could benefit from the addition of a stack of vintage books, while an otherwise unremarkable REKARNE coffee table will really pop once it's laid with a few jars of sand and seashells. Get your other belongings in on the act of creating visually-interesting decor.This is an easy and versatile way to liven up your decor that will save you the expense of going out and buying new furniture.
 Experiment with attractive and unusual pairings. Just because a piece was designed as part of a set doesn’t mean it won’t work when placed with mismatched pieces. Look for places where a given item would be consistent with different but complementary items. Taking a hodgepodge approach with simpler pieces can really break up the monotony of uniform designs.Try using the bar stools from the kitchen counter as the new seats for your BJURSTA dining table, or trading out the pillows on the couch for those on the love seat.
Establish a harmony between offbeat colors and materials, like natural wood grains or brightly colored plastics with shiny metallic details.
 Divide your IKEA selections up by style, color and material to put together fresh combinations that tie the room together with a unique theme. The living room could be all warm, vibrant colors, for example, while the bedroom is done in cool, subtle hues. You could also showcase diversity throughout the household by choosing a different material and design style for each set of furniture (i.e. sleek, futuristic kitchen accessories, patterned bathroom fixtures, etc.).By laying out the furniture in your home “showroom style,” each room will have its own distinct character.

