 Accreditation is offered by the American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA). Most bachelor degree programs require 4 to 5 years of study to complete. Study the ASLA website for information about how to become a landscape architect.;
, Keep up with news and trends in landscape design, but work on your passion for golf as well. Working as a designer will demand a passion for golf courses that are safe, challenging and visually appealing.
 Look for a job at a local golf course or a firm who handles similar landscape design, like parks, athletic fields or entertainment complexes.
 Analytical skills, as well as design and artistic skills, are necessary. Work on communication, writing and presentation skills.
 Become proficient with general computer software, office production software and office equipment.
 Masters programs are accredited by the American Society of Landscape Architects.
 Licensure is required by nearly all states. Requirements vary by state but generally demand a combination of work experience and education from an accredited school.
 This test, which includes graphic and multiple choice sections, is offered by the Council of Landscape Architectural Registration Boards.
 Licensing requirements for landscape architects vary from state to state and it may be difficult to get certified in another state. If designing golf courses is your goal, be sure to live in a state where there are employment opportunities.
 State licensing requirements often call for up to 4 years of work experience as an apprentice before seeking a license in landscape architecture.
 The organization's website offers information and learning tools along with information on how to become a golf course designer. It also has a member directory where potential employers and clients can find you. Membership requires experience and a portfolio.
 Some of the more well known and highly regarded companies were started by gold legends like Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer. Be sure to have a portfolio of your work to show off.

