 Babies can be unpredictable, and taking rapid consecutive shots will help make sure you get the photograph you need between fussing and fidgeting. Chances are, if you can take 30 pictures over the course of several seconds, you’ll find at least one winning shot.You’ll also increase your chances of capturing an adorable happenstance expression using continuous shot mode.
If you’re not sure how, check your camera’s user guide or look through its settings to find a continuous shooting mode.
 The aperture size is similar to your eye’s pupil: it controls how much light enters the lens and which part of the image appears in sharp focus.When photographing a newborn, use an aperture setting of f2 or smaller. A smaller aperture will increase your depth of field, or give you a larger area of focus.Keep in mind an aperture set to f2 is smaller than one set to f1.4. The larger the number, the smaller the aperture. The larger the aperture, the smaller the area in focus.
 ISO controls your camera’s sensitivity to light. When a camera is too light sensitive, lots of distracting background “noise” will appear in the photograph.If you have a good amount of natural light, set your ISO between 100 and 400.As you take photographs, check the backgrounds for undesired spots or patches. Lower the ISO if your camera is picking up too much light.
The higher the ISO, and the more sensitive a camera is to light, the less time it takes to capture an image: ISO 100 takes one second to capture an image, while ISO 400 takes a quarter of a second. Try to find an ISO setting that eliminates background noise but gives you the quickest capture time., In addition to full portraits, grab a macro lens or use whatever zoom function you have available to capture tiny details. Zoom in on little fingers, feet, toes, noses, lips, and other features to preserve your newborn’s precious proportions.Try placing your newborn’s hands over your own (or your spouse’s or other children) to create size comparisons.

