 You should get a lawyer’s advice about what you should do as soon as possible.Call the lawyer who defended you in the original crime that got you placed on parole. Explain that you have been charged or accused of assault. Your lawyer should help you determine next steps.


You might have had a public defender represent you at trial. This person may still be able to represent you while on parole, although you may have to find a private attorney to consult with.
Contact your local or state bar association and get a referral.;
, When you violate your conditions of parole, you will probably be arrested. You can also voluntarily go back into police custody.Whatever you do, you shouldn’t flee or attempt to avoid arrest.
 At the revocation hearing, the hearing officer will determine what kind of adjustment to make to your parole. The hearing officer usually has several options, including the following:Revoke parole. In this situation, you head back to jail.
Order drug treatment or other counseling.
Change the conditions of parole. For example, the hearing officer could order electronic monitoring or house arrest., You probably want any other outcome than to go back to jail. Accordingly, you need to begin planning your defense. The best defense is to argue that you didn’t commit the assault.Typically, the hearing officer will analyze the evidence according to a “preponderance of the evidence” standard. This is much lower than “beyond a reasonable doubt.” Instead, preponderance means “more likely than not.”
You should find witnesses who observed the incident and can testify that you didn’t make any threatening gestures towards someone. Remember an assault is the intentional creation of a reasonable apprehension of harm.You could argue that whatever gesture you made was not intended to scare the person.
Remember that words alone do not qualify as assault. If all you did was yell at someone, then you can argue that your behavior, though intimidating, did not qualify as assault.
 You also have the option of arguing that the assault was necessary or justified.For example, you could argue that you were merely defending yourself from an attack. In this situation, you will need to identify who was attacking you.


You should also ideally have witnesses who can testify that they saw someone threaten you first.
Talk with your lawyer about which defense is better—admitting and justifying the assault or denying it ever happened.
 At this hearing, a hearing officer will hear evidence about whether you committed assault. If the officer believes that there is sufficient evidence, then they will schedule a “revocation hearing.” This will be a hearing to determine whether your parole should be revoked.Depending on your state, there may not be a preliminary hearing. Instead, you will simply stay in police custody until your revocation hearing.
 You can have your lawyer attend the parole revocation hearing with you.Your lawyer can also handle questioning witnesses at the hearing. They can also make opening and closing statements.
 The parole officer will present evidence that you committed the assault and therefore violated the conditions of your parole. The parole officer may submit the following as evidence:a copy of the violation report
witnesses to the assault
video or other photographic evidence
other evidence

, Your lawyer can cross-examine any witness who testifies for the parole officer. The purpose of cross-examination is to undermine the witness’s testimony. For example, the witness might claim to have seen you assault someone but have been standing all the way across the room when it happened.
 Your lawyer gets to present evidence that shows the assault didn’t happen or that it was justified. This evidence can include your own testimony as well as other witness testimony.


If your lawyer doesn’t think the parole officer has made a case, then you don’t have to put on any evidence.Instead, you can ask the hearing officer to dismiss the charges.
 If the officer thinks you did commit the assault, then they will make a recommendation to the Parole Board, which has the final say as to how your parole should be adjusted. The hearing officer will analyze the following factors when making a decision:The severity of your violation.
How much time you have left on parole.
Your behavior apart from the assault. Both you and the parole officer can introduce evidence as to your good or bad behavior., The revocation hearing is separate from another prosecution brought by the state. For example, you might have your parole revoked and also get prosecuted for assault.


The standard of convicting you for assault is “proof beyond a reasonable doubt.” This is a higher standard than at the parole revocation hearing.
See Defend Yourself Against Assault Charges for more information on how to defend yourself against criminal charges.
 A civil lawsuit is different from a criminal prosecution. In a civil lawsuit, the person you assaulted sues for monetary compensation. This person is called the “plaintiff.” They will start the lawsuit by filing a “complaint” with the court and sending you a copy.Read the complaint closely. This document should explain the factual circumstances surrounding the lawsuit.
Remember that you can be sued in civil court even if your parole isn’t revoked and even if the state chooses not to file criminal assault charges against you.
 You have to respond to the complaint and you get only a limited amount of time to do so. You should read the “summons,” which comes along with the complaint. The summons should explain how much time you get to respond.Generally, you have 21-30 days, though the amount of time will differ depending on your state.
 The person suing you has only so much time in which to bring a lawsuit. Each state has a “statute of limitations.” If the plaintiff doesn’t sue in time, you can get the case dismissed by raising the statute of limitations in your answer.


Check with an attorney to find out the statute of limitations in your state. You can also search online.
The amount of time will differ depending on the state. In Texas, for example, the plaintiff has two years from the date of the assault to sue you., You can respond to the complaint by filing an “answer” with the court. In this document, you respond to each allegation made in the complaint, either admitting, denying, or claiming insufficient knowledge to admit or deny.Some courts have printed, “fill in the blank” answer forms you can use. Check with the court clerk.


You might want to file a “motion to dismiss” instead. You can file this document when the person suing you files the lawsuit in the wrong court or if they didn’t properly allege all of the elements of an assault.
See Draft a Motion to Dismiss for more information.
 Make several copies of your answer or your motion to dismiss. Take the original and the copies to the court where the lawsuit was filed. Ask the clerk to file your response.The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.
You may also have to pay a filing fee. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 You should have your answer or motion to dismiss served on the plaintiff. If the plaintiff has a lawyer, then serve the lawyer instead.You can’t make service yourself. However, you can generally use the following methods:


Pay the sheriff or a private process server to make hand delivery. You will have to pay a small fee (usually around $50).
Have another adult make hand delivery, provided they aren’t a party to the lawsuit.
Mail the response. In some courts, you can send the response certified mail, return receipt requested.
 Discovery is a process where you can request helpful information from the other side to the lawsuit. For example, you can use the following discovery techniques:Request for document production. You can serve the plaintiff with a request for documents that are relevant to the dispute. For example, if the plaintiff claims to have suffered emotional distress, you should request copies of medical records.
Requests for admission. You can ask the plaintiff to admit to certain facts. If they fail to respond, then you can ask the judge to consider the facts admitted as true.

Interrogatories. These are written questions the plaintiff has to answer. For example, you might want the plaintiff to identify all witnesses to the alleged assault.

Deposition. In a deposition, you can ask the plaintiff questions under oath. Unlike interrogatories, a deposition allows for follow-up questions. A court reporter records the questions and answers.
 As you prepare for trial, you need to get your evidence in order. You should take a look at all of the evidence and decide what is helpful and what isn’t. Start early, because you typically have to give the plaintiff a list of all evidence you intend to use at trial. Identify the following:


Key witnesses. You will want people to testify that they didn’t see you assault the plaintiff. You can use the same witnesses that you had testify for you at your revocation hearing. Remember that you also are a witness.
Helpful documents or exhibits. For example, if someone had a videotape of the encounter, then you could introduce that into evidence.
 At trial, the plaintiff will go first. They will present their evidence and you will have a chance to cross-examine their witnesses. Although each trial is different, they typically follow the same sequence:Jury selection. If either you or the plaintiff requested a jury, then you will have to pick a jury at the start of trial in a process called “voir dire.”
Opening statements. Each side gets to provide a preview of the evidence in an opening statement.
Plaintiff’s evidence. The plaintiff goes first and calls witnesses to testify and introduce documents. You or your lawyer can cross-examine them.
Your evidence. As the defendant, you get to go second. If you testify, then the plaintiff or their lawyer will get to cross-examine you. Remember to always tell the truth and to think before answering a question.
Closing arguments. Each side sums up the evidence in closing argument. You want to explain how the evidence supports your interpretation that no assault took place.
Verdict. The judge reads the jury its instructions and lets them retire to deliberate. If you didn’t have a jury, then the judge will deliver a verdict from the bench.
 If you lose at trial, you can bring an appeal. With an appeal, you ask a higher court to review the trial evidence and set aside the verdict if the judge made a mistake or if the evidence can’t in any way support the verdict.Appeals are time-consuming and costly. For example, you will need to pay to have trial transcripts prepared.
You should talk with a lawyer about whether an appeal is worthwhile. Don’t delay. You only get a certain amount of time (usually less than 30 days) to file your Notice of Appeal.

