 You may need to research and visit potential sites, or they may be held on campus. Events that involve alcohol may need to take place at local restaurants, bars, hotels or historical sites.
 You must give people who live out of town advance warning to make travel plans. Once the date, time, location and ticket information is planned, email and mail cards with an RSVP email address and phone number.
 The following are necessary steps for a successful event.


Submit the necessary paperwork for all the events. If you plan to serve alcohol, you will need to get a liquor license for the day of the event. If you plan on using school or public grounds, you may need a use permit.
Get insurance for large events. Liability insurance protects you from lawsuits in case of accidents. The school may suggest or provide this insurance.
Hire a graphic designer to do a poster and other promotions for the event. Print your invitations, posters, flyers well in advance. Set up a website, if necessary.
Arrange television, radio, newspaper and other advertising about 3 months from the event. Most of the promotion will happen 2 weeks before the event, but some alumni press will be published months in advance to give people time to plan.
 Plan according to the theme. For smaller events, you can settle on final décor decisions 2 weeks to 1 month in advance.
 Bands usually need to be booked 4 to 6 months in advance for big events. DJs, speakers, auctioneers and other entertainment may be booked 1 to 3 months before the event.
 Do this approximately 1 month before the event. For many events, this is not necessary, or you can use campus or student personnel.
 Collect RSVPs and create an event list. Send out updates by email, such as suggestions about what hotels are conveniently located close to Homecoming events and offer discounts to alumni.
 Some information can change, so ensure you wait long enough to confirm all the essential details.
 You should receive bids and choose businesses that fit in your budget. Confirm the food details 1 month and 1 week in advance of the event.
 Ensure you are staying on budget.

