 It has been shown that literacy skills in a language learner’s native tongue can improve English proficiency.If you can learn what the parts of speech translate to in the native language of your student or class, you may find it easier to explain it to them. If they know the parts of speech in their own language, they will pick up on the parts of speech in English much more quickly.


If you have a class composed of speakers from many languages, this may be difficult to do. Instead, try asking each student what they would call a verb, noun, etc. in their own language. Have them produce examples of each in their native language before translating them into English.
 Research suggests that vocabulary acquisition is one of the most important parts of learning a language, and strong vocabulary skills can increase the speed at which a learner becomes fluent.As you teach vocabulary, ask your students to mark down the part of the speech of the word on their flashcards or in their notes. When you test vocabulary, ask them to not only define the word but state its part of speech. Students will quickly connect the part of speech with English words.
 Homework can reinforce your lesson and help clarify a subject outside of the classroom. Worksheets can guide a learner through the process of discovering parts of speech in a way that encourages memorization and application. As you explain the parts of speech, walk the learner through the worksheet. They may struggle and ask you questions that were not included in the lesson. After the first few examples, see if they can complete the worksheet on their own.
 Determiners are some of the most difficult parts of speech for non-native speakers to grasp. These short words at the beginning of noun phrases are often forgotten completely. Spend at least one lesson on determiners and reinforce them throughout your lesson plan. You can break up the determiners into specific and general determiners.The specific determiners are used when the listener knows the exact noun the speaker is referring to. For example, in the sentence “That woman was speaking,” the determiner “that” refers to a specific woman known to the speaker and listener. Specific determiners include the definite article (the), possessives (my, your, his, her, its; our, their, whose), demonstratives (this, that, these, those), and interrogative (which).
The general determiners are used with general subjects and nouns which are unfamiliar to the listener. For example, in the sentence, “A woman was speaking,” the determiner “a” refers to an unknown woman. General determiners include the indefinite articles (a/an) and words like any, other, another, or what.

