 Most every listing will provide you with the same basic information. Listings typically show the following information:










Close/Current Price – The price at the end of the trading day.

52W high/low – This is the range of lowest and highest price of the stock in the last year.

Div – Dividend paid per share. May be blank.

% Yield – The percentage of the dividend return compared to stock price.

EPS – Earnings per share.

P/E – Price/Earnings ratio. This is the earnings compared to the price of the stock.

Vol – This is Volume, the number of shares traded on the previous day.

High/Low – The highest and lowest trading price the previous day.

Net chg – This is the change from the previous day’s closing price.

Shares – Number of shares held by investors.

Mkt cap – Total value of the company on the market.
 The current price is the price of one share at the close of trading the previous day. This price should only be taken as a guideline, because the price will continue to fluctuate even after the market has closed.









The price may not have a currency symbol next to it., 52-week high and low gives you a historical view of how much the stock has fluctuated. This information can be helpful in determining the general direction of a stock's price.
 Some stocks pay investors a dividend. A dividend is equity paid directly to the investor. Not every stock pays out a dividend. If the company does not pay a dividend, this section may be blank or occupied by a dash.









Dividends can be paid monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually.
In some cases, dividends are reinvested; that is, the investor receives additional stock instead of cash when the dividend is paid.
 The EPS is a measure of the current stock price compared to the earnings for the company over the last four fiscal quarters. It is calculated by dividing the net income of the company by the number of outstanding shares.








EPS is generally considered one of the most important aspects of determining the value of a stock.
 This number is the stock's current price divided by the most recent 12-month earnings amount per share (EPS). The P/E ratio is designed to show you if a stock price is overvalued or undervalued.









A high P/E ratio means that investors expect that higher earnings in the future. A low P/E means that they expect less.
Compare P/E ratios to other companies in the same sector to see how well it is performing.
 The volume is the amount of shares that have been traded in the current session (usually the last day). You may also see an average volume, which is the number of shares traded during a specific period. The length of the average varies based on which stock price report service you use.
 This will show you the stock's lowest and highest price of the day. This can help give you a sense of the volatility of a stock.
 The Net Change column will tell you how the stock has performed compared to the day before. If a stock is “up,” it’s because it traded at a higher value than the day before. Some stock price report services call this measure the open price instead of the closing price.
 This number is sometimes reported as shares and reflects the all shares, purchased and available for purchase, for the stock.
 This amount, which is generally called the market cap, is the total value of the company on the stock market. To arrive at this number, you multiple the total available shares of stock by the current stock price.








