 Discuss some of your other options that exist for the other nearby Disney-themed areas. With the other major possibilities being the Disneyland, and Downtown Disney (though no real rides exist in Downtown Disney) and the wealth of other parks within the vicinity include Universal Studios of Hollywood and Six Flags Magic Mountain, the Southern California landscape isn't without its wealth of rides.;
, Disneyland and Disney's California Adventure park have their drawbacks. One of these drawbacks is that in order to visit, you'll either have to park in the Mickey and Friends parking structure, or ride the ART(Anaheim Resort Transit) tram to the park. Although the address to the parking structure is 1313 S Disneyland Dr, Anaheim, CA 92802. The cost to park your car at this park will run you about $17 for cars and upwards from there (depending on complexity of vehicle).


Due to the cost, it's often advised to ride the ART tram/trolley to get to the park, though if you are coming from out of the Anaheim area, you may end up taking a car and parking in the parking lot nearby these Disneyland parks.
,,, This park is formed into 8 lands without a central hub area. These lands include Buena Vista Street, Hollywood Land, a bug's land, Cars Land, Pacific Wharf, Paradise Pier, Grizzly Peak and Condor Flats.
 The first thing you'll notice is Buena Vista Street. Although Buena Vista Street once held a few famous attractions that could later have became the center piece by some, it has few to no rides today, and truly exists as the true dining place in the park.
 This waterfall is a famous spot used for picture taking, though this isn't the most famous exhibit in the park.
 Don't get too enthused at waiting around for a long period of time, as everybody needs to take turns here.
 If you don't mind motion simulators, you'll fair very well here. The building looks like an oversized orange-colored airplane hangar.
,, This attraction features a normal ride for those daring small princesses wishing to fulfill a few wishes.
 These seats are available right across from the Little Mermaid ride. They are formed in layers with deep (long) steps. This spot is also a famous spot to check out the prime candidate of the viewpoint of Paradise Pier (making it a famous picture-taking spot!).
 Although a few rides in Disneyland and Walt Disney World can match that of the experience on Golden Zephyr, not many are comparable. You'll need to be able to walk up a short flight of stairs, but once up the stairs, you'll (as Disney calls it) rocket around a central pivot point in a spaceship type of seat without even lifting a finger or touching a button.
, It is considered to be a "training roller coaster" for those who haven't ridden a roller coaster" yet and would like to experience what it's like.
 The ride entrance is nearby, but isn't right there when you see the track.
, This roller coaster is the fastest roller coaster throughout all the Disney Parks, and is also one of the newest coasters within the Disney Parks system worldwide. So hang on tight!

, And with the special effect of 3D and sometimes 4D effects, there's no reason no one could come out of this place unhappy.
, It will definitely remind you of a Boardwalk styled bridge on or near the Pacific Ocean.
 Although the restaurant has changed hands from Ariel's Grotto to another place, it still is a very popular restaurant at this theme park.
 Hollywood Land can't be accessed from any other area but the hub area of the park.



Look for the Turtle Talk with Crush showing. If you want to see this classic show where Crush interacts with kids and tries to answer some kids' questions, this is sure to please.






Crush sometimes looks around for the children's parents, so be on the lookout, if you hear your child scream, giggle or look back to see where his/her parents are in the audience (yes, the spotlight turns to you too).
 It's a very interesting movie that is sure to please any Muppet fan in all of it's audiences. Any and all kids will surely get a kick out of seeing their favorite Muppet Show character here. If you watch closely, you might even see some real characters appearing before your very eyes.
 If you are a fan of Monsters, Inc, you're sure to relive the story of Monsters Inc on this ride.
,, if Muppet Vision 3D didn't overdo your adventure. If you don't get very scared too easily, watch a show of it here, and you'll soon be seeing the life of a bug through the eyes of the bug.


This area includes a bumper-cars styled ride (Tuck and Roll's Drive Em Buggies),







Francis Ladybug Boogie:







Flik's Flyers:







Heimlich's Chew Chew Train:






Also, look out for Princess Dot Puddle Park. This area is an awesome way to get wet as you or your kids tromp through the watery area.
 Although similar to some mild scrambler rides, this one is surely to impress almost everyone who arrives on it.
 Based on the action of Test Track at the Walt Disney World Disney park Epcot, you will surely not be sorry that you rode it.
 If you stand just right, everyone along the route can get wet, and everyone has a blast. Whatever you decide to take in in this park, do not miss this parade if you are in the park on a hot summer day - make it a plan to be along the parade route and have some relaxing fun, all while getting cooled off in turn.


If you see a person carrying a water thrower and you see them looking at you, you can tell them to spray elsewhere, or if you choose to want to get sprayed but fear them spraying at a particular area mention where else you'd like to spray (such as at your arms, hands, chin or neck but you shouldn't need to tell them why unless they look at you funny and request more information.)
Be prepared to be on the benches on the side of the walking path near the bridge to Pacific Wharf up to two hours before the parade passes through the area, as spots on benches fill up fast!

, This wonderful watery nighttime spectacular features some dazzling colors, and especially being nearby can give you a cool mist coming off the water when it is shot up into the air from the jets in the lagoon.

