 A will disburses your property after you die. Under the law, a pet is considered your legal property and you can use your will to make certain provisions for your pet upon your death.
 There are several ways that you can provide for your pet through your will, including a temporary home with instructions for placement, a gift of your pet and funds to support the pet’s care, or a gift to a humane shelter. Generally, your will provision should include the following elements:


You should state that you are giving your pet to a specific person or organization and provide the person/organization’s name and address.
You should clearly identify the pet or pets and whether one person or several people will care for the pets.
You should state that the pet is meant to be a companion animal.
You should identify more than one person to care for your pet in case the first person is unable or unwilling.
If you choose an organization to care for your pet, you should provide specific instructions, such as: placing the animals in foster care until a home is found; providing appropriate veterinary care; and contact information for a relative who the shelter can contact if they are unable to find a permanent home for the animals.
You should make a specific monetary bequest to an organization or person charged with caring for your pet.
You must request, not direct, that funds given to a person along with your pet be used for the care of your pet.
You can direct your executor to use any funds he or she deems necessary to care for your pet.
To view sample will pet provisions visit: http://www2.nycbar.org/pdf/report/uploads/8_20072453-ProvidingforYourPetintheEventofDeathHospitalization.pdf


, You should have a trust and estates attorney draft the will provision for you or at least review any provision that you draft to ensure that it complies will all applicable laws and affords the protections that you desire.You can view state laws at: http://estate.findlaw.com/planning-an-estate/state-laws-estates-probate.html.
 If you choose to use a will to make arrangements for your pet, there are a number of factors that you should consider.


You must make arrangements for someone to care for your pet during the time that your will is reviewed by the court and your assets distributed.
A will only goes into effect upon your death and can not ensure that your pet is cared for during your lifetime if you are too ill to care for the pet yourself.
Some states will only recognize a simple pet provision as “honorary” and the court is not obligated to ensure the money you bequeathed to a person for the pet’s care will actually go to the care of the pet.If you are already drafting a will, it may be cost effective to include a provision for your pet in that document. You should consider making a conditional bequest, which means that the animal and a sum of money are left to a person who must use the money to care for the pet. The executor of the will is charged with ensuring that the money is used appropriately. You must check your state’s trust and estates laws to ensure that conditional bequests are allowed.