 Even though activities such as having sex or trying an herbal supplement may seem harmless, in some cases they could cause harm to you or your baby. Before trying any natural option to help labor progress, ask your doctor or midwife. She will help you decide whether there are safe, effective options for you.


If you ever have questions, or even just feel frustrated about your pregnancy seeming to take so long, talk to your doctor or midwife. These professionals are used to the concerns and questions pregnant women have and are happy to talk with you about them.
 Walking is one of the most popular activities to help labor progress and to start labor. Gravity is the main reason walking works. The baby is drawn down towards your pelvis and this primes your cervix for labor. The swaying rhythm of walking pushes your baby's head against your cervix, simulating the release of oxytocin. This hormone can trigger contractions.Walking can also help build muscle and increase physical fitness, making labor faster and less painful.Slow, gentle walking is ideal. Do not go too far or push yourself too hard physically in the late stages of labor. An easy stroll around the block is probably adequate., Sex can be difficult in the late, late stages of pregnancy, particularly if labor has already begun. However, certain hormones released during sexual activity may speed up labor, although little evidence to support this exists.Because certain pregnancy complications can make nipple stimulation or sex unsafe for your baby, you should always discuss this option with your doctor or midwife before trying it.


Penetration can stimulate your body to release prostaglandins, a hormone that helps dilate the cervix, prepping your body for delivery. Stimulation of the breasts and nipples or orgasm can also trigger the release of oxytocin, which may trigger contractions.Remember, sex is only safe if your water has not broken yet. Once your water breaks, sex could lead to an infection that could complicate labor and delivery., Oftentimes, if your labor has been latent for a long time, walking, moving, or even switching the position you're lying in can help get things moving again.


Moving is a great way to help you cope with the pain of labor. Walking, shifting in bed, and standing up keep your body rested and refreshed and help save energy for the final pushes.Movement also wiggles the baby around, helping it move towards your pelvis and ultimately push through your birth canal., If you're giving birth at home or haven't left for the hospital yet, a warm bath may help you feel more comfortable. However, there is no evidence that a warm bath will help labor progress.Make sure the water completely covers your stomach and breasts as this will provide the most pain relief.Contractions are less painful for many women in water and often the soothing sensation of being in a tub helps women relax and rest in between contractions.Water also makes it makes it easier for you to move around and change positions. As stated, movement during labor helps it progress., The muscles surrounding your uterus need a lot of hydration and nutrition to successfully deliver an infant. Eating well in the weeks leading up to labor, and in its early stages, can help labor progress quickly.


Many doctors do not recommend eating during labor due to the risks associated with food being in the digestive track if emergency anesthesia is needed. Ask your doctor about their policies beforehand and, if eating is not allowed, have a light snack before leaving for the hospital.You may also find that a clear liquid diet, involving a warm broth or jello, is helpful. Most hospitals will allow laboring patients to consume clear liquids.
Labor is shorter when you snack during the process. Women allowed to eat during labor had labor times of 45 to 90 minutes less of those who did not. Laboring is difficult and requires fuel in the form of foods and liquids especially during the final pushes.Stick to bland but filling foods, like toasts with jam, plain pasta, applesauce, and jell-o. As for liquids, go for clear broth, water, and ice chips. These foods are easy to digest and tend not to increase nausea or stomach discomfort., Several "natural" ways to induce labor circulate on the internet, but none of them have significant research backing, and some can be actively harmful. It is best to avoid these and consult with your doctor or midwife about proven, safe, and effective ways to speed up labor.Castor oil. Castor oil is one of the oldest recommendations when it comes to starting labor naturally, but there is no evidence that it works, and it can make you very sick. The American Association of Family Physicians does not recommend that you use castor oil to induce labor.Herbal supplements. These commonly include evening primrose oil, black or blue cohosh, red raspberry leaves, and black haw. They do not have much evidence to support their use, and herbal remedies may interfere with other medical conditions or medications you're taking.Acupuncture. Acupuncture is not supported as an effective way to induce or progress labor.