 Open communication is an important feature of good friendships, so make sure that you are honest with your friends.To foster open communication, you might want to explain your condition to your friends when you start to feel more comfortable with them. Being honest and open about your condition can deepen your bonds with your friends and make them feel comfortable to share something significant with you as well.


It is okay if you are not comfortable doing this at first. Wait until you feel like you can trust your friends.
When you are ready to tell your friends about your disorder, you might just say something like, “I sometimes struggle with relationships because I have a psychotic disorder.” Then you can elaborate and explain what that means if your friends have questions.
If you aren't ready to divulge your disorder to your friends just yet, just try to help them understand that you are going through things that may cause you to be a little more removed from them. Try saying something like, “I have some issues that I am working through right now, so it is hard for me to be totally open. I am working on it though.”

, Even if you don't feel like doing anything, try to keep in contact with your friends. Call them to talk so you can stay up to date with how they are and tell them about you. This will help keep connections solid even if you can't go out and spend time with them.


You can also write e-mails, send text messages, or connect through social media if that is easier for you.When you call friends, try starting by saying something like, “Hey Jessica. How are you doing?” Then, make sure that you listen to your friend as she shares about her day. After she finishes talking, she will probably ask you about your day.
You can also try asking questions to keep the conversation going, such as, “How did that make you feel?” “What happened next?” and “What are your plans for the weekend?”

, When you have a psychotic disorder, you may not feel like dwelling on it all the time. When you go out with your friends, try to keep it light. Find topics that you are all interested in and that help you connect.

For example, you can talk about upcoming events, movies, clothes, video games, or whatever interests you.
 To make friends and improve your friendships, it is helpful to like yourself enough to know you are worth having friends. This is easier said than done, especially when you have a psychotic disorder. Work with your therapist or psychologist to improve your self-esteem and self-worth.


Try to remind yourself that you are a special and worthwhile person. Try making a list of some of your accomplishments and reading over it whenever you need a boost.You can also create your own saying to remind yourself how great you are. Try turning a negative statement into something positive. For example, if you often criticize yourself for the way you look, then repeat to yourself, “Self, you are beautiful and I love you.”.Keep repeating this to yourself every day.

