 White noise is repetitive background noise used to drown out disruptive sounds and to put people at ease.Thus, white noise is a great tool to help get your baby to sleep anywhere.

White noise is great because the same sounds can be played just about anywhere. To best use white noise, use it at home so it becomes part of your baby’s sleep routine. Then, when you travel, it’ll be easier for you to replicate your home environment.
White noise comes in several different variations. For instance, you can play static, the sound of a rainstorm, wind, a crashing surf, and many more.
You can play white noise on cell phones, alarm clocks, or your laptop.;
, Music is a great way to put your baby to ease before bed. If you choose soothing music, you’ll not only put your baby at ease, but you’ll be better able to reproduce your home environment.

Like white noise, try to incorporate music into your baby’s sleep routine. For example, play the same soothing song to your baby at bedtime. Soft, repetitive songs are the best to helping them fall asleep.Avoid introducing new songs to your baby if you are traveling or doing something that disturbs their sleep routine.
Try singing to your baby. Pick a song your baby might like, such as "Michael Row the Boat Ashore," and sing it at bed or nap time., By limiting certain stimulation at bedtime, you’ll allow your baby the ability to relax and slowly go to sleep. Ultimately, unplanned sounds may startle, scare, or stimulate your baby and keep them awake.

When putting your baby to bed, limit how much you talk, and use a quiet, gentle voice when you do speak.
If possible, close doors or windows so your baby does not hear the sounds of the home or street at bedtime.
Turn off the television or other electronics that make noise while your baby is trying to sleep.
Think about using noise cancelling baby headphones if you are in a noisy environment., To get your baby to sleep anywhere, you’ll have to have several basic items. Without these items, your baby will likely be uncomfortable and won’t be able to sleep. Make sure you have the following,

A place for your baby to sleep, like a crib, bassinet, sleeper, rocker, or pack-and-play.
A warm outfit for your baby to sleep in, if you’re in a cold environment. Consider sleepers, sleep sacks, or wearable blankets.
Avoid putting soft bedding like pillows, blankets, and stuffed animals in a crib or other sleeping environment with a baby under 12 months old. These items could increase the chance of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)., Familiarity is one of the most important things in getting a baby to sleep anywhere. By having items the baby knows, they’ll feel more comfortable and will be put at ease. In the end, they’ll fall asleep easier even in a strange environment. Make sure to have:

Sheets you use on a regular basis.
Familiar stuffed animals. However, don’t leave many – if any – of these in your baby’s sleep environment if you are not watching them. Do not put stuffed animals, blankets, or pillows in the crib if they are under 12 months of age.
A mobile. You can get mobiles for cribs, bassinets, or other sleep environments., Studies have shown that light interferes with the human’s ability to sleep soundly. Just as this is true for you, it is also true for your baby. Thus, take steps to limit the amount of light your baby is exposed to during sleep time or while you are getting them ready to sleep.

Dim lights. For example, if you’re on an airplane, turn your overhead light off and ask your neighbor to do the same, if possible.
Use shades designed to shade babies from light.
Drape a light breathable fabric over your baby’s bassinet.
Find a shady spot, if you’re outside., There are a wide variety of things that could be around your baby at sleep time that might interfere with their ability to sleep. These items may not only distract your baby, but create noises that stop them from falling to sleep. Some items include:

Toys
Pacifiers
Items that make noises that could go off suddenly or be accidentally triggered, Wherever you go, you should stick as closely to your baby’s sleep schedule. Deviation will make it harder for your baby to sleep. Thus:

Provide your baby with normal nap time. If your baby usually naps at 10 am or 2 pm, make sure they get their naps.
If you usually put your baby to bed at 7pm, continue to do so. This way, they’ll be able to stay on their nap schedule.
You may want to keep a nap chart to see when they are sleeping and for how long. This can help you keep track of whether or not your baby is getting enough sleep.
 Just because you’re not at home does not mean you should discontinue important aspects of your baby’s sleep routine. Ultimately, the best way to get your baby to sleep is to continue as many normal activities as you can before bedtime. These activities may include:

Reading books
Singing songs
Nursing
Putting your baby into a sleep suitTurning down the lights

, If traveling extensively, moving from one timezone to another, or having a significant life change that impacts your family, try to phase your child into a new schedule. Ultimately, your baby will adjust much better to incremental changes to their schedule than to a big shift.

If you’re moving into a different time zone with a one hour difference, try to adjust them to the new time zone over the course of a week or two. For example, change your baby’s sleep schedule by 15 minutes every week.
If you’re going to be traveling a lot, try to get your baby used to traveling by taking them out in the car or in public more often. For instance, set aside time to take your baby to the mall or to another crowded area.