 Cook over medium heat. Wait until it foams, then subsides.


Many cooks use a mix of butter and vegetable oil instead, thinking this raises the smoke point. This is not true, but it does dilute the burnt flavor.;
, Add garlic and dried rosemary at this point if you want extra flavors.Cook over medium-low for roughly 5–8 minutes, until golden brown.


Adding a pinch of salt draws out moisture. This leads to better flavor, but cooking will take longer.Add a splash of water if it gets dry., Check on them and stir occasionally to prevent sticking. After about 10 minutes, the onions should be deep brown, but not black, and so soft they are almost falling apart., Bring the heat back up to medium. Stir and cook for one or two minutes to combine the flour.
 Pour in the red wine and let it simmer for a couple minutes. An ordinary table wine will taste much better than cooking wine.


Select a variety that pairs well with the dish accompanying the gravy. A full-bodied wine is a good choice for red meat dishes. An earthy wine works well with root vegetables., Pour in the stock of your choice. Let the gravy simmer until it's as thick as you like it. This usually takes about 5 minutes for thin gravy, or 15 minutes for thick, sticky gravy.


If you're using fresh rosemary, add it along with the stock.
 Taste the gravy and stir in salt and pepper as desired. If you feel ambitious, stir in a small spoonful of something special. Try balsamic vinegar, mustard, worcestershire sauce, or soy sauce., Use a couple spoonfuls of caramelized onion chutney instead of raw onions.Heat and skip straight to adding flour.


This is a good idea if you use a thin pan that can't cook onions evenly.
 Replace half of the onions with an equal amount of finely chopped mushrooms. Serve with steak.


Use cremini or white button mushrooms.
 An onion gravy with plenty of spices forms the basis of most sauces at Indian restaurants. Make it your own by choosing your favorite ingredients:Dice a large onion, then cook as described above.
Add aromatic ingredients. Choose from minced garlic, ginger paste, sliced chili peppers, and/or garam masala spice mix. Fry for 1–2 minutes.

Either add a large, roughly chopped tomato and cook until liquified –

Or add vegetable stock. You can make your own by adding chopped carrots, bell peppers, celery, and plenty of water. Boil until sauce is reduced to a gravy, at least one hour.

