 Mercury is the closest planet to the sun, which means that it is often in the sun’s glare and hardly seen. However, there are specific times and seasons where the orbits of the earth and mercury place Mercury high above the horizon line. What months and at what times of the day Mercury is visible is entirely dependent on your location on earth, but most calendars will divide viewing months and times into hemispheres.Mercury is best observed in the Northern Hemisphere during the evening in April and May, and during the morning in October and November.Look up astronomical calendars online or go to your local bookstore and purchase a book on astronomy.Try using sites, like the Society for Popular Astronomy, or books, like Stargazing for Beginners.;
, Sky charts and star maps will help you plot and visualize the elongation points of Mercury’s orbit. Sky charts and maps can also indicate where on the horizon line you should begin looking for Mercury, how long Mercury will be visible, and how bright it will be at various points in its orbit.Mercury.


Research sky charts and star maps online, or go to your local bookstore to check for an astronomy section.
Try using apps like Star Chart on your smartphone.
 Attempting to observe Mercury during the day can be dangerous as Mercury is the closest planet to the sun in our solar system. Not only will Mercury be very difficult to observe during the day, you may risk serious and permanent damage to you eye.


Mercury is best observed after periods of twilight have ended.
 Mercury can generally be observed with a naked eye as it has the sun as a bright backdrop. Mercury is best observed with the naked eye during times right before and after the sun has set, which gives enough light pollution to contrast the shadow of Mercury. A general time to try and view Mercury with your naked eye is 90 minutes before sunrise or after sunset.If you find that the sky is still too bright to view with your naked eye, or not bright enough in the early morning, wait ten minutes and try again., Binoculars will help you observe Mercury as light begins to fade into twilight. The more the sun fades the less defined Mercury will become. Try having a pair of binoculars on hand while you are observing Mercury with your naked eye so that you can transition once your eyes begin to strain.There are many online references, like Sky and Telescope, that provide detailed suggestions for binoculars geared toward specific planets are stars you want to view., Using a telescope will allow you for a closer and more detailed view of Mercury when observable. However, a telescope will also prolong the amount of time you will be able to observe Mercury as it becomes gradually more difficult to observe during its crescent phases.To see the surface of Mercury you will need to magnify your telescope to 200x - 250x.Look online or at local cultural centers to find a stargazing club or group that owns a telescope.
Check to see if there is an Observatory close to you.

