: If you don't already have blond hair, now would be the time to get it! If you're absolutely sure you want to recreate the look of Rosalie, then you will need to go to a salon and dye your hair golden blond or any shade of blond is fine. In the books, she is pretty famous for her beautiful "golden hair", so I would do golden. Make sure this color will look good on you first please. If your hair is already any shade of blonde don't mess with it unless it's dirty blonde. If that happens use John Frieda Blonde Go Blonder shampoo and conditioner, and lightening spray.


You will need to have loose, soft, romantic waves that make you look like you stepped out of a salon that very morning.
Also, get layers in your hair. If you wear your hair down, part your hair in the middle. If you need a style to brush it up into, I would suggest the half up half down look.
Sweep each side of your hair up and also the crown or middle of your hair where your part would be. Secure with bobby pins that blend in with your hair color or an intricate, old fashioned style metal large clip.;
, If you are already pale that is wonderful and continue to wear sunscreen when outdoors so you don't risk tanning or burning. If you're not as pale as you could be, wear a foundation that 1-2 shade lighter than your real skin tone depending on how dark your skin tone is. A good way to look and be paler is to soak in a bath (no bubbles) with a relaxation soap which loosens and softens your skin, then pour in 2 glasses of milk and stay in a further 10 minutes. This should make your skin tone a bit lighter. (DO NOT MAKE YOURSELF CHALK WHITE, this would make you look ill.) And flawless skin is important, did you ever see Rosalie with a pimple? In the mornings wash your face and neck with water and gently pat dry, the rub in small amounts of moisturizer on your face and neck (up and outward motions)it will make your skin smooth and help reduce spots.
 You will look weirder if you use the liquid foundation because it's kind of like a mask. Blood red lipstick will make all the boys stare. A quick swipe of gloss over the lipstick is perfect for parties and formal events.However light pink lipstick will look good for a chilled day. Curl your eyelashes BEFORE you apply your mascara or you will rip out your eyelashes. Then, apply 2 to 4 coats of mascara to your top lashes and just one to your bottom lashes. Eyeliner should always be black and applied to your lower lids just above your lashes and then underneath your lashes from the center of your pupil out to the corner of your eye making slight wings out the sides but don't make them too big. Then, squeeze your eyes shut to make the eyeliner go onto your upper lids too. Then, you must reapply one coat of eyeliner after that.
 The time Rosalie grew up in was the Victorian era which had very muted and understated colors in rich fabrics like silk, velvet, cotton, etc. There was lots of lace. Rosalie typically wears dark wash skinny or boot jeans with a blazer, sky-high heels, and of course, her Cullen crest necklace. You can get this necklace anywhere online. Rosalie also wore a white scarf just draped over the shoulders of her blazer in Twilight the movie. She wears something simple always with her signature necklace and in New Moon at Bella's birthday party she wore a flattering solid black dress with a chunky bracelet. Earrings are a must and must always make a statement. Be sure your wardrobe includes the following colors: ivory, cream, navy, purple, black, and gray.
 The oldest is really 12 because then you can babysit, but go for high-paying jobs. Then use the money to make you look more rich by buying expensive clothes and such. However you don't need to much money to get her style! Go searching in Charity shops (they have great bargains) or you and your friends could have an old clothes swap where you gather your old clothe and go through each others.

