 Mount the float switch according to the instructions that came with the switch. Depending on the mounting position, the float on these switches rise or fall as per the liquid level. The operation can be either Normally Open or Normally Closed by rotating the switch by 180 degrees. Do not position it inside a tank in a way that it might get obstructed. Proper deployment of level sensors can prevent serious accidents.
 Selecting the right materials and testing them for compatibility is critical to maintaining the life and continuous operation of these products., Typically, these devices do not require any hard core maintenance. In case of too much contamination in the liquid, a casual wipe-down is all that is required., Make sure the signal cables are routed away from the power sources or any other electric fixtures. Cable routing, if done properly, can be beneficial. Improper routing can lead to increased electric noise at higher voltages., Always double check that the sensors are grounded properly. Using a single ground will help you avoid interference or shock. Together, a perfect cable, a good ground, and proper cable routing will prevent electromagnetic interference, thereby maintaining clean measurement signals., It is recommended that independent high level switch devices be fixed to all tanks. These high level switch devices can offer a safeguard against spills in case of a failure with the unit’s measuring instrumentation. This can be a form of secondary protection against overspills., Make sure the electrical specifications, pressure and temperature limitations, for your level and flow sensors, do not exceed more than what is mentioned in the directions., Check for the ambient temperature changes as they affect the switch set points. This is because the density of a fluid can fluctuate with the varying temperatures., Most sensors are designed to resist shock, wear, and vibration. It’s important to make sure shock and vibration are minimized for prolonged use., Filter the liquid media containing any form of particulate or debris to ensure the proper operation of the products. Also, check to see that the mounting point and the electrical entries within the tank are properly sealed for liquids or vapors, to prevent any damage.