 If you have sleep paralysis, the area of your brain that detects threats becomes more active and overly sensitive to stimuli. The temporary paralysis is caused by this oversensitivity.To be diagnosed with sleep paralysis, you must be experiencing three of the following primary symptoms:Inability to move: This may feel as if some outside force is causing the paralysis.
Feeling fear, dread, or anxiety because of the paralysis
Being consciously awake during the paralysis
Clear perception of surroundings: You may notice the time, the moonlight coming in through the window, what your partner is wearing and so on.
 In addition to primary symptoms, you may experience these symptoms:A sense of overwhelming fear and dread
A sense of another presence
Pressure on the chest
Difficulty breathing
Laying on your back even if that is not your preferred position
Visual, olfactory (smell) or auditory (sound) hallucinations. These may be combined with the sense of another presence.
A feeling of impending doom or death

, Studies estimate that sleep paralysis affects 5 to 40% of the population, affecting men and women of any age group, although most sleep paralysis begins during the teenage years. Risk factors for sleep paralysis include:A family history of sleep paralysis
Changing sleep schedules
The existence of another sleep disorder like insomnia; narcolepsy; parasomnias such as sleepwalking or sleep talking, confusional arousals, bedwetting and sleep terrors; hypersomnias (excessive sleepiness)
A history of depression, anxiety, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and bipolar disorder. These mental disorders were also associated with some of the more disturbing hallucinations.
Sleep related leg cramps and Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS)
Medications, including those used to treat anxiety and ADHD
Drug and alcohol abuse

, If you don't notice a reduction in the number of sleep paralysis events within two to four weeks of trying treatment methods or you're losing significant amounts of sleep, talk with your doctor. You may even want to schedule an appointment with a sleep specialist. Sleep paralysis can be a symptom of other underlying sleep conditions or of significant psychiatric problems, but only a physician can make that determination.


For example, sleep paralysis can actually be a symptom of narcolepsy, a condition with daytime drowsiness and sudden “attacks” of sleep.

