 There are multiple options but typically there are a few things you want to watch out for. Firstly, Lava is not your friend. this can result in the worst case a loss of the nether star and a waste of your three wither skulls. While you can build underground, the safest bet is to take it on at the surface. In particular look for a large patch of gravel, these are often found on the tops of some areas of extreme hills biomes. The gravel is useful since there is then very little risk of the Wither blowing a hole under your feet and making you fall down a chasm to your death.;
, You could make a box out of something which is extremely blast resistant, furnaces or obsidian work well enough. The box will need double thick walls, so make a box of obsidian with external dimensions of 7 x 7 x 7 and internal dimensions of 3 x 3 x 3. Leave the roof off for now. Make sure that it includes a double thick floor to ensure everything works as planned.
 This will require 108 iron blocks.But first build the soul sand part of the wither and add the 2 side heads, leave the middle one off.  Now build a platform which is level with the top of your obsidian "killbox" and construct the first iron golem. Then push the golem (without hitting him) into the killbox and make sure he falls into the bottom. Repeat this method until you have 3 very cramped iron golems stuck in the box right next to the wither.
 Cover the roof in the first layer of obsidian leaving a single empty block in the middle. Now build up the last layer and leave the middle block empty and a single block on the opposite side to the wither. This will allow you to crouch and just place on the wither head when you're ready.
 First, throw in a splash potion of regeneration, followed by a splash potion of strength. This will give the Golems a fighting chance. Now put the last wither head in place and stand aside. Get your bow at the ready in case something goes wrong, You don't want a stray wither following you around the world. So what happens now is, the wither will anger the iron golems with its initial explosion which will then start pulverizing the Wither. The wither should be dead within a few short moments, typically around 6 seconds. This will damage the obsidian box, sometimes to the point where the golems will be set free, if you want to reuse the box for future wither kills, then stop the golems from escaping with simple cobble walls so they can be ushered back in later. Another tactic which works if you have fast hands is to keep dumping splash potions of healing into the box from the top, these will hurt the wither while healing your golems. Although this is risky if the Wither pops the block you're standing on you're going to fall in and its your only hope is to not attack (since you will end up enraging the golems).

