 If your new spouse is widowed, it may be difficult to adjust. You may feel you can’t live up to the previous spouse, and your partner may still be grieving. Instead of ignoring the past, accept it. The previous marriage was part of your partner’s life and they will probably grieve for a long time. Talk to each other about what you are feeling, both good and bad.For example, encourage your partner to share their grief with you. This helps build a deeper and stronger relationship between the two of you.
Talk to your spouse about your feelings. If you feel insecure or worried because of the past, talk to your partner about it.
 Most people who are widowed never stop loving their dead spouse. That doesn’t mean that you and your spouse can’t have a meaningful relationship. Let go of any jealousies or ill-feelings towards your spouse’s previous partner and accept that they will always love them. However, remember that your spouse loves you and that the two of you are now building a life together.Your partner’s previous marriage doesn’t change the way they feel about you. It can take some time to adjust to this idea, but eventually you will learn that your partner loves you while still loving their dead spouse.
 Your partner may want to keep possessions of their dead spouse, and you may not feel comfortable with keeping them. Have a conversation in which you both explore why you want to keep or discard the items. Then, come to a compromise about how to handle the situation.For example, you may agree to keeping all photographs and a box or two of mementos as long as your partner donates other possessions to charity.
 Though you want to be empathetic to your partner’s grief, you also have to think about your own feelings. When your partner says or does something that hurts you, talk to them about it. Set up boundaries about what is appropriate and what isn’t so that both of your needs are being met.For example, if your partner refers to their previous spouse as “my first wife or husband” or simply “my partner,” that can cause you to feel hurt, unappreciated, and insecure. Tell your partner, “I understand that you’re grieving and you still love your dead spouse, but these comments hurt me.”

, Instead of living in the past with the dead spouse, focus on the present and making a future together. Make new memories with your new spouse. Do new things together that neither of you have done in the past. Try new hobbies, visit new places, and eat new foods.Consider redecorating your home or buying a new one. This can help it feel like your home, not a home from the past.

