 A great way to get your work done and hang out with your boyfriend is to plan study dates. Once or twice a week, do your homework together. Even just reading in the same room can help you bond. If you are struggling with a question, you can ask him for help.


It can be easy to become distracted during study dates. At the beginning, set a time limit or a boundary with your boyfriend. Say, “I need to study for at least two hours before I can do anything else” or “If I write three pages, maybe we can watch an episode of a TV show together.”

, If you have a test coming up, you can ask your boyfriend to help you prepare. Make notecards, and ask him to quiz you on the terms. You can also give him your notes, and he can read off questions from them. This makes studying more interactive.
 Studying is difficult enough without any distractions. If your boyfriend cannot study with you, you may feel tempted to text or message him while you are studying. Let him know that you are working and that you won’t be able to talk for a few hours. Put your phone in a drawer or under a pillow. Turn the phone on silent. Once you are done studying, be sure to text your boyfriend to let him know that you can talk again.


If your boyfriend knows you are studying and still texts you constantly, it could signal a lack of trust on his part. This is especially true if he keeps asking where you are or demands that you pay attention to him.Have a talk with your boyfriend. You can say, “It’s not cool that you keep texting me when I ask you not to. Trust is important in a relationship, and if you can’t trust me, this might not work out.”

, Let your boyfriend know that when you are studying, everything else is off limits. If he tries to pressure you to make out or give him attention, remind him of your responsibilities. Gently tell him that this is important to you and that you would appreciate it if he would let you study.


Remember your boyfriend does not have to take up your whole life. You can still study and be a good girlfriend. In fact, a good boyfriend is one who understands that you need to work and gives you the time you need to succeed.If your boyfriend becomes angry that you are setting boundaries, it is not your fault. It is his problem.This is typical of abusive behavior. Even if he is not currently abusive to you, it is a sign that he may be trying to control you.

