 Create your family in a different way. You could make the parents hate each other, or make the siblings fight a lot. Or you could make a father who loves to spend the day at the computer and a mother who loves the outside, and loves fishing. This creates challenges in the game, because to thrive they will have to be able to live, doing both things, and still be together if they want a good relationship.
 This is, besides the lifetime wish. Have as many friends as you can, throw some awesome parties, make your Sim a loner, and make him live in the corner of the city, talking to his plants or the TV. Make a technophobic Sim, and try playing the game without ever using electronics.
 Many use cheat-codes to play the game, but have you ever thought of playing it without the cheat-codes? If you have never tried this, then it will be very challenging, and you might enjoy it. You Sim will have to work a lot, try to get a promotion fast, accept opportunities to get money, and live very cheaply in the beginning. When your Sim turns out successful and rich, you will be proud and know that you did it - without cheat-codes.
 This is actually very fun, as much as it sounds mean. If you find this offensive or mean in anyway, then feel free to skip this step. Here are 5 fun ways to kill your Sim and make him turn into a ghost.


Death by Fire. You can make you Sim die this way, if you make him or her cook, and then when the food is on/in the stove/oven you cancel the request to make the food, and make the Sim do something else in the kitchen. Before the fire starts, remove the doors leading to the kitchen, so that your Sim can't escape. Cancel every time your Sim tries to continue cooking. Eventually a fire will start, and your Sim will hopefully burn up.
Death by Drowning. This is a little more complicated. Put you Sim in a pool, and enter build mode. Delete the ladder and try to put fence up around the pool, without any space for your Sim to get up. If this doesn't work, try with kitchen counters around the pool. When you figure out a way to make your Sim imprisoned in the water, turn on the game mode again and wait for death to happen.
Death by Electrocution. Make your Sim tinker with something, or use an electrical object while in a puddle of water. A Sim will have more luck of dying this way if he's clumsy and non-mechanic.
Death by Starvation. Lock your Sim in a room for some days and do not provide the Sim with any food. After some time, starvation will occur, but you will have to listen to a lot of complaining until then.
Death by Old Age. This is the last way of killing a Sim. Play with the Sim and his family until he gets really old. Take good care of your Sim all the time. but eventually your Sim will pass away from old age. This will take significantly longer if your Sim is a Vegetarian.
 Make your Sim become a famous surgeon, politic, criminal or journalist. This is actually very fun, especially if you have the expansion pack "Ambitions".
 This is both challenging and hard. Make a lonely mother or father, or even a couple. Then make them have many kids, until there can't be more kids in the household. Now, take care of all the kids, make them grow up happy, potty train them, read for them, make sure they have good grades and take care of their jobs when they become teenagers. And don't forget mom and dad, you also have to take good care of their needs, careers and wishes.
 If you want an interesting family get two people to fall in love with completely different traits, for example one can be family oriented and the other can hate kids!

, See how long you can last without using the cheats. This will be hard if you love cheats!

, Sometimes it is fun to play without cheating.;
, Maybe they will be friends lovers enemy's or strangers to each other. Who Knows?

, Or maybe even one a slave and one a master, keep the slave in a tiny cage and the master get luxury stuff!

, It will make the game much more interesting!

