 A good exercise plan should have 7-10 exercises. Start with the fundamentals. Once you’ve mastered these basic moves, you’ll be able to make your workout harder by increasing the weight and changing up your routine., Place your feet shoulder-width apart with your toes pointed out a little bit. Use a barbell and keep it positioned behind your head, with the weight on your upper back rather than your neck. Keep your hands on the bar, slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Keeping your back straight, bend your knees until your thighs are parallel with the ground then stand back up.Squats are especially good for your quadriceps, hamstrings, glutes, and calf muscles.
Start out with just the barbell and no weights. Practice your form before adding any weights, as this exercise can really injure your back if you do it incorrectly.
 Place your feet shoulder-width apart. Using a barbell that’s right in front of you, lift the barbell while keeping your back very straight. Bend over from the hips to grab the bar. When you stand up, keep your muscles engaged, and raise your hips and shoulders together at the same speed.This exercise should also be started with just a barbell and no weight.
 Place one foot in front of the other. Keep a light dumbbell in each hand. Lower your body until your forward leg is bent at about a 90 degree angle. Stand up straight again, and repeat. Be sure to do both legs., Put yourself in plank position by lowering your body parallel to the ground, keeping your weight on your hands. Bend your arms until your elbows make a 90 degree angle, then lift yourself up again. Keep your core engaged and your back very straight.

For bench presses, you’ll need to use a bench and a weight lifting rack at the gym. Be sure not to try this without a spotter!

, Use a suspension trainer or bar at the gym that allows you to pull your body weight up toward the machine. Once you’ve gripped the bar or handles, walk your feet forward so your body is inclined. Then pull yourself through your arms, bending your elbows. This exercise works your biceps, as well as muscles in your back and abdomen., These also work your biceps, back, and core, but “vertical pulls” hit slightly different muscles than horizontal pulls. Be sure to do both types!, Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Start by lifting two light dumbbells above your head. Your back should be very straight, and you shouldn’t bend over in any way. Once your form is good, you can graduate to lifting a barbell overhead.