 You can purchase it at a local roofing supply house, or check listings for used slate from old houses, barns, etc., or you can go to a chain craft store if you are only looking to make one. Any more than one can be costly at a craft store. All full size roofing slates have the two holes in them. You can either cut around them or fill them in with epoxy and paint over them.;
, Once you know, turn the slate over to the back side and begin to measure it out to your desired size with your t square and marker. Couple of things here. You MUST do this on the back side of the slate (that's the flattest side), since this is the side you will be cutting from(never cut from the front), and also when using a t square you need to make sure the edges of the slate are straight to line the t square up properly or the whole thing will be off. Usually this is not an issue unless the slate has been used already.
 This is very tricky and please make sure you watch your figures, so that they don't get caught under the cutter blade.Hold the slate firmly in place with one hand and with the other begin to depress the cutter bar in a slow but steady fashion. Continue cutting until slate is the desired size. NOTE: If slate is hard to cut, or if it keeps breaking, your blade may need to be sharpened. (Safety goggles and mask should be worn.)

, Take your t square and measure out the holes. Mark with a marker.
 Hang slate over the edge of a table or counter, and then hold slate with one hand while drilling with the other. This picture is not the best example. It was just one person who needed to take the picture too. Not enough hands.
, It can be a background color that you will be using or any old color you are going to paint over. If you don't want to use a base coat that's okay, but just know that it will be harder to paint straight lines because of the natural surface of the slate.
 Make sure to use your t square and ruler to mark out any border you may have, words, or any other object that may need to be straight or centered.
 Keep a few things in mind before you begin:


Make sure that your idea is a well thought out idea, and that you have the skill to paint it. However, if you're not the next Picasso no worries, do something that is simpler and within your means, or use a stencil. Slates are the perfect format to stencil on.






Use a good paint brushes to ensure clean edges.






Use a better quality acrylic paint. You want to avoid paints that are clumpy or are too thin, because they don't cover that well and are hard to control. Paint brushes and paint can be purchased at your local craft store or on line.
 EX. God Bless America or personalize it "The (Last Names)".
 Take the slate to a well ventilated area (preferably outside) lay it on a protected surface and get your mask back on. This is the part where you are going to seal it with a clear acrylic spray paint for protection, especially if it is going to be outside. Put several coats on just to be extra sure. NOTE: There are three types of finish with clear acrylic spray paint. Glossy, Satin, and Matte. Glossy really makes all the colors pop.
, If this is a lawn and garden slate, at this point you are ready to put it in your wrought iron slate holder.
 Measure you leather cord out to be cut. For a slate this size, you would want to measure the cord about 15 inches (38.1 cm). Once you have done that thread one end of the cord through the back of the slate and tie in a Knot in the front.
, These make wonderful gifts for friends and family. Plus, the possibilities of what you can paint are endless.

