 Calamine lotion can help dry out blisters and soothe the skin. Only use it on genital herpes when the lesions are not on mucous tissue—so don’t use calamine lotion on the vagina, vulva, or labia., An oatmeal bath (or even using an oatmeal product such as Aveeno soap) can help reduce the discomfort of the sores. Place about one cup of oatmeal into a nylon sock and place the sock over the tap. Allow very warm water to run through the oatmeal. Soak in the oatmeal bath as long as comfortable.
 Epsom salt contains magnesium sulphate and other essential minerals that are helpful in drying, soothing, and cleansing sores. For this reason, epsom salts are important in relieving the pain and the itching that comes with a herpes infection.To use this remedy:


Warm some bathwater and add around 1/2 cup of epsom salt. Soak for at least twenty minutes.
Always make sure to dry the affected area well after having a warm bath or applying a warm towel. Keeping the area dry will prevent any further itching, irritation, or any possible fungal infection. If a towel irritates your sore skin, use a hair dryer on the cold setting.
 Lemon balm ointments can relieve acute symptoms of HSV infections.Examples of products available are Wise Ways Herbals Lemon Balm salve and Amber’s Organics Lemon Balm ointment. Follow the manufacturer’s directions for the application of your specific product., In one study, a combination of sage with Chinese rhubarb in a cream was as effective as acyclovir (which is a prescription-strength drug used to treat herpes) at healing HSV infections of the female genitalia., Topical St John’s wort is a traditional herb used to treat viral infections. There haven't been any human studies to date using St John’s wort, but lab studies have indicated that the herb can inhibit HSV replication.Examples of products available include like Organic's St John’s wort salve and Bianca Rosa’s St John’s wort salve/ointment.
 Zinc ointments are effective against HSV in lab tests.You can use a 0.3% zinc oxide cream (with glycine). Ask your pharmacist for help in finding these and follow manufacturer’s instructions.

