 You can't be a hipster without knowing how you're going to do it. You need these steps to figure it out. (Or you can be a TRUE hipster and not take advice from a website as mainstream as wikiHow. Your choice.)

The Typical Hipster: This is the type of hipster to sort of 'run with the crowd', as much as you can as a hipster. They prefer to wear normal Ray Bans (or the knockoffs, since name brands are WAY too mainstream.) and red lipstick for females. The personality associated with this hipster 'breed' includes a local cafe rendezvous at least weekly, scoffing at 'Ignorant, self(ie)-obsessed mainstream girls who only wear makeup and name brands', and shopping at thrift stores.
The Artsy Hipster: Favoring the beret, black-and-white striped shirts, suspenders, and red skinny jeans, these hipsters are more likely to be at a Poetry Slam than to be writing a Sci-Fi or a romance novel. They're easy to spot, and you'll know them when you see them.
The 'Granny' Hipster: This hipster ONLY shops at thrift stores, ONLY buys antique furniture, and prefers tea over coffee. These ones are stupidly mistaken by the mainstream world as 'Tumblr Hipsters'. As a bonus to all of the vintage décor, these hipsters like standing up for the environment, and will also most likely have their head in a book at the park.;
, Look like you just threw something random on and walked out the door as soon as possible. Here are some tips.

Mismatch things. It's perfectly fine to wear shorts, a vintage or flower-print blouse, and 80s style leg warmers: that's PERFECT. Try also: Skinny jeans, a striped shirt with wild-patterned suspenders, and combat boots. Be creative. And remember, if everyone takes advice from the same website, it's no longer hipster: it's just mainstream. *Shudders*
Grab some old, beat-up Converse, Toms, or Vans to wear with anything. Literally.
When in doubt, just wear something off-brand: No hipster will ever be caught wearing Under Armour.

Put it in a messy bun.
Try ruffling it or doing pinup curls. Maybe braid it overnight.


Mainstream: The worst possible thing you could do or be as a hipster. Starbucks, loop 'buns' (in Step Three of Part One), and on-brand things like Victoria's Secret are examples.
Fixie: A bicycle
Java: Coffee

