 Also, check zoning regulations before considering any property, to make sure a horse breeding operation is an acceptable use. Your best bet is to buy fertile land with lots of green grass/hay/alfalfa; otherwise, your expenses will increase because you need to bring in lots of feed. Local agricultural organizations will often test land for you to help you identify the species of grass growing on it, and any other relevant issues such as the mineral content of the soil. If you plan on keeping horses on pasture all year round, the grass needs to be rich in vitamins and minerals and non-toxic to horses. It also needs to grow back quickly! On the other hand, if your climate means that the horses need to be kept indoors over winter, you'll need suitable barn accommodation with easy mucking out facilities and at least a small outside area for exercising during the warmest part of cold days.


Horses need approximately 1000 square feet per horse. More space is always better than less.
You'll need at least two separated areas of land, one for the stallion(s) and the other area for the mares. If you have more than one stallion, you'll need more separate areas, as keeping two stallions in the same pasture is not a good idea in most cases, especially since farm lots rarely replicate the wide ranges of wild horses. Moreover, there is a distinct need for rotating pasture, to allow pasture to recover and to release the horses onto fresh pasture regularly, meaning that you will need more pasture than you might first think.
It would be preferable if the land you bought already had a barn, outdoor shed (for your horses in winter), a place to park a horse trailer, and any other necessities. If not, you'll find the costs add up very quickly on top of the land purchase.
Ask about the water supply––look for a guaranteed, quality supply, where there is a plentiful and sufficient amount of water. Creeks, ponds, dams and the like are good sources of water, but you'll need to ensure that algae growth isn't an issue in the warmer months. On the other hand, too much water can water log the pasture, ruining its feeding potential and causing problems for the horses walking in puddles and muddy conditions.


Check for holes in the pasture. It would be best if there weren't any gophers or other animals/rodents which dig holes in the ground, because if a horse (or any large mammal, for that matter) steps in these at a fast pace, there is a risk of severe injury. If there are holes, consider whether measures to eliminate the cause of the holes is viable or not.






Areas with snakes need to be checked for snake habitat in the pasture. Snakes and horses don't mix, so by reducing the habitat preferences of snakes, you can reduce the potential for snakes hanging about around. Some things that may help are not having wood/log piles, junk heaps, and any other such place that encourages rodent breeding, which attracts snakes.






Check for possible toxic plants. Trees are an important shade source but they can also be a liability if they produce toxic berries, seeds or leaves. Identify plants on a property using a field guide before making a purchase decision. You might be able to remove an offending tree but a whole copse of trees or a pasture filled with weeds starts to be a lot of work without a guarantee that you've found all possible toxic plants. To see a list of common plants poisonous to horses, see http://www.drsfostersmith.com/pic/article.cfm?aid=1784.






See How to prepare a pasture for horses.

