 By this age, lying is certainly a conscious behavior. Older children and adolescents know the difference between truth and fantasy. They are aware of the consequences of telling lies, and, unfortunately, they have also gotten much more skilled at lying. Adolescents lie to avoid punishment, to get out of doing undesirable activities, to hide unacceptable behaviors, to protect their privacy, and to protect other's feelings., Lecturing is generally futile with adolescents. For the most part, they understand right and wrong and the potential consequences of their actions. Therefore, you may not need to reiterate why what they did was wrong. However, asking your adolescent son or daughter why they chose to lie might clue you into a deeper rationale, or highlight places where boundaries need to be set.Adolescents are exercising independence and evolving in their identities. They are also fiercely loyal and protective of their friends and peers. If your son lies about a friend who's mom is an alcoholic, he may be doing so to not only maintain confidentiality of his friend's situation, but also making sure you don't try to cut off their seeing one another in a time when his friend really needs support.
After you ask their rationale avoid any blaming or finger-pointing. Sit quietly and listen to understand their point-of-view.
 Are you extremely strict? Are you not allowing your maturing child to have independence appropriate to his or her age? Consider this scenario: your 15-year-old daughter is lying about wearing makeup to school. You find out from a friend who's a teacher and immediately fly off the handle when she comes home one day. Your reaction itself is enough to encourage more lying - your child fears your disapproval, so she hides her behavior from you.This example is not placing fault in your parenting, but rather allowing for the fact that with older children you should open up the door for a dialogue. If your response is to naturally say "no", to stamp out negotiations or to not let your children have any voice, then lying or covering up is expected.
Aim to pick your battles with your lying child so that he or she feels capable of opening up a dialogue with you. Decide which issues are non-negotiable and allow your maturing teen some input in the decision-making on issues that are more flexible. Of course, the final say should always be left up to the parents, particularly in cases involving safety. However, more effective collaboration may help to eliminate your child's lying habit.It may be necessary to visit with a family therapist if you are having trouble releasing the reigns on your growing adolescent child. A professional can help you set boundaries, but also assist your entire family in improving communication.
 State the obvious and explain the consequences. If you have caught your adolescent child in a lie, there is no need to go on and on about the details, or ask clarifying questions that only result in your child telling more lies. Be upfront with your child by saying, "I know you lied about ____". If you want to understand their lie, then ask. Otherwise, tell your child the consequences of lying and carry on.
 If you (and your partner or spouse) determine that your child's lying requires consequences, be sure to carry them out. Not following through on punishments, or presenting "empty threats", can undermine your authority and cause your child to think he or she can get away with inappropriate behavior. That's why you should always give yourself space to ponder over - and maybe discuss with someone else - your child's behavior before dolling out punishments, so you can be sure the punishment is reasonable based on the infraction.Strive to enforce logical consequences to your child's lying. In other words, make sure the punishment fits the crime. For example, if your adolescent son lied and said he was watching a younger sibling, but the sibling was injured because your son was actually distracted by TV, an appropriate consequence would be to take away TV privileges.