 Different countries have difference cultures. Some of their customs might be similar to your own, while others may be strikingly different. Take time to familiarize yourself with the culture of the country you are visiting. In some places, haggling is expected and encouraged for everything, while others are more restricted.


In general, most posted prices tend to be final. Haggling is less likely to be successful.If you see two prices listed—one in English and one in the local language—take note of the currencies and exchange rates. If the values are different, consider haggling for the lower price.
Sometimes, it is inappropriate to haggle for certain items. For example, in some countries, it is acceptable to haggle taxi prices, but not acceptable to haggle food prices.;
, If you are visiting a foreign country, the dominant religion might be different from your own. Some vendors may close specifically for a holiday, while others for prayers. Do not disrupt a person while he or she is praying, and do not get angry if a vendor closes due to a religious holiday.
 What may be considered polite in one place may be considered rude in another. Before you go haggling, take time to study the culture. This will prevent any unexpected surprises. It will also prevent you from accidentally insulting a vendor. For example, in many Middle Eastern and Islamic countries:


Handshakes are important. They are always done with the right hand. It is also rude to break a handshake. If a vendor initiates a handshake, wait for him or her to break it, no matter how long it takes.The interactions between men and women can be different. If you are male, and the vendor is female, do not initiate the handshake. Wait for her to extend her hand, if at all. Avoid making extended eye contact with her., If you are rude, people might be less willing to negotiate with you. If you are polite and respectful, however, the vendor may be more willing to haggle and negotiate a lower price. Consider learning a traditional greeting (and response) as well as a "thank you" before you visit a marketplace, or anywhere where there might be haggling. Even if you cannot say anything else in the vendor's language, he or she may see that you are trying and respect you for it.If you are a beginning language student, consider using the local language's words for numbers even if you can't carry out a full conversation.
 If you're in a much poorer country than your own, locals may expect you to pay higher prices. Chances are you won't be able to hide this, especially if you aren't fluent in the local language, but try to minimize flashy foreign clothing and expensive accessories.
 This is when sellers are preparing to leave and eager to offload stock.Ask a local for any regional exceptions they might know about. For example, in the city of Chiang Mi, Thailand, some vendors may be willing to provide a good bargain for the lucky first sale of the day., Take note of the price differences between the items. If one vendor's price is higher than the marketplace average, take note of the item's quality. There might be a reason why it is a higher price. For example, real fur items tend to be more expensive than fake fur items. If the price is the only difference, then you may try to haggle for a lower price that falls within the average range. The vendor might even offer up a lower price.
 Try to bring a friend who has lived in that country for a long time, or is familiar with the culture and customs. Not only might this make negotiating prices less intimidating, but any conversations and input from your friend might influence the vendor's final price. Don't be afraid to hold conversations with your friend over the item's value—just remember to keep it respectful. You don't want the vendor to refuse to sell the item to you., Decide what you're willing to pay secretly, then bargain the seller down to that amount with offers and counteroffers. For example, you can begin by offering to pay half the price listed. The vendor will likely offer a higher price than what you offered, but still lower than the original. If this still seems unfair to you, don't be afraid to disagree, make a face, or act disappointed. The vendor may lower the price to keep you happy and to sell the item.Here are a few more tips:


Choose a price in your home currency, then translate it (roughly) into the currency you're using. It's easy to get used to local prices, but don't let a high or low exchange rate trick you into turning down a good offer or paying more than you'd like.
You can make a much lower offer than the listed price if you are sure the price is inflated for foreigners. Let the seller know you know and they might give it to you for the local price.
The correct counteroffer may vary depending on the area you are in. If you can, ask a local beforehand what seems reasonable. If you have to guess, never offer below 50% of the initial price.
 Once it's at a price you're willing to pay, purchase the item and thank the seller. In order to achieve that price, you might need to resort to the following tactics:


Showing hesitation or remaining silent can cause the seller to respond with a better offer. But in some cultures, this can be interpreted as a sign of disinterest. If they start turning away, immediately start talking again—but you don't need to raise your offer right away.
Agree to their last offer on the condition they throw in another item you're interested in for a reduced rate.Have a friend pretend to pull you away or convince you to move on. This may trigger a final offer from the seller.If you don't have a friend handy, simply start walking away for the same effect. Once you try this, though, you may not get a better deal if you walk right back to the stall.
Pull out the amount of cash you're offering and show it to the seller to tempt them directly. Don't try this with what is considered large amount of money in that country. This may put you at risk for mugging or pick pocketing later on.