 Start by thinking about why you are in a bad mood. Reflect on the cause of your negative thoughts. Maybe you felt the bad mood coming on on your way to work, when someone cut you off or made a rude remark. Perhaps you had a fight with a friend and this lead to your bad mood. Or maybe you failed an important test and your bad mood started to kick in.Identifying the cause of your bad mood can be difficult, especially if you are wrapped up in your emotions. One option is to sit down and do a short freewrite on the prompt, “I’m in a bad mood because…”. Try to write your thoughts down, unedited, and then read them back to yourself when you are done to try to determine the cause of your mood.
You may also try talking out loud to yourself to help determine the cause of the bad mood. Perhaps you ask yourself out loud, Why am I in such a bad mood? Then, try to answer your question as best you can.
 You should then do some thinking on the cause of your bad mood, once it has been identified, and go deeper into why you are so shaken by the issue or event. Do some further investigating into why the cause of your bad mood got you so upset. You may ask yourself, Why did this issue lead to my bad mood? Why was I so upset by this event or situation?For example, you may be in a bad mood due to a poor grade on a test. You may realize that you are in a bad mood because you studied hard but failed to perform well during the test. This upsets you because you did all the legwork but did not do well in the end.
Another scenario is you end up in a bad mood because someone says something rude and disrespectful to you at work. In the moment, you were so upset that you froze and did not know how to respond. You may be in a bad mood because of the person’s actions and because you failed to address their actions with them.
 Once you have investigated your bad mood, you should think about whether you can do anything to change or address the cause of your mood. Addressing or changing the issue that made you upset can make you feel empowered and motivated. This can help to lift your bad mood and use it in a productive way.For example, you may try to address the poor test mark by speaking to your teacher after class about extra credit you can do to raise your grade. Or you may try adjusting your test taking habits so you are more calm and prepared during the next test, and get a better mark.
To address the rude remark from a coworker, you may decide to sit down with the coworker and explain why their comment upset you. Having a mature, open conversation with the coworker can help you both come to a resolution and feel better about the situation.
 An extremely long-lasting bad mood can be a sign of a more serious underlying issue. If you just can’t shake your bad mood after a couple of weeks, talk to your doctor, or consider seeing a counselor or psychotherapist.