 Sometimes, simply ignoring a bully is a great way to cope. Bullies often thrive on attention. If a bully is not getting a reaction from you, he or she may give up and move on to another target.Use body language to show a bully you're not interested in giving him or her your attention. Hold your head high and stand up tall to convey confidence. When the bully is addressing you, simply walk by without turning your head or paying attention.
Bullies may take on online harassment as well, which can also be ignored. Simply do not respond to negative social media posts, e-mails, and instant messages.
Many people are reluctant to simply ignore bullying as this feels like a cowardly response. However, ask yourself whether engaging with a bully is really worth it. While you may dislike feeling cowardly or weak, oftentimes addressing bullying only escalates the situation. The bully may get aggressive and double down on his or her efforts. Try ignoring the bully for a week or so and see if he or she backs off.;
, Friends are a great way to deter a bully. Seek out friends who stick by you through adversity. If a bully is spreading rumors, for example, stay close to the friend who tells you he or she refuses to believe lies and gossip. Have friends accompany you during lunch, between classes, and during breaks like recess. This can help deter the bully from harassing you.In addition to sticking by your current friends, seek out new friends with shared interests. Join a school club that interests you. Try signing up for a sport's team. Enroll in extracurricular activities outside of your school district, such as local volunteer work. This can provide you with the opportunity to meet friends outside of your own school.You should strive to make friends with people who don't bully. You may be inclined to befriend someone who has a reputation for being tough. However, if you're friends with someone who makes a habit of bullying others, this person could turn on you in the future. Seek out friends who do not bully if you want to avoid being on the receiving end of cruel behavior.
 If you're being bullied, talking about the issue is important. You can help stop bullying by talking out your feelings with a friend, a parent, or your school's guidance counselor. This can help you work through your fears and frustrations. Simply managing your emotions can allow you to find better outlets to address bullying., If ignoring the bully is not working, you may want to stand up for yourself. Bullies often target people they feel will not fight back. If you make an effort to stand up to a bully, the bully may back off.Tell the bully to stop when he or she is harassing you. Loudly say something like, "No, that's enough!" and then walk away. If you see a bully targeting another student, you can also intervene. Say something like, "Hey! Leave that kid alone!" Then, the two of you can walk away together.
Avoid getting angry or physical when standing up to a bully. Name-calling, foul language, kicking, hitting, and other forms of physical violence will only serve to escalate the situation. You do not want to put yourself in a position where you might get hurt or become the aggressor yourself.
 After a certain point, you need to talk to an authority figure about bullying. If the bully continues to harass you, despite your efforts to ignore or address the situation, you need to report it. Do not think of this as tattling. If a bully is targeting you, chances are he or she is targeting other students as well. Bullying creates a toxic environment that is harmful to everyone. It's important to make sure bullying is addressed.A parent, a teacher, a classroom aid, a principal, or other authority figure can help address bullying. Choose an adult you trust, who you feel will handle the situation appropriately. If you know anyone who witnessed the bullying, or who has also been targeted by the bully, ask that person to come forward as well.
Bullies will often stop as soon as an authority figure gets involved. Many bullies want to avoid punishment.
Bullies often lash out at other students due to their own issues. A bully may have issues at home that need to be addressed. By reporting the issue, you're giving a bully a chance to get the help he or she needs.
You can also try asking a teacher if you can move chairs. Even if your teacher is hesitant to discipline the bully, he or she may allow you to move to another part of the room so you feel safer.
 Bullies often target people with low confidence or self-esteem. If you find ways to feel good about yourself, this may be a natural deterrent for bullies. Work on engaging in activities that allow you to feel good about yourself.Exercise is a great confidence booster for many. It can also help elevate your overall mood, which may help you cope emotionally with bullying. Try to engage in physical activity each day, like going for a bike ride with friends or taking your dog for a walk.
Get involved with something you're passionate about. If you're interested in writing, volunteer to write a column for the school newspaper. If you're into nature, join a hiking club. Developing your skill set can help boost your confidence.
While raising your self esteem can help deter bullies, keep in mind bullying is never your fault. It's good to find ways to feel better about yourself, regardless of your situation, as this can help you when you face adversity. However, do not take this to mean you brought bullying on yourself due to a lack of confidence.

