 Approach from the back of the deer's shoulders; away from hooves and head. Using a long stick or piece of grass, touch it to the deer's open eye. If there is any reaction at all, a sound chest or neck shot will end things. If not mounting the head, a head shot would work also.
 This will help it drain as you dress it.
 Roll up your sleeves and put on the gloves.
 Bucks especially have a stronger musk and if this gets into the meat it will make it more gamy. Avoid touching the tarsal glands on the hind limbs of the deer (located at the ankles, they are a patch of longer fur and are often much darker in color), The object is to detach the anus and colon from the hide to prevent tearing and the soiling of meat by the deer's droppings. Gently tug the anus and attached colon (intestines) a few inches back away from the deer's body. If desired, you can tie it in a knot at this point.
 Or, if you have a hunting partner with you, they can help by holding the leg up.
 You can find it by feeling along the ribcage, to where it ends and forms a V shape at the base of the chest, just above where it meets the belly.
 Point the blade end of the knife toward the rear of the deer.
 You should be able to feel the difference between the hide wall and the membrane/muscle wall that holds the innards inside. The goal in the next part is to cut through the hide and muscle wall only to prevent cutting of the organs and tainting of the meat.
 When done properly there is no gore.
 Using care not to cut yourself or the guts, sever the attaching tissues. These tissues are stringy and attach the internal organs of the deer to its body and most are located along the spine. Unless you have the misfortune to have gut-shot the deer you should still have little to no gore or mess. The guts will tend to stay together.
 If the deer was heart/lung shot this is when you will need to be ready for gore; if necessary you may need to roll the deer onto its belly, and splay the limbs for a few minutes to let it drain.
, Some prefer to cut through the sternum to open the rib cage. Some do not. If cutting through the rib cage it is pretty straightforward- simply sever the trachea as high up as possible, and the rest comes out.
 Be very careful-- broken bones/shoulders/ribs are sharp on a deer! Feel your way up the trachea as far as you can, then using your other hand very carefully sever the trachea as far up as you can. The lungs and heart should pull free easily now. Always use caution and care! Do this step at home if you are not feeling comfortable with it in the field.
 Use special care not to sever the bladder or colon/intestines! You can pull the colon and attached anus back into the body cavity to remove them. With a male deer you can now remove the internal genitalia. Check your state's regulations as sometimes it is necessary to leave the external genitalia in tact to prove the gender of your deer.
, A trick is to take the deer by the antlers (or ears) and lift the head high while draining; this will allow any extra blood to drain out through the chest cavity.
 The heart and liver are widely considered desirable.As a precaution, avoid the brain, spinal cord, eyes, spleen, tonsils and lymph nodes if you are in an area where "chronic wasting disease" has affected deer.The rest you can leave if it is okay with the landowner to do so- the ravens, crows, foxes and other critters will thank you for the feast! They won't be wasted. Remove your gloves and put them in a carry-out trash bag and use some bottled water, snow, or nearby clean water source to scrub off any remaining blood. Don't forget to wash up thoroughly at home with soap and water.
 Keep the carcass as chilled and free of debris as possible. The sooner you can process it, the better quality your meat will be.
