 This can be done by either double-clicking the GTA: Vice City shortcut icon on the desktop if you have it there, or by following this Start Menu sequence: Start button >> All Programs >> Rockstar Games >> Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.;
, Press Enter repeatedly to skip through the pre-game animations till you arrive at the Main Menu. Click “Start Game” and then “New Game” to start GTA: Vice City from the beginning, or click “Load Game” to load a previously saved file and continue from there. This will enter you into the game world.
 Out of the 15 properties that you can buy in GTA: VC, only 7 have garages. Here are a few and how to find them:


Vercetti's Mansion (one double garage) — Starfish island.
Links View Apartments (one small garage) — Just east of the Leaf Links golf course; north of Mercedes' place.
Hyman Condo (three double garages) — Near the stadium.
To reach the property you want, walk (use the W, A, S, and D keys to control the character) to the nearest car you can find, and press F or Enter to enter it.
Using the map as a guide (the map is located to the bottom left of the screen), drive to the property (use the same keys as walking to control the car). Once you reach it, you will find a pink marker with a green icon of a house inside it near the property.
 Get out of the car by pressing F or Enter and then walk and stand in the pink and green marker. A message will appear on the top left-hand corner of the screen instructing you to press Tab in order to purchase the property for the price stated in the message.
 A message and a cinematic will be played on the screen to confirm that you have purchased the property. The money will be deducted from your in-game cash, which is displayed on the top right hand corner of the screen.


Once you purchase the property, an icon will appear on the map to help you find the way to your newly acquired asset easily. The locations of owned properties on the map are marked using various icons, but it’s usually an icon of a cassette tape.
Depending on what kind of property you bought, you may also be able to earn revenue from it or save your game progress (and lose your police wanted level in the process) by walking into the building. For properties that have that option, earned revenue is collected by walking into the icon of a pink marker with a dollar sign that replaces the original purchase icon after buying the property.
 Explore the property to find out where the garage(s) is/are. You can store a car in there by driving it in, then exiting the car and walking out of the garage.

