 One of the biggest mistakes people make when rejecting someone is not being firm enough with their decision. If someone keeps asking you out, it is possible that you weren't absolute enough with your rejection and he thinks he still stands a chance. If need be, you should repeat that you do not want to date him. Don't mince words. Be very direct and leave no room for interpretation.


Say something as simple and straightforward as "Sorry, I do not want to date you." Saying anything more risks losing track of the message.
Make sure your body language is saying the same thing as your words. Non-verbal communication counts for a lot. If you're smiling suggestively while rejecting someone, he might take it as a subtle challenge to keep chasing you.
 If it gets to the point where you don't think the person is going to stop, the best thing you can do for the time being is to ignore him. The most you can do is tell someone you're simply not interested. If he continues to pursue you, cutting off contact and ignoring him will cut his incentive to keep talking to you. In some cases, someone will do just about anything to get his crush's attention. Most of the time however, people will begin to lose interest after a while. This is the best thing to do for both of your sakes.


This includes stopping all online contact. Even if you're giving him space in person, it ultimately means nothing if you're still commenting on his social media posts. A persistent suitor will almost certainly try to get in touch with you online or via text message.
 Whether you're being pursued by someone known to them or a relative stranger, getting your friends involved can be a big help when a suitor isn't getting the message. Let some trusted friends in on the situation. Depending on the circumstances, they may be able to give you advice on how to deal with the specific person, or even help you deal with it actively. Regardless, you'll stand to gain some much-needed emotional support. It can be easy to lose sight of the fact that you have lots of people who care deeply about you. Don't be afraid to turn to them for help if someone is getting to you.


It's even better if your friends are mutual friends with the person asking you out. Your friends can talk to that person directly, and hopefully they'll be able to convince him to cut his losses.
 Although bringing authorities (parents, teachers, the police etc.) into a personal matter can only be recommended for the absolute worst of cases, it is available for those who feel like a situation is getting progressively worse. If you've told the person you have no interest in ever dating him and he refuses to let up, it can eventually escalate to the point where your safety is at risk. If it gets to this point, don't hesitate to let someone know. If you truly feel like you're in danger, filing a complaint with the police will prevent things from getting any worse.


Only take things to this point if you think you're in physical danger. Some people may take a rejection very seriously and threaten violence. If the person is simply texting you or being annoying, this isn't grounds to bring authorities into it.
If you're of a school age, telling a teacher or the principal about the situation should be done before going to police.
Restraining orders are available to those who feel like their safety is at risk. These should only be considered if the situation is horrible and it doesn't look like your stalker will ever stop. Restraining orders are to be taken seriously, and aren't available just for people who feel they're being bothered by someone.