 If the person really loves you, then s/he'll not only open up to you, but s/he'll also listen to anything you have to say — even if s/he's heard it all before. Though s/he won't be your lapdog, s/he will be around to hear your thoughts. S/he will nod and respond thoughtfully and not interrupt instead of switching the subject to something s/he wants to talk about.


Part of being in love is just being able to listen. It's not all about being able to talk.
 This includes those times when it's inconvenient. Sure, if you want to grab a drink or a tasty meal, the person is always around, but what about when you need a ride from the airport or you need someone to walk your dog while you're sick? If the person truly loves you, then s/he'll be there for you during the fun times as well as the not-so-fun times.


If the person is only around when you're happy, lighthearted, or in a good mood, but flees the scene as soon as you are sad or cranky, then that is not love.
Love is about being there for a person, no matter what. Truly loving a person means accepting all the positive and negative qualities of that person, and being around during the good times and the bad.
 If the person truly loves you, then s/he'll do thoughtful things like put gas in your car when you're busy, do your food shopping for you, or bring you chicken soup when you're home sick. These favors don't have to be constant or over-the-top, but if the person truly loves you, then s/he'll want to do things to make you smile and to make your life easier.


True love isn't just about what you can take from the person, but what you can give as well.
If the person really loves you, then s/he will do nice things for you without you having to ask. It should be implied that you need a favor or help sometimes. If you have to ask for something nice every time, then that may not be true love.
 Part of being in love is always wanting to be around the person you love, even if it's impractical. If the person truly loves you, then he or she will want to be around you — a lot. This doesn't mean the person will want to be attached at the hip, but it does mean that the person will try to take as many opportunities as possible to see you.
 If the person truly loves you, then s/he'll not only want to be around you a lot, but s/he will also know when to give you space and let you do your own thing. If the person wants to be around you all the time, then that's not love — it's infatuation. As love matures, two people will realize that they still need to do things separate to maintain their own identities.


If the person wants to be around you every waking moment, then that may be more of a sign of that person's insecurities than true love.
 True love is true understanding. Though it sounds lame, the person should really "get" you in order to love you. If the person actually understands your moods, knows what you want and what you don't want, and has an idea of what will make you happy before you may know it yourself, then that may be true love.


It's okay if part of you remains mysterious to the person — you don't have to be understood 100%, but you do have to have the sense that the other person truly understands where you're coming from most of the time.
 This should be true even if it isn't the best for him or her. If a person truly loves you, then s/he will understand that there are some things that you have to do that may not be the best for him or her, or may mean that you will be spending some time apart. If s/he truly loves you, then s/he will understand that you have to spend a summer on a remote island to pursue your career in marine biology, or that you have to go home early to get enough sleep for a test instead of spending the night with him or her.


If the person only wants what's best for both of you at all times, then s/he is not really seeing you as a unique individual with your own needs and desires.
 If s/he really loves you, then s/he will not only be there for the fun times — s/he'll also be there to help you achieve your goals and move forward in your life. If s/he truly loves you, then s/he'll be there in the bleachers during your soccer game, s/he'll be there to see you defend your thesis, and s/he'll be there to give you a ride to your job interview. And s/he'll be there whenever you want to talk about something that means a lot to you.


If s/he really loves you, then s/he will support you to achieve your goals or pursue your interests, even if they have nothing to do with him or her.

