 You're going to be lost if you skip this step. It's the most important. Make sure that you have all your school supplies, such as folders, paper, pencils, and pens. Your school will most likely have the list online, at a store, or you could pick it up from the school. If you can't find a list, just get what you think you'll need.


Get your schedule before the first day of school, this saves you from getting lost. Look over it a few times before the first day of school, or visit the school and take a look around.;
, It'll probably make you feel more confident if you're not wearing the same clothes as last year. Of course, it really doesn't matter if you wear the same outfits, but at least have a few new outfits to wear.


Make sure whatever you wear follows your school's dress code.
 Plan out what you're going to wear and what you will need for class. Also, put out any makeup, accessories, or any hair products you'll be using.


Put your school supplies, bag, gym clothes, lunch bag etc. together in an easy place to find so in the morning you can just pick it up and go without having to search for them all.
 Have sufficient change for last-minute needs, snacks, a cab home in an emergency.
 There's nothing worse than looking terrible on the first day of school. If you tend to oversleep, set an alarm on your phone, iPod, or alarm clock to wake you up on time.
 You'd be surprised how much happier and more focused you'll be after eating a good breakfast. Try cereals & muesli, toast, pancakes, fruits, or other filling and healthy breakfasts. A protein rich breakfast may make you feel sluggish and high GI or sugar rich foods may affect your ability to stay focused.
 It's your call. If you want something familiar and routine, take a bus ride and sit next to someone you already know (no need to add to the nerves by sitting next to a stranger, you can conquer that on the second day back). However, if you are really nervous and want your parent to drive you to school for comfort, have them drive, but expect that there will be heavy traffic.
 Get to the bus stop early in case it comes earlier then you'd expect.
,, You want to seem approachable and like you had the best summer (even if you didn't). Instead of coming off as a boring or sullen person, compliment people. Everyone needs a little confidence boost on the first day of school.


Be friendly to the new kids who might be there.
Smile, and wave to anyone you remember from last year.
 You might want to do this before the first day of school though, because you'll want to make it to your classes on time!


Call up your friends that go to the same school and arrange to meet up in the morning, that way you won't have to sit alone at lunch or wonder where they are.
Sit next to people you feel comfortable with if it is not possible to get lunch with your friends.
 Don't be worrying about your upcoming class, or thinking about how your friends said Mrs. Smith is terrible and evil when she's four classes away. You need to focus on meeting your new teacher, taking notes, listening to rules, etc. Daydreaming on the first day of school is a terrible, wrong idea and will probably give your new teacher a bad first impression.
 However, don't be needy and begging for friends, just be yourself. New schools are also a great opportunity to change your style without people making fun of you or thinking you're phony.


Look for friendly faces.
Show a friendly face, smile (smile back if someone smiles at you).
 "It's hot." "She's mean" "This is boring" "My lunch was nasty". Be positive. Nobody likes to hang around a moper.
 It's good to get into practice using your diary early. Also write down what you'll need to buy in addition to the things already purchased––usually these are things the teachers request at the start.
 They are nervous as well. Some people are just horrible at good first impressions.
 If you want to, you can put it in your phone so you have it secure.
 School doesn't always have to be boring. Make jokes, talk to people, sing. Do something crazy! Remember not to be disruptive when you should be paying attention, though. If you want time to fly by, enjoying yourself is a great way.

