 Find out why they're feeling like this. It can often stem from bullying, or self-esteem issues. Find out what's causing their depression. This way, you're one step closer to solving the issue.;
, Nothing will help them better than knowing that you're going to stop their pain.
 Don't just brush it off as an 'off day'. It doesn't go away overnight.
 They feel alone and need someone there with them through it all. They need support. You have to be willing to give up things for them. If they ring you at work upset and scared, you need to find some way to help them.
 Suicidal thoughts often come with depression, so be aware of this. Don't make them feel bad about it, by getting angry and telling them they're pathetic. They want to die because they feel as if life isn't worth it any more. They're giving up. They're weak, so you have to be strong for them.
 If you go to the doctors and explain, they can sign your child off school and they will sort everything out for you. You just have to worry about making your child smile again.
 They really need you right now, more than ever.
 This can also lead to depression in a child. If you go out and buy one child a new top, you have to buy one for the other. They'll be hurt and feel unwanted.
 You may get the impression that one child is the good one, but often they're the one starting arguments. Also, sometimes one child can start copying another - Child.1 can ask for something, and then Child.2 will suddenly want it. Don't get Child.2 something Child.1 asked for first. They don't like having the same thing, and it's unfair. Child.2 is just trying to fit in. Child.1 will be upset by this. This can often cause depression in a child, if their siblings act like this. Be sure to talk to Child.2 and tell them what they're doing wrong.
 The loved one isn't necessarily a child. It could be a husband, or wife, or friend. Just be there for them! Make time for them and don't push them away. Don't cancel on them because your other friend wants to go out with you. Find a compromise. You don't have to give up everything for them - but you have to be aware of how sensitive they are.

