 The waterfall braid is a whimsical braid that creates a waterfall look along your hair. To begin creating this braid, comb and part your hair as usual and then separate a front section of hair on each side of your part and pin it away from the rest of your hair. This hair will not be part of the waterfall braid.

If you want all of your hair around your face to be part of your braid, disregard the previous step. Leaving hair out of the braid is helpful if you have bangs or if you want some pieces of your hair to fall around your face.
 Take a good portion of hair on the side of your part with the most hair and separate it into three sections. Then, begin braiding hair as you would in a traditional braid, making one or two stitches., Once you have begun a traditional braid, you'll then turn the braid into a french braid by adding strands of hair to the right section of your braid and braiding it as such, moving in a horizontal direction across your head., This is where the french braid becomes a little different than normal. Usually in a french braid you will gather extra hair from the left side of your braid and combine it with the left section of the hair going into your braid as you do with the right side. With this braid, though, as you braid the left strand of hair into the braid, you will split it in half and only braid half of it into your hair.So basically, begin french braiding your hair, and as you go, gather extra hair on the right side of the braid to add to the braid. As you are about to braid the left section of hair into your braid, split it in half and leave one half of the hair down, and then braid the other half into the braid. As you go along, your hair will have long strands that stand out from the rest of your hair, which is what creates the waterfall look.
Be careful when doing this step that you don't forget to split the left strand. It can be easy to methodically french braid your hair, so make sure you remember to leave half of the left strand out as this is key to the waterfall look.
 You'll continue to braid your hair this way, angling your braid in a down diagonal (it should naturally angle this way) until you reach the opposite side of your head. Once you get to this point, braid your hair as a traditional braid, leaving some strands out to create a messier look. Then, secure with an elastic at the end of your hair., After you have finished braiding your hair, you will unpin the front of your hair to create a finished look. This type of braid looks good if it is somewhat messy, so you might consider pulling some hair out from your braid to create a looser look.