 You can also use a small pint-sized milk carton as well. If you want a fancier car, you can paint the juice box with acrylic paint, or cover it with duct tape, fabric, etc.Make sure that the carton is clean and dry.
 Your juice box will have a front, back, and two side panels. Cut the straws so that they are the same width as the front of back panels.









Make sure that you are cutting the smooth part of the straw. Do not include the bendy part.
 Set the box down so that the front is facing you. Lay the straws down on top, about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the top and bottom edges. Secure the straws to the box with a strip of tape. These will hold the axles and wheels in place.









Make sure that the straws are straight. If they are crooked, your car won't go straight.
Use strong tape, such as duct tape.
 Cut the pointy ends off of the skewers first. Next, cut the skewers down so that they are about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) wider than your box and straws.









If you don't have any skewers, you can use lollipop sticks instead. Make sure that they can slide into the straws easily.
 You should have about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) sticking out of each end. You will be mounting the wheels onto the ends of these next.
 Fill four bottle caps with clay or pieces of sponge. Press them onto the skewers. Do not let the clay part touch the straws.You can also secure them with hot glue instead.









If you don't have any bottle caps, you can use buttons instead. You can also cut circles out of cardboard. Make sure that they are all the same size.
 Slide a straw about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) into a balloon. Wrap a piece of tape over the mouth of the balloon. Extend the tape over the end of the balloon and onto the straw. Make sure that there are no gaps.
 Center the balloon and straw on top of the juice box. Part of the balloon will be hanging over the end of the juice box. Part of the straw will be sticking out over the other end. Make sure that the straw is straight, then place a piece of tape over the straw to hold it in place.









Use sturdy tape, such as duct tape.
If the straw is too long, cut it down. You want only about 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) sticking out over the edge of the box.
 Blow into the straw to inflate the balloon. Pinch the straw shut. Place the balloon on a flat, smooth surface. Let the straw go, and watch the car zoom!









Blow up the balloon.
Don't tie the end; rather, just hold it closed with your hand.
When you're ready, let go of the balloon end and watch your car go!

