 Don’t make your writing overly complicated.


Keep it simple, because your reader does not want to look up every other word.
Use big words like a potent spice; spread them sparingly throughout your writing. They will make your writing better, while still keeping the writing enjoyable for the reader.
Cut out most adverbs. Most of the time, they aren’t needed, so use them sparingly throughout your writing.
Look for other unnecessary words, such as “like,” “so,” and “then.” Cut out what’s not needed.
Cut out repetition and don’t use the same word over and over.
Your reader will get tired of reading words such as “like” over and over again, so change up your word choice to keep your diction natural.
 Don’t just think about diction while you’re writing, consider it while you’re revising.


Look at each word and consider how it fits into the whole.
Is it really the best word for the sentence? For the story?

, If you have a wide, general audience, consider keeping words that will appeal to a variety of people.


For instance, avoid slang, since slang tends to be generation-specific.
For a wide audience, keep it simpler, but don’t be afraid to add in a few bigger words in places.
However, if you are writing for a particular age group, feel free to add in some slang terms, as long as you are sure you know how to use them right.
 During revisions, make your word choice more precise by finding the words that most specifically express your meaning.


For instance, don’t just say the streetlight was “strange.” Say it was “eerie.”
“Eerie” has a much spookier effect than “strange.”
Similarly, if you are writing a sentence about rainbows, choosing words related to color makes sense, because it plays on the theme: “The rainbow stretched across the watery blue sky like a handful of violets and roses arched over a vase of water.”
By choosing flowers that have color names instead of just saying “wildflowers,” you’re reinforcing the subject of the sentence.
In another example, if you are writing about a fight, you want to choose visceral words to describe it, ones that metaphorically punch the reader in the gut: “He lashed out with one arm, blindly punching into the dark before connecting flesh to flesh.”
Words like “lashed,” “punching,” and “flesh” all create vivid imagery in the readers’ minds.

