 If a mountain lion is less than 25 yards away from you and is staring directly at you, it is preparing to attack you. It will be positioned low to the ground with its tail twitching back and forth.;
, Conventional wisdom has suggested you should never run away from a mountain lion because this will trigger its instinct to chase its prey and attack you by biting your neck. However, recent studies have shown that freezing in your current position in front of the mountain lion leaves you at a greater risk for serious or fatal injury than backing away slowly or even running away quickly. Slowly backing away from the lion has been shown to have the lowest levels of fatality. If you choose to run (which is unrecommended), check your terrain and make sure if you can get a strong, flat spring. If you have to run up jagged or hilly terrain, the mountain lion might think you are injured and thus, even better prey.
 If you decide to stand your ground in front of the mountain lion, don't do it silently. Speak very loudly and firmly to the mountain lion; you can even try yelling at it to intimidate it. Do not scream or shriek as if you are terrified; rather, yell very forcefully.
 Stand tall and raise your arms overhead and open your coat so you make yourself seem as big and intimidating as possible. If small children are with you, pick them up. (By doing so, you are making yourself look bigger and protecting the child at the same time.) Puff up your chest and throw your shoulders back. Do not bend down before the mountain lion as they will take this as a sign of weakness.
 If you have any kind of walking stick, a hunting knife, rocks or another large weapon to deter the mountain lion, you should use it at the moment of attack. Pepper spray might also be a successful deterrent.If the mountain lion acts aggressively, throw stones at or near it; convince it that you could be dangerous.
You can also use a hunting rifle or pistol to fire at the lion if it makes a charge at you. You should first attempt to fire a warning shot to scare off the lion before it attacks.
 The mountain lion will most likely attempt to tackle you and crush your skull or bite your throat. Try to block the mountain lion from your eyes and face as you strike it. Do everything you can to fight it off.

An average adult should be able to ward off an attack by fighting back since mountain lions are rather small. Aim for the head, mouth, and eyes.
 As soon as you are able, report your encounter to authorities.