 Some counselors will provide online therapy sessions after you've seen them in person. This can be convenient for you or your counselor. This is especially helpful if you go on vacation or move to another state.If you have been seeing a counselor, ask if he or she would be willing to move to online sessions instead of in person ones., If you haven't already been seeing a counselor in person, you need to make sure that you find a reputable online counselor. There are many online counselors that are reputable, but there are also many people who are not licensed and are only posing as counselors to make money.Look for online counselors that are part of national mental health associations or verified safe websites.


A good way to tell if a counselor is qualified is the amount of personal and professional information given, such as the degrees held, what states he or she is licensed in, and real world contact information.You can also ask if your counselor has an in person practice as well. This will also let you know if your counselor can be trusted or that he or she is licensed.If you are unsure, use the online locator from the International Society for Mental Health Online (ISMHO). They have reputable members all over the world who can provide online counseling help.
 Another major qualification that you need to be sure of is that your counselor is licensed. The counselor should be licensed to do counseling or therapy in his or her home state as well as your home state.Ask your counselor to see which places he or she are licensed.


If your counselor is not licensed in your state or his or her home state, you will not have any legal rights if something were to go wrong., Your counselor is required to keep your information private, but you do have the right to ask questions about her privacy policies. Ask your counselor who else has access to the computer used for the therapy sessions, if the sessions are recorded for any reason, and how and where your records are kept.If you also contact your counselor over e-mail or chat, ask if he or she keeps transcripts and who else may have access to them.