 As the saying goes, location is everything. You may not be able to move to Hawaii at a moments notice, but you can certainly take advantage of where you live at any given time. Being happy with where you live can go a long way in helping you be happy being yourself.


Enjoy nature. Seek out the beauty in your surroundings. If you live in a city where trees are few and far between, find a beautiful park or garden that you can call your own. You can even find a bench or a tree that becomes "your spot" so feel at home there. If you live in a more rural area, find a river, or even go for a hike. Seeing nature can help you live in the moment and be happy with where you are.
Enjoy cultural events. Attend any concerts, museum openings, or new movies in your area. This can help develop your mind as well as your love for your city. Signing up for a mailing list at a concert venue can also give you something to look forward to.
Take the occasional road trip. If you know of a beautiful waterfall or aquarium three hours away from where you live, take a weekend trip. Knowing that there's an amazing spot reasonably close to you can make you be happier with where you live.
 Feeling involved in your neighborhood can make you feel like you belong to a community and are part of something bigger. Not only will you be happier because you'll be less isolated, but you may:


Go for long walks. If you're in a safe location, going for a long walk in your neighborhood can not only help you think more deeply about who you are, but can lead to a new appreciation of your surroundings. You may find a new coffee shop or restaurant that you never knew existed--it could end up being your favorite spot.
Meet your neighbors. Getting to know the people in your neighborhood will make you feel less alone, and will give you someone to ask to watch your cat or water your plants if you're away. Your neighbors will not only make you feel involved in where you live, but they could end up being your best friends.
Participate in local events. Attend town hall meetings, book clubs on your streets, concerts by local musicians, volunteer park clean-up days, or any other events that make you feel involved in local culture or politics. You'll feel happier if you're a part of something bigger than yourself.
 Your feelings about your region and neighborhood won't mean much if you absolutely hate coming home. Feeling safe, comfortable, and at peace in your own living space can make the difference between being happy and being completely miserable. Here are some ways to do it:


Clean up any clutter. You may not be realizing how much your mess is affecting your overall happiness. Your space doesn't have to look perfect, but you should make a point of keeping a clean dining room table and desk and putting things generally where they belong.
Surround yourself with the things you love. Filling your home with photos of your loved ones, souvenirs from your favorite vacations, or paintings of your favorite spots can help remind you of what makes you happy and will make you feel at home.
Eliminate any toxic roommates. Never underestimate how much a bad roommate can ruin your mood and life. If you have a roommate who is loud, messy, rude, and generally unbearable, it may be time to part ways. If you live with your significant other and it isn't going well, you're not doing yourself a favor by prolonging the relationship either.
 Sometimes your location, city, or even home can send so many negative vibes your way that you find yourself falling apart. There are some cases where it may be better to try a new place instead of to try to appreciate where you live. Here are some examples:


If you absolutely hate your neighborhood because it's loud, dirty, or just plain unsafe, it may be time to find a new hood--if you can afford it.
If your home or apartment is filled with roaches or rats no matter what you do, is generally falling apart, or makes you feel miserable every time you walk through the door, it may be time to find a new place to live if it's feasible.

