 Bugs may have crawled into the cells of your shade and died, accumulating there along with dust. Position the spray applicator of a can of compressed air at the mouth of a cell. Press the applicator and spray air through each cell to clear out bugs and dust.


In some cases, this may cause dust and bugs to fly out the opposite end of the shade. You may want to lay down a drop cloth or newspaper to catch ejected matter and contain a potential mess.
You can also spray the outer fabric of your shades with compressed air as a dusting measure. Spray each row/pleat of the fabric from top to bottom, end to end with the compressed air.If you don’t have compressed air, you can use a blow dryer set to “Low” on “Cool.” Avoid using hot air, which can cause the glue used to make the shade to weaken.;
, Alternately, you can substitute a lint roller or feather duster in place of the microfiber cloth. Apply cleaning tools to the shades in a side to side motion. Follow the direction of the pleating to prevent the fabric from becoming deformed or misshapen.Use gentle, short strokes when wiping your shades with a cloth, duster, or lint roller. Take your time when wiping, dusting, or rolling the fabric. Too much force could deform its appearance.
The microfiber cloth dry-wipe, feather dusting, and lint rolling are ideal cleaning measures for regular, light cleanup and dust reduction. , Apply your brush attachment to the shades in the same fashion you wipe with a cloth or roll with a lint roller: side to side. Clean the shade from top to bottom to prevent yourself from accidentally knocking dust onto lower parts of the shade.Ideally, you should only vacuum your cellular shades on the medium or low setting of your vacuum. Vacuums that are too powerful should not be used, as the suction of these can deform your shade.
This cleaning technique works best for gently but thoroughly lifting dust and dirtiness out of the fabric of the shades. If this technique fails, you’ll likely have to wash the dirty area of your shades., If your cellular shade is equipped with a track on its sides, this will have to be cleaned regularly as well. Dust, dead insects, and other grime builds up in the track over time. Use a clean rag dampened with warm water and a mild detergent, like dish soap, to wipe the tracks clean.Tracks that are narrow may be difficult to clean inside. Use a narrow tool, like a screwdriver, to push your rag into the track to clean it.
Cotton swabs are usually small enough to fit easily into side tracks. Dab the cotton end of the swab into warm water mixed with liquid dish soap, then clean the track. Replace dirty swabs as necessary with fresh ones.

