 Snapchat reworked the chat interface in version 9.27.0.0, released March 2016. You'll need to be running this version of the app or later in order to access the new video chat features. You can check for updates using your device's app store., Video chatting doesn't cost anything in Snapchat, but it does take a lot of data. If you're on a limited data plan, you may want to consider limiting video calls to when you're connected to a wireless network. This will prevent data overages.
 You can access the video chat features from a chat conversation with any of your Snapchat friends. Snapchat only supports one-on-one calls at this time.You can find your recent conversations on the left-most screen in Snapchat. Swipe a conversation from left to right to open it.
You can also start a new conversation with any of your friends from this same screen. Tap the "New Chat" bubble in the upper-right corner, then select the friend you want to video chat with.
 This will start a call with the other person. Depending on their Snapchat notification settings, they may be notified even if they aren't using the app.
 If they have notifications enabled, their phone will ring even if Snapchat isn't open. If they don't have notifications enabled, they'll only see the call if they're currently using the app.


The recipient has a few options when they receive a call. They can "Watch," which means they'll see your video but you won't see theirs. They can "Join," which makes the call two-way and you'll see their video. They can also "Ignore," which sends you a Busy message.
 This will let you see all of the chat controls. You can tap the video again to return it to full screen.
 This will switch between your front and rear cameras. You can also tap your video on the screen and then tap the Camera Swap button.
 These stickers will be added to the video feed so both of you can see them.
 This will not actually end the call. You'll still be able to see the other person until you exit the chat or they hang up too.
 If the other person hasn't hung up, you can end the call by exiting the chat. You can do this by backing out to the list of recent conversations, or you can switch apps.
 If the person you want to video chat with is not available, or you just want to send a quick video message, you can do so by pressing and holding the Video button in the conversation. This will allow you to record a 10 second message that the other person will see when they open the chat., The best way to make sure you never miss a video call is to enable notifications for Snapchat:


Android - Tap the Ghost button and then tap the Gear button in the upper-right corner. Select the "Notification Settings" menu option. Tap "Allow" if prompted by your device to enable notifications from Snapchat. Ensure "Enable Notifications" and "Ring" are both checked.
iOS - Tap the Ghost button and then tap the Gear button in the upper-right corner. Select the "Notifications" menu option. Toggle the "Ring" slider on. Open the Settings app on your iPhone and select "Notifications." Find Snapchat in the list and make sure Notifications are toggled on.
 Your video will not be displayed while you are watching. You'll be able to hear the other person and watch their video, but they won't be able to see or hear you.
 Your video and audio will be displayed to the other person, and you'll be able to see them.
 The other person will be notified that you're not available for a video call.
 You'll still be able to see the other person until they hang up or you close the conversation.
 You can close the conversation by backing out to your recent conversation list, or by switching apps or closing Snapchat.

