 For the hash browns, you’ll need 3 medium russet potatoes. Use a vegetable peeler to remove the skin, and grate the potatoes with a box grater so they’re shredded.You can substitute sweet potatoes for the russet potatoes if you prefer.
If you prefer, you can leave the skin on the potatoes.
You can also use a shredder attachment on your food processor to grate the potatoes.
If you want your hash browns to be extra crispy, soak the potatoes in cold water after shredding them to help release some of the starch. Drain them well, and pat dry with paper towel before you cook them, though.;
, Place a large skillet on the stove, and turn the burner to medium-high. Allow the pan to heat for 5 to 7 minutes or until it is hot.For the best results, use a cast-iron skillet to make the hash browns.
 Once the skillet is hot, add 2 tablespoons (26 g) of coconut oil, ¼ cup (40 g) of finely diced yellow onion, and ⅓ cup (60 g) of finely diced red bell pepper. Allow the mixture to cook for about 1 minute to heat it through.You can substitute ghee for the coconut oil if you prefer.
If you like, you can use a combination of red and yellow bell peppers.
 After you’ve cooked the onion and peppers for a minute, add the shredded potatoes to the skillet. Allow the mixture to cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the edges begin to brown.Be sure to spread the potatoes in an even layer across the skillet so they cook properly.
 When the hash browns have cooked for several minutes, use a wide spatula to begin flipping the potato mixture over. Work section by section until you’ve turned all of it over, and allow the hash browns to cook until they are golden brown, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.You may need to flip the potatoes over more than once to cook them properly on both sides.
 When the hash browns are finished cooking, use the spatula to carefully lift them out of the skillet. Place them on a platter, and serve with your favorite breakfast foods.The recipes makes 4 to 5 servings of hash browns.
Store leftover hash browns in the refrigerator, and reheat them in a skillet or the microwave.

