 If you are looking to advance in your job or to learn new working skills, you may be happier without the hindrance of child rearing responsibilities distracting you from your career. You may have more time than some of your parent peers to devote to work, in which case you can take this as an opportunity to immerse yourself fully and enjoy career success.Chart a career path by working only the jobs that interest you, trusting your gut about which positions you accept, and developing a professional network.;
, Raising a child is an expensive endeavor. If you do not have children you may have additional disposable income, and if you love traveling, you can take this as an opportunity to do more of that.


You could consider vacation destinations exclusively for the over-21 crowd if you want a truly child-free experience. You might also set a travel goal and plan a lifetime of travel alone or with your partner. In addition to expanding yourself culturally, you will meet a host of interesting people, and if you love interacting with others, this may just be the perfect way to attain happiness without having a child., Savings goals are very different for people with no children than they are for people with children.With the cost of raising children being so high, you may have more money than your counterparts with children which you could direct towards the purposes of learning how to invest. Without the stress of paying for your kids' college or leaving an inheritance, you may even be able to retire earlier than individuals with children. In the long run, you can benefit from learning different investment strategies.Look up courses about investing for retirement in your community's classifieds or by doing a Google search on the topic.
You could also join a regular Meetup group in your area about investing for retirement. That way, you can also meet others who are in the same boat and you can learn from each other.
 Make time, even if it's just five minutes, in your day to be by yourself. The benefits are plentiful and range from increased creativity to peace of mind and tranquility. You could:Start a project. Being alone can recharge you and increase your creativity. If you have a project - for work, for fun - that you've been putting off or just think would be entertaining to try, now is the time.
Get more work done. Alone time can clear your mind and help you focus and work harder. Use your alone time to check something off your work “to do” list, without distraction. Checking something off your list will enable you to better enjoy your time off.
Go on an adventure alone. When you are more insulated, making social connections can actually be easier, because you've put yourself in a situation where you likely want to have more social interactions. If you're typically extroverted, this can be a good way to increase your happiness levels. So take a day trip by yourself, even if is to a local park; use it to recharge and meet new people. 