 This often-neglected exercise focuses on building up your shoulder and upper chest muscles. Lie face-down on the floor and start with your hands about shoulder-width apart, with your legs stretched behind you. Push your body up from the floor with your hands until your elbows are straight, then lower yourself until your arms reach a 90 degree bend.









Do 3 sets of 15 push-ups, or as many as you can before growing fatigued. Add more reps as you gain strength.
Push ups also work your triceps and shoulders (deltoids).
Try this variation: elevate your legs by placing your feet on a block or step before doing the exercise. This puts emphasis on your shoulders and upper chest.;
, This is the most popular chest building exercise of all time, and for good reason. Load a barbell with weights appropriate for your strength level. Remember, it's always better to start too light and adjust than to risk injury by starting too heavy. Lie on a bench with your feet flat on the floor. Lower the barbell down to chest until you reach about 1" from your chest, then lift it straight above your chest.









To build muscle mass and hypertrophy it is best to do between 8-12 reps of 1-3 sets.
You can also do incline bench presses by using an inclined bench. This is the same as bench pressing, only it focuses more on your upper pectoral muscles. Decline bench presses focus more on your lower pectoral muscles. Most people don't perform this exercise but it is essential in obtaining a full and rounded chest.
 Stand in front of a wide-grip parallel bar. Pull the bar down and slowly raise it back up. This can be a strenuous exercise that gives you some trouble in the beginning. But it’s one of the best pec workout movements you can do to build lots of chest muscle fast.
 Lie down in the push up position and push up. Hold for 3 seconds, then transfer all your weight to your right hand and foot. Stick your left hand and foot up in the air as if you are doing a sideways jumping jack. Hold for 3 seconds. Repeat with your left hand and foot. Again, hold for 3 seconds.

