 Change your pillowcase, sheets, and body and face towels frequently. This goes for anything that commonly is close to your body which may harbor bacteria. If your linens begin to smell funny, discolor, or have different textures, you definitely need to wash it.Wash with hot water and disinfecting laundry soap.
If you cannot wash with water, dry clean.
 Your clothes pick up and harbor oil from your body’s skin. Especially if you experience acne on other parts of your body, only wearing clean clothes can help combat acne.Change clothes after sweating.
Especially change underwear, bras, and other clothing near the affected area.
 Sun exposure for 10 – 20 minutes per day without sunscreen for light-skinned people and 20 – 30 minutes for dark-skinned people can help to reduce the inflammatory response and bacterial levels on your skin. Take care not to overexpose yourself because getting red or burning will cause greater irritation and create more acne problems, not to mention greatly increasing your risk of skin cancer and skin aging.


If you have sensitive or very fair skin, wear sunscreen and skip this step.
Everyone needs to wear sunscreen if they go out in the sun for longer than 10 – 30 minutes or are extra sensitive to the sun.
Sun exposure increases the amount of vitamin D your body produces naturally, which also has an effect on your sebaceous (oil) glands.Sun also exposes your skin to ultraviolet and red light used in the treatment of acne in your doctor’s office. The light is believed to help reduce the produce of sebum and kill bacteria., Research has shown maca root powder to be effective in balancing hormone levels in menopausal and premenopausal women to reduce their symptoms.By balancing your normal hormone levels you can have an effect on the number of acne breakouts you experience.


Maca root powder is derived from the maca plant grown in central Peru for over 3000 years. It has been used for centuries in Peru and is gaining popularity across the world as a means of balancing your hormone levels.
Maca root powder may not be readily available to you; it is an optional treatment.
Talk to your doctor before trying maca root powder.
 Stress is something that we all experience and it is healthy in small amounts. However, living a stressed out life means that your adrenal glands are over-producing cortisol, a hormone that can increase the amount of oil you produce on your skin and therefore your acne.There are many techniques for controlling and managing your stress levels. Learning how to deal with stress and how to relieve stress can improve your ability to stay calm and unstressed.
Some people feel like their skin is in a downward spiral: they are stressed, so they get acne; so they get more stressed about the acne, and the acne gets worse; and so on.
Talk to your doctor or a therapist if you are having problems managing stress on your own

, Retinoids are a form of vitamin A which will reduce the amount of hypertrophy to your sebaceous glands. You can find over-the-counter acne and anti-aging preparations which contain low doses of retinoids. Many people respond to the over-the-counter strength products well.


Retinoids are not for everyone. If you are unsure, talk to your doctor or the pharmacist at the drugstore with retinoids.
You can also get retinoids from a doctor's prescription. Over-the-counter forms have lower doses of retinoids.
Don't use retinoids if you are or may become pregnant.
 You need 10 – 20 minutes of sun exposure a day for your body to make vitamin D. However, this is effective only when it is sunny. You may also want to consider a vitamin D3 supplement daily.Most people are deficient in Vitamin D because of lack of exposure to the sun and because it is not naturally found in many foods.
If you take a supplement, 4,000 IU a day are safe for adults, 3,000 IU a day for children to age four to eight and 2,500 IU for children age one to three years.

