 Trustee. The Trustee oversees the bankruptcy process in the United States. Helpfully, the office has approved certain credit counselors to offer credit counseling in each state. Visit https://www.justice.gov/ust/list-credit-counseling-agencies-approved-pursuant-11-usc-111 and click on your state under “Choose Option.”


Credit counselors offer counseling in English and Spanish. If you need counseling in a different language, look under “Approved Agencies Offering Services in Languages Other Than English and Spanish.”
Debtors in Alabama and North Carolina should visit http://www.uscourts.gov/services-forms/bankruptcy/credit-counseling-and-debtor-education-courses instead for a list of approved credit counselors in their districts.
Avoid hiring a credit counselor who is not approved by the U.S. Trustee for your district.;
, You can take your credit counseling in person, online, or over the phone.Generally, experts recommend that you take it in person. However, you should choose whichever method works best for you.


You can find out how agencies offer their services by looking at the results at the U.S. Trustee’s website. For example, the listing should contain information on “Delivery Method,” which will list how you can attend counseling (such as online or in-person).The address listed under each credit counselor is the physical address for the company—not necessarily where the counseling will be held. For example, an agency can be approved to offer services in your district but have a main office in a different state.
 Credit counselors must charge a reasonable fee. Generally, they won’t charge more than $50.You should ask about fees before signing up with a credit counselor.


By law, agencies must also offer free or reduced-price counseling for low-income debtors. For example, if your income is less than 150% of the poverty level for a family of your size, then you should qualify for a reduced fee.Ask how you can request a free or reduced-price session. The process varies by credit counseling agency.
 You should thoroughly research your credit counselor before signing up. For example, you might want to ask the following questions by calling them:What other services does the credit counselor offer?
What training do counselors have? Are they certified? By whom?
How does the counseling agency keep personal information private?
Are counselors paid based on the services they sell? Will they try to sell you services?

, Some people are not required to attend credit counseling before filing for bankruptcy. For example, the following are excused:No courses are available in your bankruptcy district. This is highly unlikely but still possible.
You can’t attend. For example, you may be disabled, incapacitated, or on active military duty. For example, incapacity exists where the debtor is suffering from mental illness such that they can’t understand the counseling.
You have exigent circumstances. Essentially, “exigent circumstances” exist when you need to file bankruptcy immediately to prevent something bad from happening, such as wage garnishment. You also must have contacted a credit counseling agency but been unable to complete the course within seven days. If you claim exigent circumstances, you will still have to complete credit counseling but you get an additional 30 days after you file to do so.
 Don’t take the session too early. Remember that you must take your credit counseling in the 180-day window before you file for bankruptcy.If you intend to file for bankruptcy at the end of the year, don’t take credit counseling in February, for example.


However, avoid taking your session the same day you file for bankruptcy, since some courts might not allow you to. Instead, take it at least a day before., Your counselor will need detailed information about your financial situation, so gather documents ahead of time. For example, you may need to provide the following:Income documentation, such as paystubs, W-2 forms, Social Security payments, child support, and alimony.
Expense information, including home expenses (mortgage or rent), utilities, food, childcare, and transportation.
List of all debts owed, such as credit cards, student loans, automobile loans, and 401(k) loans. Include amount owed, interest rate, monthly payment, and account number. Also note if the account is a joint account.
 If you are filing jointly with your spouse, then you both can attend the same session.The entire counseling session shouldn’t take more than 60-90 minutes.One advantage of taking counseling online is that you can work at your own pace. You may stop and start the program as needed.
 Your counselor will come up with a plan to repay your debts, and you will both analyze it to see if it is realistic. Even if you could pay off your debts without filing for bankruptcy, you don’t need to agree with the counselor’s budget.Credit counseling is for your information only. You don’t need the counselor’s permission to file for bankruptcy.
However, you must file the debt management plan when you file for bankruptcy.You can also use the counselor’s debt management plan as a basis for the repayment plan you must submit to the court when you file Chapter 13.
 You might have questions about your options. During the credit counseling session, you will have a chance to ask your counselor questions. For example, you might want to discuss the following:How you can deal with an automobile delinquency.
Whether you should negotiate with your creditors instead of filing for bankruptcy.
Whether you can negotiate directly with your mortgage servicer.
Whether a debt management plan would be a better option.
If the credit counselor offers debt management plans you can enroll in.
 You need to show the bankruptcy court that you have completed the required credit counseling. If you don’t, you can’t file. You will submit your certificate along with the papers you file. It’s not enough to simply tell the court your certificate number.Technically, you can submit the certificate within 14 days of filing for bankruptcy, but there is no reason not to include it with your petition.
If you have a lawyer, the counselor should be able to email or send the certificate directly to your lawyer.

