 Passive mobilization is similar to stretching. Passive mobilization of a hip joint involves gently stretching the affected hind leg backwards, away from the head. Passive mobilization uses gentle limb extensions with the aim of keeping muscles conditioned and joints mobile.The theory behind passive mobilization is that pain restricts the movement of the leg, but then the hip joint becomes stiff, and this leads to a further loss of movement, and the vicious cycle continues until the joint becomes chronically painful and stiff.
 You can use passive mobilization with the dog in a standing or lying down position. If both hips are sore it is better to have the dog lie down since he will be uncomfortable taking extra weight on the opposite hip when one leg is raised.


Try placing a small pillow between your dog’s legs to make him even more comfortable., To use passive mobilization to stretch the left hip, lay the dog on his right side, with the left leg uppermost. For the right hip, lay the dog on his left side, with his right leg uppermost.


This will likely be the position he's most comfortable in anyway. Laying on the opposite side takes the weight and pressure off the bad hip.
 Slide your left hand in front of the thigh halfway down the thigh bone, and cup the cranial muscles in your left palm. Apply gentle but firm pressure so as to push the thigh backwards so that the dog's paws moves backwards, too.Do not force the movement, and stop if the dog gets uncomfortable. You're not trying to improve his flexibility, you're trying to stretch the already taut, stiff muscle.
 Try to do this for two ten minute sessions a day. This helps keep the joint supple and relieves pain.Mobilization is the action of passively extending a limb with the aim of keeping the muscle conditioned and the joint mobile. The theory behind mobilization is that pain restricts the movement of the leg, but then the hip joint becomes stiff, and this leads to a further loss of movement, and a downward cycle of under-use established.

