 Much of what we now celebrate as priceless art was really just Leonardo Da Vinci's daily sketch book, which he recorded not because he was actively trying to make a masterpiece, but because the creative act was integrated to such a degree in his everyday life that it became the way he processed thoughts, writing them down with accompanying illustrations. Writing forces you to think in a different way, articulating your nebulous thoughts as specifically and concretely as possible.



Exercise: Come up with a list of topics on which you'll thoroughly journal over the course of a day. Big topics you've got opinions about, like "television" or "Bob Dylan" would be perfectly appropriate. Start addressing the issue by writing at the top of the page, "On Dylan" and writing, drawing, and free-associating your way through the writing. If you come to a place you're unsure about, do some research. Learn more.
 Cultivate a rich vocabulary and use accurate words in your descriptions. Use similes, metaphors, and analogies to capture abstract concepts and seek connections between your ideas, continually investigating the roil of your thoughts. Describe things in terms of tactile senses--touch, smell, taste, feel--and also in terms of their import, their symbolism as you're experiencing it, and their significance.



Exercise: Read Charles Simic's poem "Fork".In it, he describes the most pedestrian and everyday object both accurately and with the strangest of eyes.
 One of Leonardo's mottoes was saper vedere (knowing how to see), upon which he built his work in arts and science. While you're journaling, develop a sharp eye for seeing the world and turn it onto luminous particularities. Write down images you see throughout the day, striking things, bits of graffiti, gestures, strange shirts, strange bits of language, anything that strikes you. Record it. Become an encyclopedia of tiny moments and record those moments in words and images.



Exercise: You don't have to journal like it was the 15th century. Use your camera phone to take lots of pictures on the way to work to liven up your commute. Make yourself actively seek out 10 striking images on your way and take pictures of them. On your way home, look back through the morning pictures and think about what it was that struck you. Look for the connections in the chaos.
 Leonardo Da Vinci is the Platonic ideal of the Renaissance Man: equally notable as a scientist, artist, and inventor, Leonardo would be doubtless confused and frustrated by modern notions of a "career." It's hard to imagine him sullenly carting off to work at an office, putting in his hours and going home to watch "House of Cards." If you're interested in a subject or a project that's outside of your everyday experiences, call that an opportunity rather than a challenge. Embrace the luxury of modern life for the instantaneous access we have to information, the freedom we have to pursue experiences, and the limitlessness of it.



Exercise: Write up a bucket list of subjects and projects you want to accomplish over the next several months or years. Always wanted to get a draft of a novel together? Or learn banjo? There's no sense in waiting for it to happen. It's never too late to learn.

