 Use a microfiber mop to remove dust and dirt from the floor. Alternatively, you can also vacuum the floor, but be sure to use the hard floor attachment to avoid scratching the laminate. Don’t use a vacuum that has a beater bar, as this can also scratch the floor., The haze that forms on many laminate floors is often caused by the wrong cleaners, including soap- and oil-based ones.To remove this, your best bet will be a floor cleaner that’s specially formulated for laminate floors. However, you can also try a homemade cleaner for laminate. To do this, combine in a spray bottle:½ cup (118 ml) of water
½ cup (118 ml) of white vinegar
½ cup (118 ml) of rubbing alcohol

, Apply a thin and even layer of cleaner. Start with a section that’s small enough that you can reach the entire area with your mop without walking on the wet floor.Laminate is not meant to get wet, so you should never apply large amounts of liquid to the floor.


Never clean laminate with a mop and bucket, as this will get the floor too wet.
 Use a clean, flat-head microfiber mop and wipe the entire section of floor in the direction of the grain. The surface of the floor should look slightly damp, but not overly wet.


Don’t use a sponge or string mop on laminate, as it can leave streaks, and leave too much moisture on the floor., Take a few steps back and spray the next section of floor with your cleaner. Wipe the section with the microfiber mop. Continue spraying and mopping in small sections until the entire floor is clean.Once the entire floor has been cleaned, leave it to air dry for up to half an hour. Don’t let anybody walk on the floor while it’s still wet, or this could diminish the shine.
 When the floor is dry, look at it in the light and check for spots that may still be dull. Use a clean, dry microfiber cloth to rub and buff these areas to restore the shine., Dust and dirt can make your floor look dirty, and they can also cause scratches. Sweep or vacuum the floor at least once a week, and more often if you have kids, pets, or a particularly active house.When you vacuum, always use the hard floor attachment.
 Mop the floor at least once a week after you vacuum. Work in small sections by spraying cleaner directly onto the floor and wiping with a microfiber mop. To maintain the shine, use a commercial or homemade cleaner that’s specifically formulated for laminate.


To prevent dullness, don’t use cleaners that contain soaps, oils, or harsh chemicals., Floor mats aren't just good for welcoming guests to your house, and they're also designed to catch dirt, mud, dust, moisture, and other particles that might get dragged in from outside. Using mats at entrances will help keep your floor cleaner, and reduce how often you have to sweep and mop., Laminate floor is very durable, but it’s not meant to get wet. As soon as food spills on the floor, pick up solid waste with a spoon or a towel. Wipe up any liquids, puddles, or spills that end up on the floor with a cloth or towel.


Laminate that stays wet for too long can warp or be otherwise damaged., Laminate floor is designed to be shiny, so you never have to wax or polish it. In fact, these substances can damage and dull the floor rather than making it shine.To keep the floor shiny, mop it regularly with a laminate-formulated cleaner.
 Laminate floor can scratch easily, so don’t use scrubbing pads or abrasive cleaners to maintain the floor. The best cleaning material for the floor is a soft, lint-free cloth or microfiber.Abrasive scrubbers include steel wool, scrubbing pads, and scrubbing sponges.
 Steam and other liquids will damage and warp the laminate. Avoid any type of water-based cleaning system on your laminate floor, including steamers, mop-and-bucket, or even spray mops., To prevent scratches caused by chair legs, table legs, and other furniture, install felt pads on the bottom of all furniture that touches the laminate. For chair and table legs, you can use small round pads. For larger and heavier furniture, use wider pads to protect the floor.