 Painting the frame of your bike is a simple way to decorate and personalize your bike to fit your likes or personality.Painting your frame is a great way to cover and prevent further rusting of an old bike.
Painting bikes works well with vintage, muted colors such as teal, mint, and seafoam.
When selecting a paint, make sure you choose one intended for outdoor use.
Although you can purchase paint intended specifically for bikes, enlisting a paint formulated for metal will work just as well.
 If your bike has a bell, give it a little pop of a bright color, such as neon orange, or Pepto-Bismol pink. This is a perfect compromise for someone who does not like bright colors, but wants a unique aesthetic for their bike.You can even get creative and paint faces, animals, or designs onto your bike bell or horn.
 While painting your bike frame is pretty commonplace, painting the spokes provides a unique and interesting bit of color, and is fun to watch as your wheels turn, as it creates a rainbow effect., Although the paint job will eventually wear off with use, painting your bike’s tires provides an interesting look--particularly while you ride. To add flair to a vintage bike, for instance, you can paint your tires with white to create a whitewall effect common to vintage cars.Use outdoor paint, such as paint (or spray paint) intended for decks or treated wood.
 To keep your bike safe and unique, paint your bike with glow-in-the-dark paint. There are many different paint colors, ranging from a plain white to neon colors.Glow in the dark paint is readily available at supermarkets, hardware stores, and craft stores, as well as online. Craft stores are likely to have the widest array of colors.
 Paint pens are a great way to add personality and pizzazz to your bike, as you can create graffiti characters, doodles, and sketches.

If you are a skilled artist, you can showcase your talent by painting scenes onto your bike with a paint pen.
To preserve any designs you might create with a paint pen, seal your paint with a spray or paint-on sealant.

