 These can be purchased at any beauty or cosmetics store, or spa.


Typically you leave your facial mask on for fifteen minutes, unless otherwise specified.
To remove it, just rinse with a washcloth (not your fingers!) and warm water, and finish with a splash of cold water.
 Homemade face masks are not only more affordable, but also more effective. They contain natural and fresh ingredients that are less likely to conflict with facial cleansers, including:


Tomatoes: Remove the seeds and mash into puree. Apply to face and let it sit for fifteen minutes as your skin absorbs its antioxidants, vitamins and nutrients. Great for hydrating dry skin and fighting acne. Add lemon and sugar to exfoliate and abolish blackheads.
Avocado: Can be used alone or combined with honey and lemon. Avocado is rich in Vitamins A and E, and antioxidants and oils that help your skin retain its elasticity and smoothness.
Papaya: Similar consistency to avocado; try blending with cream or yogurt.
Pumpkin: Much like papaya, pumpkin makes a mighty moisturizer. Try blending it with cream and honey.
Pineapple: Brighten and soften skin by blending pineapple with honey until smooth and applying to your face.
Strawberry: Combine strawberry pulp with either honey, cream or yogurt to achieve the right consistency. Strawberries not only hydrate skin but also help prevent and alleviate sunburn.
Banana: Smooths and softens skin. Contains potassium which helps combat dark circles. Best combined with honey and lemon. I suggest you use a very ripe banana; they're much easier to mash.
Lemon: Lemon is often added for its cleansing properties. It functions as a toner or astringent.
Chocolate: Cocoa powder can be mixed with any number of things--yogurt, honey, milk or even clay. Its nutrients and antioxidants help combat effects of aging.
Egg Whites: Egg white masks, mixed with a little milk and honey, are extremely effective against acne. Best you leave some extra room around the eyes and mouth, because the egg white mask gets tight as it dries out.
Milk: Milk can be used in combination with other ingredients to make a mask, or by itself, simply to cleanse the face. Just dip a cotton ball in milk and gently massage against your face. This will hydrate and nourish your skin as well as clean it. Milk will also help to even out your skin tone and achieve that porcelain finish that you're looking for. Queen Elizabeth of England and Cleopatra used to take milk baths to achieve that fair and radiant complexion. Milk contains vitamins A and D which work to soften skin.Honey, yogurt and oatmeal are commonly used in combination with other ingredients.

