 As tempting as it may be to criticize works that you don't like, is it really worthwhile to hurt somebody's feelings for your own personal gain?;
, Is what you're seeing really the drama that's going on? Maybe you're misunderstanding something. There's something you don't know. Or maybe, the seemingly offending side actually has good intents. Either side of the internet drama could be right or wrong.
 You aren't alone. It is natural to be offended by rude posts you see on the Internet. However, you should keep from being emotionally scarred by the situation.
 You don't want to miss your chance to make a difference, rather than let the drama die down by itself.
 It's on most internet forums and other chat outlets for a reason - why neglect using it? Use common sense, but don't be afraid to report to a moderator. Even with mean moderators, you usually will lose nothing from reporting, and what you can gain is convincing a moderator to handle the e-drama. Take care of it yourself if you actually are a moderator. Be careful that you don't annoy other moderators who may not agree with your actions.
 Voice your say in the situation going on. Be bold, but be careful (like Wikipedia's policy!). You don't want to anger somebody or have some of the e-drama directed towards you.
 You may end up angering people without getting anywhere because of a poor choice.
 Form a guiding strategy which can be helpful in formulating your tactics, and you can hold off until you have a thoughtful plan, not an over-reaction.
 A video full of your thoughts may be more noticeable and distinct than several of your posts. Upload it a popular video-uploading site on YouTube. Post it in one of the arguments or a discussion commenting about the arguments in a witty fashion, or embed it in your signature, better yet. Depending on the nature of your forum, the effectiveness of a video may vary.
 Release your anger, and look past the situation if and when they apologize as early as possible. If you have trouble forgiving, just repeat to yourself over and over: "I need to forgive them/that person." Go to sleep with it in your mind.

