 Be careful not to change who you are in your relationship with an egotist. A selfish person will bring out the giver or the care-taker in you; which could be potentially harmful.Don't feel like you have to change yourself to accommodate him.Resist the urge to stifle who you are or even what you are good at out of fear of how your partner will react.


Just as you may have to accept that your partner is selfish, he have to accept that you are going to be just who you are as well. That should just be one more thing he loves about you.
 If you find you are the giver in the relationship and you feel that your partner is always taking, then invest some of your energy into other interests to protect yourself from the relationship imbalance.Make sure you are giving yourself and your interests the attention and care you deserve.Take classes or carve out time in your schedule to do things that you enjoy, focusing on self-care and your own needs.
You can always put your giving energy into volunteering as well. Try organizations such as Volunteer Match or Volunteer Finder.
 Even if your partner is trying to change, there are potential pitfalls that come from being in a relationship with an egotist. You may be helping her change, being patient while she works through some things, and trying to boost her self-esteem. Make sure, during this time, you are staying aware of how you feel. There may be some ups and down, and it is important you remain aware of how it is affecting you.


Keep track of how happy you are in the relationship and how your day-to-day life is being affected.
Notice how drained or exhausted you are feeling and make sure to give yourself the time and attention needed to recover.
Try not to let this relationship become all-consuming for your life. Spend time with friends, or work on a hobby or interest that is important to you.

Set firm boundaries if she tries to push your buttons or engage you in a fight. You can say something like, "I'm not going to respond when you're yelling at me like this. I'm going to go in the other room and we can talk again in an hour when we've calmed down."

, While you are navigating this change together, it is important that you both have support systems you can use as a resource.Use your existing support system or create one for yourself. Focus on people that help you and make you feel good about yourself. They should be people that you trust and feel comfortable with. They may include:


Friends
Family
Religious Community
Counselors or therapists

, It is not always a healthy idea to stay with an egotist. He may not be able or willing to change in the way you need him to.If he is not willing to work on the relationship then this may continue to make you feel emotionally drained and unappreciated. It may be better for you to leave the relationship and move onto something that's healthier for you.

