 If you have recently downloaded a new program, take some time to find out where all the tools in the program are located and what each one does. Making sure you can easily switch between tools and colors will help you be able to create drawings faster and with less frustration.


Be sure you won't be limited by your mouse. If you are using a laptop with a trackpad you may find it easier to draw with a USB or wireless mouse. You can also buy a drawing pad such as a Wacom tablet.
The program depicted is called Sketch Book Express;
, The part should be made by creating strands of hair, not by drawing a line back from the forehead. Also try not to make a line a the top of the forehead where the hairline starts. This will make the hair look less realistic.


If you are creating a pulled back hairstyle you may not need to create a part, but keep in mind that even up-do's occasionally have a slight part in the hair. Use a color a few shades darker than the color you want the hair to end up being. This will create depth. Try to make your strokes light so it starts to resemble strands of hair.
 Make sure they are the same dark color as the outline, as this is done to create the illusion of layers of hair. Try not to worry about making each strand look perfect. Once you've added more layers it will smooth over.


Once you've added individual strands, go through and color over the remaining white spaces with a slightly lighter and less opaque color than you were using for the outline and strands. This will create a base for the rest of the hair.
 Using an airbrush tool will help to smooth over any harsh lines. Keep doing this until you reach desired hair thickness and color.
 Try to vary them across the hair. You can also create stray pieces if you feel the hair looks too neat.
 Try not to make it completely white unless you're making light blonde hair. You can use an airbrush or hard brush depending on your desired look. Do this on the areas of the hair that would have the most light shining on it. If the hair is straight, it will likely only be at the top of the head. If it's curly, the curls will have more light areas.
 The amount you smooth over is completely based on your preference. You can always go back in to add more strands once you have smoothed things over

