 Although it is strongly suggested that you buy a cello you have had the opportunity to examine and test personally, you can also purchase them online. Find an internet merchant that sells cellos like Cellos2Go, LindaWest.com, StringWorks, or FineViolins.com. You'll want to make sure that at least one person on the staff is a cello specialist.
 There are multiple communities online for buying and selling cellos as well as simply getting in touch with other cellists. Cello.org has a classifieds section, as do Uvcello.org and Usedviolins.com. Additionally, there are Facebook communities like Cello Community International that you can inspect. Be advised that the hosts of these communities do not screen, authorize, or in any way ensure the authenticity of the offers being made. , Auction sites are just about the last place you want to look for a musical instrument. It is much more likely that you will end up buying an item that is misleading and a waste of your money through these sites.If you absolutely see a cello that you are interested in buying on one of these sites, have someone with an experienced eye look at the listing's details, photos, and help you ask the sellers questions.


Many of the cheap cellos you might find on these sites are Chinese with setups that more experienced cellists will point out are bad (poor quality strings, improperly made bridges, tail pieces that are heavy and cheap). The listings may also include the words like "master" which is entirely misleading., Whether you are purchasing from a store website or an auction listing, beware prices that seem too good to be true. Although the exact number seems to be in dispute ($700 or $1000) the general consensus of experts is that the cheaper you go, the more likely you are to end up with a piece of junk that will experience problems down the line.


If the wood is uncured, the body could crack, come unglued, or the neck could separate from the body. Damages such as these would render the instrument unplayable even after having spent the extra money it will take to get it set up in a reputable shop, and you will have to pay more money to get it fixed later (if it can even be fixed)., In general, you want to be seek out a cello that has been around for a number of years and has already "opened up" its sound. But it's impossible to tell based on the listing's photos if the item is actually older because these days antiquing methods in virtually every country cellos are manufactured in are good enough to trick many amateurs. They can even put dings and scratches into the surface. , It is vitally important if you insist on doing your shopping online that you look for the information you need to make a correct choice. Find out when it was produced, if it's laminated or varnished, and what woods it's made of (plywood or spruce and maple). You want to avoid anything laminated, made of plywood, or too new; if you can't find the information to make a good assessment, contact the seller for more details.Some appraisers and sellers of violins like Celloconnection.com and Reuning.com will provide certificates of authenticity for owners; ask if the seller has one, or ask for them to get it appraised if they are claiming a special maker.Never make a purchase without knowing all the details. If a seller does not want to be honest about any of those details, you should find another place to buy a cello from.
 No matter where you choose to buy from, be sure to check what return policies they have in the event that the item is damaged in transit or, once it arrives, you decide it doesn't suit you. Additionally, you'll want to find out if there is any kind of warranty made by the seller.
 Just like when buying in a store, you will need to buy other items like a bow, case, extra strings, and the like for your instrument. Especially if you are seeking the cheapest cellos you can find you should not expect these items to be included unless they are specifically listed on the web site's listing.
 After you receive the item, you'll want to check to make sure that it didn't sustain any damages during transit. If any pieces have loosened or slipped off while the instrument was being shipped, be sure to get someone experienced, like your teacher or a shop, to put it together again immediately. You also need to make sure that the soundpost is in the correct position before you attempt to play or tighten the instrument's strings; doing otherwise may ruin the instrument.