 It can take time to become aware of the beliefs that drive your life. You can more effectively do this by backing off from others for a time. If you want to develop your own beliefs, you will need some distance from others so that you can more adequately tune into your own mind.


Take a weekend getaway to a quiet place where you can think. Or, if you can’t afford a vacation right now, simply isolate yourself at home or in your room for a day or so.;
, The development of beliefs doesn’t happen consciously. Therefore, if you wish to form your own, you will need to bring consciousness to those that already guide your life. You can audit your current belief system by training yourself to pay close attention to the relationship between your thoughts and actions. Use the ABC model.A stands for the activating event. Example: Your professor scolds you for submitting an assignment late.
B stands for the belief. Example: You think, “I can’t do anything right.”
C stands for the consequence (or subsequent actions). Example: You don’t try as hard to get things turned in on time.
 Tuning into your thoughts and their underlying beliefs is like a muscle—the more you use it, the more it grows. Journaling is a great way to recognize your thought patterns. Begin a free writing practice each day in which you simply write down whatever is on your mind. Once you have dumped out all those thoughts, review what you wrote.Train yourself to find the thoughts and core beliefs that drive your behaviors.
 Previously, when you had no awareness of your thoughts, many negative beliefs went unchallenged. Take the time to challenge your interpretation of various belief systems. Ask yourself whether your core beliefs are helpful and rational. Discard the beliefs that do not positively influence your life.For instance, you believe, “I can’t do anything right.” Such a belief certainly does not serve your life. You can search for other possible explanations behind it, like “I need to work harder” or “I need to develop better time-management skills.”
By challenging and reframing beliefs like this, you can ensure that your current belief system is positive and growth-oriented.

