 This is the first step that you should take if you suspect that your teenager is using drugs. The more open you are with your teenager about drugs, the more likely they are to trust you and come to you if they have a problem. Be sure to inform them of the dangers of drug use and remind them of how important they are to you.Say something like, “I read an article about a teenager that had experimented with drugs while they were at a party. Have you ever tried any drugs?”
Don’t dismiss your suspicion if your teenager says that they are not using drugs. They understand that admitting to drug use could get them into trouble. It may take time for them to come clean to you about their drug use.;
, It is important to have regular discussions about drugs with your teenager. You don’t have to directly ask them if they are using drugs to have a good conversation about it. Be sure to mention how dangerous and life-threatening drugs can be. This conversation may help you get a better sense of whether or not your teen is using drugs.Consider making the conversation about someone else. Ask your teen if they know of anyone who is using drugs.
This conversation should feel relaxed and spontaneous. Try bringing up the topic while you are driving in the car alone with your teenager. This is an ideal place to talk to your teenager as they will not be busy doing other things.
It is best to start talking with your children about the dangers of drug and alcohol use early rather than putting off the conversation until there is a problem. Talk to your kids about the dangers of drug and alcohol use well before they reach their teens. Many children begin using substances before they reach their teens.
Provide your kids with age appropriate videos, pamphlets, and other materials that can help them understand.Check with your child’s teacher, school counselor, or other professionals who might be able to help you. You could even ask a D.A.R.E. officer to help you find ways to talk with your kids or to direct you to some resources.
Also, let your kids know that you are willing to listen and answer their questions regarding drugs and alcohol use.
 Whether they admit to drug use or not, make sure that you are actively listening to your teenager. If they admit to drug use, listen carefully so that you can take the right steps to help them. If they do not admit to drug use, listen to any clues that they may give that might give you a better understanding of whether or not they are using drugs.


Remain calm if your teenager admits to drug use.
Avoid responding with anger, judgment, or blame. Instead, try to focus on listening to what your teen has to say.
 Children often pick up on their parents’ habits as they get older. If you use alcohol or drugs yourself, then they may follow your lead. Strive to be a good role model for your teen by not using drugs or alcohol.

Seek help for yourself if you think you might have a problem with drugs and/or alcohol.

