 As a criminal defendant, you have the right to be represented by an attorney. If you don't qualify for a public defender, you should hire a private criminal defense attorney to represent you.It's important to find a defense attorney who specializes in DUI law, as they may know more about alternatives that exist.
Even if you qualify for a public defender, a private defense attorney may be better able to assist you if you want alternative sentencing.
Your attorney may have more information about the programs available. They also may be able to connect you with professionals and refer you to specific services.;
, Your eligibility for many alternative-sentencing programs depends on your personal background, especially your criminal history. You're much more likely to qualify for alternative-sentencing programs if this is your first offense.Your attorney probably will want to pull your criminal record, but any information you can provide in the meantime will be helpful to make a preliminary analysis.
You also should provide information about your work and educational history. Any other ties you have to your community also can be helpful.
For example, if you are an active member of a local church, or if you coach a youth baseball or basketball team, these connections can help establish your character and your ties to the community.
Often, someone who can demonstrate that they are an active and involved member of their community and have a steady employment history will have a better chance of getting into an alternative sentencing program.
 The details of alternative-sentencing programs vary greatly among jurisdictions. Since there may potentially be several options from which to choose, you need to make sure the program will meet your needs.Standard programs include a combination of voluntary probation and community service.
Because DUIs are strongly correlated to alcohol abuse, many jurisdictions have alternative sentencing programs available that combine some level of inpatient and outpatient addiction treatment.
Treatment programs also may be combined with electronic monitoring to ensure that you are not drinking alcohol.
 Once you've chosen an alternative-sentencing program that appeals to you, work with your attorney to identify reasons you would be a strong candidate for that particular program.Your attorney may have additional information about the types of offenders who typically are accepted to the various programs.
With information about typical participants, you can compare their stories to your own to get a better idea of how you match up and which aspects of your history you should emphasize.
Ideally, you and your attorney should look for offenders similar to you who have been successful in the alternative-sentencing program you want.
Even though all people and situations are different, you have a better chance of getting into a program if you can show how your situation is similar to someone else who has used the alternative-sentencing program to get their issues with alcohol under control and has not violated the law again.
 Character witnesses, such as your supervisor at work or a community leader, can be great allies for you in helping you get into an alternative-sentencing program.Keep in mind that witnesses aren't just people who were with you when you were arrested. People who know you and your character also can be strong witnesses for you.
Your attorney probably will ask you for names of witnesses who might have information that would be beneficial to your defense. Be sure you have full names, addresses, and phone numbers so your attorney can get in touch with them.
If you decide to start therapy with an addiction specialist, they also may be a good witness for you. They can testify to your progress and your commitment to rehabilitation.
 Particularly if you know addiction counseling or driver's training will be required by the alternative-sentencing program anyway, go ahead and enroll. It can help demonstrate your commitment.Going into therapy can be beneficial for you even if you aren't able to make a plea agreement with the prosecuting attorney and end up going to trial.
Making a therapy commitment sends a signal both to the prosecuting attorney and the judge that you recognize you have a problem with substance abuse and are doing everything you can to address the issue.
Many jurisdictions also require anyone convicted of a DUI to attend safe driving courses. These courses are offered by the state and typically cost several hundred dollars. Taking them beforehand shows that you're serious about making a change.
 If you want to negotiate a plea deal, you and your attorney will need to meet with the prosecuting attorney to go over your case. Based on their findings, the prosecuting attorney typically will have an offer for you.Particularly if this is your first offense, the prosecuting attorney may offer a better deal than alternative-sentencing programs.
For example, the prosecutor may be willing to reduce your charge to reckless driving. This is particularly likely if there are problems with the evidence in your case, or if the police behaved in such a way that you potentially have an argument that they violated your constitutional rights.
Your attorney will talk to you about your arrest at length before you meet with the prosecutor to ascertain if there are any possible defense arguments related to the initial traffic stop or your subsequent arrest.
 If the prosecuting attorney has not offered alternative sentencing as an option for you, make sure your attorney brings it up. By asking, you can find out the reasons the prosecuting attorney did not consider alternative sentencing for you.In some situations, the prosecuting attorney will be unwilling to lower the charges from DUI. If that happens in your case, you may benefit from alternative sentencing.
Particularly if it's your first offense, there may be probation options available that include a deferred sentencing option. Under deferred sentencing, if you successfully complete probation you won't even have a DUI on your record.
Other alternative-sentencing options are related to treatment of alcohol abuse and addiction. This may include inpatient or outpatient addiction treatment.
 The prosecuting attorney likely will have done their own research. However, you may be able to tell them information about your background that supports you as a candidate for alternative sentencing options.For example, if you've started outpatient drug rehabilitation or therapy, you may be eligible to enter a residential rehabilitation program.
Other information about your employment or your role in your community also may support alternative sentencing. These details typically wouldn't have been available to the prosecuting attorney beforehand.
If you have a child or other person, such as an elderly parent, who is dependent on you for support, this also can weigh in favor of alternative sentencing.
 The prosecuting attorney's first offer typically isn't their last and final offer. You and your attorney can negotiate something closer to the alternative-sentencing program you have your eye on.Depending on the evidence against you, your attorney most likely will be trying to negotiate a plea bargain in which you plead guilty to a lesser charge, such as reckless driving.
However, alternative sentencing programs also may come into account. Your commitment to seeking addiction treatment and taking safe driving courses may help convince the prosecuting attorney to lower the charges as well.
Your attorney also may have information about various other defenses you have. Bringing this up to the prosecuting attorney may convince them that alternative sentencing is appropriate for you.
 You may be able to get the prosecuting attorney to agree to recommend you for the alternative-sentencing program that you prefer. However, keep in mind this agreement is preliminary and must be approved by a judge.Accepting a plea deal typically means that you must appear in court before a judge. The prosecuting attorney will present the deal to the judge, then the judge will ask you questions.
The judge wants to make sure that you understand what you are doing, and that you are pleading guilty to the charges because you are indeed guilty of the crime.
Your attorney will go over the process beforehand so you're prepared and know what the judge is going to ask you, but once you stand before the judge you're on your own – your attorney cannot answer for you.
However, if you are unable to get the prosecuting attorney to agree to alternative sentencing, you still have the option of arguing at trial to convince the judge that alternative sentencing is appropriate in your case.
 Eligibility for many programs is based on your personal history and criminal record. To convince a judge to grant you alternative sentencing, you must first introduce evidence that you meet those eligibility requirements.In a criminal trial, although the jury will determine whether you are guilty or not guilty, the judge typically is in charge of the sentencing.
Some jurisdictions have sentencing guidelines that help a judge determine the appropriate sentence, based primarily on your criminal history.
If this is your first offense, you typically are automatically eligible for alternative sentencing. If the prosecuting attorney did not offer those options to you, it may have been because there were aggravating factors involved in your case.
For example, if you were charged with a DUI after being involved in an auto accident in which someone else was injured, the prosecuting attorney may not be open to alternative sentencing – even if it was your first offense.
 Even if you're not an ideal candidate for an alternative-sentencing program, you may be able to sway the judge by discussing the changes you've made in your life since your arrest.For example, if you have a job and family members who are dependent on your income, this can weigh in favor of alternative sentencing such as probation.
Needing to maintain your job also can support your argument that any suspended license should be converted to a restricted license so that you can drive to work.
If you have children or other family members who depend on you for financial support, this also may weigh in favor of alternative sentencing.
 Family members, employers, and community leaders can strengthen your argument that alternative sentencing is right for you. These witnesses typically testify regarding your character and sense of responsibility.Keep in mind that your witnesses typically aren't going to be people who were with you when you were arrested for a DUI – although sometimes they might be.
However, even if they were, these types of witnesses aren't going to talk about your arrest, or what you were doing before you were arrested. Rather, they're going to talk about you and who you are as a person.
If you're in therapy or treatment for alcohol addition, your therapist or addiction specialist also will be a strong supporting witness for you. They can testify as to your progress in treatment and typically will tell the court that your progress would not be furthered by spending time in jail.

