 Sometimes, your senior dog’s irritability may not be caused by a physical medical reason, but by a mental or emotional reason. Monitor your dog to see if there are any emotional reasons they are irritable, or talk to your vet.For example, many senior dogs experience an increased sense of fear or anxiety. This distress can cause your dog to be irritable.
Loss of hearing or sight can cause disorientation and distress, which could lead to irritability.
 Often, there is some stimulus that causes your older dog to act more irritable than usual. This may be a new puppy, a lack of mobility, new people in the family household, or moving to a new home. Try to find the factor that irritates your dog so you can deal with it.Consult a qualified animal behavior expert to help you evaluate the situation.
Examine your life for any recent changes. Did you get a new dog, move, or have someone new move into the family?
Watch your dog for a pattern. Are there certain things or situations that irritate your dog?

, Once you determine what is causing the irritability in your dog, you can try to reduce the dog’s exposure to it or eliminate it completely. You may be able to separate your dog from other dogs in the house, limit the dog’s interaction with a new family member, or get rid of noises that bother them.Not all irritants will be able to be controlled. If you have recently moved, your dog may be irritable because their routine and comfort zone has changed. You will have to find alternate methods to handle your dog.
 Watch your dog closely in situations where they may become irritable. You will probably start to see signs that they are getting more irritable. When this occurs, remove the dog from the situation and put them somewhere else.An irritable dog may be more likely to bite, so you will need to take steps to keep both your dog and other people safe.


Keep a particularly close eye on your dog if there are children around. Children can be loud, careless, and move quickly, which may stress your dog out.
You may want to place your dog in their kennel with some blankets and toys, in a comfortable, quiet room where they have somewhere to lay, or to temporarily place them outside.

