 Ponds are most likely to be found around the Grasslands or Marshes. It’s much easier to search for them in the Grasslands since it’s less dangerous and has less natural hazards littered about. Ponds will show on the map as light-blue circles with a green border, while Mosquito Ponds, a variant found in the swamps have a purple border. Usually, you can find that following a path or cobblestone road will lead you to a pond, or several in a cluster.


Frog Ponds are generally more useful than Mosquito Ponds since frogs yield the food item Frog Legs, while Mosquitos seldomly yield the healing item Mosquito Sac. So while having a steady source of healing items might come in handy later on, food is still the top priority since there are ways to gain health from food.;
, You’ll be needing at least a Pickaxe and an Axe to gather some of the required materials for prolonged survival. They’re both available through the Tool tab, represented by a crossed axe and pickaxe icon. Axes cost 1 each of Twig and Flint (sharp-looking rock that’s scattered everywhere in the game), while Pickaxes cost 2 each of the same materials. To use, select them by right-clicking on the tool (PC) or scrolling to it with the right analog stick and pressing the right button of the D-pad (PS4). Go up to the tree (axe) or boulder (pickaxe), and hold down the left mouse button (PC) or X button (PS4) to wear them down and gather the materials they create.
 Before settling in, though, you’ll need to gather supplies to create your base camp with. As much as possible, you’ll need a Pit Fire, a stockpile of food and building materials, and if you’re lucky enough to find Gold early, a Science Machine.


You can gather most of your necessary materials by left-clicking (PC) or pressing X (PS4) on the item. Berries, Carrots, Stones, Flint, Twigs, and Cut Grass are a priority for the first few days of the game and will remain useful throughout. Carrots, Stones, and Flint don’t return once you pick them up, but there are other ways to keep them renewable later in the game.
Carrots can be found poking out of the ground. Berry bushes are scattered around the world. Stone and Flint can be picked up anywhere, though Stone is less common. Twigs come from dried-out bushes called Saplings, and Cut Grass can be gathered from long yellowing tufts of grass found nearly everywhere in the world. Stone and Flint can be more easily acquired by mining boulders with a pickaxe, and Logs have to be chopped from trees with an axe.
 Once you find your pond(s), make your camp a short distance away, but far enough that day-spawning Frogs don’t harass you in your camp. The main feature of your camp, aside from your stockpile of items, is a Pit Fire; it’s a permanent structure that lets you create light and warmth for the nights ahead and can also let you cook your food to get the most out of your supplies. Once you’ve settled, you can now make permanent structures like the Science Machine for prolonged survival. An ideal location has more than one pond, as a single pond won't spawn enough Frogs to support a player through winter.


To make a Pit Fire, you need 12 Stones and 2 Logs. You don’t need your Science Machine or Alchemy Engine to make one. Head over to the Light tab, represented by a flame in your crafting hotbar, then select the second option there. Pit Fires are permanent structures and can keep you warm for a very long time as long as you keep feeding it fuel. Even when it’s extinguished, you can simply rekindle it by dumping fuel into it.
You can also make regular Campfires for 2 Cut Grass and 2 Logs, but it isn’t permanent, and you have to keep it going indefinitely or it extinguishes and leaves only a pile of ashes.
To feed fuel to a Campfire or Pit Fire, select some flammable material (Logs, Grass, Twigs, Manure, Petals, and Grass or Log Suits), then interact with the fire by clicking on it (PC) or pressing X (PS4). It will immediately drop the fuel into the flames and consume 1 unit of said material.
 These machines will allow you to create more tools and items to help you survive the game. Since both cannot be moved around, it’s best to make them after you’ve found yourself a camping site.


Making a Science Machine requires a Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Stones, and is made in the Science tab, which is located in your crafting hotbar and represented by an atom icon. An Alchemy Engine can be made in a Science Machine for 3 Cut Stone and 4 Boards under the Science tab.
You can gather Gold Nuggets by trading Meats to the Pig King (if he’s available in the current world), mining yellow-streaked boulders, or by finding them scattered around Graveyards.
You can create Cut Stone through the Refine tab in the science machine. It costs 3 Rocks to make.
 While suiting up in armor and killing Frogs would be fun and quick, it’s not the most efficient way, and you tend to get continuously damaged. The best way to exploit your Frog Ponds is by trapping Frogs! The best way to catch them is to observe the direction they hop and place a trap right in front of them or by leaving Traps around the ponds itself. One trap will catch 8 Frogs before breaking, exhausting two or three should be no problem during the day.


To make a trap, you need 6 Cut Grass and 2 Twigs, and you can craft it in the Survival tab, represented by a looped rope icon. Once created, place it on the area of your choice then wait until a your target is caught. Once caught, the trap will rattle and jump around. If you pick it up, you’ll get both the trap and the spoils, which is, in this case, a Frog Leg. You can then re-use the trap for 7 more times before it disappears.
You can also “kite” aggressive Frogs into an area full of traps by running behind the Traps while the Frogs are chasing you.
 At dusk, Frogs will return to their ponds, giving the player some time to fish risk-free if a fishing rod is available. Fishing, at this point, will become one of your main food sources as long as you have the necessary materials.


To make a fishing rod, you’ll need 2 Twigs and 2 Silk (from killing Spiders). Once you have all the items necessary for the fishing rod, go near your Science Machine and pull up the Tools tab in the crafting hotbar. Scroll down near the bottom, and you’ll see the fishing rod highlighted and ready to be created. Just click or press X to get it!

, To ensure that you get the most out of your Fish and Frogs, drying them into Jerky is one of the most effective ways to do so. Jerky heals decent amounts of all 3 gauges and lasts a long time, which makes this the perfect way to stockpile large amounts of food without fear of immediate spoiling.


To create a Drying Rack, you’ll need 3 Ropes, 3 Charcoals, and 3 Twigs. To use, simply select a piece of meat of any kind, except meaty bulb, and interact with the rack. The meat is then placed on the rack and dries into jerky in a few days, which is one of the best foodstuffs in the game.
Keeping plenty of jerky around during winter is a great way to keep yourself alive, healthy, and sane.
 The Crock Pot is another way of cooking your food, and you can make one with a Science Machine. The Crock Pot costs 6 Charcoal, 6 Twigs, and 3 Cut Stone. The Crock Pot's cooking mechanic requires you to put in 4 items of food in the four slots to cook and takes about less than a minute for the dish to cook. Most available meals can restore varying amounts of all three stats, as long as you figure out the recipe.


A recipe exclusive for Frog Legs is the Froggle Bunwich, which needs 1 Frog Leg and 1 Vegetable, plus two filler ingredients (excluding Honey, Mandrake, and Eggs). It takes 40 seconds to cook and makes for a cheap-ish, efficient, filling meal with a decent bonus to health and hunger. For early game players, you can simply use Carrots, since they’re the most common vegetable available. If you’re using Twigs for your filler, use two instead of one, since a single Twig will turn your Bunwich recipe into a Kebab.
Fish have two dedicated recipes, the Fishsticks and Fish Tacos. Fishsticks require 1 Fish and 1 Twig, while Fish Tacos require 1 Corn and 1 Fish. Of the two recipes, it’s recommended to cook Fishsticks instead of Fish Tacos since it only requires a fish and a stick and heals more health than Fish Tacos, though the hunger and sanity gains are the same.
If you’re cooking Fishsticks, don’t use twigs as filler. Use other low-value food, like Berries or Mushrooms, instead. This is because using more than 1 twig will “ruin” the recipe and result in Wet Goop, an inedible item that can still be used as baits for traps or to create Rot for fertilizer, but not much else.

