 When buying a cleanser, go for one that's for sensitive skin, even if you think your face can stand something harsh. Moisten your face with a warm washcloth so that it is damp. Apply the cleanser over your face in a a circular motion so that it exfoliates your skin properly. Rinse your face softly with a warm washcloth to wash away all traces of cleanser.;
, One like Clean and Clear "Morning Burst" moisturizer will add a slightly dewy complexion to your skin before you start applying makeup. A very important tip about facial moisturizer is to always make sure that it's lightweight! If it isn't lightweight, it could clog your pores and cause you to break out!

, Use a medium-coverage mineral concealer for darkness under your eyes so you appear awake and well-rested. Using a medium-coverage mineral concealer that is more on the liquid side will help from making your makeup appear matted, or be cake-like in appearance. Dab it on with your ring finger.
 Now, use a powder that is close to your skin tone to avoid making you look 'fake'. If possible, use a powder with an SPF to help protect you from the sun's harmful rays. Since foundation is not needed for a clean makeup look, you can just apply your powder immediately after your concealer. Do not apply concealer again once you have powder over it - your makeup WILL be matted.
 The key to having mascara look very natural is to buy it in the right colour for you. If you're a blonde, buy dark brown mascara, as black will come off too harsh. If you're a brunette, you can wear dark brown or black mascara. If you've got black hair, buy black mascara. If you're a redhead (depending on how red your hair is) wear dark brown or black mascara. As another option that suits all hair colours, wear clear mascara. Apply your mascara on top and underneath your upper lashes to give them a nice coating, and simply on top of the bottom ones. This will give you a nice look.
 Buy a colour that works for you. If you're fair-skinned, a light rosy colour is good. If you've got tanned skin, a light peach blush works. If you've got dark skin, go for a berry colour. Before applying your blush, swirl your blush brush into your blush and tap the excess off. Apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks for a healthy glow. To do this, lightly swirl the blush from your apples upwards, and blend out. Don't make your blush too harsh or you'll look like an overdone Barbie doll, which is not what you're going for.
 Finish off with a clear or light pink lip gloss with SPF (15 or higher). If you have dry lips, use a lip balm instead, to keep your lips moisturized. This should also have an SPF.

