 Adopting from overseas is an even more complicated process, but may provide more options. The first step is to contact the office in your state that oversees adoption and alert them to your intentions..


The agency will provide you with the necessary information and paperwork for the adoption process. In particular, they will give you an Expression of Interest document, which is necessary to proceed in the adoption process in some states.
Intercountry Adoption has an online directory of the relevant agencies., Submit a form formally expressing your interest in intercountry adoption to the appropriate department or agency in your state.


Note that just as in domestic adoptions, certain eligibility requirements apply. You must be married or have been in a stable relationship for two years. You must not have undergone fertility treatment in the last six months, and you must not have had another child under your care for less than a year.Guides are available from the state to help you complete this form.Note that not every state requires you to submit this form before proceeding to informational seminars., Once the state department handling adoption receives your Expression of Interest form, they will let you know that they received it. The form will be reviewed by the department and if you qualify, you will need to attend the seminar.


Depending on the state you live in, you will need to attend one or more seminars describing the process and responsibilities required to adopt a child.If you are adopting a child that is more than 2 years old, you may also need to schedule and attend the Older Child Seminar.
You'll receive an application at the seminar.In some states, you must complete this application within a certain number of weeks following the seminar, or you will be required to attend again.
 Complete and submit your application to the state. Your application will be reviewed by an assessor who will determine your eligibility and suitability for adoption.This will include a police background check, verification of health and relationship status, and so on.
 If your state approves your application, it will forward it on to the country from which you are hoping to adopt. It will then be up to that country's government to determine whether you will be allowed to adopt.If the country in question has a quota on how many applications it accepts per year, your application may not be sent right away.
If your application is approved, you will be placed on a waiting list for a child.
Wait times vary by country, but you should expect to wait for a while. In 2013-2014, the average wait time was five years.
 Once a child has been selected for you, the Australian government must make a determination as to whether the child is eligible to immigrate.Since the child will not be able to file this paperwork him or herself, you will need to complete it.


The paperwork for an adoption visa is available from the Department of Immigration and Border Protection.You'll need to include certified copies of documents proving your citizenship, a police check, the child's birth certificate, and other pertinent documentation. Having these documents ready in advance will speed up the application process. Do not send original documents.
 Once your visa application is accepted, you'll need to travel to the child's home country to meet and accept the child allocated to you, and to bring him or her home.While you are overseas, you will likely also need to complete some adoption procedures with the government of the child's home country, such as court hearings finalizing the adoption with that government.
Do not make travel arrangements until your state's adoption office advises you to do so.
The Australian government's Smartraveller service can help you to prepare yourself for the requirements of traveling to the child's home country.Using this service is strongly advised by Intercountry Adoption.
 When you get home, you will need to finalize the process by applying for a court order, a birth certificate, and a citizenship certificate. The details of this process will vary based on the home country of the child and the state you live in.In some states, for example, you will need to submit regular progress reports for several month after bringing the child home before you can finalize the adoption. In others, there will be home visits to verify that everything is going well.Details on how to complete these final steps will be provided by your state's adoption agency and/or the government of the child's country of origin.

