 If it is your family member, friend, classmate, or teammate that has died by suicide, you may have a lot of mixed feelings about what happened. This is normal and is a part of the grieving process.You can cope with the suicide by knowing that you will have these feelings and allowing yourself to have them.


You may feel sad, depressed, scared, anxious, angry, or even guilty. You may also have mood swings.
You may also have physical symptoms of grief like crying, headaches, an upset stomach, or nightmares. These are also normal reactions to what has happened.
Notice how you feel and remind yourself it is part of grief and you will get past it. For instance, say to yourself, “I feel scared right now and my stomach is in knots, but it’s just grief. It will go away.”
Express your feelings in a creative way like writing a song, painting a picture, or writing in your journal.
 It is normal for you to wonder if you could have done anything to prevent the suicide or to feel guilty for not knowing something was wrong. But to cope with the suicide you have to understand that you it is not your fault.There is nothing you did to cause what happened.


When you feel this way, tell yourself, “This is not my fault. Nothing that I did or said caused this. I wish it didn’t happen, but it did and I can’t blame myself.”
Write about your feelings of guilt in your journal. If you need to, make a list of the reasons you think it is your fault. Then beside each reason, write a reason why it’s not true.
For example, you might write, “I was mean to her” then beside it write, “But I said sorry and was nice all the other times.”

, You don’t have to cope with the suicide on your own and the best way to cope is to turn to the people around you for support. You can also turn to professionals and support groups to help you cope with the suicide.Talk to a trusted adult like a parent, teacher, or counselor. Explain what is going on and how you are feeling about it. They can offer suggestions and strategies to help you cope with the suicide.
You might say, “One of my friends died from suicide. Can I talk to you about it?”
Spend time with your friends and family. Even if it is just sitting quietly with someone or taking a walk, being around people will make it easier for you to cope with the suicide.
Consider joining a support group for other children and teens that are coping with a suicide.
If you are having a really hard time coping, then talk to a professional like a grief counselor or a therapist. Your parents, doctor, or school guidance counselor can help you find someone.
 Sometimes, when you are grieving, it can be hard to do the things you need to do to make sure you are healthy. You may find it hard to sleep, or you may not feel like doing anything. But you’ve got to take care of yourself in order to cope with the suicide.Get enough sleep. Try to stick to a bedtime and waking routine so that you get 6-8 hours of sleep. Not getting enough sleep can make you tired, cranky, and make it harder to cope with the suicide.
Have healthy snacks, regular meals, and drink plenty of water to make sure your body is getting all the nutrition it needs.
Do some exercise or something active like playing a sport, going for a hike, taking a jog.
 At first it may seem weird or even sad to talk about the person, but doing this will help you heal and cope with their suicide.


Do something special like light a candle, release balloons, or write a card on special days like the person’s birthday or on holidays.
Share memories of the person with other friends and family that knew the person.
Write a poem or draw a picture in memory of the person to share with other people.
Start a fundraiser to raise money for a suicide prevention organization in their name.

