 Use the cable that came with your iPhone, or one that’s compatible., If iTunes did not open automatically, open it by double-clicking the iTunes icon (a music note) on the Dock at the bottom of the screen (macOS) or in the Start menu (Windows)., It’s near the top left corner of iTunes., It’s in the left panel., It’s in the main panel of iTunes. If you see a message that says “iCloud Photos is On” instead of “Sync Photos,” you’ll need to disable iCloud Photos on your iPhone. Don’t worry, you can re-enable it later. Here’s how:Open your iPhone’s Settings (the gray gear icon on your home screen).
Scroll down and select Photos & Camera.
Slide the “iCloud Photo Library” switch to the Off (gray) position.
Slide the “iCloud Photo Sharing” switch to the Off (gray) position.
Disconnect your iPhone from the computer, then reconnect it. You should now be able to see “Sync Photos” in the Photos menu.
 Click the dropdown menu next to “Copy Photos From” and navigate to the folder that contains your photos. If you don’t see the folder, click Choose Folder to browse for it on your computer.

If the folder contains videos you want to add to the Camera Roll, check the box next to “Include Videos.”

, It’s at the bottom right corner of the screen., The photos will now sync to your iPhone., It’s the icon on your home screen with a rainbow flower., It’s at the bottom of the screen., It’s under “My Albums.”, It’s at the top right corner of the screen., It’s at the top left corner of the screen. All photos in the album are now selected., It’s the box with an arrow at the bottom left corner of the screen., It’s at the bottom of the screen. The selected photos will now appear in the Camera Roll., Since you can’t manually delete synced albums, you’ll need to do a new photo sync in iTunes that doesn’t include that folder.

Select your iPhone in iTunes.
Click Photos in the left panel.
Select a different folder to sync. It doesn’t even have to include photos. Just don’t select the one you want to delete from your device.
Click Apply. The sync will complete and the previously synced folder will be removed. Its contents are still in your camera roll.
 If you disabled iCloud Photos to complete this method, don’t forget to turn it back on. Select Photos & Camera in the Settings app on your iPhone, then slide the “iCloud Photo Library” and “iCloud Photo Sharing” switches back to the On position. This will not affect your Camera Roll.