 Hold one dumbbell in each hand. Stagger your stance by placing one foot slightly behind your body and one foot slightly in front. Lower yourself into a slight squat. As you rise, press the dumbbells above your head until your arms are straight. Switch legs every thirty seconds.Make sure your back heel is lifted off the ground. The front foot should be flat against the floor., Hold a dumbbell in one hand, keeping the other hand free. Bend to the side without leaning forward or backwards. Your chest should be flat as you do this exercise. Slowly rise and straighten your posture. Repeat.This exercise is very effective if you vary the weights that you use. Use a heavier dumbbell to do between six and ten reps and a lighter one to do up to forty reps in a set., This move will work out your oblique muscles and the entire abdominal sheet. Grip the dumbbells in both hands. Hold the weights at shoulder height. Plant your feet and twist your upper body as you punch one dumbbell forward. Bring the dumbbell back to the starting position as you switch arms, punching between eight and twenty times with each arm.
 Leg raise exercises can help work the lower abs. Place the dumbbell in a standing position on the floor between your feet as you sit with legs extended. Lay flat on your back. Grip the weight between your feet or ankles. Clench your leg muscles as you raise your legs from the ground toward the ceiling, until they are perpendicular to the ground. Lower your legs slowly.


Try to keep your back from arching and maintain contracted muscles as you lower your legs back to the floor.
You may want to practice gripping the dumbbell for lifts from a sitting position first. Holding the weight between your ankles or inner feet, lift the dumbbell slowly and practice keeping your legs and back stable.
If you cannot easily lift the dumbbell, select a lighter weight. It is essential that you can securely lift the dumbbell, as serious injury can occur if the dumbbell slips out of its position between the ankles or feet.
If needed, you can support your lower back muscles by folding a towel under the small of the back.

