 An 80-20 mortgage is essentially two separate home loans, one for 80% of the home’s price and the other which covers the remaining 20% of the home’s price. Individuals choose an 80-20 mortgage to avoid a large down payment and monthly private mortgage insurance. When evaluating whether you would qualify for an 80-20 mortgage, consider the following:


Lenders typically look for individuals with a very high credit rating when offering two mortgages. The lender wants to be certain that the person can afford to make both payments.
Lenders may offer you a fixed rate on the 80% loan. However, lenders may only offer you a variable rate on the 20% loan, which means if interest rates go up, you may have to pay more than you originally planned.
Lenders may restrict the amount of the second loan because there is an increased risk in offering two loans to one home purchaser.
If you do qualify, you will have two payments, but talk to your financial advisor about consolidating them into a monthly lump sum. , You should be fully aware that taking out two loans to finance the purchase of a house can be a very risky venture.


Before the mortgage crisis of 2008, these loans were easy to come by and were possible to profit from. It was, however, one of the main causes of the mortgage crisis in 2008, making it an extremely difficult option to pursue now.
The problem with these types of loans is that, if the home loses value, you can end up owing more than the value of the home, meaning that you will lose money if you want to sell your house.
Likewise, an 80-20 loan will involve a much higher interest rate and higher monthly payments, which can make it difficult to make ends meet if you have trouble coming up with the monthly payments., You need to locate a lender willing to make an 80-20 loan. When discussing the potential loans, ask the lender to calculate:


Whether two loans with a blended interest rate saves you money as compared to a single loan that requires insurance.
Whether there is an early repayment penalty for the smaller loan. You may be able to save money over the life of the loan if you repay the smaller loan back more quickly since it will most likely have a higher interest rate.Discuss your plans with a financial advisor. Make sure that you will be able to repay both loans and that it makes financial sense to get two loans versus one loan with insurance.

