 If you have dark brown hair, you will not be able to transition to a light blonde color without bleaching your hair. Bleaching your hair is not recommended for people who are unfamiliar with hair dye and bleach, as the results can be very drastic (not so much in a good way) and highly damaging to your hair. For a fast and simple solution, try using an at-home hair dye with a color that is a couple shades lighter than your actual desired hair color.


Dark hair generally needs to be bleached and lightened before it can be dyed a lighter brown color. This method comes with assumed risk, but it is an alternative solution for quicker results.
 A lightening hair spray can give your brown hair a lighter tint that builds gradually.However, depending on your natural hair color, some lightening sprays have been known to give hair an orange-y coloring, but if you spray you hair with small amounts of the product, any change should be subtle enough to notice the unwanted change in color and stop use.


Usually, the sun brings out the traces of blonde coloring in your hair even more.
 Lightening creams work well on un-dyed natural hair. You simply leave the cream on your hair for a designated amount of time, and then thoroughly rinse out the cream.
 There are certain shampoo brands that offer a shampoo made to lighten your hair to a blonder shade. Some of these shampoos are meant specifically for already blonde hair, but you can try some shampoos out to see if they lighten your hair in any way.You may have to experiment with various types and brands to see which shampoo works best with your hair color.
 This is the safest method to change your brown hair color to a lighter shade and get the results you want. Granted, this method might cost more money, but ultimately it can save you a headache in the end.


A professional hairstylist can offer great advice and give recommendations for colors that would look best on you, while causing the least amount of damage. Plus, their professional background and experience level offers a more reliable setting for coloring your hair.

