 You will be nude in front of a room full of people.;
, Women often perform these competitions with friends, and male and female friends are often excited and will want to be there to watch.
 Anything but your real name. Use commonsense. It's fun to think up and it is also for safety purposes.
 Choose clothing you can take off with ease. Clothes with elasticity, snaps, and ties are easiest to slip off, while buttons and zippers are more cumbersome. Refrain from applying lotions, glitter, etc.. that can come off on stage or on the poles. Wear non-slip heels.
 They give a show before your remove them. Think of visual teasing with the clothing you pick -- coordinated works best -- not mismatched duds.
 Decide what body part(s) are your greatest asset and focus on using it -- trust your friends to help you decide -- a great butt or set of boobs need to be "worked" so the crowd appreciates the look.


Practice in a private area, such as a bathroom or a bedroom, at least a few times. Get your planned routine down. One method may be to remove your skirt, followed by your shirt, then the bra and the panties or thong. Or you may remove your shirt and bra and then later your skirt and underwear. Your routine should be one you are comfortable with and will likely help you win.
 Get there at least a couple of hours early in order to get comfortable and sign up. There will be a form and/or a legal release to sign.
 You will likely be called up to the DJ booth several times to ensure that you know what is going on. The DJ will usually ask what type of music you want to dance to (genre, band, specific songs).
 The DJ will call all of the amateurs up. Go up when it is your turn.
 The announcer will call you up and will likely ask you dirty questions or read answers to the questionnaire you filled out. Don't get offended. Being in a state of offense makes it harder to work. It is nothing personal to begin with. Begin removing your clothes according to your plan.


Pick a person to focus on during your dance -- it is super sexy.
Don't look bored -- always keep a bright natural smile and enjoy yourself.
Time your strip so you are just about naked about 45 seconds before the end then remove it and pose several ways as the end comes. Avoid getting all clothes off too early -- the thrill is in the tease.
 When your time is up, pick up your stage tips (smile and say "Thank you!"), slip your clothes back on, and return to your seat. Wait for the winner(s) to be announced.

