 Draw a line; it can be either horizontal or vertical and you can change it as you plan if it seems better in the other direction.;
, Consider such things as:


When the club or guild began
Visits by VIPs
Awards
Adoption of new standards or rules
Entry of new classes of members
Change of premises
Special purchases, including property
Fundraising events

, Make sure that the events suggested are relevant, interesting and overall contribute towards giving readers a good sense of the direction that your club or guild has been taking over the years.
 Leave spaces between the years to give a sense of time moving on. Mark decade changes with large dates; other dates can be smaller. Include illustrations, photos etc. where appropriate; signal this by marking on the draft plan.
 Consideration should be given to how the time chart is to be displayed, durability, quality, materials to be used, human resources available and costs. For example, a large silk runner that has hand stitched dates and fabric photo input will likely be expensive and time-consuming compared to a poster but its lasting legacy will be greater and might even become a club or guild heirloom.
 There are many possibilities for the format and you may like to consider two formats; one for long display and one for mass distribution amongst club or guild members. Here is a small starter list to fire your own imagination:


Poster
Quilt
Fabric wall-hanging
Engraving on metal
Website version
Small paper version for a printed newsletter
Bookmarks
As part of a club or guild history book publication
Light projection

, Decide whether it will be made by professionals, by volunteers, or perhaps by a combination of both. You will also need to consider whether or not you would like to unveil the time chart as part of a ceremony. If so, plans should begin for such an event and the timeline should be adhered to closely.
 Keep an archive of the time chart that your club or guild creates. Just as you are rounding up past events for this time chart, some day there many well be future generations who round up your efforts as part of the past and this will feed into their capacity to keep history alive and accurate.

