 Day or night, using a compass, GPS, or cell phone equipped with either is the best and easiest way to determine directions. These devices are also the most accurate, making them the most reliable methods. But, it’s important to note that when your compass points north, for instance, it’s pointing you in the direction of magnetic north, which is different from true north (the same goes for magnetic south versus true south).As you spin around in different directions, the compass needle will spin as well, indicating which direction you are facing.
A compass will give false readings around metal objects like keys, watches, and belt buckles. The same is true for magnetic objects, such as certain rocks or power lines.
 A GPS is arguably the easiest way to determine direction or find your way, because these electronic devices use satellites to position your location. A GPS can be used to tell you where you are, give you directions to a specific location, and track your movements.A GPS must be charged and have a working battery to be functional. It should also be initialized before use, so that it orients itself (knows where it is) and downloads the most current and accurate maps.


Turn on your GPS, and allow it to load and acquire signal.
Not only will the GPS have a compass you can use to determine which way is east, west, north, or south, but on its map it will also have an arrow that points in the direction you are facing.
Your coordinates will appear at the top of the screen, also giving you your longitude and latitude.
Because a GPS navigates using satellites, tall buildings, large trees, and other geographic structures can interfere with its signal.
 Most modern smartphones are equipped with a compass, GPS, or both. There are also applications you can download or software you can install to equip your phone with these features. To use the GPS function on your phone, it must be connected to Wi-Fi or your network, and your GPS or location services must be on.


To access these devices, look for apps called “compass,” “maps,” or “navigation.”

