 A good way to discourage bad behavior is to reward good behavior—a principle known as ‘positive reinforcement.’ Animals generally tend to repeat behaviors for which they get rewarded,so the use of positive reinforcement teaches your pet to demonstrate good and desirable behavior.


There are several ways to make good behavior desirable to your pet, such as verbally praising him, giving him treats, and rewarding him with extra playtime.Positive reinforcement is most effective when administered immediately after the good behavior.Immediate reward will help your pet make an association between behavior and reward.
Positive reinforcement also works when used hand-in-hand with making bad behavior undesirable.
Positive reinforcement avoids the use physical punishment. By emphasizing and rewarding good behavior, a pet who learns what to do through positive reinforcement is usually happier, more resilient, more confident, and better behaved than a pet who is physically punished.;
, If your pet realizes that certain behaviors have undesirable consequences for him, then he will likely stop doing that behavior.Examples of undesirable consequences include inattention and deterrent devices.


Species-specific punishment, such as hissing at a cat, can make bad behavior less desirable without physically punishing or yelling at your pet.Not showing affection towards your pet as he is performing the bad behavior is another way to make the behavior undesirable., Trying to correct your pet’s bad behavior without knowing why it is happening in the first place can be ineffective and may actually end up causing more harm than good. The root of the bad behavior may be improper human handling (e.g., bad training, lack of human handling, mistreatment) or medical (e.g., hormonal imbalance).Conditions such as kidney disease or bladder incontinence can cause your dog or cat to demonstrate inappropriate urination.
The bad behavior may also be rooted in inadequate socialization at an early age—your pet may not have learned the ‘checks and balances’ of his behavior.
If you suspect that the bad behavior goes deeper than simple misbehaving, consider taking your pet to your veterinarian for a thorough medical workup.

