 You can easily do this by continuously casting destruction-type magic spells like fireballs, frosts, lightning bolts, and more. Reaching level 90 Destruction Skill will definitely take time, so have patience.


You can check the level of your Destruction by pausing the game and opening the In Game Menu. Select “Skills” from the four options, and you should see the level of your Destruction Skill here, among with other skills of your character.;
, The College of Winterhold is located on the northeastern corner of the map. Take the road just outside the city of Windhelm that leads north and it will take you straight to Winterhold.
 From the main courtyard of the College of Winterhold, head right along the wall and you’ll find the Hall of Countenance. Enter this building and inside you’ll find a female mage named Faralda.


Talk to Faralda and select “What else is there to be learned about Destruction magic?” from the list of available responses. She will then give you book with a single page that you’ll need to take to somewhere north of Skyrim (this marks the start of “Destruction Ritual Spell” quest).
 From Winterhold, take the road leading westward to the city of Dawnstar. Once you’re in Dawnstar, take the road southwards and you should come across the Windward Ruins.
 In the ruins you’ll see a pedestal, just approach it and place the book Faralda gave you on it.
 The second objective will appear on the screen.


Take the book before exiting the area.
 Travel to the Throat of the World (south of Whiterun), and from there, go down the mountain path southward. You’ll come across a semi-circle stone building. This is the North Skybound Watch.
 Once you enter the Watch, you’ll see another pedestal, just place the book on it.
 This will trigger the third objective of the quest.


Take the book before exiting the area.
 From Markarth, take the open road heading eastward and continue along the path until you cross a river. Keep walking a few more miles after the river and you should find Four Skull Lookout—a building that looks just like North Skybound Watch in step 5.
 Enter the Lookout, and you’ll see another pedestal. Place the book on it.
 Some changes will happen to the book.
 After casting the last spell, approach the pedestal and read the book. It will now teach you the Firestorm spell.

