 Your child may be gifted if they are intensely curious about the world around them. If they show curiosity through touch, smell or verbally, they may be gifted. For example, see if they ask a lot of questions about the world. Examples include the following questions:“Why is the sky blue?”
“Where did I come from?”
“Why are there homeless people?”;
, If your toddler can remember information very quickly or after hearing a fact or a word for the first time, they may be gifted. The ability to remember and learn quickly are characteristic traits of gifted children.Observe their memory in comparison to others of the same age:If they remember where a toy is hidden, it could be a sign of a good memory.
If they remember times and places better than other toddlers, they may have an exceptional memory. If you are not familiar with the types of things other toddlers remember, then you can always do some research to find out what is normal for the age.
 You should take notice if your toddler is able to focus on one subject for an extended period of time. If your child is easily absorbed and motivated to learn about a particular subject, they may be gifted.If your toddler stays interested in a story for a long time, they may have exceptional focus. Most babies will lose interest in a story after a short time.
If your toddler gets interested in dogs and becomes very absorbed and focused on the different types of dogs and their characteristics, showing an exceptional knowledge in a short period of time, it could be a sign of exceptional concentration and motivation to learn.
 See if your child shows signs of exceptional creativity. Your child may be absent-minded but intensely creative, which is another trait of a gifted child. See if they exhibit any of the following signs of exceptional creativity:Tells original stories.
Thinks of new solutions to old problems.
Shows inventiveness, such as with lego projects.
Has an intense imagination, as expressed in drawing, painting or other forms.
Improvises, such as on a musical instrument.
Takes risks and shows signs of independent thinking.
Shows a love for self-expression in visual art, drama or music.
If they imagine complex situations during play, they may be creatively gifted.They may have imaginary friends.
 If you see that your toddler notices that “26” and “62” contain the same numbers or has an above-average capacity for multiplication tables for their age, they may be gifted in the math department. Try playing some math games with them to observe their capacities in this area.


If your toddler can count in multiple languages, they may be gifted.For example, you could play a matching game with your toddler and observe their abilities.If your baby can add or subtract numbers, they may well be gifted., If your kid is reading far above their grade level, they may very well be gifted. If your kid is reading a few books a week and actually comprehending the material, they may be gifted., See if your child has an intuitive sense of technology such as radios or computers. If they learn very quickly how to use a new software program or enjoy tinkering with radios, they may have an advanced perceptual and technological capacity., A child who excels at solving problems may also be gifted, especially since this is a frequently used definition of giftedness. Pay attention to your child’s ability to solve puzzles and other types of complex problems.

