 Giving your dog a massage may help to provide stress relief, better circulation, and pain relief. It is also a great way to bond with your dog and it may even help you to detect injuries or other health conditions that may require treatment.Massage is a recognized therapy with beneficial effects that is advocated and practiced by veterinary physiotherapists.;
, A massage is not always the answer to your dog’s pain. In some cases, a massage may make your dog feel worse. You should not massage your dog if he has:


a broken or dislocated hip
an infection in the joint
a skin infection

If you suspect any of these conditions, take your dog to visit your veterinarian right away. These are ailments that need immediate medical treatment by a professional.
 This shouldn't be too hard as he'll likely lay on this side anyway in an effort to keep weight off the affected hip. When you touch the area, you may notice that it's stiff and tense even when it's not being used. This is a good sign that massage can be effective.As long as the skin or bone isn't broken, massage can help alleviate your pup's pain. However, if you notice any skin issues or if your dog is audibly in pain, skip the massage and go straight to your vet for a physical assessment.
 In a rocking motion, apply pressure with the heel of your hand, working upwards towards the heart. Slow and gentle movements are soothing; hard and fast movement stimulates. For pain relief, one motion every five seconds is ideal. Massage the affected limb for 10-20 minutes, two to three times a day.An animal with hip pain will have tense, stiff muscles. The tension in the muscles compresses the joint, making inflamed surfaces rub together, causing further pain. Massage not only helps the muscles to relax, but it also stimulates the release of endorphins – a natural painkiller with a similar chemical composition to morphine.
 To make sure you're massaging the hip correctly, imagine massaging fluid back towards the heart. Working the opposite direction forces blood to pool which can lead to swelling and reduced mobility. It also feels better for your dog to stretch the muscles up instead of forcing them down.