 Groupon started by offering daily deals that required a "tipping point," or a certain number of buyers before the deal was actually active. They've found that tipping point was always reached, so they've done away with it. They've also expanded from the simple 1-deal-a-day approach. Here's an overview of what they offer.
 This is the traditional deal Groupon became known for. It works like this:


Consult. Work with your Groupon representative to create a custom offer that meets your business needs.
Plan. Create an action plan to help your staff deal with the rush of new customers.
Launch. Your deal will be featured for one day on the main Groupon site. This is the page that Groupon subscribers in your locale will see.
Connect. Customers buy the deal, and receive a voucher in return. They bring this with them when they come to enjoy your offering.
Redeem. You scan the voucher code they bring in, enter it manually into the Merchant Center, or write it down for later entry.
Payment. According to Groupon, most business partners get paid in thirds—33% after 7 to 10 days, 33% after 1 month, and 34% after 2 months.
Visit the What It Looks Like page to see a breakdown of each part of your deal page.
 Groupon Now is an on-demand service that cater to customers actively exploring your neighborhood for deals. It relies heavily on their mobile application.


Review the steps above for The Featured Deal. The significant difference is how the deal is launched. Rather than simply appearing on the Groupon website, the deal is pushed to the mobile app on your potential customer's smart phone. Rather than the printed voucher many may bring using the Featured Deal, the voucher will be on their phone.
Visit the What It Looks Like page to see how a deal is structured on a smart phone.
 This program offers rewards to your best customers based on your specifications. Groupon offers free analytics to help you track the success of your Groupon marketing efforts, see who your top customers are, and how much they've spent.
 Groupon has specialty deals for live music, travel and vacation getaways, national brands, and more. Your Groupon representative can help you determine what's right for your business.

