 As soon as you know you won't be able to accept the position, make the call. The longer you dilly-dally, the longer it will take for your potential employers to hire another candidate. You're already rejecting your potential employers, so the least you can do is be as efficient as possible.


As soon as you've accepted another position or have realized that the job will be impossible for you to take because of the compensation, responsibilities, commute, work environment, or whatever reason, place the call.
You should call the hiring officer or recruiter who made you the offer.
 Before you reject the job offer, take the time to show the company how much you appreciate the offer and how hard they worked to make you feel comfortable at the company, to show you around and introduce you to people, or whatever else they did.


Thank not only the person you're calling, but try to name a few people in the company who were also helpful to you.
Use a few kind adjectives to describe the people or person who interviewed you. You can say the person was kind, thoughtful, welcoming, professional, or whatever works best for the situation.
Don't overdo it. You don't have to spend an hour thanking the person over the phone. Just two or three sentences will do. Cut to the chase.
Maintain the right tone. Though you are complimenting the company, it should start to become obvious that you are not calling to deliver good news. Don't sound so enthusiastic that the person will be genuinely shocked to hear you won't be taking the offer.
 After you've thanked the person, clearly state, in no uncertain terms, that you will not be accepting the offer. You can start off by saying, "Regrettably..." or "Unfortunately..." before you deliver the bad news. Then you can briefly state a reason for why you chose not to accept the offer.


Be diplomatic. You don't have to be completely honest if you are feeling negative. Treat this person as a future potential employer, and state everything as politely as possible.
Speak clearly and steadily. Though you may be rushing to get off the phone, you should sound clear and confident when you deliver the message.
You don't have to go into detail. For example, if you just got a bad vibe when you visited the office, or if you realized the position was completely beneath you, you can just say, "The job did not meet my career objectives." You can also say that the job did not suit your needs.
If you got another job offer, great. That will make the whole process a little easier. Just say that you found another position that meets your career objectives more, or which is more aligned with your career objectives.
Stress that this was a tough decision to make, and that you really wish it could have worked. Don't make it sound like you don't care about the company at all.
Maintain a sincere and even tone. Show the person that you really do regret the decision.
 It's likely that you're not off the hook yet. After you make it clear that you're rejecting the job, you will be asked some more questions about your decision-making process.


Be polite and professional. Even if you feel like you're getting grilled and are dying to get off the phone, answer the questions with the level of specificity you want to use.
Give your full attention. Even if you're feeling uncomfortable or calling during a busy time, listen to the person completely to show that you still care and that the company should think of you in the future.
Be courteous. Maintain a positive and complimentary tone, no matter what you are saying.
Don't offend the company. If the benefits package was just not enough for you, for example, don't say the company was "cheap."

, Once you have made your goal and have answered every question you were asked, it's time to get off the phone. After all, the hiring officer on the other end has to go try to find someone else to fill your potential position, so ending the conversation will benefit both of you.


Again, thank the person for his or her time and effort.
End with a small compliment. Remind the person that you were impressed with the company.
Wish the person and the company luck in all of their future endeavors.
 Once you've hung up the phone, the worst is over. But to complete the process, you should still follow up with a letter to the person who tendered the offer.


This will make you look even more responsible and professional.

