 You do not want your dog to be overweight and have arthritis, as extra pounds can put more stress on their joints. Make sure your dog is at a healthy weight for their age and breed. Your vet can tell you if your dog is overweight and help you monitor your pet’s weight so they are healthy.If your dog is overweight, your vet may suggest an eating plan where your dog is given a limited amount of healthy food. You may try giving your dog healthy treats to help them stay at a reasonable weight, especially if your dog is older.;
, You should try to keep your pet warm, as the cold can irritate their arthritis. If your pet has any problem areas that tend to swell up due to arthritis, you can try putting warm compresses on the area. You can also allow your pet to sleep with a hot water bottle so they are comfortable at night.Another way to keep problem areas warm is to put your dog in a pet sweater. Make sure the sweater goes over your pet’s torso and limbs so they can stay warm.
 Being physically active is important for senior dogs, as it helps them maintain a healthy weight and healthy joints. If your dog has mild, early arthritis, try having them do non-weight bearing exercises like swimming. The water will help to support their limbs as they swim and splash around.You can also try getting your dog to go on at least one leash walk a day. These exercises are a little more weight bearing so you may want to consult with your vet before doing them with your pup to ensure they will not irritate their arthritis.
 If the dog is struggling to walk or squat, you can assist them by making a sling. Slip a long wide piece of canvas, belt, or towel under your dog’s chest, and hold each end. Pull on the ends when your dog stands up to help them maintain their balance.This will take some weight off of the dog's back end so that they can walk more easily. You can also use the sling to help your dog climb the stairs and enter or exit the car.If you need a fast and easy sling, you can use a bath towel. Simply slide it under your dog’s chest and make sure the towel is long enough to support your dog when they move.

