 Barracks are where you train your infantry. This building is available in the Age of Empires 3, Age of Empires 3: The Asian Dynasties, and Age of Empires 3: The Warchiefs (PC) games.;
, In AoE3, your first and most important training building, the Town Center, is already constructed for you from the start of the game. This building allows you to train villagers, who you will then instruct to gather the resources required to build the training buildings that you need. They will also be the ones building the training buildings, in this case the Barracks.


To train a villager, left-click the Town Center to select it. Town Centers are different depending on the Home City you are working with. If you are unsure which building is your Town Center, press the hotkey T on your keyboard to immediately select it.
Once the Town Center is selected, a panel will appear in the bottom-right corner of the screen with different buttons for the different functions that your Town Center can perform. The “Train Villager” button is the very first one on the panel—the one with a picture of a man and a woman. Click the button once to train one villager or multiple times to train many villagers.
Once the training is complete, your villager(s) will appear in front of your Town Center.
In AoE3, a villager usually costs 100 Food to train. This is deducted from your resources stockpile, which is displayed in the bottom-left corner of the screen next to the map.
 200 Wood is the resource cost for building Barracks in AoE3. Left-click a villager to select it. Scroll to an area of the game world that is forested.


Right-click a tree. The villager will travel to the tree, chop it down, and start gathering from it.
Repeat the steps to allocate more villagers to wood-gathering. The more the villagers you assign to the wood-gathering task, the faster you will reach the target amount of Wood needed.
When you have accumulated 200 wood (check your resources stockpile in the bottom-left corner of the screen), you are now ready to build your Barracks!

, Left-click a villager to select him (or her), and then click the “Barracks” button (a square icon with two pistols on it) from the build panel that appears in the bottom-right corner of the screen.


Move the mouse to position the building’s foundation where you want it to be built, and then left-click to place it. Your villager will now construct the Barracks.
The more the villagers you assign to the task of constructing the building, the faster it can be completed. To assign extra villagers, left-click them and then right-click the building’s foundation.
 Once constructed, you can train units out of the building using the same procedure as training villagers out of the Town Center. Left-click the Barracks to select it, and then click the buttons on the panel that will appear in the bottom-left corner of the screen to train units.


Examples of units you can train from the Barracks are: Crossbowman, Pikeman, and Musketeer. Hover your mouse over the buttons on the panel to find out what type of unit each trains.
Training these units costs economic resources, which are deducted from your stockpile (e.g., a Musketeer costs 75 Food and 25 Gold).
 Stables are available in Age of Empires 3, Age of Empires 3: The Asian Dynasties, and Age of Empires 3: The Warchiefs (PC). They’re used to train cavalry (soldiers on horses).
 Just as when constructing a Barracks, the first step to constructing a Stable in AoE3 is training villagers and then gathering the required resources (200 Wood for a Stable). Train villagers using your Town Center and command them to collect at least 200 Wood from a forested area of the map.
 To build a Stable, left-click the villager and then click the Stable button (a square icon with a horseshoe on it) from the Build panel that appears in the bottom-right corner of the screen.


Position the building’s foundation by moving your mouse to the location where you want the Stable built, then left-click to place it. The villager will now construct the Stable.
The more villagers you assign to the task of constructing the building, the faster it can be completed. To assign extra villagers, left-click them and then right-click the building’s foundation.
 Once constructed, you can train three types of units out of the Stable: Hussars, Lancers, and Dragoons. Left-click the building to select it, and then hover your mouse over the buttons on the panel that will appear on the bottom left corner of the screen to find out what type of unit each trains.


Training these units costs economic resources, which are deducted from your stockpile (e.g., a Hussar costs 120 Food and 80 Gold).
 A Siege Workshop is available in Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings (PC). It is the building out of which you can train Scorpions, Siege Rams, and other siege weapons.
 The first step to building a Siege Workshop is training the villager(s) for the job and gathering the 200 Wood needed to construct one. To to this:


Left click your Town Center to select it. A Town Center is usually already constructed for you from the start of any AoE2 game. Town Centers are different depending on the Civilization you are playing. If you are unsure which building is your Town Center, press the hotkey H on your keyboard to immediately select it.
Once the Town Center is selected, a panel will appear in the bottom-left corner of the screen with different buttons for the different functions that your Town Center can perform. The “Train Villager” button is the very first one on the panel—the one with a picture of a shirtless workman. Click the button once to train one villager or multiple times to train many Villagers.
Once trained, the villager(s) will appear just outside your Town Center.
 Once you have your villagers, instruct them to gather wood from trees. Left-click a villager to select it, then scroll to an area of the game world that is forested.


Right-click a tree, and the Villager will travel to the tree, chop it down, and start gathering wood from it.
The first icon on your resources stockpile in the top-left corner of the screen represents the amount of Wood you have. Once you have gathered 200 Wood, you can construct your Siege Workshop.
 Left-click a villager to select it. In the bottom-left corner of the screen, a panel with four buttons will appear. Click the second button. This will open up a panel with the icons of different military buildings that you can build. Hover your mouse over the icons to see what building each icon represents.


The Siege Workshop icon is the fourth one from the left on the top row, one with a pair of gears on it. Click the icon then move your mouse to position the building’s foundation where you want it.
Left-click to place the foundation and begin construction. Your villager will now begin constructing the building.
 Once your building has been constructed, you can train different types of siege units from it by left-clicking it and then clicking the icons that appear in the bottom-left corner of your screen.


Training these units costs economic resources, which are deducted from your stockpile (e.g., a Siege Ram costs 160 wood and 75 Gold). The amounts of each resource you have are displayed in the top-left corner of the screen.

