 Use this statement to wish the birthday boy or birthday girl a wonderful day.



Wir means "we" in English.

Wünschen is a German verb meaning "wish," "want," or "desire."

Ihnen is a polite way of saying "you." To make this statement informal or casual, replace Ihnen with Dir, the informal version of "you." Pronounce Dir as deahr.

Einen means "one" or "a."

Wunderschönen means "lovely," "wonderful," or "beautiful."

Tag means "day."
You should pronounce this sentence as veer vuhnshen ee-nen aye-nen vuhn-deher-shuhn-nen tahg.
 This phrase roughly means, "May your day be filled with love and happiness."



Auf means "on" or "upon."

Dass is a German conjunction meaning "that" in English.

Ihr is a polite way of saying "your." For a more informal way of saying "your," use Dein, pronounced as dine.

Tag means "day."

Mit means "with."

Liebe means love. The term und means "and," and Freude means "joy" or "happiness."
The phrase erfüllt ist translates roughly into "filled with."
Pronounce the whole thing as owf dahss eer tahg mitt lee-beh oond froy-deh ehr-foolt ist.
 This phrase means "Shame we cannot be there to celebrate with you." Use it over the phone, in a greeting card, or in an e-mail when you cannot give the individual birthday wishes in person.



Schade means "shame" or "pity."
The word dass means "that" and wir means "we."
The term nicht means "not," and können means "can."

Mitfeiern means "celebrate together."
Pronounce the sentiment as shah-deh dahss veer neecht("ch" as in "aCH" NOT as in "CHair" mitt-fy-ehrn keu-nenn.
 This question asks, “how is the birthday boy?” or “how is the birthday girl?”



Wie geht’s is a German interjection that means "how are you doing?" in English.
The term dem means "the."

Geburtstagkind can mean either "birthday boy" or "birthday girl."
The expression as a whole should be pronounced as vee gates dehm geh-buhrtz-tahg-kint.
 This question is used to ask someone's age.



Wie means "how" and alt means "old." Bist means "are."
The term du means "you." For a more polite form of the word "you," use Sie", prefixed by "sind" instead of "bist", i.e. "Wie alt sind Sie?"

Pronounce the entire question as vee ahlt bist due (or "vee ahlt zindt zee")

, This sentiment means something along the lines of "much love for your birthday."



Alles means "all" or "everything." The phrase "zum Geburtstag" means "for your birthday."

Liebe means "love."
This sentiment should be pronounced as ah-less lee-beh tsoom geh-buhrtz-tahg.

