 If you want to work in marketing, then chances are that you already have a Facebook profile. Nowadays, it's common for a potential employer to check out your Facebook profile before he decides to interview you, so you should make sure that your Facebook profile shows you to be a professional, responsible, and mature potential employee. Here's how you do it: Manage your privacy settings. When an employer looks you up, he should only be able to see your picture and some key information about you. Let anyone see information about your work experience and your mature Facebook photo, and hide those more "fun" photos for the rest of your friends.
If you really want your Facebook profile to market you, make sure all of your photos show your best side. You could become Facebook friends with someone who could help you get a job, so those photos can show you having fun at things like gallery openings or poetry readings, or doing something work related, but you should eliminate photos where you look obviously drunk or aren't appropriately dressed.
Try to have as many Facebook friends as you can. Many social media marketing jobs need a Facebook media manager and will outright ask how many Facebook friends you have.
If it's relevant, create a Facebook fan page. If you have a talent or a skill, you should promote it through Facebook to spread awareness about your work and to update your fans.
 If you want to work in marketing, you should not only have a Facebook page, but you should also have a Twitter and Instagram account. This will expand your social media skills and will also get you in touch with more people. Plus, this will prevent you from being caught in that awkward moment where you potential employers asks for your Twitter or Instagram username and you don't have one.


Many marketing jobs have a place for you to put a link to any relevant sites that can provide more information about you, or even a place to put your Twitter username, so you should take advantage of the opportunity to show as much about yourself as possible.
Think before you Tweet. Though you may have a brilliant idea for a dirty joke after you've had a few beers on a Saturday night, remember to keep it appropriate, even if your privacy settings are high.
Think before you post a photo. Though Instagram is an opportunity to show your followers what you've been up to, minimize the photos where you're in beach wear or have had too much to drink, just as you would on Facebook.
Try to get as many followers as possible by staying active and favoring your friends' Tweets or liking their photos on Instagram.
 Networking is a great way to let people know who you are and to improve your chances of getting a job. Remember that while it's important to gain experience, it's equally important to have connections who can actually help you get a job. Here's how to do it:


Keep up your LinkedIn profile. LinkedIn is a professional network, and you should not only have an active profile, but you should update it often and make sure to include all of your experience. You can network by adding people to your LinkedIn network. Avoid adding perfect strangers and stick to people who share several connections with you.
Network in person. Just because social media networking is more popular than ever doesn't mean that you can't make connections in person. Whenever you meet someone who can help you advance your career, be friendly and personable and exchange contact information. Do this only if it's appropriate and you sense that the person wants to talk to you.
Make a business card. Even if you feel like you don't have much to put on your business card, you should keep one to hand to people whenever they ask for your contact information. Plus, if they ask for your card, it will look awkward to say, "I don't have a card, but let me find a scrap of paper to write my number on." If you choose this method, the person will forget you. If you give that person a card, he'll keep it in his wallet and can pull it out if an opportunity comes up.
Take advantage of the alumni network at your college. Join any alumni networking sites to increase your chances of finding a connection who can help you find a job.
Ask your friends and family connections if they knew about any marketing jobs. You may feel silly for doing this, but this will greatly increase your chances of landing a marketing job. Even if your friend or your Aunt Rhoda may not know of any jobs, they may know someone who knows someone who can help you. Don't be embarrassed to send an email to people in your circle asking for any leads. You'll be surprised by how quickly you may hear about an opportunity.

