 Choose either small or large-sized bottles. In most cases, you will want to choose bottles for their appearance instead of for their practicality, so don’t purchase expensive bottles such as those that parents will actually use.;
,


You can fill them with candy, muesli, trail mix, or layered cake, cookie, pancake or brownie mixes.
Include the recipe for any homemade items that you incorporate into the bottles.
You can also fill large bottles with baby supplies like tiny nail clippers, pacifiers, small toys or baby socks.
 Use ribbon that is a maximum of 1/2” (12 mm) thick.


Create 2 equally sized loops, one on the left and one on the right, in the center of the ribbon.
Pull the right loop around the left loop to create a circle.
Push the right loop through the circle and pull the knot tight.
Hot glue the back of the knot to the neck of the bottle, if desired.
 You can attach a tiny pacifier, rattle or other favor to the knot of the ribbon. Use hot glue if necessary.



You can print the baby’s name on the labels or something more generic, such as “Baby Boy” or “Baby Girl”.
You can alternatively print the mother’s name and the date of the shower on the labels.
Make sure that the design of the labels matches the theme of your shower.
 Instead of tying a ribbon around the neck of the bottle, tie a string attached to a helium balloon around the neck of the bottle. The bottle will keep the balloon weighted down so that it will not float away.
 After you fill a large baby bottle with jelly beans or candy-coated chocolates, place the bottle on a table. Have each guest guess how many pieces of candy are in the bottle. The guest with the closest estimate wins the bottle full of candy.
 Guests can grab a bottle as they enter the shower or as they leave to use as a keepsake. Alternatively, you can incorporate the bottles into your place settings, putting one at every guest’s place.
 Allow the guests to take a piece of the centerpiece home with them as they leave the party.
 Place some slips of paper and pens on the table. Have each guest write down their favorite piece of parenting advice on a slip of paper. Then, have guests fold the slips and place them inside the bottle.
 Place each guest’s beverage of choice into a baby bottle. At the count of 3, have each guest chug their beverage by sucking on the nipple. The first person to finish their beverage wins a bottle of champagne or other prize of your choosing.
 As more and more parents are making their own baby food, you can fill a bottle with food combination ideas and instructions for preparing homemade baby food. You could also ask guests to bring recipe ideas to the party with them to fill the bottle with ideas for the parents-to-be.