 You should start your toddler out on carpeted stairs, if you have them. Indoor, carpeted stairs will be easier for your child to navigate than outdoor, concrete stairs. Consider adding carpeting or a runner to your indoor stairs if they are hardwood.
 Your toddler should only practice going up and down a set of stairs that has a solid railing on one side or both sides of the stairs. Test out the railing by putting your hand on it as you walk up and down the stairs. It should feel solid and secure.You may also opt for a set of stairs that have a railing that is low to the ground so it is easier for your toddler to reach.
 Start by making sure the stairs are safe enough for your toddler to practice climbing up and down on. Put up safety gates that are at least 22 inches (55.9 cm) high with no more than three inches (7.6 cm) between the vertical bars. Place one safety gate at the top of the stairs and one safety gate three steps from the bottom of the stairs.Make sure the safety gate is screwed into the wall, if possible. If not, secure it with straps or clips on the railing. Do not use safety gates that simply lean against the railing as they can fall, leading to possible injury for your toddler.
 Check that the stairs are free of any toys, books, or pieces of furniture that could get in the way while your toddler practices going up and down the stairs. You may need to move any furnishings on the stairs, such as decorative vases or plants. Make sure the stairs are free of clutter so your toddler has a clear, open path to practice on with you., Begin by showing your toddler how to walk up the first three steps. Hold the railing with your hand and walk up the stairs slowly. Then, turn around and walk back down the stairs. Put equal weight in both feet and take your time.Your toddler should observe your movements from a distance. Be expressive when you walk up and down the stairs. Say to your toddler, “This is how we climb the stairs” or “Watch me first.”
You should also tell your child the rules for climbing the stairs. You may say, "When we climb the stairs, we move slowly and keep our hand on the railing."

, Once your toddler has watched you climb the stairs, you can ask them, “Would you like to try?” Then, take their hand and stand next to them as they climb the first three steps one at a time. Make sure they have their other hand on the railing or on a solid portion of the stairwell so they can maintain their balance.Take each step one at a time, syncing your movements with your toddler’s movements so you are supporting them. Help your toddler maintain their balance as they go up the stairs.
When you both get to the top, you may say something positive like “Yay!” or “Great! Look at us.”

, Going down the stairs may be more difficult for your toddler, as they are typically top-heavy and may struggle with their balance. Support your toddler by holding their hand and taking the three steps one at a time. You may try counting each step with your toddler to help them focus on the task and stay balanced, saying “one, two, three” as you go down the steps.If your toddler seems to struggle with going down the stairs, you may let them scoot down on their bottom or their belly with their feet first. This may be less scary for them to try at first. With practice, your toddler may grow to be more comfortable going down the stairs on their feet.
 Help your toddler practice going up and down the stairs several times. Hold their hand tight and encourage them with positive words so they stay engaged in the activity.During the practice runs, you may notice your toddler starting to get more confident with going up and down the stairs. They may start to become more balanced and put less of their weight on your hand. They may also grip the railing more tightly and lift their legs to land on the steps with confidence.
Once your toddler climbs three stairs with confidence, you can try challenging your toddler to go all the way to the top of the stairs by removing the first safety gate. You could then both practice going all the way up to the top of the stairs and back down again together.
 Once you feel your toddler is confident enough to go up and down the stairs, allow them to attempt the first three steps on their own. Stay a couple steps behind (when going up) or in front (when going down) of your child to catch them if they stumble. Keep your arms out and support them if they start to lose their balance, especially when they come down the stairs.Encourage your toddler to go up the stairs with positive words, such as “Keep going!” or “You got it!”
If your toddler does not make it up the stairs on their own the first time, try to remain positive and encouraging. Assure them that you are right there to help if they need it. Sometimes toddlers just need to feel supported to conquer challenging tasks like climbing the stairs on their own.
 If you feel your toddler has mastered climbing up and down the stairs on their own, you may feel comfortable with removing the safety gates from the stairwell. You may remove the first safety gate at three steps so your toddler can go up and down the entire stairwell on their own. Or you may remove both safety gates so your toddler can come and go as they please on the steps.Only do this if you feel your toddler is able to go up and down the stairs without supervision. You may keep one or both safety gates up as a precaution until you feel your toddler is skilled enough to be on the stairs on their own. This is especially important at night if your toddler may get out of bed.
Some experts recommend keeping safety gates at the top and bottom of your stairs until your child is 3 years old.