 Sweet potatoes come in varied shapes and sizes. For noodles, however, favor longer, thinner ones that are relatively uniform in thickness from end to end. As a model, pick those that most closely resemble zucchinis.The more uniform your sweet potato is in thickness, the more uniform your noodles will be.;
, Expect the flesh of these to be more brittle. This means that it’s more likely to break apart, so steer clear of them in order to avoid noodles that snap in two. Discard any sweet potatoes that:Have dark spots on the skin.Have any growths developing on the skin.
Feel soft to the touch.
Leak moisture and/or feel damp.
 Remember: you don't want to use overripe sweet potatoes for this, so for the best results, make your noodles right after purchase. Otherwise, expect them to last between three to five weeks when stored in the pantry. So err on the side of caution and make your noodles within the next three weeks.If needed, you can store them in the fridge to make them last longer. Refrigeration should make them last between two and three months.
 If you’ve ever handled a sweet potato before, you probably know that the flesh is pretty hardy. Expect the skin to be pretty darn tough on its own, too, which can make them turning into noodles tougher. Make life easier and skin each one with a potato peeler.Even though you’re peeling them, wash each one under cold running water before you start. The blade of your peeler can transfer dirt and chemicals to the flesh if you don’t., First, choose between your spiralizer’s noodle blade (which will make noodles similar in shape to spaghetti) or its spiral blade (which will make curly noodles).Refer to your make and model’s instructions on how to properly attach your blade and operate the machine, since these vary. Generally speaking though, you prop the sweet potato lengthwise between the blade and the handle, then crank the handle to force the potato through the blade.Expect sweet potatoes to require applying more pressure than other vegetables do.If needed, slice off both ends to the potato before you start so they’re both flat.
If you don’t have a spiralizer, you can shred them with a julienne peeler instead., Coat the bottom of a large skillet with olive oil. Turn the heat to medium-high. Once the oil heats up, place your noodles in the pan. Stir them around in the oil to coat them, and/or use a pair of tongs to toss them. Stir or toss frequently as you cook. For crisper noodles, remove after five minutes. For softer ones, saute them for ten minutes., Preheat your oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (219 degrees Celsius). Spray a roasting pan with cooking oil. Spread your noodles in the pan and mist them with your cooking spray. Place the pan in the oven and roast for 10 to 12 minutes., First, place your cashews in a bowl, cover them with water, and let them sit for a couple hours or more (the longer they soak, the softer they’ll get). Drain them in a strainer and then place them in a food processor or blender. Pulse to chop them up a bit, then add your salt, garlic, and ¾ cup of water. Blend until it smoothes to an evenly creamy texture. Then:Season with salt, pepper, and herbs to taste.
Place your spinach in the skillet after you remove your cooked noodles.
Add your cream to the skillet once the spinach wilts.
Add water if needed to thin the cream if it sticks to the pan.
Stir everything up, top your noodles, and drizzle with olive oil if desired.
 In addition to the sweet potatoes that you’re using for your noodles, pick up an extra one or reserve 1 cup’s worth (210 g). Chop it into chunks and steam 1 cup's worth. Roast your red pepper. Place those in a blender or food processor. Add your milk, basil, garlic, and salt. Blend until the texture turns creamy.Be aware that the combined steam from your potatoes and peppers can force the lid to your blender out of position. Either wait for them to cool off or hold the lid in place as you blend.
Once the noodles cook, pour the sauce into the skillet. Stir or toss to coat them evenly. Then cover and cook for another two minutes before serving.
 Add your peanut butter to a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave for about half a minute, or until it melts. Remove from microwave and add your water, soy sauce, sesame oil, rice vinegar, garlic, ginger, and lime juice. Whisk until they are evenly mixed. Pour the sauce over the noodles in the skillet once they’ve cooked, then stir or toss until they’re evenly coated.