 Mold can grow within 24 hours and cause lots of problems. You'll need to dry the carpet in your car as quickly as possible. This will not only make sure that you avoid the mold, but it means that water won't get into electrical places that it shouldn't.
 Only dealing with the carpets in your car without locating and stopping the leak isn't going to do you much good. You'll have to keep on drying your carpets constantly.
 Use a shop vacuum that can remove water, or a dehumidifier (or both). These are easily rented. Use them to remove as much of the water as you can, especially from carpeting that can't be easily removed.









Leave the dehumidifier in the car until the water seems to be gone.
Make sure that you also sop up water with rags on the non-carpeted areas of the car.
 Water has a tendency to pool in the padding under the carpet. Not dealing with this can create mildew and mold problems. Always start by peeling up the carpet from a corner using pliers and work gloves.









Avoid cutting the carpet as this will be incredibly difficult to fix later on.
 It's really important that you remove the carpeting from the car, especially if the problem is an ongoing one. Peel it up carefully and put it somewhere that it can dry.
 Once you've removed the carpeting from the car you have to work on drying it completely. You've already gotten the worst of the water out of it, but you need to make sure that it is completely dry otherwise mildew can form.









Place towels over the carpeting and walk over them to get the water to soak up into the towels. Replace with fresh, dry towels as they get wet.
Use a hairdryer and position it over the wet towels. Keep doing this until they are completely dry.
 Sometimes the absolutely best thing you can do is replace the carpets, especially if you or anyone in your family is sensitive to mold. It doesn't take long for mold to grow and once it's there, it is very hard to get rid of.









Discuss this with a professional before you do a complete overhaul of your car's carpeting, because this is a drastic measure, but it is important to consider.

