 It is easier for a child to hear and comprehend 2 or 3 words spoken at a time than an entire sentence. A simple command such as “Stop kicking that” will be comprehended quicker than a sentence stating ‘I want you to stop kicking that before you break it”. If your child understands what you expect from him, he is less likely to throw a temper tantrum out of frustration.


Sometimes a child will respond better if you tell them what you want them to do instead of reprimanding them by telling them not to do something. An example would be to tell a child to "walk" instead of saying "don't run".;
, Children generally will not respond any better to an angry impatient tone of voice than they will to a soft, calm voice. Harsh tones may distress the child even further and lead to the development of a temper tantrum.
 Often, children are so caught up in themselves that they are not immediately aware of what is being said to them. If this is the case, repetition will work to get your point across and potentially prevent a temper tantrum.
 Conveying to the child that you understand his emotions allows him to feel acknowledged. He will be more likely to respond in a positive manner and listen further when you tell him that you understand what he is upset about before proceeding to tell him why he can not have what he wants. This type of communication can help prevent temper tantrums.
 Generally, a child is more apt to have a meltdown if he is feeling out of sorts in one way or another. Hunger and fatigue can cause children to become cranky. Frustration can send a child into an outburst. Children have not yet learned how to control their emotions and will react by acting out the only way that they know how.
 Often a child will use a tantrum to get the attention they are looking for. They want to be heard and tantrums are a way they can assure to be heard. This is especially true in toddlers just learning to speak. They have a lot to say but are unable to express themselves in a way others can understand. Understanding your child’s emotions and handling them accordingly can help prevent him throwing a temper tantrum out of frustration.
 Children naturally want to emulate the world around them. Unfortunately, the things they often wish to do are beyond their capability. Climbing the stairs or swimming on their own are perfect examples. They struggle for the independence to do these things unaware of the dangers that accompany these tasks. Power struggles can ensue in the form of temper tantrums. Offering your child some independence when appropriate can help prevent tantrums.
 Some children naturally have a calm, relaxed disposition. Others are higher strung, moody and hyperactive. Children that appear more intense are generally more apt to have outbursts. If you know that you have a child who is more likely to have temper tantrums, you can take steps to prevent them.
 If your child becomes agitated when you stop an activity for bath time or dinner, he may be more prone to outbursts. Understanding this can help you develop a more effective way to transition from one activity to another, which can help prevent tantrums.
 If you see that your child is possessive of his belongings or has some difficulty sharing, you can work on his social skills and try to incorporate sharing into his playtime routine. Working on issues that can cause tantrums can help you decrease their occurrence.
, Sometimes we can’t alter everything in our lives to suit our children’s needs. Knowing a tantrum may ensue if you keep your toddler out way past his bedtime places you in a position where you are taking your chances.
, Children are easily distracted so use it to your advantage the moment you suspect that a temper tantrum may be on the horizon.
, Children will often forget what is upsetting them quickly if you can get them to laugh before a temper tantrum begins.
 The only message you send is that physical punishment is an acceptable way to handle anger. You are chastising your child for being unable to control his emotions by being unable to control yours. Chances are all that you will accomplish is more negative behavior and more temper tantrums.
 All the child will learn from this behavior is that throwing a tantrum will get him what they want. The next time he may tantrum even harder just to get his way.
 All this will do is set the stage for future tantrums when the child wants a treat or new toy.
 Place your child in a safe place away from others. If you must restrain him physically, hold him firmly until he has calmed down enough to let him go. Some children will kick and hit and struggle to get free from the restraint. Protect yourself as best as possible and remain determined and calm.
 Sometimes help from a qualified professional may be the last resort.

