 You may not like them, but there is no need to vilify them. If the person you dislike tries to strike up a conversation with you, be willing to say, “Hello,” and wish them a good day before you leave the conversation. You do not have to be friendly, but remember it is common decency to be polite to others.If you do not feel like talking to this person, try saying, “I’m afraid I don’t have time to talk right now, but I hope you have a wonderful day.”
Do not avoid calls, emails, or other communication that may impact your work or school activities. Remember in those moments that your work is important to you, and it is not worth sacrificing over personal distaste.
 Do not exclude this person from group functions or interactions regardless of your feelings. If there is a school or work event that is open to everyone, reach out to this person to ensure they feel welcome.


If you are making a lunch run or grabbing supplies for a group project, remember to ask this person if they need anything. This way, you don’t have to engage in an extended conversation but you still ensure they feel included.
Know that you have the option to not include this person in personal events such as get-togethers with friends or birthday parties, but understand that you should not exclude them from larger group events.
 It is normal to want to express your feelings when you dislike someone, but remember that word could get back to them if you talk behind their back. Try to avoid disparaging this person, even when they are not around.If there is a truly harmful interaction between the two of you, don’t resort to gossiping about them. Instead, report this to your manager, teacher, or another party who may be able to help mediate.
If there is a moment that was not harmful to either of you, but that you truly feel the need to discuss, present it to someone who does not know or share an environment with this person. Try to avoid allowing your negative feelings into their life.
 If the reason this person bothers you is because they are constantly asking you for assistance, to check their work, or to go over something again, offer to help them. Take the time to teach them the processes they need to know to contribute to the project. This not only helps them, but may also help you minimize future interactions.Set up a tutoring session and take them through whatever processes they need to learn step-by-step.
Take that time to show them where they can find informational resources, either online or through print material to which they have access, that may help them answer their own questions.
 There may be times, such as seeing an ex at a mutual friend's gathering, where you feel obligated to act cordial toward the person you dislike. In those situations, it is best to smile, politely say hello, and talk only as much as you can take.


There is no need for you to interact beyond pleasantries, especially if it is going to cause you mental anguish or an emotional outburst. Spare yourself and those around you by simply saying, "It was nice to see you," and walking away.
If the two of you are participating in something together, divide up duties. If you are both working at a table for an event, for example, have them go out into the crowd and draw people in while you stay and man the table.

