 You want to make yourself presentable. Wash and brush your hair, brush your teeth, shower and wear deodorant. Make sure you dress appropriately. Try to wear smart and professional things. One of the most important things is to not wear pants that are falling down, or a shirt that shows your stomach. You and your friends may think it's cool, but showing that you make an effort to come to school is much better. Always dress according to the weather, it shows that you want to be safe and warm, and you don't want to get sick.;
, Is it going to be your homeroom teacher, a PE coach, an art or music teacher, the teacher of your favorite subjects, or all of them? You might want to start with the "nicest" teacher, or with the subject you know the most about. If you want to become teacher's pet to multiple teachers, make sure you have time to manage all the extra effort you should put into their class. Acknowledge that classroom as your home turf; you're going to learn a lot about that subject soon, and become an expert, so you might as well feel at home in the place where it's taught.
 Unless they are talking about their personal life, "What's your favorite sports team?" will not go over very well. Teachers love kids who are quiet when they speak.
 You want to have all the homework done with a lot of effort put into it. Projects should be ready to turn in soon after being assigned, and try your best to be creative in all of your work. You also might want to read over the lesson before the class so you are extra prepared for participating and you can stun the teacher with your knowledge of the subject.
 Any answer you give shows the teacher that you were listening, and any well thought question shows the teacher how you are trying to apply what they teach to real life. In a class where everyone seems asleep, raising your hand shows that you care.
 This one is pretty simple. Don't laugh at the class clown either because that supports him/her interrupting the class.
 Talk to him/her about what you learned and how much you enjoyed their lesson (they'll love this). But not too much, teachers can sense false sensitivity.


Ask for extra credit. This shows that you want a high grade. If they say no, don't whine. Just say "Okay, see you tomorrow!"







, Don't use slang language because it will show them that you don't care if your writing is good or bad. Make your writing meaningful, so that after a long night of correcting, the teacher will look forward to reading yours! Avoid writing too much, though. You don't want to make that long night of correcting longer by forcing your teacher to read your Great American Novel.
 Teachers don't like people who start fights or contribute to them. Try to stay away from the goofballs of the class. Help out whenever possible; whether it be the teacher or the student.
 Study for any test that comes up. When you receive the test back, ask the teacher how to do the ones you got wrong (you might want to do this in private). You don't have to point out that this is because you want to know better for next time; there's no other reason why you'd ask, and you're not looking for a goody-two-shoes label.
 Ask if there are any books they can recommend to you.
, They will appreciate your kindness.
 You can discuss anything you want--don't just limit it to school. Teachers are human. Joke around a little, but don't be too wild.
 You never know where your teacher has eyes or ears. Also, being a teacher's pet is a two-way relationship: it will function much better if you happen to like the teacher in question, too.
 People like to be acknowledged.
 Bring in extra thoughtful questions, and if you're a bit shy, don't be afraid to go after school. "Oh, I forgot to ask you..." is a good starting line. You can also spend some spare time in your teacher's office, if the situation allows.
 Whenever you meet your teacher, wish a cheery Hello. Try saying things like "thank you, have a good day or good luck teaching!" when wishing.
 At the end of the lesson, "Goodbye Miss/Sir, I am sorry for (whatever wrong thing you did) I'll try not to repeat it again." is a good thing to say to cool down your teacher if he/she is frustrated with you.

