 If you don't have either one, you'll have to use your class notes or textbook to determine your plan. Basically, you need an overview of what you need to cover for the test. You can make an outline by using the main headings in your textbook or using the main concepts you covered before this exam.Once you have all of the concepts you need to cover, set aside a certain amount of time to cover each one, based on the amount of time you want to spend in total covering the exam.
You don't need to give equal time to each concept. If you know one concept better than another, focus more time on the one you don't know. If one concept is more complex, it might need more time than other concepts.
 One of the best ways to study for a test is to review your class material. Read over the notes you've taken in class. Skim through the headings of the chapters you read in the time before this exam to ensure you're covering everything you need to do. However, don't try to re-read chapters, as that will take more time than you have to study for the test., Work with your friends to study more effectively. It's more fun to work in a group, and as long as you stay on topic, it can be very effective. Discussing ideas engages you in the material, making it easier for your to absorb information.For instance, if you're trying to study a book for a test, try using an online study guide to spark discussion with your friends. You can find discussion questions for most classic works of literature.
For something like math, try having mini competitions. Take one problem, and see who can solve it the fastest. If someone is having trouble, walk through the problem with him or her to help her understand it. Whether you're doing the explaining or need the explanation, you'll be solidifying the information more quickly.
 Most people try to learn by using rote memorization; that is, they read something over and over until it sticks. A more effective way to learn is to connect what you're learning now to something you already know. By pulling it in to your web of ideas, you make it stick more quickly.


For instance, say you're trying to learn the circulatory system of an animal. You can compare the parts of the body to a train system, where the main train station is the heart, while the big train routes moving away from the station are the arteries and the ones moving to the station are the veins.
 If you find networking ideas isn't working for you, try flashcards to help your rote memorization. Flash cards help you learn because they force you to repeat the concept over and over. Plus, they allow you to quiz yourself on the topic.Just write a word or something you need to learn on one side, and then write the definition or what's connected to that concept on the other side. Flashcards work best with study concepts that have two parts, such as words and definitions, events and dates, or the name of an equation and the equation.Another way flashcards can help is they allow you to study just what you don't know. Once you've definitely learned a concept or word, you can take it out of the set of cards, focusing your time on learning what you don't know., For instance, if you need to remember dates, flashcards will be more effective. If you're trying to learn how to do problems, working through practice problems is likely the most effective way to study. If you're trying to learn concepts or study literature for an essay exam, working in a group discussion might be the most effective way to study.