 Instead of the simple envelope bag, you may decide you want to try your hand at a tote bag. Because this method has you crochet two pieces and sew them together, your bag will be a bit roomier on the inside, and thus will be well-suited to use as a purse or shopping bag.


The beginning steps of this alternate project are the same as the envelope-style bag. You'll want to make sure that you are comfortable with the basic crochet stitches, have carefully selected your yarn and hook, and have thought about what you want your final project to look like. Once you've done that, you're ready to start crocheting your new bag!

, You will be creating two pieces and sewing them together. If you do not want a flap for your bag, the front and back pieces will be identical. If you want a flap, however, you'll need to crochet the back piece to be taller.


For example, if you want a bag that is 12" tall with a flap, you'll want to make your back piece longer—crocheting to 18" will give you a 6" flap.
 Counting your stitches carefully, create a chain until you reach the length you'd like the bottom and top width of your bag to be. You will be crocheting either a square or a rectangle, depending upon the shape you want your tote to be.


If your chain is particularly long, you may find it helpful to use markers every ten or twenty stitches to help you keep count.
 Once you've completed your initial chain that is as long as you want the width of your bag to be, you'll need to turn so that you can start the next row on the opposite side. You will need to do this every time you get to the end of a row.


To turn your work, simply rotate clockwise halfway so that your last stitch in the current row becomes the first stitch in the new row you are starting. , Keep crocheting, turning, and creating new rows until you reach the desired height you are aiming for.


Remember that if you want a flap for back, the back piece will need to be longer (taller) than the front piece.
 Once your front (or back piece, depending on which you are working on) is as tall as you want it to be, you need to fasten off the yarn.


Once you've completed your last row, cut the yarn from the skein, making sure to leave a few inches. Draw the tail of the yarn onto your hook, remove the hook and pull on the yarn to tighten it. Then, weave the tail through the stitches in your top row. .
 Once you've finished, you'll have either two identical pieces (the front and the back of a bag with no flap), or two pieces with a longer back side piece that will flap over the front.
 With the wrong side of the two pieces facing each other, use matching yarn to sew the bottom and side pieces of your bag together.


You'll probably want to use the same color yarn to sew your pieces together, but it may be fun to use a contrasting color.
 You'll most likely want to add a strap to your bag. The process for making this is very similar to what you've already been doing.


Make a chain as long as you want your strap to be.
Turn the chain, and single crochet back along to the end of the chain.
Repeat the single crochet until the strap is as wide as you want it to be.
Finish off the strap, and then sew the ends of the strap into the corners of your bag.
Be sure to use plenty of stitches when attaching the straps to your bag; nothing is worse than having a strap break, causing you to the contents of your bag!

