 Water is essential for keeping you cool during hot weather. Water keeps your body cool and should be drunk even if you don't feel thirsty. It's okay to also drink commercial waters (such as Vitamin Water) or sports drinks such as Powerade or Gatorade but they're usually not necessary unless you're deliberately replenishing lost vitamins/electrolytes following a sporting activity.The best way to check your hydration level is to measure your urination color. Anything darker than straw colored is probably an indication that dehydration is on the horizon, and water is needed.Stay away from sugary drinks such as sodas(even if they are sugar-free!); they decrease the ability of your body to store water. Also, steer clear of alcoholic drinks, coffee, and caffeinated drinks, which are natural diuretics.;
, Drink plenty of water before engaging in any activities. If you wait too late, you could experience cramps, which are a sign of heat-related illness.Remind yourself to drink water frequently with one of the following options.


Purchase a durable water bottle or water pack that you can tote everywhere and refill at any safe water tap.
Freeze a bottle of water to carry around with you. It'll be solid when you leave the house, but the heat will start melting it from the moment you take it out of the freezer. Wrap it in a towel to prevent water condensation affecting other items in your bag.
Download a water drinking app onto your phone. Set reminders, daily targets, and even track when the last time you had a drink., Food can keep you cool provided you make the right choices. Choose salads, fresh raw food, vegetables and fruit. “Cool as a cucumber” is literal; it is nearly 100% water, providing hydration to keep you cool.Avoid eating meat and protein-heavy foods during the heat of the day because these can increase metabolic heat production, which can add to loss of water.


It may seem counter-intuitive, but eating spicy peppers may help cool you off. They make you sweat, which provides a cooling sensation.Smaller meals may also help keep your core temperature down. Large meals require the body to work harder breaking everything down., Find foods that don’t need to be cooked, or don’t need heat to be cooked. If you must actually cook, keep the cool air in, and the temperature down, by using the microwave instead of the stove or oven.For example, you can microwave frozen vegetables and canned soup instead of cooking them on the stovetop.


Cold soups are great in warm weather. If you haven't tried them yet, hot weather is the excuse you need! The fact they are often healthy is just an added benefit.Make popsicles, slushies, frozen fruit, frozen yogurt, and other frozen treats to help you cool down.

