 Becoming vegan means that you abstain from wearing, eating, or using any product that contains meat or animal by-products. By becoming vegan, you can save around 100 animal lives per year.Purchase a book on veganism to learn about transitioning into that lifestyle.
Acquire PETA’s vegan starter kit.
 There are many organizations dedicated to making the lives of animals in the meat and food industry as humane as possible. Try browsing local supermarkets, butchers, and retailers through databases to see if their products are certified humane. Keep in mind that combating animal abuse does not necessarily mean abstaining altogether.Most organizations have objective standards set for their certifications, which can be found on their websites, but occasionally those standards vary. Be sure to check with ethical and humane organizations in order to decide if their standards meet yours.Ask your butcher at your local grocery store if they stock any animal products or meat that is certified humane.
 There are many cruelty-free household and cosmetic options available, but if you’re looking for a place to start, try browsing a cruelty-free database to get a few ideas. With enough dedication you can make many of your household and cosmetic products cruelty-free and reduce the effects of animal abuse.


Be willing to make adjustments, because you may have to change to a completely different brand or product altogether.
 There are hundreds of organizations fighting animal abuse and cruelty. Making a donation to the cause is a great way to show your support and enact change.


Donate to your local animal shelter, the ASPCA, The Humane Society, or RMCA., Spreading knowledge to others will help provide them with the opportunity to make the most informed decision possible. Many people are unaware of how common and widespread animal abuse can be.Try canvassing for a large organization, like PETA, or sharing an anti-abuse video on social media.
Print leaflets detailing the abuses that you want people to learn more about. Go around handing out these papers to people, asking them to help the animals.

