 Before you start cutting your bangs, you should have an idea in mind as to what sort of style you’re going for. Do you work in a professional setting where you’re expected to keep your hair neat and precise? Do you imagine yourself with an edgier, more ruffled aesthetic? Formulating a plan will allow you determine the best length, shape and style for your bangs.Consider your hair’s specific texture, thickness, natural part and wave pattern when deciding on a cut.;
, Invest in a pair of scissors that have small, sharp blades and a smooth cutting action. This will make it easier to fine-tune your cut, since smaller blades won’t take off quite so much hair at one time. You’ll also be less likely to damage the hair than you would be by making do with a pair of clippers that aren’t designed for cosmetic use.Cuticle or mustache scissors are both well-suited for this purpose.
The sharper the scissors, the better. Sharp scissor blades will shear off hair effortlessly, resulting in a cleaner cut and preventing damage to the shaft of the hair.
 Start with a head of clean, detangled hair. Shampoo with warm water, rinse thoroughly and run a comb through your locks to tame the strands and remove any knots or kinks. That way, you can ensure that the cuts you make will be straight and precise.Treating frizzy hair with conditioner can impose some much-needed smoothness, making it look and feel better.Comb your hair down over your forehead. This will make it easier to section off and grab hold of.
 Don’t wait for your hair to dry completely before giving your bangs a shape-up. Hair is most easily cut and styled while it still has a little moisture in it, since it will be more malleable and have a little added weight. Your best bet is to wash your hair, wring it out or pat it gently with a towel and then proceed to take off unwanted length.Keep in mind that your hair will draw up as it dries, making it look shorter. You’ll want to be careful about clipping too much.
Rewet hair with a spray bottle so that it doesn’t dry out while you’re touching it up.
 For basic utilitarian bangs, you can clip evenly from one side to the other, beginning with the hair just in front of the temples. If you're cutting around a side part or going for more of a tapered style, plan to adjust the length of your hair accordingly around the forehead and ears. Having a specific style goal will allow you to decide where the most hair needs to be trimmed.Shoot for an appropriate length and shape that frames your face and highlights your strongest features.Keep in mind that your hair will have a tendency to drape where it's longest.
 Stop the comb just short of the ends, so that only about half an inch of strands are exposed. The comb will act similarly to the guard on an electric razor, preventing scissor-related accidents and giving you greater control over the outcome of the cut.Lift the hair up and away from the scalp as you snip.
Use a fine-toothed comb to grab and hold more hair.
 Cutting a section of hair straight across can result in an awkward blunted look. This is the last thing you want to do to the hair that highlights your face. Instead, hold the scissors perpendicularly to the comb and chop at the ends of the hair using the tip.Cutting at an angle decreases weight and produces lighter, more textured layers which make the hair appear fuller.
Make sure to get the ends of each section of hair down to the same length.
 Unlike cutting a piece of paper, where you use the entire length of the scissor blades as the cutting surface, when cutting hair you want to keep your movements conservative. Aim to take off just a little bit of hair with each pass. You’re much less likely to make mistakes than you would be by hacking off huge chunks with long, sawing strokes.Try not to remove more than about a quarter inch of hair at a time.
 Don’t get in too big of a rush while trimming your bangs. Start with the front and top of the crown, then work your way around to the sides, making sure everything is even and symmetrical. Cut a little bit at a time, then review your progress in the mirror. It’s important to remember that once the hair is gone, you can’t put it back.Err on the side of caution. You may be shocked by how big a difference a couple centimeters can make.
Be patient. It’s better to trim slowly and carefully than to try to go too quickly.
 Whether you work in an office, hate the feeling of your hair touching your forehead or just want to look a little more put together, a sleek fringe conveys order and maturity in a way that bedhead can’t. Wear your bangs on the short side and emphasize symmetry and angular cuts.For tidy cuts, your bangs should be the same length in the front as it is on top, or just slightly longer.
Trim your hair regularly to keep it from getting bushy over your ears and neck.
 Many men enjoy the cavalier character of strategically messy bangs. These styles are modern, low-maintenance and just wild enough to provide some allure without making you look sloppy. Tousled hairstyles are usually suitable for both casual and professional environments, as long as they’re not too shaggy.Tousled bangs can quickly go from cool to unkempt. Keep cowlicks and flyaways under control using a dime-sized glob of low-hold hair gel or pomade.Give these styles focus by making the transition in length gradual and bringing them to a point near the center of the forehead. That way, you won't run the risk of looking unkempt all over.
 Men who keep a distinctive part can trim the hair to slightly different lengths on opposite sides of the part. For instance, if you have a deep part on the left side of your face, leaving the hair longer on the right side will allow it to lay flat and drape more elegantly than hair that’s been cut to a uniform length. Leave hair the same length from the ears to the back of the crown so that the portion between the outer edges of the eyebrows draws all the attention.Let the longer side of the part lay over your forehead, or slick it back when you need to cut a dressier image.
Find your natural part by combing your hair straight up or down and seeing which way it separates., Hair that’s especially curly can start to assume a puffy mushroom shape as it grows out. To combat this, trim the hair behind the ears and around the temples nice and short and save the length for the front and uppermost portions of the crown. Staggered-length cuts will create much more flattering silhouette and keep men with mid length hair from looking like they lost a fight with a blowdryer.Shape the back and sides of your head with an electric razor on a low number setting.Use a dab of pomade and a comb or your fingers to pull your bangs down and forward to a subtle point.

