 Wait a few moments, then turn it back on again. Sometimes a printer will clear the jam itself during its start-up cycle. Sometimes, resetting a printer will get it to recheck the paper path and stop detecting a jam that is no longer there.;
, Many printers have a small screen that displays a line or two of text. When jammed, such printers may try to give you an idea of where the jam is and what to do next. If not, proceed to find the jam yourself.
 If not, or if the printer is still jammed, begin opening the printer. As you open the different trays and covers, look carefully inside for paper where it should not be.
 If you have a choice, tug from the end with the most paper sticking out.
 If they are drawer-style trays, see if you can release them and slide them all the way out. Set them aside, and look inside where the paper tray was, and see if you can see any paper that was lifted but not yet fed all the way through. Pull out any you can reach.
 Sometimes too much or too little paper will cause a jam, or simply register as a jam.
 Most open simply by lifting or pulling gently, but you may need to release a lever or latch. If it does not open easily, never force it.
 In a laser printer, one of the front or top covers will usually expose the print cartridge. If you have not yet found the paper, pull out the cartridge carefully. Most just pull out. A few may require disengaging a latch or a pair of latches.
 Also check inside any manual feed trays. Check for and remove any paper or other obstructions. It may help to use a mirror when checking trays in the back, and you may need to move the printer away from nearby walls to open covers all the way and reach what is underneath them.
 Refer to the owner's manual when doing so. It is more likely that you will need to remove paper than clean parts.
 You can replace most items by noticing how you removed them and putting them back in the reverse order.
,,,,,, If the printer is not online, the readout may tell you why. #*If there is no readout, you will probably see a green light when the printer is online, and a red light or no light if the printer is not yet online. Your user manual (or a web search on your model of printer) can tell you more about reading error codes for your printer.
 Some printers remember an unfinished job and try again automatically. For others, you may have to send the job again.

