 The preparation required to achieve success on the Cadet Challenge is meant to familiarize you with the process of maintaining a physical fitness regimen. The specific components of the challenge are selected to reflect your development of strength, cardio-vascular endurance, flexibility, agility, and speed. Success on the challenge indicates your ability to maintain a healthy physical condition – a necessary component of personal growth and healthy adulthood., While your particular organization may require you to achieve certain marks for advancement or other achievements, national JROTC awards are determined on a percentile basis. The Cadet Challenge follows the benchmarks to earn The Presidential Physical Fitness Award. To earn this award, you’ll need to score in the 85th percentile or above on all five exercises included in the challenge. The National Physical Fitness Award is earned by scoring in the top 50 percent of each category., When you first begin training for the Cadet Challenge, do not worry about your initial scores. Monitor your times, etc., in order to set goals for improvement and recognize personal achievements as you approach them.Record your progress. Records your scores for each exercise each time your practice.
Set specific goals to achieve for each exercise. Use the expected 85th percentile marks as especially significant goals to shoot for, though these don’t need to be your initial goals.
Get more detailed explanations of each exercise from a JROTC-affiliated publication, many of which are available online. Furthermore, electronic and printable forms are available online to help you keep track of your training regimen and progress towards your goals.
 For the shuttle run, boys of 16-17 years of age will likely need to complete a shuttle run in 8.7 seconds to match the 85th percentile, and the mile in about 6 minutes and 6 seconds. Girls of the same age will need to complete the shuttle run in about 10 seconds, and the mile in under 8 minutes and 20 seconds.


For the shuttle run, you will be allowed to run twice, with the better of your two scores being used as your official score.
 17 year old boys will need to complete around 55 curl ups in 60 seconds to score in the 85th percentile, while girls of the same age will need to complete around 44. 17 year old boys will likely need to be able to complete 13 pull ups to score in the 85th percentile. 17 year old girls will likely achieve this percentile with 1 pull up.
 This can be an especially challenging exercise, so don’t overlook stretching. 17 year old boys who score in the 85th percentile of the V-sit reach usually attain a score of 7 inches. Girls of the same age and percentile usually reach 8 inches.

