 Obviously you won't be able to roleplay if no one knows what your character looks like. Give your characters name, and tell a little about what they look like ( describe their hair color, eye color, size, and what they usually wear. ) Decide what powers your character has ( you can have up to 4 powers. ) Try picking simple powers like fire,water,ice,etc. Avoid choosing more " godlike " powers, like time,space,balance,or hypnosis, because these powers are unfair and are classified as 'godmodding'. Finally, you can tell what animal you can shift into. Some examples are a bear,rabbit,fox,wolf,etc. If you want to be creative, you can choose an animal that not much chose, or didn't choose at all. Tell what you animal form looks like if you want to as well.;
, Yeah, you're not at school, and you shouldn't really worry about grammar on a website like Roblox, but it is actually very important in roleplaying groups like The Seekers, because people will understand you better, and you can be noticed more. Capitalize the first letter in every sentence, and end sentences with the proper punctuation.
 Think as if you were writing a book, and add detail to what you post. For example, instead of saying, " Bob walks sadly to the beach, " say something like " Bob limps to the beach, sadder than ever, the cold wind blows into his face. " This will make others understand how you expect them to picture it as they read it. Use the () marks when you are not roleplaying write now ( Like this. ) When your character is talking, use the quotation marks to let people know they are talking.
 Now that your ready, it's time you go into the actual roleplay. Make your character wander around alone for a while, then make him/her go into the scene where most of the other seekers are. Try avoiding barging into the scene right as you roleplay, because this might annoy others if you interrupt quickly.
 Try to roleplay frequently and keep in touch with others. Others that are mostly online may remember you better, and you may form a great bond with them, and maybe even become friends!

,