 We often imagine the holidays as a time when everything is perfect; everyone is smiling, happy, laughing, and loving. But, in reality, things don’t always go perfectly. You can enjoy the holidays with mentally ill loved ones if you’re realistic about what to expect.This will also help you accept the challenges and changes that are bound to occur. For example, if your dad’s in a depressive episode and wants to leave dinner early, being realistic will help you understand how he’s feeling.
For instance, it may not be realistic to ask your sister with ADHD to sit through a two-hour holiday poetry reading if she’s taking a holiday break on her medications.
 It can be easy to get so caught up in taking care of everyone else, that you neglect taking care of yourself. Take a few minutes away from holiday activities to help you relax, release tension, and re-energize.Doing this will help you enjoy the holidays with your loved ones with mental illness.


Go to a quiet room for just a few minutes. For example, if everyone is in the dining room, go into the living room for a moment or two.
Go for a walk. This is a great way to relieve tension and improve your physical health. It’s also something you can do on a regular basis during the holidays.
 The holidays can be a stressful time for anyone. It might be even more stressful as you plan to enjoy them with people you care about that have mental illness. But you can avoid becoming overly stressed by practicing techniques and strategies to manage your stress.


Deep-breathing can lower signs of stress and anxiety.Inhale slowly through your nose. Hold it for a few seconds. Then exhale slowly through your mouth.
Practicing meditation is also a good way to relax and reduce your stress. Lie or sit somewhere comfortable. Try to clear your mind and focus only on your breathing for a while.
 During the holidays it’s easy to develop bad eating habits. You may feel extra stress during this time and reach for comfort food like sweets or foods high in fats. But you will enjoy the holidays better in general (as well as the months to follow) if you make sure you are taking care of your health.Eat healthy meals and snacks so you can have the energy, focus, and calm to enjoy the holidays with your loved ones with mental disorders.
It’s okay to enjoy them in moderation, but you should also limit your intake of holiday ‘specials’ like gingerbread cookies, egg nog, and other treats.
 It’s easy to lose sleep during the holidays with all of the activities and excitement.You may also lose some sleep because of the extra effort of trying to make sure your loved ones with mental illness are also enjoying the holidays. But being tired, unfocused, and grumpy will make it difficult for you to enjoy the holidays and harder for your loved ones to enjoy being around you.


Try to go to bed and wake up at about the same time each morning.
Limit the times that you stay up or sleep in extra late. For example, try to avoid having several late nights in a row.
 The holidays seem such a busy time that it can be tempting skip physical activity. You may also feel you could be spending this time with mentally ill loved ones. But taking care of your health is a priority, also, and staying active is a great way to keep yourself fit during the holidays.Make sure you do something active like taking a five minute walk each day or stretching before you go to sleep.
Do something active with your mentally ill loved ones. For example, play basketball together, go for a swim, or go horseback riding.

