 Abstaining from vaginal intercourse prevents pregnancy by preventing the man's semen from coming into contact with the woman's egg. Abstinence is one hundred percent effective in preventing pregnancy when it is used continuously.


Some people define abstinence as abstaining from all sexual contact, but in order to prevent pregnancy, only vaginal intercourse needs to be avoided.
Abstinence requires strong willpower, and some people might find it difficult to rely on this birth control method for long periods of time.
It's important to have another birth control method in place once abstinence is ended.
 Also called natural family planning, this method of birth control requires having sex only during times of the menstrual cycle when the woman is not fertile. During times when pregnancy would be possible, periodic abstinence is employed. For fertility awareness to be effective, the practitioner must understand and respect the perimeters of her fertility.

Fertility awareness often involves three different ways for calculating fertility: the calendar method, the mucus method, and the temperature method. Used together, these three methods are very effective at determining exactly when a woman is fertile.
The calendar method requires tracking the different phases of the menstrual cycle on a calendar, then noticing patterns over time and using the patterns to predict when ovulation will occur.






The mucus method involves checking vaginal mucus, which changes in color and consistency when a woman is fertile.






The temperature method involves checking the body's basal temperature every day and noticing when it goes up a few tenths of degree, which signals that ovulation has occurred.






The downside of fertility awareness is that it requires a lot of time and attention. If you forget to check mucus or temperature for a few days, you may miscalculate the days during which sex should be avoided.
The upside of fertility awareness is that it its completely natural, requiring almost no money, no outside hormones, and no uncomfortable devices.

