 Copyright gives you the exclusive right to do certain things with your photographs. When someone uses your photographs without first getting permission, they have infringed on your copyright. The following are common examples of infringement:Someone makes copies of your photographs without permission.
Someone makes a work based on your photographs without permission.
Someone distributes copies of your photographs publicly without your permission.
Someone displays the copyrighted work publicly without your permission, unless they bought a copy, in which case they can display that copy.;
, If you see your photographs displayed online, then get the URL for the website and write down the days that the pictures appear. If someone is making physical prints and distributing them, then keep a copy of the print.


A newspaper or magazine might have used a picture without permission. Hold onto a copy of the magazine or newspaper.
 Although most enforcement is civil, copyright infringement can also sometimes be a crime where the violation is willful (think blatantly intentional).If you think that the infringement qualifies as a crime, then you can report it to the FBI. You can make a complaint in one of three ways:Contact your nearest FBI field office. Look on the Internet or in your phone book.
File a complaint with the Internet Crime Complaint Center at www.ic3.gov. The agency will take down details about your complaint and then forward the information to the appropriate agency.
Report online to the FBI tips website., Under copyright law, you can sue anyone who infringes your copyright as well as anyone who contributes to the infringement, such as the owner of a website or the website’s Internet Service Provider (ISP). However, if you want to sue a website owner or ISP, then you need to give them notice that there is material on the website that infringes your copyright. You can give proper notice by sending a “takedown” notice.You can still sue the person who copied your work even if you don’t sue the website or ISP where the copy was posted. However, you should still send a takedown notice whether you want to sue them or not. By sending the notice, you can get the image taken off the Internet.
 A court looks at four factors when deciding whether a use is fair use. No one factor, by itself, is controlling. However, you should weigh all four:The purpose and character of the use. Use that is transformative or for educational purposes probably qualifies as fair use. For example, if someone used your photograph as part of an essay describing new trends in photography, then the use is for a transformative purpose. It might qualify as fair use.
Whether your photographs were published or unpublished. If your photos were already published, then the defendant probably has a stronger fair use claim than if the pictures were unpublished.
How much of your picture was copied. As a general rule, the less the person copied, the stronger their fair use argument. If they used only a portion of the picture—instead of the entire photograph—then they have a stronger fair use claim.
What effect the copying will have on your market. If the copying will diminish your ability to make money on them, then the use is probably not fair use. For example, someone selling your pictures as their own is trying to make money at your expense. In this situation, the infringer probably does not have a fair use claim.
 You need to send your notice to the appropriate agent. Often, the website lists its agent on a “Contact Us” or “Terms of Use” page.


You can also find the agent by visiting the U.S. Copyright Office’s DMCA Agent directory.Search by the name of the company that owns the website. The agent might also be listed under the website address.
 You have to give the website or ISP enough information so that they can identify what material is infringing your copyright. Make sure that the notice contains the following:Identify your photographs that are being infringed.
Pinpoint where on the website the allegedly infringing content appears. If there is a link involved, then provide the link.
Give your name and contact information. The website or ISP might need to contact you with questions.
State that the information in your notice is accurate and that you “have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.”
Also state that, “under penalty of perjury,” you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright holder.
Include your signature.
 Be sure to mail it certified mail, return receipt requested. The receipt will serve as proof that the agent received the notice.


If an email address or fax number is also listed, then send the notice to those as well.
 The website owner or ISP needs to remove the photograph promptly.Check to make sure your photographs are removed and that they don’t pop up again.


If the photographs are not taken down, then you can sue the website owner or ISP in addition to the person who posted copies of your photographs online.
 Unless you have registered your copyright, you are limited to the amount of “actual damages” you suffered. Your actual damages will be the amount of money you lost because of the infringement or the amount the infringer made by using your photograph.You will need to weigh the amount of money you can get in a lawsuit against the cost of bringing the lawsuit.


As best as you can, total up how much money you think you lost. You need to prove damages in court, so check to see if you can prove that you lost sales because of the infringement. One way to prove loss of income is to average how much you were making monthly before the infringement and compare this amount to how much you made monthly after the infringement.
Of course, you can get “statutory damages” instead of actual damages if your copyright was registered before the infringement. The law allows you to get between $750 and $30,000 in statutory damages for the infringement of a work. If the infringement was “willful,” then you could get up to $150,000., Lawyers charge several hundred dollars an hour, at a minimum.Over the course of a lawsuit, the fees can add up fast. A copyright infringement lawsuit could cost $10,000 or more from start to finish. You should ask yourself if you can afford to pay that kind of money.


If you registered your copyright, you might be able to get attorneys’ fees if you win.A lawyer might be more willing to represent you if attorneys’ fees are in play.
 Some people want to act as their own attorney and bring a lawsuit on their own behalf, especially if they can't afford a lawyer. You certainly have that right. However, you shouldn’t expect a judge to cut you any slack because you are representing yourself. Instead, you will have to get up to speed on how to bring a lawsuit. A typical lawsuit will require the following:


You will need to go to many different court hearings. Often, judges will schedule “status hearings” where you show up for a ten-minute talk about the status of the case. You will have to take time off from work to attend these.
You will need to learn the law—not only copyright law, but also the Rules of Civil Procedure and the Rules of Evidence.You will need to draft complex legal arguments. The defendant might file many different motions during the lawsuit. You will have to respond to each motion by drafting your own. You can find sample motions online.Ask yourself whether you can learn how to draft a motion containing these kinds of legal arguments.
You will have to learn how to do legal research. Attorneys pay a couple hundred dollars a month for electronic search engines in order to perform legal research. However, you will have to do research using bound leather volumes that contain court opinions. You will need to learn how to find helpful court opinions for the motions you draft and learn how to cite them properly.
 Gather all of your evidence and schedule a consultation with a lawyer to discuss whether or not you should bring a lawsuit. Your lawyer can look over your evidence and provide an expert opinion.


To find a copyright lawyer, contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral.Once you have the name of a lawyer, you can call for a consultation.
 You generally can’t bring a lawsuit in federal court for copyright violations unless your copyright has been registered. Accordingly, you should take the time to register your copyright for any photograph the defendant infringed.


See Copyright Material for more information on how to register your copyright.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a complaint. In this document, you identify yourself as the person bringing the lawsuit (the “plaintiff”) and the person who used your photographs as the “defendant.” You also explain the circumstances surrounding the lawsuit and make a request for monetary compensation (“damages”) and possibly also for an “injunction,” which is a legal command to stop using your photographs.Your lawyer should be able to draft the complaint (and all other documents) for you. Be sure to get a copy and read it before your lawyer files the complaint.
If you are proceeding without a lawyer, then check with the court clerk if there is a blank complaint form you can use. There should be. One is posted on the U.S. Courts website.You will also need to fill out a Civil Cover Sheet, which you can also download., You can file the complaint with the court clerk. In federal court, they prefer that you file all documents electronically. Generally, people representing themselves still have the option of filing in person. Talk with the court clerk.


You will need to pay a filing fee. It costs $400 to file a lawsuit in federal court.If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 You need to give the defendant a copy of your complaint and a summons. You can get a blank summons from the court clerk and fill it out. You can also download a blank summons.Present the completed summons to the court clerk for his or her signature.


You cannot serve notice yourself. Instead, you can have anyone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit make service.Whoever makes service must fill out the Proof of Service form attached to the summons. He or she must sign it and then return it to you. Make sure to file the original with the court and retain a copy for your records.
 After receiving the summons and your complaint, the defendant has 21 days to respond to the lawsuit.Typically, the defendant will file either a “motion to dismiss” or an “answer.” You should receive a copy of the response, unless you have a lawyer, in which case your lawyer will receive the response.


In a motion to dismiss, the defendant will probably argue that you filed the lawsuit too late or that you didn’t follow proper procedure.
The defendant might file an answer instead. In this document, the defendant will respond to each allegation made in your complaint by either admitting, denying, or claiming insufficient information to admit or deny., Once the defendant answers your complaint, the lawsuit enters a fact-finding phase. This is called “discovery.” You can use many different discovery techniques to uncover helpful information.Serve “interrogatories” on the defendant. These are written questions which the defendant must answer under oath. For example, you can ask the defendant how much money he or she has made selling or displaying your photographs. You can also ask on what websites the pictures have been posted.
Serve “requests for production.” You can get copies of any relevant document. For example, you can get copies of the defendant’s financial records to find out how much money he or she made by illegally using your photographs.
 A “deposition” is another discovery technique that is very helpful. In a deposition, you ask a witness questions face-to-face. A court reporter records the questions and answers.You should certainly have the defendant sit for a deposition.


In the deposition, you should try to get the defendant to admit that they knew they were copying someone’s copyrighted picture. If you can get an admission of willful infringement, then you can get even more statutory damages.
 Often, a defendant in a copyright case will bring a motion for summary judgment at the close of discovery. In this motion, the defendant will argue that there are no issues of material fact for a jury to resolve and the defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.Typically, defendants will raise “fair use” in their summary judgment motions. You will have to draft a motion in opposition explaining why the defendant is not entitled to summary judgment.
After drafting the motion, the judge will set a hearing for argument on the motion. If the defendant wins, then you won’t go to trial (although you can appeal the grant of summary judgment). If the defendant loses the motion, then you will proceed to trial.
 Your lawyer should pull everything together as the trial date approaches. However, if you are representing yourself, then you will need to gather your evidence.



Create exhibits. You will probably want to introduce documents at trial. For example, you might want to show a copy of your photograph. In order to make an exhibit, you should get “exhibit stickers” from an office supply store. You can affix it to the back of any picture or in the corner of a written document.

Make copies of exhibits. The judge will probably tell you when you must hand over a copy of all exhibits you intend to use at trial. Make a copy for the defendant and a copy to show the witness. Also keep a copy for yourself. The original exhibit will be entered into evidence during trial.

Draft your witness list. You will also have to hand over a list of witnesses you intend to call. Only call people if they have personal knowledge of whatever it is they are testifying to.For example, a witness could testify that the defendant approached them with an offer to sell copies of your photographs.
 As the person bringing the lawsuit, you go first. You will make an opening statement first and then present any witnesses that can help you. The defendant is able to cross-examine all of your witnesses.Remember what you must prove at trial: that you have a valid copyright and that the defendant copied your work.


You can establish a valid copyright by showing the certificate you received when you registered your copyright.
You can prove “copying” usually by showing that the defendant had access to your work, for example by seeing it on the Internet or by buying a photograph from you. You also need to show that your work and the defendant’s work is very similar. If the defendant simply copied your photographs, then similarity is easily proved., You will probably have to testify. For example, you will need to testify that you took the photographs and that you registered them with the Copyright Office. You can also testify as to your actual damages. If you have a lawyer, he or she can ask you questions. If not, then the judge might let you deliver your testimony in the form of a speech.


The defendant’s attorney will be able to cross-examine you. This may be a scary experience. However, you should try to calm yourself as much as possible.
Remember to sit up straight. Don’t slouch or look afraid. When the lawyer asks you a question, look at the lawyer. When you answer, make eye contact with the jury.
Don’t guess. If you don’t know the answer, say so.
Ask that questions be clarified if you don’t understand them. Take a couple seconds before answering to see if you understand the question., The defendant gets to present evidence second. The defendant will probably testify on his or her own behalf.


You can cross-examine the defense witnesses. If you need to ask questions, then see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 After each side makes closing arguments, the jury will retire for deliberations. In order to win a trial in federal court, the jury must be unanimous unless you agree otherwise ahead of time., After you win, you face the task of collecting your money judgment. With luck, the defendant will simply write you a check. However, the defendant might not have all of the money at once. In this case, you might need to settle for a smaller amount.


When the defendant absolutely refuses to pay, you may need to garnish his or her wages or put liens on the defendant’s property.See Collect a Court Ordered Judgment for information on how to collect a judgment.

