 A retail store credit card is a great idea if you frequent a certain store and want to earn rewards and discounts for shopping there. Think about what stores your shop at regularly and take a look at your spending habits. For example, if you make multiple visits to Best Buy each month, a store card might help you save some money.


If you are unsure about where you shop regularly, look at your previous month’s bank statement and highlight places where you made multiple visits.
Remember that retail cards are issued by companies as a means of encouraging people to shop at their store more frequently.;
, Once you have narrowed down your search to a specific store, you will likely need to pick a type of store card. Most retail stores offer multiple cards, each with a different interest rate and rewards system. Find a card that offers the rewards that you want and has a low interest rate.An example of a store card reward might include access to special shopping events, access to exclusive deals and coupons, or even cash back on purchases.
Although the rewards may be enticing, store credit cards tend to have interest rates that are nearly double the national average.
 Retail chains often require their employees to ask you if you would like to register for a store card when you check out. This gives you the opportunity to sign up for a card while you are shopping in the store. Simply provide the sales associate with your personal info and you will likely be approved on the spot.Since most people sign up for store cards to take advantage of an in-store discount while they are shopping, this is the most common way in which people get a store credit card.
 Most retail stores allow you to apply for their card online, which can save you some time. Simply provide your personal information, like your address and credit score. Depending on your qualifications, you will likely be notified about your application’s status in a matter of hours, if not minutes.Once you are approved, you will likely receive your new card in 10 to 14 business days. After you receive it, you will need to go online to activate it or call a phone number on the card.
Store credit cards are generally easy for people with a low credit score to obtain.

