 You should call the Department of Labor (DOL) at 1-866-487-9243. You will then be transferred to a local office. There are over 200 local offices around the country. Your local office will help you complete a claim for unpaid wages., Once you are connected to a local office, you will have to provide information in order to complete your claim. Provide the following:

your name
your contact information (phone and mailing address)
name of the company which has not paid your wages
location of the company
phone number for the company
name of the manager or owner
type of work you performed
when and how you were typically paid (e.g., cash once every two weeks)

, You can help your claim if you provide information about the amount of wages you haven’t been paid. You should look to see if you can provide the following supporting documentation:copies of pay stubs
record of your hours worked
copy of any employment contract
any other information about your employer

, After receiving your complaint, the DOL will contact your employer and perform an investigation. The investigation is confidential, and your identity should not be disclosed. Instead, the DOL will ask to review your employer’s payment records.An investigator might contact you and other employees for an interview. You should make yourself available and answer all questions the investigator might have.
At the end of the investigation, the Department will meet with your employer and tell them how to correct their violation of the wage laws.
 The DOL can also bring an enforcement action against your employer for the unpaid wages you are owed. The DOL can also recover “liquidated damages,” which is a penalty in the same amount as your unpaid wages. This penalty will be paid directly to you.If the DOL brings an enforcement action, then you don’t have to bring your own individual lawsuit. Instead, the DOL files a lawsuit in federal district court on your behalf.
However, if the federal government doesn’t sue on your behalf, then you may have to bring a lawsuit if your employer doesn’t voluntarily pay the wages owed to you.
 If you don’t live in the United States, then you should report unpaid wages to your appropriate government agency. You can find it by searching for “your country” and “wage violation” using an Internet search.


In Canada, for example, you can report unpaid wages to the Employment and Social Development office. They have an online form you can complete. You may also call 1-800-622-6232.In Australia, you should contact the Fair Work Office for assistance in reporting unpaid wages.