 Abrasives can scratch your sink's finish, so use them only for an occasional restoration project, or to remove stubborn stains. Try stainless steel polish, whiting, talc, or baking soda. Apply one of these to a slightly damp cloth., Most stainless steel sinks have a brushed finish.Wipe parallel to the brush lines to reduce the chance of a visible scratch.


Use a toothbrush with a bit of the cleanser to clean the tight areas around the faucet, and the area around the drain.
 Wash the cleanser off of everywhere you used it. If your sink's shine is restored, dry the sink completely with a clean towel, dabbing instead of rubbing to avoid streak marks. If your sink still looks dull, browse through the steps below for additional solutions to specific problems.
 If your sink is clean but covered in dull white spots, dip a soft cloth in white vinegar and wipe them away.This also works on rust spots., Flour is a cheap, very mild abrasive, which makes it a good choice for cleaning a large area. If your sink still looks dirty and you have some spare time, follow these steps:Dry the sink thoroughly. Any water left on the surface will turn the flour into glue.
Sprinkle a light dusting of flour over the sink. Use about ¼ cup (60mL) flour for an average kitchen sink.Buff the sink in a circular motion with a soft cloth, focusing on the rim and drain where food might get stuck.
Once grime is removed, brush the flour into a container and throw it in the kitchen trash. Too much flour can block the drain., Olive oil can boost the shine and remove streaks from your sink, but overdoing it can leave the stainless steel sticky or eventually make the appearance duller than before. If you try it, put just two or three drops of olive oil onto a soft cloth. Wipe the dry sink evenly until the entire surface is coated very lightly. Buff in small circles with the same oiled cloth for a couple minutes until you've achieved an even shine., A major clean can leave the surface of your sink temporarily damaged, especially if there was rust on the surface. Give the steel a day to restore its protective anti-rust layer, or at least dry it thoroughly after each use during this time.