 If you are using 1 cup of rice, use anywhere from 1 ½ to 2 cups of water. Adding more water will make your rice more fluffy, while less water will make it taste tougher.


Don’t add too little water or your rice may not fully cook or come out burned.
If you use more than one cup of rice, make sure to adjust the amount of water you’re using.
 Adding salt to your boiling water will season the grains of rice, and allow your water to boil at a higher temperature, and thus more thoroughly.


Water typically boils 212 Degrees Fahrenheit, but when you add water it boils at 216 Degrees Fahrenheit.Adding salt after your rice is cooked could make it too salty., Set your stove to medium or high and wait until large bubbles break the surface of the water in your pot.


Though it depends on the amount of heat your stove is able to produce, your water should boil in anywhere from 5-10 minutes., While the water is boiling, add your rice to the pot of water. This should stop the pot from bubbling. Do not touch the heat settings on your stove.


Make sure to not drop the rice from too high up, to avoid splashing boiling water on yourself.
 Using a wooden or heat safe spoon, stir your rice until the water starts to boil again.


It should only take a couple of minutes for your water to return to a full boil.
 Once the water comes to a fierce boil again, lower your stove top settings to low. You should see the water in the pot simmer instead of large bubbles breaking the surface., Keep your stove’s heat settings to low as you continue to cook your rice. These directions are for typical basmati rice and not special varieties of basmati like wholegrain basmati rice, which takes longer to cook.Do not uncover the lid on your pot, because you’ll let the steam that’s cooking your rice out.
Do not stir the rice or it may become broken and mushy.
 Letting the rice stand for 5 minutes allows unfinished grains to fully cook, and the remainder of the water to evaporate. Afterwards, make sure to fluff it with a fork.


Fluffing rice with a fork separates the grains so there are no large clumps and the rice maintains a fluffy and light texture.