 Different pewter requires different methods when it comes to polishing. Before you polish your pewter, figure out if it is polished pewter, satin pewter, or oxidized pewter.Polished pewter will be smooth and shiny. It should already look somewhat polished prior to the cleaning and polishing process.
Satin pewter will have a grainier finish than polished pewter. It is usually not shiny.
Oxidized pewter has a darker finish. Products made from oxidized pewter look like antiques, and are darker in color. Oxidized pewter does not need to be polished. You only need to wash it.;
, For the most part, you'll need to clean your pewter prior to polishing. Usually, most types of pewter respond well to an all purpose metal cleaner, which you can find at most hardware stores. However, it may be a better idea to use mild dish soap and warm water. This is less taxing on the pewter.Some cleaners double as polishes. Check if your chosen cleaner can also be used as a polish, as this can save you some time.
 A handmade cleaner can also be used on most types of pewter. If you would prefer to use something handmade, you can use vinegar and white flour to make a handmade cleaner.Mix a cup of white vinegar with half a cup of flour.
Stir the mixture until it forms a paste.
 You want to make sure the polish you use will not damage your pewter. For the most part, you can use the same types of polish on all different kinds of pewter. Some pewter cleaners, such as Brasso, actually double as polishes, so if you go with a commercial cleaner check the label to see if you can save some money and also use it as a polish.You can usually find pewter polish at a local hardware store. Well known brands include MET-ALL silver and pewter polish, Mash's Pewter Cleaner, and MAAS metal polish.
 You can also try to make your own polish, if you would prefer. You'll need to purchase a material called "rottenstone," which you can buy online or at a hardware store. You will also need boiled linseed oil, which you can also find online or at a hardware store.Boil as much linseed oil as you think you will need. Allow the linseed oil to cool until it's cold enough that you can safely work with it.
Add rottenstone to the mix and stir. Keep adding rottenstone until a thick paste is formed. Once this paste cools, you can use it on all types of pewter.

