 You can have high blood pressure for months to years without any symptoms, but the damage caused by hypertension can eventually lead to severe health problems and even death. Generally speaking, the health problems from high blood pressure are the result of two major health stages. First, the blood vessels in your body narrow and stiffen. Second, and as a result of this, there is a decreased blood flow to different organs and body parts such as the heart, the brain, the kidneys, the eyes, and the nerves. This can lead to severe complications and life threatening situations if left unchecked.


You should test your blood pressure at a pharmacy or purchase your own home blood pressure monitor to see how yours fluctuates. if you think it is running high, you should see a doctor so she can monitor it.
 To help lower your blood pressure, you should incorporate more exercise into your daily routine. You can try both aerobic exercises such as walking, jogging, or swimming and resistance or strength training. The American Heart Association recommends that for overall cardiovascular health, adults get at least 30 minutes of moderate intensity activity at least 5 days per week for a total of 150 minutes. You can also get at least 25 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity at least 3 days per week for a total of 75 minutes and moderate- to high-intensity muscle-strengthening activity at least 2 days per week.If you feel that this is more than you can manage, the AHA insist that you do as much as you can to start. Any activity is better than no activity. Do your best to get as much exercise as you can. Even if it is going for a short walk, that is better than sitting on the couch.This can have the added benefit of helping you lose weight. Both a healthy diet and exercise should result in weight loss, which can lead to significant falls in blood pressure., Stress, anxiety, and depression can increase your risk of developing hypertension. Learning how to manage and cope with stress can improve both your emotional and physical health. Participating in hobbies you enjoy, meditation, and yoga are just a few possible ways to rest and relax.If you feel like you are struggling with anxiety or depression, speak to your healthcare professional.
 If you're a man, try to limit the amount of drinks you have daily to no more than 2. If you're a woman, try to limit the amount of drinks you have daily to no more than 1.


Heavy drinkers who want to limit their alcohol intake should slowly lower intake over the course of several weeks. Heavy drinkers who suddenly cut back alcohol intake put themselves at risk to develop severe high blood pressure., Smoking is one of the most common and avoidable contributing factors to cardiovascular death. The chemicals in cigarettes cause an increase in heart rate and vessel constriction, which cause increased blood pressure. More importantly, cigarette smoking causes stiffening of the arteries over time, which can persist for many years after quitting., Caffeine causes an increase in heart rate and blood pressure, especially in those who do not consume it regularly. At high doses, it can even cause irregular heart beats. The current recommendations are to consume no more than 400 mg daily.


To figure out how much you consume a day, you need to know how much caffeine is in common things you consume. An 8 oz coffee has 100-150mg, a 1 oz espresso has 30-90 mg, and an 8 oz caffeinated tea has 40-120 mg.
 Although not scientifically verified, there are several herbal remedies which are thought to help hypertension. As a rule, however, don't substitute these unverified herbal remedies for proven scientific advice. Instead, supplement your diet with them if they are approved by your healthcare provider.


Try holly leaf extract, which is used as a tea in China and is supposed to help blood vessels enhance circulation and blood flow to the heart.You can also try hawthorn berry extract, which is supposed to improve the supply of blood to the heart and help to support the metabolism of the heart.Taking garlic extract is supposed to help prevent heart disease. High blood pressure and cholesterol are also rumored to be somewhat controlled by garlic.Hibiscus, which you can get as a supplement or drink in tea, can act like a diuretic and may have actions that mimic medications such as ACE inhibitors and hypertension medications. You can also try ginger-cardamom tea, which is used in India to naturally reduce blood pressure.
Drinking coconut water, which contains potassium and magnesium, can help with normal muscle function.
Taking Fish oil, which is a concentration of omega-3 fatty acids, may help with fat metabolism and reduce the risk of heart attack and stroke.