 Rosy cheek stains will show up a lot better on your skin if it isn't covered up in a thick layer of foundation. If you do wear makeup, make sure it's a thin, natural-looking product that doesn't completely mask your skin. The stain needs to be able to set slightly into your skin in order to work effectively.
 You can buy a special cheek stain, but lip stain (or a combination of the two) does the job just as effectively. Since it's sheer, you'll get a subtle stain that looks completely natural, like you just blushed. Apply the stain to your cheeks using the same pattern you'd use to apply blush, according to your face shape.The more layers you add, the more colorful the stain will look.
Add a layer of translucent powder if you want to make sure the stain doesn't fade too quickly.
 If you have a lipstick shade that you think would make a perfect stain, you can create a stain by blending it with coconut oil. This way you can create your own customized cheek stain without having to buy a separate product. Here's how to do it:


Melt a tablespoon of coconut oil.
Stir in 1/4 teaspoon of lipstick until it dissolves.
Pour the mixture into an empty container and let it cool before applying.
To deepen the color, melt it again and add more lipstick.
 If you want a totally natural stain that you can make with household ingredients, this is the one for you. Red-hued fruit juice can be applied directly to your cheeks to create a subtle, natural-looking, beautiful stain. The tricky part is apply it carefully enough so that it doesn't run down your face, so take your time. Here's how to do it:


Pour some fruit juice into a small cup. Try cherry, pomegranate, or cranberry juice. Low sugar is best, since you don't want to feel sticky.
Use a cotton swab to carefully apply it to your cheeks.
Let the first layer dry, then apply more if you want to deepen the color.
 If you want to make a beautiful red stain you can take with you everywhere you go, buy some beet root powder next time you're at a health food store. Mix the powder with enough coconut oil or olive oil to make a thick paste. Use your fingertip to apply a small amount to your cheeks, rubbing it in to set it. Store extra paste in a small lip balm jar with a lid.

