 When putting your clothes away into your dresser, consider using one drawer for each type of clothing. This means placing all of your shirts into the top drawer, your pants and skirts in the next drawer, and your less-worn/out-of-season clothes in the bottom-most one.


If your dresser has some small drawers, consider using those for small items, such as socks and undergarments.
 Keeping clothes separated by occasion can not only help you get ready faster in the morning, but it can help your dresser look more organized. If you have to wear a uniform to work or school, keep your uniform pieces in one drawer, and your casual clothes in another. Be sure to keep the shirts separate from the pants and skirts.


You can also keep both your casual shirts and work shirts in one drawer: keep the casual shirts on one side of the drawer, and the work shirts on the other. Do the same thing for the pants and skirts.
 When folding your clothes and putting them away, consider sorting them by color. Keep all of your black shirts in one stack and all of your white shirts in another. If you have a lot of colors and not a lot of space, you can keep all of the light-colored shirts in one stack, and all of the dark-colored shirts in another.
 If you have a lot of shirts, you can save space by folding them, and storing them vertically in your dresser instead of stacking them on top of each other.You will end up with something that looks like the inside of a file cabinet.
 Placing dividers into your dresser drawers can be a great way to organize small articles of clothing. If your dresser has only large drawers, consider reserving one for your undergarments and socks; use a divider in the drawer to prevent the undergarments and socks from mixing.


You can make your own drawer dividers by covering cardboard boxes with colorful scrapbooking paper or wrapping paper.
You can also insert several small boxes into the drawer, and using those to keep your items sorted. Make sure that the drawers are short enough to fit inside so that you can close the drawer.
 Socks and underwear, though small, can create a lot of bulk and take up more space than they should. You can save space by rolling up your socks and folding your undergarments—this will also help your drawers appear neater and more organized.
 You are more likely to wear short-sleeves shirts in the summer and sweaters in the winter. Consider moving clothes to different drawers in your dresser depending on what season it is. During the summer, keep lighter clothes, such as skirts, shorts, and tank-tops in the upper drawers, and the warmer clothes, such as long-sleeved shirts and sweaters in the bottom drawer. During the winter, move the shorts and tank-tops to the bottom drawer, and the warm sweaters and long-sleeved shirts to the upper drawer. Try to keep the out-of-season clothes in one drawer to save space.


You can save space in your dresser and make room for more clothes by storing your out-of-season clothes in a drawer beneath your bed. If you have a closet, you can store the out-of-season clothes on a top shelf.
 If you have enough room in your closet, you can keep all of your clothes by moving your dresser into your closet. If your dresser is short, then you hang still hang small items, such as shirts, above it. Keeping all of your clothes in one place will save you time in the morning as you get ready for work or school.

