 If you haven’t talked to this person in a while, you may have lost their number. Check to see if you have their number in your phone or address book. If you don’t have it, you have several options.Ask a mutual acquaintance. Consider asking a mutual friend or colleague for this person’s number.
Contact this person through social media. If you are friends on Facebook or connected through another social media site, message them. Say something like “Hi Lucy! I was just thinking of you the other day, I hope that you’re still doing well in Chicago. My number is 111-111-1111 if you ever want to catch up!”
Do a Google search. If you don’t have any mutual acquaintances and are not connected to them in any way, Google them. There is a good chance you will find some information you can use to get in touch.;
, If you know when the person is free, give them a call at this time. If you aren’t sure, don’t call them extremely early in the morning, or past 9 pm. Also avoid calling them during the hours that most people generally are at work or school, between the hours of 9-5. The best time to call them is on the weekend in the afternoon or between the hours of 6 and 9 on the weekdays., When the person answers the phone, greet them and tell them who it is. If you haven’t talked in a while, they won’t expect you to be calling, especially if they don’t have caller id. Say something like, “Hi Greg, how are you doing? It’s Nicole from Dartmouth!”


It’s a good idea to mention where you know this person from. If it’s been a long time since you’ve been in touch, they may have met other people with your name and won’t put two and two together. If you give them a context, it will be much easier for them.
 Something must have made you pick up the phone and give this person a call. Even if there isn’t a specific reason, mention what drove you to call them. Saying something like this will make your call seem less out of the blue.You could say something like, “I just reread the book that you gave me last year, it made me think of you!”
You could even just say, “I was thinking about you the other day.”

, Sometimes people drift out of touch. However, if you feel like you could have been better at keeping in touch or that it was partially your fault that you lost touch with one another, own up to it.Say something like, “I’m sorry that I did such a bad job at keeping in touch after the wedding!”
Just one apology is enough, if you keep going it could make them feel uncomfortable.

