 What will you use it for? Does it have much light, or is it dark and cozy? Will you want to incorporate multiple uses in one area? Some furniture can do double-duty: Daybeds and couches may fold out to accommodate guests and coffee tables or end tables may include shelves for your books underneath.


How much space do you have? Measure the perimeter of the space and chart it on graph paper. This will help you visualize how to use the space efficiently.;
, You can either use a pencil directly on the drawing, or measure, transfer to graph paper and cut small outlines of the major items in your area - furniture, plants, storage areas, large rugs. You can then rearrange the shapes on the graph paper and tape them down when you think you like the design. If you are decorating one small corner of a larger room (like a reading nook or your half of a dorm room), decide whether you would like it to remain open to the larger space or whether you want to close it off.
 This is a small space, so too many large or brightly-colored items can be overwhelming and feel cluttered. If you have a cozy overstuffed armchair or a large poster that you want to include in your small space, use it as the "center" of your design. Consider the color and style of the object as you gather your smaller decorations.
 Take your paper plan and use it to rearrange or add items to the actual space. Ignore tiny decorations for now - just move the big stuff into position. Walk around in it, sit, or try the activity that the space will be used for. Is it comfortable? What is it missing?


Many small spaces lack storage. Does yours? If so, consider using furniture that doubles as a storage area. Ottomans may open to store cozy blankets; bookshelves can house shoe boxes, plastic containers or baskets.
 Use small splashes of color on larger neutral backgrounds - for example, coordinate a plain brown chair with a brightly patterned pillow, or use the color of your favorite throw in a small framed print or knick-knack on the bookshelf. Use clusters of both large and small objects as secondary focal points. A small amount of a bright color can draw you in and give the illusion of a much larger area.

