 It will make it more difficult for you to tell your friends about your bipolar depression if you are interrupted or distracted by other things. Pick a time and a place where you can have some privacy and not be disturbed. Remove or turn off anything that could distract you or your friends when you are telling them about your bipolar depression.


Put your electronic devices on vibrate or silent. If your friends generally look at their phones or electronic devices a lot you can ask them to do the same. For example, you might say, “Would you mind putting your phone down? I’d like to talk about something.”
Try to tell them about your bipolar depression when you all are someplace private so that you aren’t interrupted by others.
 Although you are telling your friends, you may not want everyone to know that you have bipolar depression. Let your friends know you are about to tell them something personal.Knowing that your friends aren’t going to share it with anyone else will make it easier for you to tell them about your bipolar depression.


Some people may not be understanding or supportive of your bipolar depression, so privacy is an important aspect to emphasize.
You might say, “I want to talk to you about something that’s personal and honestly kinda private for me. Please don’t share this with anyone else.”
Or, you might try, “I need to explain what’s been going on with me. But, please, only talk about this with Jeanette and Kofi.”

, Having bipolar depression is nothing to be ashamed of. You don’t need to be embarrassed or feel guilty when you are telling your friends about it.Instead, be confident in yourself and in the fact that they care about you and will be your friends no matter what.


Look them in the eyes and hold your head up when you tell them about your bipolar disorder.
Speak clearly and use a confident voice. You don’t have to shout it, but you don’t need to whisper either.
For example, straighten your back, look your friends in the eyes and tell them in a clear voice, “I have bipolar depression.”
Keep in mind that it is okay to tell them via email or telephone if that is more comfortable for you, but you may want to follow-up with an in-person conversation once the difficult part is out of the way.

