 Primarily you should think about its legality in all places around the world. If the article's focus is marijuana (in a medical capacity), caffeine, prescription drugs, or over-the-counter medication, the article is likely okay, but if the article discusses harder drugs like meth, LSD, cocaine, it's probably deletable (depending on the context).


Keep in mind that drug laws vary around the world, and so do the cultural norms and traditions related to the use of some drugs. Try to consider whether there are legitimate and legal uses for the drug in question; you may not approve of its use, but that doesn't mean it's necessarily a topic for deletion.;
, Note whether or not the article seems to be promoting drugs or drug-related activities. An article about looking for signs of cocaine use, for instance, is not the same as an article about manufacturing/selling/using cocaine. Here are some examples of contexts where drug references would be acceptable and unacceptable.



Acceptable

How to Quit Using Heroin
How to Deal With a Drug Addicted Family Member or Loved One
How to Travel With Prescription Medications



Not Acceptable

How to Make Meth
How to Get High on Cold Medicine
How to Sell Heroin



, Recreational drug use is generally illegal; thus, drug-related activity is done in secret. If the article mentions avoiding others or keeping the drugs hidden, be suspicious. On the flip side, legal marijuana, for example, is sold under a license, so if the article mentions official documentation or proceedings, it's more likely acceptable.
 It's possible that the article was once nominated for deletion, but a vote determined it would be kept. It's also possible that the vote determined the article would be deleted, but someone recreated the deleted article. Both of these will be stated on the talk page. Look at any comments you might see there, as well.
 Open up the editor for that article and type in the wikitext in the image above at the very beginning.
 Click preview on the edit screen to make sure the wikiText registered correctly. The result should look like the image above. If it looks right, save your edit. The article will be reviewed in the next few weeks. Until then, it will be hidden from search results.
 If you're stumped and have no idea what to do, or if you are having editing problems, leave a message on another user's talk page. There are plenty of wikiHowians who can help out.

