 Once you have decided that it is worth investing your time and effort in detoxing your friendship, it's time to bring attention to your friend's behavior to see whether it's possible to resolve the challenges. This isn't going to be easy but avoiding it will not help you either; nothing will change if you don't tackle it. Be sensitive and gentle in the way that you approach this conversation – you will be treading a fine line between on the one hand, your friend feeling that he or she is being criticized, blamed, or that you're just being unfair and on the other hand, your friend being relieved that the grievance is out in the open, ready for proper discussion. Some ways to approach this could include saying:


"I feel that we haven't been very close lately and that our friendship is suffering as a result. I was hoping you might have the time to talk about ways we could take stock and boost our friendship again."
"I've missed the closeness we used to experience as friends. I don't know if you're feeling this too, but I'd really like to talk about the ways we might be able to restore that closeness we used to have."
"I felt upset when I overheard you telling Mr X that I wasn't much of a friend to you and it made me wonder where we're headed. Have you got a moment to talk about this?"

, Be ready to listen attentively and kindly to what your friend says. There may be some things you don't like hearing but you must remain open-minded and ready to acknowledge your own mistakes as well. It's quite possible that you're unaware of how you might be contributing to their behavior.
 If there is something that neither of you can see eye-to-eye on, just agree to disagree about it but not to let that get in the way of what ought to be a fine friendship. Or, try a little humor. One tactic that can work really well with friends who have a sense of inferiority is to disarm their toxic rebukes with humor that sort of agrees with their statement. For example:


Friend: "Oh where on Earth did you get that dress from? It makes you look frumpy!" You: "Oh yeah, I felt like frumping it tonight, can't have my husband thinking I'm flirting while he's away!"

, Avoid blaming and accusing; instead, keep validating the friendship in everything that you say, explaining how much you value your friend and your friendship together, so that it's clear that this isn't about throwing away what really matters.
 Don't labor it. And always end the conversation positively, whether it's promising to do something for your friend, or arranging to do something together, or simply telling them what a wonderful person you think they are.


If your friend throws a "tantrum", or argues fiercely with you, politely let them know you're taking your leave and you'll continue this discussion later. There is no need for an argument over your feelings.
 If your friend has responded favorably to your concerns and is at least willing to give things another go, it can be helpful to have some ideas of things that might help to get your friendship back on track. Some ideas to consider include:


A ban on gossiping about one another. This goes without saying but if it has been a problem, it's best to have a laugh about it and get it out into the open as a taboo activity.
A willingness and commitment to spending more time together, just the two of you, sharing a common interest that you both enjoy.
Having a secret signal to let one another when the advice and support is crossing the line into being bossy, criticizing, or pushy. At the first sign of this signal, either one of you will know it's time to call a halt to whatever behavior is causing the problem.
Reaching an agreement that it's OK to deal with upsets as they occur rather than leaving misunderstandings to fester.
Sharing a mutual appreciation space. It could be a photo board, an online privately shared site, a weekly chat. Whatever you decide, make room for celebrating one another and each other's achievements. Friends are supporters, not detractors, and both of you should feel safe in communicating your wins and losses in life.
 After having your heart-to-heart, consider how your friendship stands now.


Does it feel like the two of you have reached a good understanding, as if you've been through the wars but now you are stronger for it?
Do you feel that your friend is ready to be there for you, to enable you to be the best you can be, and you're willing to reciprocate one hundred percent?

