 As your wedding is Christmas-themed, a big tree in the center of the reception area can really make things feel festive. Christmas trees can be purchased in a variety of places around the Christmas season and are simple to set up on your own time.A fun way to combine the season and your wedding is to choose wedding-themed decorations for the tree. You can, for example, garnish the tree in black and white ribbons.
Give it a sentimental touch. Punch holes through various pictures of you and your spouse and then thread string through the holes. Hang these up on the tree for your big day.
 Incorporate snow into your decorations. Pick light white, gray, and ivory decorations that sparkle a little. This will remind guests of snow, which is often a staple of the Christmas season.Have glittery white vases holding flowers as the centerpiece of each table.
Use sparkly gray or white tablecloths for tables at the reception.
Crystal can also have a snow-like feel, so opt for crystal glasses, plates, and silverware during the reception.
 When choosing food and drinks, go with a Christmas theme. For the main course, pick a version of a traditional Christmas dinner. You could, for example, serve some kind of roast carvery style. For example, have guests have slices of a baked ham for dinner.If you're serving alcohol, pick Christmas-themed cocktails like mulled wine and spiked eggnog.
Keep your desserts in the spirit of the season. Go for flavors people associate with Christmas, such as nutmeg and peppermint.
 Flowers can be tricky for a Christmas wedding, as many flowers are out of season during the winter months. If you have your heart set on a particular type of flower, you may end up having to pay a very high price. Therefore, be flexible regarding flower choices.Have a long list of acceptable flowers on hand before visiting a florist. You may have to go with your second, third, or even fourth choice depending on the price and season.
It may be a good idea to go in without specific flowers in mind. Talk to a florist about affordable, in-season options. With flowers, the more flexible you are the better for a Christmas wedding.

