 One way you can make studying easier when you have ADHD is to stay organized and prepared to study. Start by putting all important due dates and deadlines in a calendar. This could be a physical calendar on the wall in your room, a day planner that you carry in your school bag, or a calendar you keep on your phone. Record all important dates in the calendar so you can stay organized and on top of your assignments.If you are using a calendar on your phone, make sure you set an alarm that will remind you a day before or several hours before an assignment is due. This way, you are reminded of the assignment and have enough time to get it done.;
, When you have ADHD, you tend to have difficulty prioritizing your assignments. To avoid getting overwhelmed, sit down and make a list of all of your study tasks. Then, read over the list and number them in order of importance. Put the most important tasks first and the least important tasks last.If you have a large assignment that you need to tackle, write out each step of the assignment. This will make it easier to divide the task up into manageable chunks so you do not feel overwhelmed.
For example, if you have to do a 10 page research paper, write down each step: “Find five scholarly sources for the paper. Read the scholarly sources and pull out quotes. Outline the paper. Write each section of the paper, using the quotes from sources.”

, Lay out all the materials you are going to need to study. Make sure you have all the required textbooks and reading materials. Have your study notes from class nearby. If you like to record your teacher’s lectures to refer to later, have the recordings ready and accessible. This way, you will have everything you need to dive into studying.You may create separate folders for each subject or class you are taking. Then, you can pull out the applicable folder and stack of study materials when it is time for you to study for that subject or class.
 Organize your time smartly so you can stay focused and prepared. Make a study plan that outlines when you are going to study for each class or subject. Break your study time by hour or half an hour. Label each hour or half an hour so you know exactly what you will be studying at any given time. This will help you stay on track and ensure you are prepared when you sit down to study.For example, you may write down on your study plan for Monday: “Review terms for 30 minutes for test on Wednesday” or “Go over class notes for 1 hour for quiz tomorrow.”

