 What gear you select will depend primarily on the wilderness climate you're concerned about. For instance, if rain is a concern, consider packing a poncho, and ensure that your moisture-sensitive gear is stored in a waterproof container.


If heat and sunburn are concerns, pack sunscreen, a pair of sunglasses, and as much extra drinking water as you can manage.
If you are worried about colder temperatures, packing a spare hat, scarf, and gloves or mittens would be a good idea.
In any survival scenario, packing a change of clothes can be valuable, especially if you become wet. A small bag of spare clothes can also serve as a pillow, should you need one.
 While not a necessity if you do not anticipate needing a kit for longer than a day or two, bringing a shelter of some kind can be a great comfort in the wilderness (especially if it rains). While camping tents offer excellent shelter, they can be quite bulky to pack. Look for compact models designed for backpackers.With a little know how, you can use a tarp, cord or rope, and some structural material such as sticks to make a tent. Since a folded up tarp often takes up far less room than a disassembled tent, this option can save you a lot of space in your kit. Get plenty of practice using the technique beforehand, though.
 Wool blankets are warm, durable, and highly water resistant. While not a necessity in all survival scenarios, having access to a wool blanket can be a great comfort, especially if you find that you must sleep in the wilderness for one or multiple nights.


While many survival experts prefer wool, other options are available. So-called "space blankets" are another popular choice. These metallic foil blankets are excellent insulators, and will do a great job keeping you warm.
A compact sleeping bag is another useful addition to a survival kit, although they typically require more room to store than a simple blanket.
 While not as necessary as water for your survival in the short term, having a small supply of non-perishable food can provide you with the energy you may need should you need to spend more than a day or two in the wilderness. Canned food is a popular choice, but dried foods may be a better option, since they are typically much lighter weight. Here are some good options:Meat jerky, or meatless jerky substitute for vegetarians.
Dried fruit.
Nuts or trail mix.
Protein bars.
Pre-prepared, "just add water", dried meals are also available.
 While not strictly-speaking necessary, a container in which to boil water or cook food may be useful to you. Boiling water is a good method for disinfecting water, and having access to hot water can make bathing and dealing with cold temperatures easier. If you decide to pack a cooking pot, make sure you will have a way of safely handling it when hot. Metal handles will become very hot over an open fire, and you should be careful not to burn yourself.
 If you know how to read a map and use a compass to navigate, these tools can be invaluable, allowing you to make your way towards safety. Be sure to get plenty of practice with these skills before you enter a wilderness survival situation.


Even without a map, a compass can help you travel in a consistent direction, instead of walking around in circles.
 If you are preparing a large survival kit, such as one intended for storing in a vehicle rather than carried on your person, you might consider packing a couple larger tools, such as a hatchet. Your choice of tools should be informed by what conditions you expect to encounter.


If you expect to need to gather and use firewood, a hatchet or axe might be useful.
Making tent poles from small trees or branches is greatly assisted by having access to a folding saw.
A shovel can assist you in digging fire pits, or preparing flat ground to sleep on.

