 A conversation, or "thread", is a collection of emails based on the subject. When you send out an email, any replies you get from any of the recipients are grouped together in one conversation. Likewise, if you reply to an email that you receive, a new conversation is created.


A conversation is like a forum thread, where all relevant replies are kept in one location.
Conversations are different than bundles. A bundle is a designated collection of emails that share the same label. A conversation is a collection of all the replies to a single message. You can have multiple conversations in a single bundle.
The number of replies in a conversation are indicated by (#) next to the names of the people in the conversation.
 When you open a conversation, it will usually show the first message as well as the last reply. If you have several messages in a conversation, they will be collapsed in the middle. The circled number will indicate the number of collapsed replies. Click this number to expand the conversation and see all of the replies.
 When viewing a whole conversation, you are just shown the first few lines of each message. Click a message in the conversation to expand it and view the entire thing.
 When you reply to a conversation, by default you are replying to everyone that the mail was initially sent to. Keep this in mind if you are trying to tell something privately to just one of the participants.
 Click the message in the conversation that you want to reply directly to. You will only be replying to the sender of that message, not everyone involved in the conversation.


Click the open message's menu button, which looks like three stacked dots.
Select "Reply" from the menu to reply directly to the sender.
 If you are done reading a conversation, click anywhere outside of the conversation to collapse it back into a single entry.
 When you are done with a conversation, click the Checkmark button at the top to hide the entire conversation from your inbox. You can still find the conversation later in the Done section, or in whatever label may be applied to it.

