 Avoid rushing in to work by taking a few extra minutes in the morning for your commute. By taking more time, you won’t need to hurry and therefore won’t start the day trying to catch your breath.
 External communications like emails and phone calls take up more work time than ever before.With instant communications, workers feel more pressure to respond immediately to issues that arise at a moment’s notice. In addition, working in open-plan offices can make it more difficult to get the space you need to focus on a task. When you’re inundated with requests for your attention, take steps to eliminate, redirect or postpone some of them.


Close your office door when you need to focus. If someone comes by your desk to chat, tactfully let them know that you have a pressing deadline and you can’t chat now.Develop a policy about which emails need to be answered immediately and which can wait. For example, you probably will answer emails from your boss immediately, but emails about contributing to the departmental silent auction can wait.
 You may strive to maintain a high level of productivity all day, but you can refresh your thinking and energy by taking breaks throughout the day. Stretch your legs, get some fresh air, and take a short break from your work., Figure out which things you absolutely have to do at both work and home. Determine which things are not necessary and eliminate them from your schedule.Don’t schedule things so that every moment of your day is taken up. Give yourself time to take breaks. This will also help create a buffer in case a certain activity takes longer than you thought.
 When your job is demanding and you want to perform well, it’s difficult to say no. You might feel like you need to be available all the time, answering emails after work and on the weekends. Maintaining a balance, however, will help reduce stress so that you don’t feel like you’re working all the time.Try making rules for yourself about what you won’t do at home, such as not answering work emails or phone calls during off hours.

