 Chemical weed killers containing glyphosate are an easy way to kill unwanted Wild Rose, but you do need to be very careful not to let it impact the plants that you don’t want to remove.


Some chemical weed killers will linger in the soil so chose your weed killer carefully if you want to replant in the area soon after.
Also make sure you choose a weed killer effective for use on woody plants.;
, Late summer is the best time to apply weed killer to Wild Rose bushes. It’s always best to remove the bushes before the hips set (in late summer or fall).


Choose a still day so the wind doesn’t spread your chemicals. Also try to pick a dry day with no rain forecast so rain doesn’t wash the weed killer away.
It’s recommended that you avoid digging up plants in the winter as the ground can be harder to work with.
 It’s best to read the instructions for whatever brand of weed killer you buy in order to find out the recommended method. However, in most cases you can use the following approach when using a weed killer:


Protect other plants and the ground as required, perhaps using plastic sheeting. Wear protective clothing and gloves and consider using eyewear. Exclude children and animals from the area
Spray the bush with the chemicals, making sure you saturate the base of the bush and the stem. Wait a few weeks for it to take effect. Re-apply if necessary.
 Some chemical weed killers are marketed as stump killers. These work best over the colder months when the sap isn’t rising (usually November – March).


To use a stump killer, prune off the branches and then saw the main stem of the bush down to a few inches from the ground. Apply the stump killer to the fresh cut wood.
This will only work on living wood so if the bush is already dead or the stem you are applying it to is brown and dried out, it won’t have the effect of killing the rest of the bush.
You may need to drill holes into the stem to get the chemicals to penetrate if it doesn’t seem to work the first time.
 Chemical weed killers should kill a plant right down to the roots so it cannot regrow even if the roots are left in the soil. However, you should avoid removing the bush for several weeks to ensure the chemicals have spread right through the plant’s root structure.


You will probably want to remove the dead plant after the weed killer has done its job. This is to prevent the dead stump from becoming an eyesore or trip hazard.
As the dead stump won’t break down very quickly in the soil, you’ll want to remove the bulk of it in before you can replant the area. A mattock will help you to remove the root crown and stump from the ground a few weeks after treating with the weed killer.
 Some people will advise you to use household chemicals such as salt, vinegar or bleach to kill roses. However, this is not recommended as these chemicals are likely to contaminate the soil, making it difficult to cultivate the area later. Instead you should use branded chemicals intended for garden use such as Roundup.

