 Find photographs of your favorite flowers so you have lots of time to study their make-up, color, and special qualities. All the while, look past the obvious to see the flower's structure. This is an exercise in simplifying the flowers' forms to see them as lines (stems) and common shapes: circles, ovals, shields, daggers, etc.
;
, What all-over shape do you want the garden to have: curved symmetrical, random, or on levels? Will the taller flowers be off to one side or scattered throughout? Will the smaller ones be in rows? How will your choice of colors create drama? Would intricate flowers be highlighted next to simpler ones? Could a favorite object such as a statue be employed as a centerpiece or a focal point? Will flowering trees or branches from a shrub be visible at the edges of your picture's plane?

, Reduce the blossoms to simple geometric shapes and, for the moment, eliminate details and color. For example, a rose is basically round and the layers and rows of inner petals can be shown as a few, wiggly crescent-shaped lines converging at the center.
 The broad petals can be depicted with long curved lines from top to bottom. Use a double line whether the stem is thick, or spindly to allow room to paint it. The tulip's spiked leaves begin at the base of the stem and flare slightly at the top.
 They are called a "radial" type of flower because they are round and petals radiate out from the center.
 Start by outlining the basic shape of the blossom, round for hydrangeas and elongated for lilacs.  Within that shape, make many smaller circles for individual flowers. Divide each tiny flower into small petals and at the center of each flower make another small circle which can later be colored to define it.
 When divided into sections, this outer circle becomes the petals. It is a good idea to make the correct number of petals for any given flower, so check references. Note how some petals curl backward.
 The edges of the flaring trumpet can be curved or ruffled. Deep inside the center of the trumpet are long, thin strands which often release specks of pollen onto the petals.
 Tiny flowers and statice or baby's breath, make nice fillers for your design.
 Dogwood, apple, and cherry blossoms are delicate, round flowers growing from a small stem off a branch. The dogwood has four petals with an indentation at the top center. Cherry blossoms are pale pink and apple blossoms white.
 Try not to be obsessive about perfection, though. Save your materials by starting an Art File and use them for future reference., You will be creating an imaginary garden, by celebrating the flowers' shapes and colors regardless of whether it realistically makes a whole lot of sense. This is called employing "artistic license" and following the laws of design rather than the bounds of nature. This satisfying painting lets you forget about mulching, hoeing and weeding because it is a work of art, not of nature., Use an ordinary pencil to lightly sketch your flowers according to what appeals to you and what looks good on paper. Compose freely and creatively. For added interest, you might put some of the flowers in pots, ornamental planters, or hanging baskets. Add height using a trellis or strings to support climbing varieties of flower., Or squeeze tube paints around the edge of your palette, keeping the center clean for mixing your colors. Take whatever colors you think you'll need, but always put the primary and secondary colors out, as well as brown. Select small and medium round brushes and a 1/2" flat. Add paper napkins or sheets from a roll of paper towels and a container of water.
 Watercolor pencils and water soluble crayons to cover larger areas are a joy to work with. Possibly, use a combination of watercolor pencils, water soluble crayons, and watercolor paints. With the dry media, just draw normally and wet the area with a brush and clear water to, magically, turn it into paint.
 There is no right or wrong place to start, so just jump in.  , Pencil in a shape for a particular flower, then fill the whole shape with that flower. Move to another shape and fill it with a different flower. Use different shaped flowers and contrasting colors for richness and to carry the viewer's eye throughout the painting., Work those greens by making the leaves and stems different shapes and colors.
 Add a touch of drama with a cat and some birds. You might incorporate a water feature and lily pads with waterlilies and a lazy frog sunning himself., Yellow, exemplifies sunshine. Multi-colors look like sunrise or sunset. Just try to keep the background colors sheer and vibrant. Wipe with a tissue or dab out areas for fluffy clouds, if you wish.
  Set it up and study it to see what areas need more "oomph". Then, return to the painting and add notes of slightly deeper values or shades of the same or complementary colors to the parts where needed. This is also the time to add another sheer layer of color in places that dried lighter than you'd hoped.

