 If you're a single college student, you'll obviously need a different kind of apartment than a married mother of two. Take a quick inventory of your lifestyle, income and spatial requirements. Housing is everywhere, so narrowing down your expectations for the right apartment will save you considerable headache once it's time to choose a place., If there's a particular area where you would prefer to live, take a look at apartments there first and work your way outward. Think about what kind of commute you'll be making to your workplace or school. The apartment that's the best fit for you may not be in the immediate vicinity of these places, or there may be other factors, like distance from a major highway or interstate or access to public transportation, worth looking into.A good location will also be marked by a proximity to nearby restaurants and shopping centers, and any other businesses or conveniences that you make use of on a daily basis.
 Will you be living with a roommate, child or spouse? Do you work from home and require a home office setup? Are you a no-fuss, high efficiency single occupant? Apartments typically offer 1-4 rooms, and the size and style will vary depending on the complex. Get a general sense of how your belongings would fit in a given space. If you have a pet, you may also want to make sure that the apartment you choose has a dog park, courtyard or patios on the premises in case you need to take it out.Picture how your furniture and other belongings might work in the space you're renting. If the apartment you end up renting is on the smaller side, you may need to get rid of a few things or get creative with your arrangement.
Know the apartment's policy on pets. There will probably be an extra monthly fee or an addition to your deposit associated with pet ownership., Most rental properties have a section on their websites where current and previous tenants can share what they like and dislike about their apartments. Do a little digging to see what people are saying about the apartments you're interested in renting. Pay particular attention to what reviewers say about the condition of the units, living in the area and the quality of management. This could be just the push you need to sign a lease, or it might be a dealbreaker if there are too many significant issues.


Certain points of apartment reviews can also give you an idea of things to look out for once you get around to taking a walkthrough of the property.
Websites like apartments.com making it easy to quickly search apartment reviews in your area. Don't disregard negative reviews that make mention of peculiar problems or matters of dispute. You're trying to learn about the apartment, its general upkeep and the involvement of its managerial staff. Other tenants' opinions may reflect on that complex more than it first seems.
 It can be tempting to want to live in an apartment just beyond your financial reach, but resist the urge. Be realistic: remember that rent and utilities are due every month, and be certain you can afford them. Higher rent doesn't always equal better living, and vice versa. Don't hesitate to look at multiple properties in the same price range--it's likely that you'll find a well-rounded apartment that matches all your major criteria.It's probably better to err on the side of caution when it comes to knowing if a given rent quote is too high. If you're struggling to pay rent and unexpected circumstances arise, you might be in danger of failing to fulfill the terms of the lease.
Sometimes the reason rent at a particular apartment might be higher is due to on-site amenities or conveniences of the areas. Know how to spot these factors. If you can live without extra luxuries, you might be able to find a place just as nice for less expense.
 Refer to pay stubs, bank statements and tax documents to get an idea of how much you make over the course of a month or pay cycle. Deduct all known expenses, such as food and fuel costs and other bills. Be sure that you can pay your rent and other bills every month and keep a little left over as a safety net.Always set aside money for rent and utilities first. You can take care of your other bills later--having a place to live is the most important thing.
 If you have a spouse or adult roommate you'll be sharing your apartment with, discuss whether you can both contribute to the rent payment to make it easier. This will be especially useful for younger tenants who are juggling school and work or don't make as much money.Rent is customarily divided up equally based on number of bedrooms, but leases can be negotiated so that tenants can pay any amount as long as the rent total is being paid.
Having a cosigner (someone with an established line of credit who can subsidize your rent if necessary) in place can help alleviate the cost of rent.
 In some cases, an apartment complex might offer new tenants special deals as an incentive for living there. These incentives can be pretty sizable, like a reduced deposit fee or rent-free first month. As it gets quite expensive to find a new apartment and take the necessary steps to move in, it can pay to take advantage of these specials if the apartment you're looking at is advertising them., Call or visit the apartment's leasing office and request a walkthrough. Most properties give guided tours that allow potential lessees to take a closer look at the apartment and complex grounds. Take the time to view every apartment that might be the right fit for you. This can be time-consuming, but it should be a non-negotiable step, as you'll want a chance to survey each property firsthand.Come up with questions to ask the property manager about the apartment during the walkthrough. This can include questions about the unit itself, services offered by the complex, and the surrounding neighborhood, as well as any misgivings you may have about living there.
 Not all apartments are outfitted the same. With some apartments you're renting just the space itself; others might come completely furnished. Once again, consider your individual needs. It can be a great convenience to rent an apartment that comes with a dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator or washer/dryer included.Renting an apartment that comes equipped with the major appliances can save you money on having to purchase them yourself and can make other tasks such as cooking and doing laundry cheaper and more expedient.
 Inspect each apartment carefully and look for potential problems. The apartment will have been cleaned and fixed up to make it presentable for showings, so you'll have to have a thorough eye. Make a note of any structural defects, old or broken appliances, plumbing issues, etc. The leasing agent will likely downplay the severity of the problem or offer to have it repaired, but it may be a sign that you're better off looking elsewhere.New carpeting or a fresh coat of paint can hide signs of age. Scrutinize each feature of the apartment closely, testing appliances where you can.
Something as small as worn or incorrectly-installed weather stripping could drive up your cost of living in the winter by forcing you to keep the heat running at a higher temperature.
 Once you think you're ready to make a move on an apartment, check the lease agreement. The leasing paperwork will lay out all the bylaws set by the property owners as well as the legal obligations of the lessee, so make sure you understand what you're signing before you put your name on anything. Sometimes, certain passages of the lease will be negotiable or subject to change. Ask plenty of questions so that you know what you're getting and make the process of securing your ideal apartment as smooth as possible.If you're not sure about certain provisions in your lease, ask the leasing agent or apartment manager for help explaining it. Usually, these people are required by law to provide detailed information to prospective lessees, and they'll want to be just as sure that you understand the particulars of the agreement you're signing.

