 Don’t keep your kids in the dark when it comes to dating someone new. Let your children know that you’re dating and that your partner has children. If and when it comes time for your children to meet your partner’s children, they should be prepared without making any last-minute discoveries, especially involving other children. This may make them feel threatened. Children don’t want to be left in the dark about important things, so let them know what’s ahead.Talk to your kids about dating someone that has kids. You may want to tell your kids about them or show them pictures of who they will meet.
Speak with your children individually to inform them of your relationship and any future plans you may have. Children want to be told the truth, but you may wish to give older children more information than younger children.
Be sure to keep the lines of communication open as well. Your children might not have questions right away, but let them know that they can come to you to talk or ask questions at any time.
 Kids may begin to feel jealous of you if you’re spending time with someone else. They may begin to resent the person you are dating for taking you away. Help to calm your children’s fears by spending time with them. While it may be easy to get wrapped up in your new relationship, set aside time to spend with your kids and assure them that they are a priority.Spend one-on-one time with each individual child. Assure them that you love them and that nobody is intentionally trying to harm or hurt them.
 If you’re spending time with your partner’s children, let them take the lead in your relationship. Don’t force a relationship with your partner’s kids, and also don’t force your own kids to form a relationship with your partner. Don’t force hugs or kisses or any kind of physical affection and let the children initiate affection on their own terms.Try teaching your kids appropriate greetings, such as shaking hands and introducing themselves.
Make time spent with their kids enjoyable and vice versa. Plan activities that the kids will enjoy so that they look forward to spending time with you or your partner.
 If your children are older or your partner’s children are older, make invitations for them to get to know your partner. If you’re focusing much effort on having your child accept your partner, you might push too hard and push them away. Provide opportunities for your teen or adult children to get to know your partner on their own terms, and encourage your partner to do the same.For example, say, “Jamie is coming over for dinner tonight. You’re welcome to eat with us if you’d like to join. I won't pressure you, but it would mean a lot to me." This last statement is helpful because otherwise it might sound like you're including them as an afterthought.

