 Before you take any enzyme supplements, talk to your doctor about how these supplements will work for your body. According to natural health practitioners, enzyme supplements help the lymph system to break down complex fats and proteins and aids the digestive system.You can take digestive enzymes with your meals and take systemic proteolytic enzymes between meals.
Proteolytic enzymes are the primary tools your body uses to digest organic debris in your circulatory and lymph systems. Supplementing this improves your body’s ability to do this.
Proteolytic enzymes also help to remove Circulating Immune Complexes (CICs) from your body. As CICs accumulate in your body, they can trigger an allergic response from your immune system and overwhelm it. Taking proteolytic enzyme supplements eases this burden on your body and frees up your immune system to do its real work: prevent disease and illness.
 There is no scientific evidence that cleanses benefit your overall health. But some natural health practitioners believe a cleanse can help to activate your lymph system and flush out other toxins in your body.Try a three day cleanse if you have never done a cleanse before and are looking to clean out your lymph system. Three days is considered the minimum time it takes to flush out your lymph system. One week prior to the cleanse, try to adhere to a meat free, flourless and sugar-free diet. One or two days before the flush, eat only raw fruits, seeds, nuts, sprouts, and vegetables.Choose one juice you’d like to drink for the full three days: apple, grape, or carrot. The only other juice you’ll be drinking during the cleanse is prune juice.
In the morning, have one glass of water, followed by 8-10 ounces of prune juice, mixed with the juice of one lemon. This will promote bowel movement. Sip the juice slowly and chew it so it mixes well with your saliva.
Drink alternating glasses of your chosen juice and filtered water all day until you have consumed close to 1 gallon of juice and 1 gallon of water. You can add lemon juice to the water or the juice.
Mix together 1 tablespoon wheat germ, flax seed, or borage, 1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar, 1 teaspoon kelp or dulse powder, and ¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper. Drink this 1-3 times a day.
By the end of each day, you should consume 2 gallons of liquid. You can also consume anti-microbial herbs like garlic and echinacea. Your bowels should be eliminated each day. If your bowels are sluggish, drink another glass of prune juice with lemon before bed to stimulate them.
During the three day detox, it’s important to stimulate your lymph system with 30 minutes - 1 hours of exercise. But if you feel tired during the cleanse, don’t push yourself too hard. As toxins are released from your body, you may experience physical side effect such as nausea, headache, backache, or dizziness. These symptoms are a sign of the toxins being eliminated from your body and should lessen after the first day of the cleanse.
 Natural health practitioners think some herbs, such as echinacea, goldenseal, red clover, poke root, and licorice root, can enhance lymphatic function. These herbs also strip away layers of debris from your lymph system’s filtering system. Look for cleanses at your local health food store. Avoid using these cleanses for extended periods of time, no more than 7-10 days.Echinacea is also theorized to help the immune system work better.
If you are on other medications, speak to your doctor or a herbalist before you try an herbal cleanse. You should avoid herbal teas and herbal cleanses if you are pregnant or lactating.

