 If you're hanging a notably heavy picture, you should locate a stud in the wall and prepare to hang the picture there.For most average, medium weight pictures, though, you should be able to use nearly any space on the wall.


Once you know where you plan on hanging the picture, use a tape measure to determine where the screw will go. Measure where the picture loop is on the back of the frame, then measure out the same dimensions on the wall.
After you have determined where the screw will go, lightly mark that location with an "X" using a pencil.
 Place the tape on the wall so that this hole lies over the "X" on your wall.


The painter's tape will provide an additional guide for you when you drill the hole into your wall.
 Ripe off a slightly longer strip of painters tape and fold it in half lengthwise, with the non-adhesive side folded in. Stick one half of this tape to the wall, just a little below the "X."


The other half of the tape should lie roughly perpendicular to your wall, sticky side up. The adhesive on your mock shelf should catch most of the dust and debris that you'll produce when you drill into the wall, making the clean up process much simpler later on. Strictly speaking, this step is not entirely necessary, but it can be a big help.
This tape shelf should be about 4 inches (10 cm) long or so, and positioned about 2 inches (5 cm) below the hole in your wall.
 Check the instructions on the back of your package of screws and anchors to determine how big the drill bit should be. Then, use this drill bit an an electric drill to drill into the "X" on your wall.


For an average set of wall anchors, you will usually need 1 3/16 drill bit.
The drill bit will usually need to be just a fraction smaller than the anchor you plan on using. Again, though, it is best to follow the recommendation on the back of the wall anchor package when selecting the right bit.
The drill will stop moving inward when it hits the end of the plaster. If it starts moving more slowly at some point, you may have hit a layer of lath beneath the plaster. You can drill into this layer slightly without causing much harm, but you should stop drilling once you feel it.
Drill as straight and cleanly as possible. The side of your hole should be the size of your drill bit and no larger.
 Place the anchor directly over the hole in your wall. Tap the anchor into the hole, using just enough force to drive it in without bending the anchor or cracking the wall.


Remove the tape covering your hole before hammering the anchor inside.
If your hole is not large enough, a plastic anchor will bend. If the anchor starts bending, you should take it out and make the hole a little larger. The anchor needs to be snug and straight inside the wall.
Note that the anchor should also be flush with the wall.
Wall anchors consist of a sleeve that expands into the wall once you drive a screw into it. As a result, the screw will sit more securely inside the wall. This sleeve also minimizes the amount of stress put on the plaster.
Plastic anchors are among the most common and will usually suffice for this project. Note that there are also anchors made from fiber, wood, and metal, however, so you have a range of options to choose from., Place the screw in the hole of your anchor and use a screwdriver to wind it in. Do not make the head flush against the wall, though. Instead, let a small portion of the screw stick out.


Since using a screwdriver can require considerable strength, you could opt to use your drill, instead. Make sure that you have the right size drill bit on it and work slowly to prevent the screw from driving too deep into the wall.
The screw should jut out from the wall by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
 Carefully fold up your tape shelf to collect the dust, then remove it completely. Wipe away any stray dust from the wall or floor.


Most of the dust and debris should be on your tape. Fold the tape inward, sealing the dust inside the exposed adhesive. If you work carefully, you might be able to avoid spilling debris anywhere else.
Use a dry cloth the wipe off any dust that does get on the wall and a broom or vacuum to get any debris off the floor.
 The screw should be able to support your picture now. Rest the wire or loop at the back of your photo frame on the portion of the wall screw still sticking out.


This step should complete the process.

