 If you don't have a sifter, use a fork or small whisk to break up any clumps so that it is an even powder throughout.;
, You can adjust this to taste, adding another pinch for a slightly saltier pasta, but don't add less. Salt, in small quantities, is a flavor enhancer, bringing out the richness of the eggs. Whisk to mix in evenly.
 Clear a small hole with your fingers in the middle of the flour to make a cone-shaped well. This will make it easy to mix the wet ingredients into the dough evenly. Then add your egg.


Want a richer pasta? Add more egg yolk and less whole egg. This will develop a deeper yellow color and the richness some people crave with egg noodles.
 As you whisk, you'll notice the flour slowly adding in as the fork catches the edges of the well. Keep making bigger and bigger swipes to get more and more flour into the egg, then pause about halfway through.
 You want to mix until you have a shaggy, loose dough. Depending on your environment, you may need more water, adding more if it is dry and less if it is humid. Your goal is this loose, shaggy, Play-Doh-like dough., Take the dough and fold it on itself, then press firmly into the top with the heel of your hand to kneed it. Rotate the dough and repeat this 4-5 more times. You'll know the dough is ready when it comes to the texture of wet Play-DohTM. If you don't quite like the texture of the dough, you can adjust now:



Dough is too sticky: add a tablespoon more flour, sprinkled evenly, as you kneed.

Dough is too dry: add a touch of water, slowly, and kneed in. The dough should be a little wet.
 This allows the glutens to relax, leading to a more tender noodle This will make it easier for you to work, as well. Leave it in a cool, dry place.


In a rush, this step is optional. Still, even 20 minutes will make the dough easier to work with., Sprinkle a few tablespoons of flour onto your rolling surface. This will keep the noodle dough from sticking to your work surface., Try and keep the ball of dough at least vaguely rectangular, allowing you to cut out nice long noodles. Keep rolling until the dough is almost paper thin-- when held up with your fingers, you should be able to see the outline of your fingers peeking through the dough.If you want thicker egg noodles, so be it! There is nothing that says you can't have big, beefy noodles.
 Be quick yet firm with the cutter, getting nice long, even noodles. Many cooks then cut all the noodles in half to make them easier to cook and eat.
 This should only be 2-3 minutes as fresh noodles cook incredibly quickly. After the finish, drain immediately and serve.