 Do this every single day without fail. It soon becomes a ritual rather than a hassle. If you've gotten used to sitting around in the dark, try to remind yourself that you're no vampire and that humans need light and fresh air streaming in.;
, Dull and dirty windows block a good flow of light. They're also unsightly, so do yourself a favor and wash them. There's no need for expensive window cleaners; vinegar and newspaper will do the trick.
 If your budget stretches a little more, consider renovating. Installing larger windows or French doors can help bring in a lot of light, especially into rooms where there are inadequate windows already. Also think about adding windows to a side of the house that has none; this can make an amazing difference.
 If new windows are not a real possibility or won't make much of a difference, consider whether a skylight might improve the light stream for your home. Skylights come in a wide variety of types, suitable for different roofs, rooms, and budgets. Even places that don't seem like they could ever be lit by natural sun can benefit from clever skylights that force light through twisty pipes.
 Light colored paint can reflect the light and radiate it out through the room more than dark colors. Dark walls tend to soak up light, adding to the sensation of dreariness. Fine for a cozy den but probably not for the family room and kitchen.
 Thick, opaque, square glass bricks can make great designer walls that allow light to brighten an area. Such a wall can be a useful internal divider where you don't want the sense of light to be broken but you'd like a division of some solidity.
 Look for blinds that can be kept down for the sake of privacy but that continue to let light through them. While these blinds are often dark in color, they are amazing in their ability to still let the light through, while you can watch TV unnoticed inside!

, Some places in the world receive more sunlight than others. If you're always suffering from seasonal affective disorder (SAD), a move to a sunnier clime might improve your outlook on life. While this is a big change, it could be the one you need. When purchasing a new home, be sure to check it for its light quality at various times of the day.
