 For perhaps the widest variety of design and color options, go with paver stones. Anticipate the upfront cost to be higher than most other materials, but consider it an investment. Once it’s installed, expect it to last a good 30 to 40 years, with lower upkeep costs than most other materials.With the wide range of designs and colors, you can create even more visual appeal by planning patterns to your driveway. For instance, you can alternate between a handful of differently styled stones throughout the driveway, or create distinctive shapes within it, like white swirls or circles in an otherwise black driveway.;
, Instead of paving your driveway with solid stones, blend your lawn and driveway together by using porous pavers instead. Plant grass or other vegetation in the holes drilled out from each one. Reap the best of both worlds with a durable driveway that doesn’t entirely obscure the natural landscape underneath.This is a particularly good idea if excessive runoff from rainfall is a concern for your property, since these allow water to be absorbed directly into the ground instead of draining elsewhere.
 Punch up your property’s appearance with this colorful material. Select between a variety of colors and shades ranging in richness. Make your driveway even more eye-catching by using alternating patterns, such as creating borders with bricks placed lengthwise while filling the space in between with bricks placed widthwise.Like pavers, bricks are one of the more costly materials to install, but they are also highly durable and require only moderate maintenance, so most of the cost is upfront.
 If you love the look of brick, but feel daunted by the upfront cost, don’t worry. Instead of using the real thing, pave your driveway with asphalt that has been designed to imitate brick’s appearance. Save approximately half the money that it would take to lay down a real brick driveway while still gaining its curb appeal.Although the cost of installing asphalt is lower than brick, keep in mind that it will require resealing every few years, so you will need to budget for regular maintenance., To add a more rustic feel to your home, opt for gravel. Choose between a wide variety of colors to accent your home’s exterior paint. However, be aware that the cost of upkeep for a gravel driveway could negate the initial savings of this low-cost material, since the gravel will remain loose and could therefore be displaced over time.Gravel is a better option if you live in a relatively dry climate with little to no heavy precipitation. If your area receives heavy and/or frequent snow or rain, you’re more likely to lose a substantial amount over time.
Similarly, if your driveway is steeply graded, the gravel is more likely to wash away as water pushes it downward.
 If you like the idea of loose gravel, but want to add a more nautical touch to your driveway, go with shells. Select between a variety of natural shades ranging from off-white to darker tones and colors like gray or brown. If you’re concerned about the environment, be sure to research the sourcing of the products you find to make sure they’re sourced responsibly. Varieties include:Clam
Oyster
Scallop

