 Location is the key factor that commands higher rent. People are generally willing to do without certain amenities if the property is in a convenient and popular location.If the property is near schools, it may be more valuable to families with children.
Students may be willing to pay more for rental units within walking distance to local colleges.
Renters also tend to be willing to pay more for units near public transportation.
 Renters are willing to pay more for certain conveniences and comforts. For example, rental properties go for higher rent in planned developments with attractive facilities. Desirable features can make one property command a higher rent than a comparable property without them.Pools and tennis courts make rental units more attractive and can increase their rental value. In fact, any outdoor space, such as a balcony or deck, makes a unit more attractive to renters.
Renters also are willing to pay for readily available or covered parking, especially in urban areas. Renters prefer off-street parking, but nearby on-street parking can also appeal to renters.
Renters want convenient laundry facilities. If laundry facilities are in the building, or preferably in the unit, the renters will be willing to pay more.
 The size and layout of the unit affects the rental value. Also, quality tenants are willing to pay top dollar for contemporary design elements. In addition, high-end finishes and appliances command higher rents.The square footage affects the rental value. If a renter sees a 700 square foot one-bedroom apartment and a 1,000 square foot one-bedroom apartment, she will likely be more attracted to the larger one and be willing to pay more.
The floor level is important to renters. You can charge more for units on higher floors than for ground-level units, especially if there is an elevator. However, if the property is a walk-up, you may need to charge less rent for the higher floors because tenants will be less willing to climb the stairs.
A washer and dryer in the unit appeals to most renters. Tenants will be willing to pay for the convenience and privacy of having their own washer and dryer that they don’t have to share with their neighbors. If you don’t want to purchase a washer and dryer, at least think about installing washer dryer hookups so tenants can bring their own appliances.
Most tenants expect air conditioning, especially in areas with hot and humid weather conditions. Renters will be willing to pay more for central air conditioning than a property with window units.
Offer free wireless internet. Renters expect the convenience of wireless internet, and quality tenants will be attracted to properties that offer this service.
The layout of the unit affects the rental value. Renters love an open floor plan. A unit with an open floor plan looks bigger and will command a higher rent than one without it.
Renters are willing to pay for hardwood floors. If you can boast that your property has hardwood floors, you will be ahead of the competition.
Tenants need lots of storage space. They will be willing to pay higher rent for a property with extra closets, especially walk-in closets.
 For example, when the economy is bad, the demand for rental properties increases because people don’t want to purchase homes. This means that you can charge more for your rental properties. Conversely, when demand for rental properties declines, you must charge less to continue to attract tenants.Also, if you rent seasonally, the rental price you can charge will increase during the peak season. It will decrease during the off season.
Think about the type of lease you can offer (month-to-month, a fixed end date, fixed number of months, option to purchase, etc.) and what type of impact this might have on who is willing to rent.
You can charge more for short term leases than long term leases. For example, you can charge $1000 month to month or $900 a month if the tenant signs a lease for a year. Generally, it is acceptable to change the lease based on the terms of the contract, so long as all applicants are quoted the same terms and prices.
There is a limit on how much you can charge for a deposit. If your deposit is too high, you may have trouble attracting renters.
When determining the deposit, consider the risk factor of the applicant. Factors to consider include credit score, former rental history, income, and any criminal history. For example, an applicant with a good credit score should receive a lower deposit than one with a poor credit score.

