 It does not hurt to reinforce the rules that you have set, either by having periodic conversations with your babysitter about social media use or by casually mentioning it in a conversation.Do not accuse the babysitter if you have no evidence of them sharing on social media, but do let them know these rules are serious. You can say something like:


“I just want to remind you that we’re not very comfortable with information about our family being posted online.”
“The pictures you sent of the kids was adorable. You’re not posting these online, right?”
“Have fun with the kids tonight. Remember, no phones or computers before they go to bed.”

, If you know the babysitter well enough, you might send a friend request to them on social media. This will help you monitor what they post while they are babysitting. Remember that if you do this, the babysitter will also be able to see your profile and account, so be absolutely certain that you are comfortable friending them.Some babysitters might be uncomfortable with this. This does not mean that they are hiding something; rather, they want to protect their own privacy. In this situation, you can say, “I understand. I just hope that you will protect our children’s privacy in the same way.”

, If you don’t feel comfortable watching the babysitter’s social media accounts, you might also see if your children can tell you what the babysitter is up to. You might ask the children how the babysitter was and what they did together.


If you want to be direct, you can even ask your children, “Was the babysitter on their phone a lot? Did you use their phone at all?”

, If you have caught the babysitter breaking the rules, you should determine how serious the infringement is. If they have posted one picture or mentioned something about the children online, you might decide to give them a warning.


You can say, “I know you posted a picture on Facebook. I just want to remind you that we are very serious about the social media boundaries that we have set, and we expect you not to do this in the future.”
You can also give them a gentle reminder, such as “You might not have realized this, but you left your location settings on Facebook, and everyone could see exactly where you were when you were babysitting.”

, If there are multiple infractions or the babysitter posts something seriously invasive, you might consider finding another babysitter. Examples of a serious situation might be the babysitter publically complaining about your family, the babysitter posting or skyping when they should be watching your children, or the babysitter continuing to post pictures after you have asked them to stop. Inform the babysitter that you are not comfortable with employing someone who has disrespected their boundaries.


If you gave them a written list of rules or if you have an employment contract, refer to it.Say, “I gave you these rules, and you agreed to them, yet you have continued to post things on social media that I am not comfortable with. I’m afraid I have to let you go.”
Inform the next babysitter why you fired the last one. You can say, “I had to fire the last babysitter because they broke my rules on social media use. These boundaries are very serious to me, and I hope that you will respect these rules.”

