 Hang out with her more often and try to get to know her closely. For now, be friends; she'll need to get to know you before you can ask her out. It's also good to get to know her too.
 Whether it's a simple, "Hey, how are you" or a "Did you do something with your hair? I like it", it's better than keeping silent and not saying a word. However, choose your topics wisely and avoid touchy subjects you know she'll be upset about. Ask questions about what she likes, but keep from asking too many or she may freak out. Add a little about yourself as well, but mostly keep the spotlight on her unless if she directs it to you!

, However, if she tends to sit with girls only, don't join them. Not only might she be embarrassed - and you as well - but it's an obvious sign that you are crushing on her. If you are unable to sit with her at lunch, try to get a seat near or next to her in class.
 If she drops her books or can't reach a certain item, offer your assistance. However, refrain from running around and helping her with every single thing - this will be exhausting for both you and her. Keep from labeling her as the helpless damsel; this will annoy her.
 Start a small conversation with her on the way, even if it's short! Every word matters in your sentences at this point, so be sure they have a purpose and will not offend her.
 Avoid inappropriate or corny jokes; these will not please her.
 One or two will do!

, Not only will this help boost both of your grades, but you might also get to know her better throughout the process. However, refrain from distracting her at this point; she may decide to choose someone else to do her homework with!

, If she doesn't, just give her a sweet hug - avoid clinging or squeezing on too tight. Not only will you be comforting her, but you will also be breaking the touch barrier!

, This will help form a big group that has both you and her in it! If you notice that she has a friend or two that always hangs around with her, start hanging out with them and bring a close friend along as well. This will help form a small group that has both you and her in it! Not only that, but small groups are easier to maneuver. Plus, they may go to more places to have fun at, such as fast-food restaurants, the movies, malls, etc. while big groups normally stay in the cafeteria. If you can, start a small group that has her and a few of her friends in it, as well as your friends!

