 It may help to nurse each twin individually in the early days of breastfeeding, when you and your babies are learning about latching on and positioning. This way you'll be able to spend a little more time and have extra hands to work with one baby at a time.Nursing your babies individually can also help you learn about each baby's nursing habits. This can help you when you begin to simultaneously breastfeed them.
 Consider setting a nursing schedule for your twins so you can get them on a feeding schedule. If your babies are very small, work with a doctor or lactation consultant to make a schedule that will give your babies enough milk. For example, you may set an alarm to go off every hour and a half so you know that it's time to feed your twins.A schedule can be helpful if you're so tired that you can't remember how long it's been since their last feeding.
If you'd like to follow your babies' hunger cues and feed them whenever their hungry, just keep track of when you feed them and how long they nursed.
 Create a space where you have all the things you'll need while breastfeeding. You should have easy access to anything you'd need during the feeding so you won't have to interrupt the feeding. Ensure that you're comfortable since you'll be spending a lot of time breastfeeding. Consider having these in your breastfeeding area:Nursing pillow and support pillows
Water bottles
Healthy snacks (such as granola bars, fruit, protein bars)
Things to read
Access to entertainment (such as a tablet, television, or laptop)
Music to listen to
Diapering supplies (if you need to quickly change one of the babies)

, Choose a nursing bra that you can easily unsnap or unclip with one hand in order to breastfeed. If you choose not to wear a nursing bra, consider wearing a comfortable top that gives you access to your breasts so you don't have to take off your entire top to breastfeed.For extra support, look for a nursing bra that contains an underwire. If you'll be simultaneously breastfeeding, ensure that you can easily access both breasts while wearing the bra.
 If you're concerned that your babies aren't latching on correctly, are difficult to position, or aren't getting enough milk, contact a lactation consultant. The lactation consultant can watch you breastfeed and identify any problems. They'll help you so that your babies are able to easily nurse on their own. Look for a board certified lactation consultant.Find out if your hospital or birth center offers lactation consultants to work with you. You may be able to drop in to a weekly nursing session or have someone come to your home.
You can also talk to other mothers of twins. Discuss breastfeeding challenges and tricks to make it work for you.

