 If he is dating another girl and she finds out you kissed him, that could get dramatic.;
, Sometimes girls have trouble figuring out if they really do have a crush on "him". This is the time you have to do some investigating. Make a "check list" of 12 things you want most out of your typical dream guy. Sneak around and see what he does, but don't stalk him. He has to have the exact or related things to your quality on that list. He must get a result of 6/12 or above, otherwise he's not really for you. But, if he turns out to be your typical guy, talk to him once in a while to feel comfortable around him for later. Make sure he is into you even if you have to play hard to get.
 Simple things like smiling at him are not so hard. If you're constantly doing that already, then you can go ahead and skip this step. Don't overdo it though. Technically, the trick here is to not flirt with him (yet). Give him hints for about a week or two and see what happens. Don't overdo this step.
 By now, he should start to show some signs he has some interest towards you as well. Don't assume this is going to happen right away, it may take some time for him to express it. If nothing happens at all, repeat step 3 until he does. Signs he might show are:


constant staring
touching you on the arm or shoulder (doesn't necessarily include tapping)
smiling, etc.
 Now that he's showing signs, you should become friends (unless your crush is already your friend, you can skip this step and move on). This should happen before he asks you out because, it might be so sudden, you might say "no" and he'll feel kind of upset and leave you alone for some time. So, to become friends with him, do the same as you did when you became friends with a guy you don't have a crush on. If your crush is showing signs, the best way to be friends with him is to start by sitting next to him at lunch and start a conversation and find things in common(ex: you're both sports fanatics). Hang out with him for about 2 weeks and eventually you're friends. What might happen is that he might lose interest in you. So to boost his interest up, it's time for you to move on to step 6.
 It's like giving him hints, but a tad bit more advanced; your hand on his hand, your head on his shoulder (if he doesn't mind), still smiling constantly and turning away when he notices, kinda teasing him from time to time, hug him when he meets up with you to talk, giggling or making short laughs any time he tries to make you laugh. Do this for 10-13 days or until he starts to do the same back at you.


Don't overdo it - keep it light. Flirting with him too much could make him uncomfortable.
 Mostly at this point, girls may get a little jumpy. Keep cool though. Don't make it seem like you're planning something. To make your "move", tell your crush to meet you somewhere you know personally that not a lot of people go (but not somewhere dangerous, like an alley). If you want to do this after school, you could invite him over to your house to do homework together, but you can also choose a place like the park or the beach; maybe even in the back of the school or in the school courtyard.


Meet him at a time when there aren't many people around, like 5 or 6 o'clock. This way there's not too many people around to see you and him, but make sure the place isn't completely empty, because you don't want to make him feel suspicious about what's going on.
 When you meet him at the location, greet him by giving him a quick hug. Tell him to sit somewhere (grass, bench, etc.). After a short period of time being quiet, start a small conversation about something that happened a few days ago. If he gets more interested in the story, he might say something to make you smile at the end. Otherwise he'll probably start talking about whatever he likes to talk about. If you didn't like the story too much or it didn't catch your interest, tell another story and if he ends it with a really nice line, say something that might make him look at you and smile. If it does work, look at him and smile back. Try locking the gaze into a stare. Hold it long it enough to make him fade out his smile. Fade out your smile too to make it seem you lost control of yourself. Now he is under your spell. Move over a 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) closer to him. If he moves forward too it means he's interested in what's happening. If he scoots backward and looks to his side, he's signaling that he's unsure on what's happening or he's shy. If he looks away or says something, it means he's not ready for what's about to happen.
 Now that you've locked in the gaze, it's time. If his hand is within reach, put your hand on top gently. He might take your fingers and wrap them under his hand. Lean in a little; if he leans in too, he signals he's definitely ready. Get closer, inches from each other's face. If he sits still, he's unsure if he's ready. If he's not really sure, let him know it's okay by putting your cheek against his then lightly plant a kiss on his cheek. If he lightens up, plant a kiss on his lips. If he responds to it by shivering a little or making any small movements, move in a little more and gently tug on his arm to signal him to get closer. Win his attention again by staring into his eyes. If it works, make the big move. Tilt your head 9 degrees in which ever way you are leaning into him. Sometimes boys don't respond to the first lip-to-lip. Try it again and again until he responds. When he does, start the kiss soft and passionate. Tip: think about happy things. This will make things more intense.


Bring your arms up slowly and wrap them around his neck gently. He might respond to that by putting his hands on your waist. Eventually, he doesn't have to respond. If you both are still kissing, then he's still into you and the moment.
If he backs away from you when you lean in, that's a no. Respect that; don't kiss him when he's not comfortable.

