 Grab a piece of chalk and draw a ladder with four rungs (or multiples of four: 8, 12, 16, 20, etc). Make sure there is enough space between each rung to fit both feet. Even though real ladders usually don’t have them, draw two more rungs along the very top and very bottom. From the bottom up, mark the space between each rung from 1 to 4 (and onward, depending on how long your ladder is).Use this ladder to practice drills that will increase your agility, speed, and coordination.When doing ladders:


Use the balls of your feet to push yourself up and off the ground when you jump.
Bend your elbows to form right angles with your arms and pump those arms with each jump or step, as if you were running.
Relax your upper body while keeping your head immobile as best you can.
Start slow to master each pattern, then increase your speed once you can do each one smoothly.
Start each set with your left foot as your lead foot, then alternate feet with your next set so that both grow comfortable with leading.
 Try this easy pattern to ease into the practice. Place both feet hip-width apart with your toes just an inch or two away from the bottom rung. Now push off the ground with the balls of both feet and land on your left foot only inside Space #1. From there:Jump from your left foot as soon as you land.
Land with both feet in Space #2 and then use both to jump again right away.
Land with your right foot only in Space #3 and use that foot only to jump again.
Land with both feet in Space #4.
Repeat until you complete the whole ladder.
 Improve your range of motion by landing to either side of the ladder, as well as inside. With this drill, however, simply step from mark to mark, rather than jump. To begin, assume the starting position at the base of the ladder. Then:


Step into Space #1 with your left foot, then your right foot.
Leading with your left foot, step to the outside of Space #2, followed by your right foot on the opposite side, so you straddle the ladder.
Step inside Space #3 with your left foot and then your right.
Leading with your left foot, step to the outside of Space #4, with your right foot doing the same to straddle the ladder again.
Continue this pattern until you reach the end of the ladder.
 Improve your side-to-side motion. As you step in and out of each space, use a one-two count (“One, two … one, two …”) for your feet’s movements to avoid tripping yourself up. With this drill, start with both feet below and to the left of the bottom rung. Now:Step into Space #1 with your left foot (“One”), then your right (“Two”).
From there, cross your left leg in front of your right and place your left foot outside and to the right of Space #1 (“One”).
Now bring your right foot outside of Space #1 and plant it to the right of your left foot (“Two”).
From there, step into Space #2 with your left foot first (“One”), then your right (“Two”).
With your left foot, move directly to your left and step outside of Space #2 with your left foot, then your right (“Two”).
Keep this pattern up until you complete the ladder.
With your next set, switch sides at the beginning. Start from the right of the ladder and lead with your right foot.

