 You can buy phones at some dollar stores, drugstores, and convenience stores – or you can go to a service provider like Verizon, AT&T, or T-Mobile. Make sure you have enough money to purchase the phone you want.


Consider buying your phone online. If you buy it online, do not order it to your house; order it to a friends house. Your parents may get to it before you.
 Most simple phones run from $20-100. The phone you choose will depend on the features you want. A fancy new smartphone will be very expensive, but you can usually buy a simple "brick phone" for $20-30.


Consider whether you really need a phone with Internet and app capability. If you just need to text and call your friends, then the simplest phone will do.
 Look at simple pay-as-you-go phones, and check out the different plans. Be smart about which plan you get. Is it really worth the cost and risk involved to get data and 4G for your phone, or can you hijack the existing WiFi in your house? Consider whether a plan is even the best choice for you, or whether you can just top it up with online or over-the-phone top-ups. Think about how often you plan to use the phone; give yourself a buffer of 10% until you find the right pattern for how you use the phone.


Seriously consider a pay-as-you-go minute card. These plans are designed for people who want the convenience of a phone without the cost and commitment of a long-term plan.
Don't add your phone to your home WiFi if your parents are tech-savvy. They might notice that a device called "your-name's cell" is logged into it.
 Generally, a home address is needed to send phone bills and general information about the phone account. Check with the provider which you are interested in working with to see if they offer automatic bill pay options, and whether or not they can send bills bills and information online rather than through the mail. No matter what, though, it is unlikely that a cell phone provider will allow a minor to sign the plan contract.


If you plan on getting a clandestine cell phone and you are over 18, It is possible to get a PO Box rather than providing your home address. Again, this will cost money.

