 Even if there are visiting hours provided on the website, etc., the person you are wanting to see may not be well enough to see anyone at the time.;
, This is absolutely vital; non-visiting hours are used mainly for ensuring sufficient recuperation for the patients, so that they get well quickly.
 You can't be sure whether or not a medical procedure is taking place or if the patient is sleeping.
 The patient is likely to tire easily but may be too polite to ask you to leave. Also remember that you're not likely to be the only visitor and having many visitors can be tiring.
 If the patient wants you to know, he or she will tell you. Otherwise, this can seem too personal and very invasive of the patient's privacy.
 Instead of flowers or candy, consider purchasing a gift card to the patient's favorite store. A post-surgery patient usually can't eat for several days, so candy isn't a very tactful gift. Hospital rooms are small; there may not be room for flowers and they are usually a nuisance when the patient is ready to go home.
 If visiting a co-worker, refrain from mentioning the latest round of budget cuts or layoffs. If there is any bad news from the home or work front, try your best to not relay it unless you think that it is absolutely essential. It is best for the patient to be relieved of bad news until they're well enough to cope again.
 Days are very long at the hospital, and a patient can quickly feel isolated and out of touch.
 Most patients value their privacy and may not want to be seen hooked up to machines and drainage tubes. Moreover, if they feel really ill, they're genuinely not up to receiving visitors.
 Doctors and nurses are professionals and expect to be spoken to with respect for their work and assistance. Choose to be pleasant, calm and patient whenever you discuss a patient's issues with the medical staff. Trust that they can do their job and that you can leave, while the patient is being treated effectively.


Realize that they will not divulge confidential information and that even as a family member, there are limits to what you can know and ask to be done.
 It isn't you as a member of the patient's family, even if you have a medical degree. The staff at the hospital are highly trained and know what they're doing. Avoid trying to tell them what to do or not adhering to their requests. It can make the entire ordeal worse for the patient than it could be if they're associated with a difficult relative.
 If you co-operate with staff at the hospital, it's likely that they'll be more willing to listen to your requests to help the patient in particular ways.
 By visiting at the right times, you'll have a better chance of seeing your loved one and not annoying the staff. You will also be more likely to get the attention of staff, as wished.

