 Measure the sides of your blanket and add them together to get the perimeter. Multiply the perimeter by two. Cut a 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) wide strip of fabric according to that measurement.If you are using fabric that does not fray, such as fleece or cotton jersey, you can cut it so that it's 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) wide instead.
If you have a pre-made ruffle, cut it down to the length specified, then click here.;
, Fold the strip of fabric in half lengthwise with the right sides facing out. Press it flat with an iron as you fold so that you get a nice, crisp edge. When you are done, you should have a double-sided strip of fabric that's 3 inches (7.62 centimeters) wide.


If you cut a 3-inch (7.62-centimeter) wide strip of non-fray fabric, skip this step.
 Sew along the raw edge using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance first. Then, sew another row of stitch right next to it, this time using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Use a straight stitch and a long stitch length for both rows. Do not backstitch., Grab hold of both of the bobbin threads on one side of your strip. Gently tug on it while pushing the fabric back with your other hand.Stop when it is about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) longer than the perimeter of your blanket. You will need this extra inch (2.54 centimeters) to overlap and sew the two ends together.


From time to time, switch over to the other end of the strip, and gather that side as well. Remember to only pull on the bobbin threads.
 Once the strip is the right length, cut the threads down to a manageable length. Tie them into tight, secure knots, then snip off the excess. Your ruffle is now ready to attach!

, Make sure that the raw edges of the ruffle match up with the raw edges of the blanket. You want the folded edge of the ruffle to be facing towards the middle of the blanket., Fold one of the edges inward by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) so that it is still tube-shaped and has a smooth, folded edge all around. Tuck the other edge in by about ½-inch (1.27-centimeter). Sew the seam down using a ladder stitch or a straight stitch and a ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) seam allowance.


If you are using non-fray fabric, you can simply overlap the two ends by about ½-inch (1.27-centimeter). You can stitch them down using a straight stitch, or leave them be.
 Make sure that you place the second piece right side down, so that the ruffle is sandwiched inbetween.If you are adding a ruffle to a single-sided blanket or an existing blanket, you can skip this step.
 Make sure that you backstitch at the start and end of your sewing. If you are sewing a double-sided blanket, leave a 12 to 18-inch (30.48 to 45.72-centimeter) gap along one of the edges so that you can turn your blanket inside out., Use something pointy, like a knitting needle, to help push out the corners. Press the edges flat with an iron.


If you are adding a ruffle to a one-sided blanket or an existing blanket, fold the ruffles outward and the seams inward. Press the seams flat.
 You can stitch it shut by hand using a needle, thread, and ladder stitch. You can also top stitch all the way around the blanket, about ⅛-inch (0.64-centimeter) from the seam between the blanket and the ruffle.


If you are adding a ruffle to a one-sided blanket or an existing blanket, top stitch the seam down, ⅛-inch (0.64-centimeter) away from the ruffle.

