 During mindfulness meditation, you will pay focused and intentional attention to the way you are feeling, in order to relax the body and mind. It is important not to judge or analyze the thoughts and feelings that pop into your head while performing mindfulness meditation, just note them and let them go by. The center of your focus should be the physical sensations you are experiencing in the present moment, as you lie in bed., Get ready for bed, darken your room, and prepare to go to sleep., Begin your meditation by taking 5 long breaths, in through your nose, and out through your mouth. Focus on the sensation of breathing, as your chest expands and your lungs fill with air. As you breathe out, imagine exhaling the events and thoughts of the day along with the air.
 Take a moment to reflect on how your body and mind are feeling. Take your time with this step and don't become concerned by the flood of thoughts that may occur, just take a few moments to observe them and let them rush by.


This is not the time to try to solve problems. If you feel yourself worrying about something, just observe the concern and move on. You can try to work out solutions to issues the next day, when you are well-rested and refreshed.
 Begin by concentrating on the points of contact between your body and the bed. Is your weight equally distributed? Think about how your head is resting on your pillow, and how the blankets lie against your feet. Listen to any sounds you can hear, including your own breath. Observe the temperature of the room, and the way the air is circulating around your face.
 Does it feel light or heavy? Are you experiencing any tension or pain? Mentally scan your body from head to toe, thinking about areas of tension, and intentionally tensing and then relaxing them, as you might do in a progressive muscle relaxation exercise. Repeat the body scan process several times, if needed, to relax any tense muscles.
 Pay attention to the rhythm as you inhale and exhale. Focus on the physical sensations of breathing, and the sounds that your breath makes. If your mind starts to wander, return to the focus of the rising and falling of your chest.
 Take a few minutes to remember and relive the way your day unfolded, from the moment you got up in the morning, to the present moment. Fast-forward through the day, observe and recollect conversations and what you did, but don't analyze or overthink.
 Once your review of the day has caught up with the present, where you are lying in bed, return to the sensations of your body and your breath.
 Beginning with the toes of your left foot, think about each part of your body for a moment, and give it permission to "switch off" or "go to sleep." Travel from your toes, up your leg, to your waist, then repeat with the other leg. Then continue to check-in with your torso, and each arm, beginning with your finger, and working your way up to your shoulders and neck. Finish with your throat, face and head.
 With your body at rest, your mind will soon follow. Allow your thoughts to wander as they will, knowing you will wake up feeling refreshed and relaxed.


Many people fall asleep long before this last step. If you have not, don't worry. Just remember that your body wants to sleep as much as you do, and that it will eventually happen. Just relax and try not to force it.

