 Make sure that your artworks are signed, dated (on the back if you don't prefer adding the date on the front), and neatly presented (framed, mounted, varnished, or kept in a plastic sleeve or portfolio to protect it from getting damaged).;
, Write the title into your artwork booklet or database (if you don't have this yet, start it now - even an empty notebook available from any stationary store is ideal, or have a file on your computer that you regularly back up onto a CD or external hard drive / print out to put into a ledger).
 Add the width, height and if applicable, depth of your artwork alongside the title in your notebook or database. Also, add the medium of your artwork and the year.
 Writing on a paragraph or two is suitable about the meaning or intent behind the its creation, or what inspired you. Add this description to your entry of the artwork in your notebook or database - easy to find whenever you need it.
 If you are not able to do it yourself, get a professional to do it for you (if you don't have the money to pay for it, offer a barter or swap for your creative services or an artwork the photographer likes). Take photographs of the full artwork, but also close-up images that shows your mark-making, texture and other special details in the artwork.
 Make sure that each photograph highly matches the artwork's quality colors as close as possible. If needed, hold out your drawing and closely compare the colors of the artwork and the computer's.
 Even if you've have a photographer taking your photographs, give him/her these directions beforehand: Make sure that you have at least three copies of each photograph - one high resolution image of 300dpi, for magazine submissions and printing catalogues for exhibitions, one low resolution image of about 600 pixels wide and 72dpi for use in blogs, newsletters and emails, and a medium sized image of about 1200 pixels wide (also at 72 dpi) for online galleries. Save them all together in an artwork folder that is easy to find and use. Name each photograph with your name and the title of the artwork. An example of naming the different sizes of a specific artwork's photographs are as follows: john_doe_bentreality_small.jpeg, john_doe_bentreality_med.jpeg, john_doe_bentreality_highquality.jpeg.
 This is an introduction to you as person and artist, where you grew up, where you studied, what you have achieved, what makes you tick. Keep it relevant - tell them about who you are as an artist.
 If you're submitting to exhibit a specific body of work / series of artworks, the artist statement would be focused specifically on that. If it's a general submission for promotion or an online gallery, then your artist statement is a more general summary of your art practice. Your artist statement is a description of HOW and WHY you create your art - methods, inspiration, motivation, materials, and other information that gives insight into what type of artist you are.
 Copy all the information about your artwork(s) from your notebook/database into a document ready for submission. Add your artist statement and artist biography to the document, or save each of them on their own or together into a separate document, ready for submission. Also add your name and contact information to each document.
 to an online art gallery, make sure to attached your photographs (the low resolution images - you can send the medium resolution images on their request), biography, artist statement, information for each artwork (title, medium, size, year) and the description of the artworks you are submitting, to the email along with your greeting, reason for submission and charming message. Send!

, Also, print out your artist statement, biography, information for each artwork (title, medium, size, year) and the descriptions for each of the artworks you are submitting. Put these in an envelope and deliver/send them!

