 Walking around outdoors offers endless opportunities to encourage your child’s curiosity. You can look for animal footprints, birdwatch, identify different types of plants, and look for bugs. Bring a guidebook with you to help you identify things that you find on your walk.While your walking, ask your child questions about what they’re seeing and doing: “What do you think…? What else might be affected…? What do you think happened here? What would happen if…? How can we find out more?”

, There are many experiments that can be done in the kitchen for the curious kid. With just a few ingredients commonly found in the kitchen or around the house, you can do all kinds of experiments that will amaze your child and foster their curiosity in the world around them. Below is a list of just a few options:Place different objects in water and see if they sink or float.

Make ice cream and discuss why the rock salt is important.

Dissolve the shell of an egg and play with what’s left.
Build a baking soda and vinegar volcano.
 Keep a journal that tracks the weather. Each day look out the window and write some things down about the weather for the day. If it changes, make a note of that. You can even go online and write down the high and low temperatures and air pressures for the day. Take pictures to add to the weather journal.After a few weeks, look through the weather journal and ask your child if they see any trends in the weather patterns. Hint: compare changes in air pressure with storms.
Look up the weather in other parts of the world and see how it compares to the weather in your own town.
 All of these places are specifically designed to foster curiosity in their visitors. At zoos and aquariums, you can learn about different types of animals, sea creatures, and the places they live. Science museums and technology centers have lots of hands-on activities throughout to make you think and ask questions.As your child gets older, their experiences will be different, so go to each of these places more than just once.
 Watching the life cycle of a plant is an engaging long-term experiment that they can check on every day over time.Plant the seed in a clear cup so your child can see the roots growing as the plant itself grows. This experiment is also good for promoting patience since the seed will not sprout for a few weeks. The following steps should work for growing any potential seeds that you have.


Fill a small plastic cup about 1/3 full of potting soil.
Make a small hole and place the seed in the hole. Cover the seed with soil.
Water the seed each day and make sure it has plenty of sunlight.
After a few weeks, you should see the seed begin to sprout and watch your plant as it grows.
 If you have access to a microscope, it can be a great learning tool. You can look at almost anything you’d like under a microscope. You might be surprised at everything you can see with a bit of magnification. Even a magnifying glass is a good place to start if you don’t have a microscope.Take a small sample of water from a nearby pond or stream and look at what is floating around in there.
Look at a flower petal or a piece of clothing. What do you see? Are they similar or totally different?

, Let your child decide what to collect. You could make a general collection of the natural objects you have found, such as shells, feathers, rocks, fossils, or bones. Alternatively, you may have a themed collection, sea pods or shells, for instance. This is a great way to compare the different shapes, sizes, colors and other characteristics of natural objects.Help your child to identify and classify the various items they have collected.

