 If the document is prescriptive, it’s trying to tell people what to do. If it’s descriptive, it’s trying to describe events that took place or people that were there. Knowing whether it’s prescriptive or descriptive can help you determine what the purpose of the document was.For example, an early twentieth-century book of manners - which tells women how to behave in public - is an example of a prescriptive document.
A newspaper article that covers the events of the Boston Tea Party is an example of a descriptive document.
 What is the point the author is trying to get across? Their argument can help you understand where the author is coming from, the purpose of the document, and whether they might have a vested interest in people accepting their argument as true.Keep in mind that the author's argument might be obvious or it might be subtle. For example, the author of a publicity flyer that asks the public to come to a pro-union meeting might say, "Joining the UAW will make your family more financially secure!" That author's argument is pretty obvious - that the United Auto Workers union will help working families.
By contrast, the author of a newspaper article about civil rights protests might say "The protesters were met with violence when police officers turned water hoses on them. Many protesters were injured, while the police seemed unconcerned." This sounds like a description of what happened. However, the author's description of injured protesters and unconcerned police suggests that the author's subtle argument is that the protesters were right and the police were wrong.
 In historical documents, silence often says as much as actual words. Figuring out what gets left out is often called “reading between the lines,” and it’s something historians do to determine an author’s real motivation.For example, if the source is an obituary of Benedict Arnold, what do you know about him that gets left out of the obituary? Does it mention the fact that Americans consider him a traitor? Does it only focus on Americans’ perception of him? The things that get left out can tell you a lot about who wrote the document and why.
 Historians spend a lot of time looking at a lot of different sources to craft their arguments about the past. No one document is going to tell you everything you need to know about the time period or topic that you’re studying. Consider what the document can’t tell you.For example, let’s say you’re writing a paper on second wave feminism in the United States. A letter from Gloria Steinem to one of her friends will tell you about the personal life of one of the movement’s leaders. It won’t tell you a lot about how she interacted with the government.
 Once you’ve analyzed a historical document, you need to decide if the document is credible or not. You can do this by comparing it to other research you’ve done, or what you already know about the period. Are there other sources that corroborate what you’ve read in this document? Or do most other sources contradict what the document says. You should only use credible documents in historical research.For example, maybe the author of an article in Southern newspaper argues that black and white members of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) are coming down south to kidnap young girls. You know from other research and reading that this isn’t true, so it’s not a credible source for describing the activities of SNCC. However, it does tell you something about how southerners might have reacted to the changes that resulted from the Civil Rights Movement.

