 Sit down with a pen and paper, or with a blank text document on your computer and think about how much you spend each month on:Living expenses (rent, mortgage)
Transportation (car insurance/maintenance, gas, bus fare)
Food (groceries every week/month)
Utilities (electricity, heating)
Cellphone, internet
Going out (drinks after work, with friends, or special meals)
Be as detailed as possible. Focus on how many times a week you go out for lunch or dinner, or buy a coffee. Add up a rough amount for each category. Are you overspending on your food expenses? The average household spends $500 a month on groceries. Are you overspending on going out for drinks or on extra activities (like the gym membership you never use)?;
, Determine where you can start to spend nothing. Start with the more leisurely expenses first, like going out with friends, or spending money on clothing.Think about your eating habits. Is there a way to reduce your food costs so you’re only buying essential foods or using pantry foods you already own?
Consider your transportation costs. Can you reduce or remove your car expenses by using your car less or using a bike or walking? Though it may be difficult to imagine life without a car, think about how much you spend every money on this expense, especially on gas.
 Many people who have tried Buy Nothing experiments for a year, or who have participated in the Buy Nothing project adjust their lifestyle with a partner, spouse, roommate, or as part of a larger group. Doing this challenge with one other person can motivate you to stick to your limited means and have fun buying nothing.There are several Buy Nothing groups online that do group events and provide tips on how to buy nothing for an extended period of time.Many Buy Nothing success stories are also done by roommates or a family who all decide to commit to a purchase free lifestyle., Now that you have isolated leisure spending you can reduce or cut from your budget, track your lower spending for a month. Start a blog about your Buy Nothing project, or take notes in a journal. Note how much money you save just by cutting out leisure expenses and activities. Now, multiply this amount by 12 to determine how much you could save in one year without these expenses. Consider this amount your buy nothing goal.There is a theory that it take 30 days to change a habit or adopt a new habit. After a month of lower to no spending on certain items or activities, you should start to notice you perceive items in a store or socialize at a restaurant or bar differently. You may start asking yourself, “Do I really need this?” before you buy something. More often than not, the answer will be “No”.