 Baking is a great cooking technique to start with, because you can isolate the components that involve heat — that is, kids can help prepare the food before baking and decorate or garnish it afterward. It also demonstrates how things like stirring, folding, kneading, and applying heat can radically change the physical (and flavor) properties of combined food ingredients.


From the start, prioritize safety in regards to food (e.g., don’t eat egg-based raw batters) and heat (e.g., use oven mitts with baking sheets).
Consider oven-fried chicken bites as a recipe idea, as it will show kids that there are healthier alternatives to those fast food mystery nuggets., Sautéing is a great introduction to the stovetop, because it’s a relatively fast and simple cooking method. You just need a good pan, a good burner, a bit of oil or other fat, and something tasty to cook up. Veggies are a great option to sauté, which means you can also practice chopping food into pieces of similar size.


Fajitas might make a good recipe to try together, as it involves chopping and sautéing various veggies and chicken., Whether you want to have pork or beef for dinner, or prefer to make the veggies the star of the meal, roasting is a great technique to share with kids who can safely do some chopping and be around the oven. Depending on their experience and skill levels, you can have them focus on the prep work or help out with using the oven itself.


Before trying roasting recipes with your kid, make sure they know to treat any pan as a hot pan — that is, to use oven mitts by default.
 Yes, cooking in hot liquids will open the gateway to making that childhood staple — boxed macaroni and cheese. But boiling and poaching also unlock crowd pleasing dishes starring various other pastas, eggs, chicken, fish, and more.


Wait until your child has a bit more comfort and experience in the kitchen, since these types of cooking involve not only scalding liquids but also hot steam, hot pots, and open flames.
Try simple soup and stew recipes, especially ones that show how you can use yesterday’s leftovers in today’s meal.
 Most kids are well aware of — and enjoy — fried foods, but teaching them to fry at home can at least slightly improve the healthiness of this cooking technique. However, keep in mind that hot oil is far more dangerous than hot water, especially if it splatters onto skin or ignites.


Wait until a child is fully comfortable in the kitchen (and you are fully confident in their abilities) before attempting frying. Supervise them at all times and take proper safety precautions to prevent burns and fires.
French fries, of course, is a simple frying recipe that is sure to be a hit with kids.