 You can use hard or foam hair rollers to curl your hair naturally. Because they don't require heat, they don't damage your hair. You will need:


a set of foam rollers in the size of your choice (small, medium, large, or extra large)
a wide-toothed comb
Some gel or mousse (optional)

, It is important to start with clean, tangle-free hair, so wash and condition your hair if you have not done so today. Try running a comb through your hair while it is still wet to help remove the tangles.
 If your hair is pin straight or doesn't hold a curl well, you might want to apply some styling gel or mousse. This will help your hair hold the curl better and longer.


Use a generous amount of mousse to ensure the best hold.
You can also look for a product specifically for making your hair curly.
 Take a small section of hair and wrap it around the hair roller, starting from the end of the strand and moving towards your scalp. Take a section of hair that is a bit narrower than the hair roller itself. Place the ends under the hair roller. Hold the hair against the roller, and start rolling everything towards your head. Secure the hair roller, if necessary.


Make sure that the hair rollers are positioned horizontally against your head.
You can part your hair down the middle and put the hair rollers on the left and right side of your hair.
You can also gather a section of hair from the very top of your head, and insert the hair rollers horizontally into it.
 It is important to make sure that your hair is totally dry before taking the hair rollers out. If you are in a hurry, you can use a blow dryer on a low or medium setting. If you take the hair rollers out too soon, your hair will fall limp and it may not curl at all.
 You can leave the curls in tight ringlets by not touching them at all or by just separating them into a few separate curls. If you want to keep your curls tight, then you may want to spray a bit of hairspray on them as well.


You can also soften your curls and spread them out by running your fingers through your hair.
Do not use a hair brush on your curls or it may cause your hair to look frizzy. Use a wide-toothed comb or a pick if you want to smooth out your curls a bit.

