 Decide what talent or skill you want to showcase in your videos. Most YouTube gurus have one central focus that gives their videos cohesion and a kind of brand identity. Think about your passions and talents and how they could lend themselves to making videos. Also think about what kind of advice or guidance you want to share most with the world.Most YouTube gurus focus on beauty and makeup and fashion, though some also touch on subjects like lifestyle and mindfulness, fitness, and dating advice.
Keep in mind that the main purpose of gurus is to impart advice. Even if you want to draw from your personal life and tell stories, ask yourself what lessons or messages you want your viewers to learn from your experiences.;
, Log onto YouTube and create a channel. Your channel will be the central hub for all your videos, where viewers can learn more about you and become subscribers. Therefore it’s critical that every aspect of your channel is spotless and is a reflection of yourself and your videos. Pick a name for your channel that is simple and easy to remember and relates directly either to you or to the kind of videos you make.Many YouTube gurus use their name as their YouTube channel name. This is a simple way to pick out a channel name, and it also a great way to achieve name recognition.
If your name has already been taken, pick a name that relates to your videos in an interesting way. For example, if you do makeup videos, choose a name like “LacyLashes” or “Briannebeauty”.
 The visual component of your channel is extremely important because it gives your channel a look and feel that can attract subscribers. Your thumbnail is one of the most important visuals because it appears with your channel name under every video you make. Because of this, you want your thumbnail to be polished as well as crisp and clear even at a small size.Colorful pictures or photos with high contrast tend to be more readable.
Many YouTube gurus put a picture of their face as their thumbnail photo. A full body shot can get lost at a small size.
 Your banner is at the top of your channel page and is the most dominant image on the page. It should be attractive and appealing, but also relate to the tone of your videos. Many vloggers also include their username in large letters in their banners.For instance, if you want to make beauty videos with a very feminine feel, make sure your banner’s color palette and overall look has a cute and playful look. If you want to be an alternative style guru, use black, red and other edgy colors to reflect your style.
There are many editing programs that you can use to create your banner.
Check out the banners of your favorite vloggers for inspiration and ideas.
 Almost all successful YouTube gurus have an intro and an outro that they use for all their videos. These intros and outros act almost like the theme song of a television show, signalling to the audience what they are watching and making the videos more professional and cohesive.


Most intros and outros feature music and include the channel name as well as social media like Twitter, Instagram and Tumblr.
Make sure that the music you’re using isn’t copyrighted. If you use copyrighted music your videos will likely be taken down.
 Part of creating an identity for your channel is the way you talk and present yourself in your videos. Think about your personality. Are you bubbly and energetic, or are you more sarcastic and witty? Make a couple practice videos and focus on letting the best and most memorable parts of your personality shine through., If you want to achieve YouTube fame, you need to make sure to use a good camera. A camera can make a world of difference in the quality of the video. Even if you are able to give great advice and create good content, you may turn off potential viewers or subscribers with bad or blurry video quality. If you don’t already have a nice camera, purchase one that is in your budget.If your camera doesn’t have good sound quality, consider buying a microphone.
 Lighting is also an essential part of good video production, especially if you are trying to be a beauty or makeup guru. You have a couple options when it comes to lighting.Some vloggers prefer natural lighting with a window behind the camera. This way of lighting is more variable and less bright, but it can save you money if you don’t want to invest in equipment.
Other vloggers prefer to use lighting equipment which provides an even, precise light that is easily adjustable. You can use umbrella lights next to the cameras which emit an even lighting over a large amount of space.
If you are doing beauty videos, consider buying a ring light. A ring light goes around your camera and lights up and illuminates your whole face, which is optimal if you are demonstrating makeup.
 Before you film your videos, make sure that the background you are filming against is clean and minimalistic. You want your viewers focused on what you are saying and demonstrating, not on any clutter going on around you. Many vloggers prefer to film against the same background or backdrop to give all of their videos a signature feel., Even though you’ll edit in your intro segment, it’s always important to give a little spoken introduction before you get into the meat of your video. If it’s your first video ever, tell viewers what to expect from your channel and a little bit about yourself.


If you have previously made videos, tell your viewers your name and what you’re filming today. Also tell them how excited you are that you are going to be filming more often and diving deeper into your content.
You may decide to say something like, “Hello all, my name is Brittany and I’m new to Youtube! I’m really excited to start making videos about makeup, beauty and fashion because they’ve always been passions of mine! Today I’m doing a tutorial on how to apply winged eyeliner. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to hit the like button and subscribe to see more of my beauty tutorials!”

, If your video is too long, people may leave without watching the whole thing, which will affect your views numbers. Try to keep your videos under ten minutes, or at the most, fifteen minutes.


Think about writing down an outline of what you want to cover in your video. This will keep you on track if you lose focus midway through.
Don’t be afraid of messing up when you’re filming. Most vloggers rely on editing to create the perfect video.
 When you finish your video, say goodbye to your viewers and remind them to subscribe to your channel and check out your social media.You could say something like, “Well that’s it for today! Thanks so much for watching, and if you liked this video go ahead and give it a thumbs up. If you haven’t already, subscribe to my channel and check out my Twitter and Instagram for more updates!”

, Use the Internet to find the best program or application to edit your video. First edit out any major mistakes or slip ups you made while filming. Then pare down some of the material to make the video flow better. You can also add additional elements like music, visual effects or sound effects.If you add in music, make sure it isn’t copyrighted.
 Upload the video to your channel. Uploading the video itself is fairly straightforward, but there are a couple additional elements you should be sure to include with your upload.Title your video something simple that relates to your content. For example, you could title a video, “Tips for Yoga Beginners” or “Wedding Hairstyle Tutorial”. Remember that if you title it something obscure, it won’t come up as a result when people look for videos on that subject matter.
Edit the description box to include a brief description of your video. For example you could write, “Welcome to your crash-course on my signature smokey eye look! A smokey eye is a bold and sultry look that’s great on any skin type.”
Also include links to your social media in the description box.
Include tags for your video that relate to the content. For example, if you are uploading a video on fall fashion for girls, some relevant tags could be: fashion, fall, back to school, trends, outfits, for school.
 Try to upload at least one video every seven to ten days. You may find uploading on the same day of the week works best for your followers because then they know when to look for new videos., Be open and honest in your videos. The best YouTube gurus make their subscribers feel like their friends and confidants. Even if your videos are straightforward tutorials, still try to inject your personality into them.Showing yourself as a real person with flaws and vulnerabilities will make your viewers remember you and seek out your videos.
Consider making “storytime” videos where you share funny or interesting stories from your daily life. These are a great way to share yourself a little more with your subscribers.
 Taking the time to respond to comments from viewers builds a solid relationship between you and your followers. It’s a way to maintain and grow your fanbase, but also a way to get the positive feedback you need to motivate yourself. The critical feedback you receive can also be helpful because it will show you where you need to refine your videos to become the best that you can be.Don’t be discouraged by negative comments. It’s impossible to be successful on YouTube and not get a negative comment or two. Make sure that you take constructive criticism to mind, but don’t hesitate to take down inappropriate, hurtful or spammy comments.
 Use Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or other social media sites to interact with your fans outside of Youtube. Using an array of different sites lets you reach fans in different ways and helps them to get to know you better.Use social media not only to connect with fans you already have, but also to promote your YouTube videos to attract new fans.
 Find other vloggers that you find inspiring and subscribe to their channel. Leave positive and personalized comments on videos that you enjoy. Try to build online friendships with other vloggers by connecting through comments and social media, or through Youtube-specific events or conventions.


Subscribe on social media to vloggers you admire. Try to pick vloggers with around the same number of followers as you, because it will be harder to make a connection with bigger names.
There are a number of YouTube conferences such as VidCon that are great ways to meet other vloggers and share information.
Don’t feel that you have to make connections with vloggers that do the same kind of videos as you. For instance, if you do natural makeup on your channel and they do costume and Halloween-style makeup, it’s still worth it to make a connection because you can learn a lot from each other.
Don’t think of other vloggers as competitors. Building relationships with other vloggers is a great learning experience and could even gain you more subscribers.
 Once you have made a connection with another Youtuber, ask them if they want to collab. Doing a collab means that you and the other vlogger will make a video together. Collab videos give you the opportunity to gain a whole new set of subscribers and are great for expanding your fan base.Sometimes, vloggers do collabs where they aren’t in the the same video, but they both make a video about the same topic and link the other vlogger’s video in the description box.
Don’t ask someone to do a collab with you unless you have connected with them and have had some kind of back and forth.
 Once your YouTube channel gains momentum, companies may start contacting you to review their products. They may give you the products for free or offer to give them to you in exchange for a positive video review. Don’t lie on your videos about the quality of a product. You need to protect the integrity of your channel and be honest with your viewers.


If a company gives you a product that you feel is substandard, be honest. Tell the company that you did not have success with the product, and that you can either give the product a mediocre review on your channel or simply not review the product at all.
 If you are working a day job, remember to keep up with it no matter how successful and distracting your newfound popularity may be. Many beauty and fashion gurus hold jobs that relate to their channel, such as working as a makeup artist or in the fashion industry. Consider doing this to get more in touch with your passions.


You also may reach a point where you are getting enough money from sponsorships and YouTube to quit your job. Weigh your options extremely carefully before quitting your day job., Even if your channel is successful, you should always strive to make it even better. Take a step back and view your channel with a critical eye. Look at which videos got the most views and positive reactions and which got the least amount of views. Also take the constructive criticism of your fans into account. Consider the direction in which you want to take your channel based on what has worked for you so far.

