 As with any surgical procedure, vaginoplasty has certain risks. For example, general anesthesia is something to discuss with your doctor. "Going under" during surgery carries its own risks.Depending on your specific situation, you may need general anesthesia for your surgery. As with all surgeries done with general anesthesia, there are major risks. In rare cases, people undergoing surgery experience mental confusion, lung infections, strokes, heart attacks, and death.
There are certain factors that increase your risk of complications. These include smoking, obesity, heavy alcohol use, and certain medications.
Make sure to discuss your options with your doctor. In some cases, local anesthesia may be an option.
 In some cases, vaginal surgery creates more problems than it solves. Some women experience persistent pain and discomfort, either all the time or during sexual intercourse. Ask your doctor specific questions about your specific condition.Ask about your prospects for a successful surgery. Make sure you clearly explain your ideal outcome, and ask your doctor if this is possible.
Talk to your doctor about how the surgery will affect your sex life. Specifically ask if orgasm will still be a possibility.
Beware that infection is a possibility. If you undergo vaginoplasty, your surgeon will prescribe antibiotics to minimize the chance of developing an infection, but in a small number of women, infection can still occur.
 Ideally, vaginoplasty improves sensation and sexual function, but sometimes this does not occur. Some women report a decrease in sexual sensation. This is usually due to the normal scarring that occurs as a consequence of the surgery.Ask your doctor if there are ways to reduce scarring. Don't be afraid to meet with more than one doctor.
Think about how a change in sensation might effect your sex life. Is this something you are prepared for?
Talk to your partner about possible changes. Weigh the pros and cons of surgery.
 For most, the recovery process is fairly straightforward. However, it does take some planning. Know that it will be several weeks before you are back to full strength.You will need to remain at the surgical center for at least several hours after the vaginoplasty. Most doctors will keep you overnight.
You might experience severe pain and discomfort for several days. Ask your doctor about medications and other methods of managing pain.
You will not be able to use tampons or have sexual intercourse for 4-6 weeks after your surgery. Your doctor will examine you before you are cleared to resume those activities.
If you are undergoing gender confirmation surgery, the recovery process may be more intense. Talk to your doctor about how long you will need to plan to take off work and whether you will need help at home.

