 The Law School Admission Test (LSAT) is a half-day, standardized test designed to measure reading comprehension, critical-thinking and reasoning skills and analytical ability. The test is offered four times a year (February, June, October, December) at designated testing centers world-wide. The test takes half a day to complete and consists of five 35-minute sections of multiple-choice question and a 35-minute timed writing sample.


Register online using your LSAC account; you can also register by phone or through a mail-in registration form.
There is a registration fee for the LSAT; you can pay with check, money order or credit card but not cash. An additional fee is charged for late registration for the exam.

If you meet certain criteria, you can apply for a fee waiver of the LSAT registration fee and the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). View the calendar on the LSAC website for notifications of when the registration period begins and ends for the exam.
 The LSAT is a rigorous exam, and you'll perform better if you give yourself plenty of time to prepare. You can study for the LSAT on your own or take advantage of tutoring services and programs that focus on getting students ready for this exam.


Take a class. Choose a professionally designed LSAT course to give you an overview of the exam and tools and practice you'll need to earn the best possible score.

Be sure the class is taught by a highly qualified instructor and is small (under 20 students) so you can get individual attention.
Note: Some of these classes can cost between $500 and $1,300. Budget carefully or consider going to the library to get prep books. Part of the appeal of the class is the notion that you've sunk so much into paying for it that you know you'll spend that much time. Make sure you are taking that much time.


Take the class a few months before your LSAT date; that way, you'll have time to study on your own, reinforcing what you've learned in your class.
Work with a tutor. Receiving one-on-one instruction for a professional LSAT tutor can help address your specific needs and fill in knowledge gaps you may have.

Choose a tutor who's been teaching for at least two years and plan to meet a couple times a week for maximum benefit.


Take practice exams. One of the best ways to get ready for the LSAT is to spend time answering the kinds of questions that will be on the real exam. Becoming familiar with the questions and the format of the test will increase your preparedness and make your more comfortable when your testing day rolls around.

You can take practice exams on your own. LSAC offers a free online prep test, and there are sample tests on other sites and in LSAT study guide books you can buy.
Join a group. Taking a proctored exam with other students simulates the real-world testing environment. Your prep test will be timed, and you'll have a sense of what it's like to maintain your focus in a room crowded with other students.
Some LSAT classes offer practice testing as part of the curriculum. If your plan to take a class, choose one that includes a testing component.
Don't underestimate the importance of practice. In an article written for U.S. News and World Report, the author recommends taking at least 30 full-length practice tests in preparation for the real LSAT., Anxiety is common when facing this important exam, but knowing what to expect and being ready will help put some of your fears to rest.


Don't forget your ticket. Once you've successfully registered for the LSAT, you'll receive an admission ticket that you must present on the day of the exam. There is no getting into the exam without this ticket.
You'll need valid identification and a photo. You must attach a photo (passport size) to your LSAT admission ticket. It must be a recent photo of you (no more than six months old) and be no smaller than 1"x1" and no larger than 2"x2". Bring test-taking materials. Be sure to have #2 or HB wooden pencils as well as a pencil sharpener with you on test days. Mechanical pencils are prohibited but you can bring highlighters if you'd like. You won't be able to bring your digital watch or cell phone to the test site, but if you want to monitor the time, you can bring an analog watch. Check the LSAC website for other items that are permitted on test day.

