 By learning to be optimistic, the extra effort you need to put in to become a hard worker will become less severe. Optimists see negative occurrences as short lived and narrowly focused events. Adopt the explanatory style of the optimist to help yourself view both good and bad events in a more optimistic light.Describe negative events, like a difficult presentation, in its positive light. For example, instead of complaining about responsibility, you could celebrate it as a chance to show your dedication and work ethic to your boss.
Describe positive things in your life as permanent and everyday. This will help you feel encouraged as you try to step up your game at work.
Optimists have also been found to score more highly on tests designed to gauge luck and self-perception.The higher your self-perception, the more likely you'll be able to shore up weak points in your life.;
, Notice when you see only the worst possible outcomes (catastrophizing), minimize your own good attributes and contributions, or any "all or nothing" thinking.Small successes are no less of a success, and you should allow yourself to feel pride at your accomplishment.
 Positive re-framing will reinforce the positive aspects of your situation and prevent you from feeling overwhelmed.This will also encourage you to approach the situation with a more open minded perspective. Open mindedness will facilitate problem solving, and a sense of having your work situation in hand will contribute to peace of mind, making your work easier in the long run.
 Much research has recently shown that no matter how good of a multi-tasker you think you are, there are some serious downsides to performing many tasks at once.Multi-tasking impairs your overall performance, so that even if you feel like you are accomplishing a lot, you really might be missing out on important information and cues.
Constantly being distracted with many tasks can leave the problem solving and creative parts of your brain unable to function optimally., Complaining is a natural part of the human condition, and it's unlikely you'll be able to remove this completely from your life. Be that as it may, complaining without a goal or solution in mind can lead to negative cycles that contribute to depression, poor self opinion, and stress.These will only make it harder for you to put in the time and effort required to become a better, more industrious worker.
 By intentionally reaching out and trying to connect with people that you work with, you will further develop your empathy. Empathy is a key component of conflict resolution, collaboration, compromise, effective listening, and decision making.Raising your social awareness and developing your empathy will allow you to work even harder with your coworkers, and hold you more accountable to your goals.


Research supports that what scientists call "willed empathy," or the imagining of the pain of others, activates the pain response in your brain similar to naturally occurring empathy.Admit the limits of your understanding and ask questions to create conditions where you can feel, and practice, empathy.

