 A big part of the reason why some people are so against Planned Parenthood is because of the misinformation that has circulated over the years. While you may not be able to change someone’s opinion of Planned Parenthood if their views are already deeply entrenched, you can help to inform people when they make inaccurate claims about Planned Parenthood.For example, if you hear a friend or family member say something like, “Planned Parenthood only offers abortions,” then you could point out that Planned Parenthood only provides a small number of abortions every year to about 3% of its patients. Most of the services they provide are preventative, such as contraception, STD testing, breast exams, and pap smears.Learn as much as you can about the services that Planned Parenthood Provides so that you can correct misinformation whenever you hear it. Try to stay up to date on Planned Parenthood news by checking their website often and Googling them once per week to check for new stories.
 Most local chapters of Planned Parenthood are on Facebook and/or Twitter, so look up your local chapter and follow them.By following your local chapter, you can stay up to date on their events, news, and other relevant information.


You can also change your profile picture using a pink Planned Parenthood frame to indicate to your friends on Facebook and Twitter that you are a supporter of Planned Parenthood.
You can also stay up to date on Planned Parenthood news by texting "Stand with PP" to 69866.
 Whether you are a patient or not, you can help to encourage your local Planned Parenthood’s staff by writing a “thank you” note to them. You can send “thank you” notes to the doctors, nurses, and other staff at your local PP.


Try writing something like, “Dear Dr. Jones, Thank you for taking the time to listen to me and answer my questions during my appointment with me last week. I appreciate it so much, and I feel much more informed about how to keep myself healthy. Everyone at the Planned Parenthood office was so kind and helpful. I am so glad that I came to your office for help! Sincerely, ____”
Or, if you just want to send your supportive thoughts to an office you have never visited before, then you might write something like, “Dear Planned Parenthood Staff, Thank you for providing the information, care, and services that you do! I have met many people who would be lost without your help! You are all amazing human beings! Best, ____”

, Planned Parenthood is often attacked by pro-life activists, and sometimes petitions circulate where people are encouraged to sign if they would support a plan to defund Planned Parenthood. However, you can also sign petitions that show your support for Planned Parenthood.Try signing Planned Parenthood’s petition to get started.
Be on the lookout for other petitions that are in support of Planned Parenthood.
 It is important to be informed no matter what is on the ballot. To ensure that you are making informed decisions when you vote in upcoming elections, do your research on each of the candidates before you hit the polls and vote for candidates and initiatives that will support Planned Parenthood.Look for candidates who support women’s health initiatives and programs like Planned Parenthood, or who openly support Planned Parenthood.
Steer clear of candidates who oppose programs like Planned Parenthood or who openly condemn Planned Parenthood.
 Even if your elected officials do not support Planned Parenthood, you can write them to let them know that you do. Send letters, send emails, or call your elected officials to let them know that you support Planned Parenthood and you want them to do the same.Try writing or saying something like, “Hi, my name is ____ and I am one of your constituents. I am writing/calling to tell you that I support Planned Parenthood and I hope that you will as well.”

, If you have had a positive experience with Planned Parenthood in your lifetime, then sharing that experience with others is a great way to get involved. To share your story, visit the Planned Parenthood website and submit you story.You can also read other people’s stories to learn how Planned Parenthood has helped other women to make important decisions about their bodies and to keep themselves healthy.

