 Find a suitable location to construct the tandoor that is safe and well ventilated. Ensure that you have access to an electrical supply if using a drill, and that all safety precautions are being observed.

You'll need 3 terracotta clay pots. Pot A should be the largest, Pot B of middle size, and Pot C the smallest. Pot C should be small enough that it can sit inside of Pot A without touching the sides.
A good rule of thumb is to keep about 2 inches between the diameter of each pot. Never have your smallest pot smaller than 10 inches.
Many terracotta clay pots come pre-fabricated with a hole in the base. This is ideal and actually preferable.;
, Place it firmly on the ground., You can either create 2-3 larger holes or 5-6 smaller holes depending on the size of your drill bit. Ensure that the integrity of the pot is not compromised., Drill holes in the bottom. You can either create 2-3 larger holes or 5-6 smaller holes depending on the size of your drill bit. Ensure that the integrity of the pot is not compromised., Mark 1/2 an inch from the base of the pot with scotch tape, string, or with a pencil., You can either use a ceramic saw or an angle grinder with a ceramic blade. Your saw may get wrecked.

Slowly cut along the line created. Any sharp edges or points can be fixed with sandpaper if needed.
Once the base is separated, place it to the side. Do not throw this piece away.
 Place pot A on this platform with the mouth facing upwards., Place 2-3 smaller bricks inside of pot A to create a new platform. This platform will be the base for the interior. Ensure that the bricks are firmly placed., Pot C should be placed firmly on the platform without touching the sides of pot A. Ensure that pot C is not wobbly but sits firmly on this platform., Pot B should not touch the brim of Pot A., The lava rocks should be placed in the area around pot B and C. The lava rocks act as an insulation material., Place this piece back on to pot B. This will act as a lid., When the desired temperature is reached, cook naans by simply sticking to the inside, or cook kabobs by carefully placing skewers inside. Enjoy.

Temperatures can reach to over 500 degrees, so be careful as you cook!

