 You must have an iPhone 5S, 6, 6 Plus, 6S, 6S Plus, or SE in order for the iOS 10 jailbreak to work. You won't be able to jailbreak an iPhone 7 or 7 Plus.

Your iPhone must also be running iOS 10 or iOS 10.2.1. There is no iOS 10.3 jailbreak as of March 2017.
For an iPhone still running iOS 9 through 9.3.3, proceed to the next method.;
, Do so by opening iTunes, clicking the Help tab in the upper-left corner, clicking Check for Updates, and clicking Download iTunes if prompted.

You'll have to restart your computer after updating iTunes for the changes to take effect.
 Do so by plugging the charger end of the charger cable into the bottom of the iPhone, then plugging the USB end into the USB port on your computer., While optional, backing up your iPhone will ensure that you can restore any corrupted or missing information if you ever decide to get rid of the jailbreak.

Your iPhone will automatically back up by default when you connect it to iTunes.
 You can set it back up once the jailbreak is complete. To remove your iPhone's passcode:

Open Settings.
Scroll down and tap Touch ID & Passcode (or simply Passcode).
Enter your passcode.
Scroll down and tap Turn Passcode Off.
Enter your passcode again.
 You'll be able to re-enable it after the jailbreak finishes. To disable Find My iPhone:

Scroll down and tap iCloud.
Scroll down and tap Find My iPhone

Slide Find My iPhone left to the "Off" position. You may need to enter your Apple ID password to do so.
 The Airplane Mode switch is at the top of the "Settings" page; simply scroll up and slide Airplane Mode right to the "On" position. Doing so will prevent your iPhone from updating "Over the Air", which would render the jailbreak impossible., Use the link provided since there are several impostor sites that will attempt to install malware on your iPhone., It's the first link beneath the "Yalu10.2 Beta 7" heading., It's directly below the first link. Doing so will take you to a page with links for different operating systems:

Mac OS X
Windows
Linux (32 bit)
Linux (64 bit)

, These links are located near the top of the page; clicking one will prompt a ZIP file with the jailbreak installer in it to download to your computer's desktop., Doing so will open it. You'll see several files inside, but the only one you need is the one labeled "Impactor" under the file type "Application"., This will launch an installer; you'll need to wait for a few minutes until the installer finishes loading its files., This file has an iTunes logo on it., Do so in the pop-up window.,, Make sure that this is the same password you use to log into iCloud or the App Store.

You may need to generate an app-specific password if you are getting error messages:

Go to the Apple ID website.
Log in with your Apple ID and password.
Click Generate Password... under "APP-SPECIFIC PASSWORDS."
Enter a label (such as "jailbreak") and click Create.
Copy the password that appears and use it in Impactor when it asks for a password.


The installation process will likely take a few minutes.
 This app is black and grey with a human face on it. You'll see it on the Home Screen., It's in the middle of the screen. Doing so will prompt your iPhone to restart; when it finishes rebooting, the jailbreak will be implemented and you'll see Cydia on the Home Screen.