 Unlike writing a memoir about a specific time and place in your life, an essay is not restricted by any limiting factors. An essay works best when it is somewhat specific, but it can ultimately be about anything you want. There are some general guidelines that can help strengthen your essay, though, and as you brainstorm ideas you may want to think about the elements of a strong essay.Think about things that you care about or are passionate about. Make a list of 10 subjects, then decide which subject you will have the most to say about (and/or the subject with which you have the most personal experience).
Don't resist a topic because it will be difficult or require research. If you're passionate about that subject and you think you have a lot to say about it, then go for it.
Be flexible. You may decide to change your mind, or you may find that some items on your list relate to one another (and could potentially be woven together).;
, Once you have a general subject that you're interested in, you'll need to narrow it down to its core elements. In other words, you can't write an essay about a broad concept you're curious about or interested in; you'll need to work out the nuts and bolts of what that topic means to you. Think about why you're interested in that topic, how it relates to your life, and what your authority is on that subject (you don't need to be a scholar, but you should have enough personal experience to talk confidently about that subject).Since you're writing a personal essay, it's important that the topic you choose has some direct, personal significance in your life.
Be as specific as possible when choosing your topic. Narrow it down to a memory, an occasion, etc.
For example, instead of writing about loss, you might choose to write about a specific kind of loss (like death), then choose one specific event (like the death of a parent or friend) as your starting point.
The various elements of your essay should all be related somehow, and you'll need to make that relationship clear to the reader to avoid confusion.
You can always expand your topic to include other related concepts/events, or to become a larger meditation on the larger subject that your event touches on, but it's best to begin with one single topic idea and go from there.
 There are many different ways to construct a personal essay. No form is necessarily right or wrong; it's largely a matter of personal aesthetics and preference. Try out a few different forms and see what fits your essay the best.One common form for writing personal essays is to begin with a very specific image, instant, or memory (zoomed in, to put it in film terms) and gradually expand outward to address the larger subject.
Another common form employs the exact opposite: starting very broad, then zooming in on the specific memory, event, etc. This can be a bit tricky, though, as a broad topic can easily lose the interest of your readers early on in the essay.
One form that's been gaining popularity over the last few years is the lyric or hybrid essay. This combines poetry and essay elements, essentially creating a long-form nonfiction poem.
Try writing your essay in one form, and if it doesn't feel right you can experiment with a different form.
 As you compose your first draft, be aware of the voice and tone that your essay takes. The voice should be your natural voice - in other words, don't try to imitate another author. The tone should reflect the content of the essay. So, for example, in an essay about death and grieving, you don't want to write in a happy, bubbly tone.


Don't worry about typos (unless they'll be impossible to decipher) while you write your first draft. You can fix these minor errors in the editing and revision stage.
Make sure you're using visceral details - what many writing teachers refer to as showing, not telling. For example, instead of saying outright that you were frustrated, describe the way you narrowed your eyes and furrowed your brow at someone.
Think about whether the form you're using is working for the essay at hand. If it's not working, try something different, as the overall form will be more difficult to work with during revision.
Consider whether or not you adequately address every aspect of your subject. As you complete your first draft, you should also think about whether or not you've left anything unresolved and make any necessary corrections.
 Sensory details are the bread and butter of any narrative piece of writing. Just because you're writing a nonfiction essay or book, it doesn't mean you can't get creative. Think about how your favorite fiction authors portray a scene and try to apply those same skills to nonfiction.Try to incorporate all five senses. You won't be able to make the reader see, hear, smell, taste, or touch the things you have, but if you craft your piece of writing skillfully, the reader should feel like he/she has experienced them first hand.
Build your images in a linear, narrative way. In other words, don't fill every tangent with long-winded descriptive passages - save that for the main "story" thread of your book or essay.
Make sure your details are relevant. If you're just throwing in details to make the essay or book "pretty," it's probably just a distraction.

