 If you want to take action against net neutrality, you must first understand the arguments of people who support it so you know how to counter those arguments.For example, one of the arguments in support of net neutrality is that it prevents ISPs from discriminating against some content providers in favor of others, allowing established content providers to pay for priority access to their material.
However, you can counter this argument by pointing out that some content, such as streaming movies and music, requires greater bandwidth than others. In a free and open marketplace, those content providers can pay ISPs for their customers' use of this increased bandwidth, thus guaranteeing that their customers can watch movies and listen to music without slow-downs or interruptions.
People who support net neutrality also argue that in today's society, the internet is becoming essential to everyday life, business, and commerce. Therefore, ISPs should be regulated in the same way other essential services, such as electricity, are regulated.
You can counter this argument by pointing out that excessive regulation of utilities provides no incentive for companies to upgrade their existing wires and cables that bring their services to people's homes. By de-regulating the internet and allowing ISPs to compete with each other, ISPs have a market incentive to upgrade their systems to provide faster, more reliable services than their competitors.;
, Larger organizations opposed to net neutrality can give your voice more power and authority, especially when you are talking to elected officials.Many of the organizations opposed to net neutrality are trade groups that represent major media interests and telecommunications companies.
However, there also are conservative public action groups such as American Commitment which support grassroots efforts and individual activism against net neutrality and other issues, with a focus on decreasing federal regulation.
 You must understand the way current federal laws and regulations work if you want to propose changes to those laws that would make the internet faster and more efficient.A lot of people don't understand net neutrality, leaving them open to the simplistic argument that net neutrality must be good because neutrality means not discriminating or preferring one thing over another.
However, the true issue involves free competition in the open marketplace as opposed to the stiff regulation of public utilities. Understanding FCC regulations helps you make stronger, more nuanced arguments against net neutrality.
For example, net neutrality proponents want ISPs regulated as public utilities, but the internet is not a public utility. The servers and cables that bring the internet into homes are privately owned. You must subscribe to a service to have internet, and you have many services to choose from. These services compete with each other for customers' business.
In contrast, your home already is wired for electricity – you simply call the power company and have it switched on. Regulating the internet as a public utility thus discourages ISPs from upgrading their equipment to bring faster and more reliable internet, since the lack of competition eliminates any incentive to improve the quality of the service they provide.
 You can take advantage of the free hosting and simple set-up of blogging platforms to create your own website. Use your blog to write posts exposing the dangers and problems posed by net neutrality and advocate for a different way.Keep each blog post short, direct, and focused on one point. If you try to put too much into a single post, your readers may get confused and lose interest. Likewise, readers may get bored with long posts that demand too much of their time.
Write in short, simple sentences that are easy to read. Keep your paragraphs short as well. Remember that people are likely reading your blog on different devices with screens of varying sizes. Ideally, they should be able to understand the main point of your blog post without a lot of scrolling.
In addition to writing on your own website, you also can submit articles to established online news outlets and aggregators to reach a wider audience.
Encourage your readers to share your articles with others, and provide social media buttons at the bottom of each of your blog posts to enable people to easily share your posts across multiple networks.
 If you already have social media accounts, use them to spread your message by sharing articles and quotes from others who oppose net neutrality. Follow organizations that are against net neutrality for a steady stream of content to share.You may want to check into the source of a post before you share it, just to make sure it was created by a person or organization you don't mind being associated with.
Keep in mind that when you share things on social media you open yourself up to comments and criticism as well. Try to deal with disagreement in an even-handed way, and avoid responding with anger or personal insults.
 A letter published in your local newspaper or other publications can raise public awareness about the problems with current regulations and inspire others to take action against net neutrality.Letters to the editor may be published in print editions of newspapers as well as online. Publications typically have guidelines for how your letter must be formatted and the maximum acceptable length. Look up these guidelines for any publication to which you want to send a letter and follow them.
Keep the content of your letter timely and remember the audience. Local newspapers have broad audiences, typically consisting of people who live in a particular area – so your letter should have some local connection, or show how net neutrality affects local businesses and residents.
If you're writing a letter to a magazine or website with a more national audience, think about who their likely readers are and target your letter to appeal to those readers. It may be helpful to read other letters that have been published so you have a general idea of what the publication is looking for.
 People who already know and trust you may become your strongest supporters, once you explain your position and encourage them to join you in speaking out against net neutrality.


While people who already know and like you are more likely to listen to you, it's important not to take advantage of that. Don't be pushy or insult friends or family members who disagree with you.
If you have friends who are interested in the issue and support your point of view, point them to other information and resources they can evaluate on their own.
Be ready to suggest something if a friend or family member wants to help you out. For example, if your cousin wants to help you with your blog and you know she's a good writer, invite her to create a guest post a few days a week.
 When there is pending legislation or regulations related to net neutrality or regulation of the internet, you can send letters to your elected representatives explaining your position and urging them to vote against net neutrality.You can find sample letters to members of congress online, but don't follow them verbatim. Rather, use any form or sample letters as guides, but create your own letter that reflects your own personal commitment to the issue and the reasons you're drawn to speak out against net neutrality.
Give the official a little information about your life, and why you feel the issue of net neutrality impacts you.
Close your letter with a call to action, letting your representative know exactly what you expect him or her to do. This could be as specific as voting for or against a particular piece of legislation, or you could simply be asking for a general commitment against net neutrality.
Sign your letter and provide the representative with a way to get in touch with you if he or she wants to talk more about the issues you raised.
 Even if you live far away from D.C., representatives have district offices in their own states where you can schedule a meeting with the people who represent you in Washington.Begin by calling the representative's home office and asking for the name and contact information for the office scheduler. Once you have this information, send the scheduler a message directly asking when the representative will be in the home office and requesting a meeting.
Keep in mind that representatives – and their staffers – are extremely busy. Don't worry if it takes a few weeks for the scheduler to get back to you. However, you may need to call or write more than once before you're finally offered an appointment.
In any follow-up calls or emails, address the scheduler by name and speak only to that person, not to other staffers.
Once you finally get an appointment, it may not be with the member of congress, but with one of their staffers. You still should accept the appointment and treat this person with the same seriousness and respect that you would have treated an in-person meeting with your representative.
 The FCC allows public comments on regulations and other actions taken by the commission, and you can use this forum to express your thoughts on particular regulations and voice your arguments against net neutrality.Previously, FCC comments have been dominated by pro-net neutrality activists. However, groups such as American Commitment have started FCC comment drives of their own to encourage those opposed to net neutrality to make their voices heard as well.
Filing an FCC comment is as simple as using the agency's Electronic Comment Filing System (ECFS) on the FCC website. Simply choose a proceeding from the list provided and click on the ECFS form to add your comment.
Make sure you edit your comment before you post it, as you won't be able to make changes after it is submitted.
Organizations campaigning against net neutrality may have form comments that you can copy and submit, although you should personalize the comment to some extent so it stands out from the others.

