 By doing so you can increase kills and might enjoy the game better. It is recommend that you not use different weapons until you have mastered the previous one! You may do it if you don't have a nice weapon but if you do have one try to master it. Know its RANGE, RECOIL, POWER and how to use it efficiently. It's all up to you on how well you know your weapon.;
, Cheating is a bad idea, play fair and square. You may say that you can enjoy more when you use cheats but you might regret when you get BANNED. Enhance your skills by playing fair and not under the table. Sometimes the X-Trap GameGuard cannot always detect cheat programs, but other players could save the game and can easily REPORT you in forums and if you were proven guilty, may result to a ban.
 Being familiar with the map is a great advantage especially in Deathmatch modes as you'll know where the enemy usually resides and where they hide. By doing this you can acquire a lot of kills.
 Always trust your secondary weapon you don't know when you ammo runs out. Desert eagle is a highly recommended secondary when your primary weapon ammo runs out. Time to get your secondary to assure your survival.
 It's a big deal for those who want to rank up fast and earn GP for those who plan to buy fancy weapons - by performing missions every day, you can easily rank up and get wealthy quickly. Sometimes for GP'S patience is needed as you plan to engage in missions.
 Cooperation gives a higher possibility of winning a match; going it alone always has a high chance of causing a team loss. Learning how to use radio messages is a very big help for your team, like when you spotted the C4, just press "Z+4". It notifies the them to guard the dropped C4 that should be planted by BlackList Team before time runs out. Don't always blame your teammates because you always die without getting help from them. Remember, not all players can act just like what you expect them to act. When you die, try to reflect on it and think on some ways to prevent dying again. Don't always rely on your team, sometimes you are still responsible on your own. Every player is important in every match just like in the game of chess.
 An enemy can't really sneak up on you if you hear them coming. Try using surround-sound headphones.

