 Persons with ADHD tend to have lower serotonin and dopamine levels. Many people experiment with changes in their diet in order to counter-effect these deficiencies to some extent. Experts recommend a complex-carb diet to boost serotonin for improved mood, sleep, and appetite. Skip simple carbs (sugars, honey, jelly, candy, soda, etc.) ) that cause a temporary serotonin spike. Instead, choose complex carbohydrates such as whole grains, green vegetables, starchy vegetables, and beans. These all act as an energy “time-release.” , Eat a protein-rich diet that includes several proteins over the course of the day to keep dopamine levels high.This will help you improve your focus.


Proteins include meat, fish, and nuts, as well as several foods that double as complex carbs: legumes and beans. , ADHD experts recommend avoiding “bad fats” such as those found in trans-fats and fried foods, burgers and pizzas. Instead, choose omega-3 fats from salmon, walnuts, avocados and more. These help promote a healthy brain, and some studies suggest that they may be helpful in reducing negative symptoms of ADHD.These foods may help lower hyperactivity while improving organizational skills.
 Some studies have suggested that eliminating wheat and dairy, as well as processed foods, sugars, additives and dyes (especially red food coloring), can have a positive impact on behavior in children with ADHD. While not everyone will be willing or able to go to that length, some experimentation may produce improvements that make a difference. Although it is a common belief that sugar and food dyes are linked to negative effects in people with ADHD, numerous rigorous studies have not demonstrated a link between these substances and problems with ADHD.However, sugar is a source of empty calories and food dyes are often present in heavily processed foods, so reducing or eliminating these substances will likely improve your overall health.
 Be certain to run any major changes in diet by your doctor. This includes changes related to vitamins and supplements. Ask your doctor about any conflicts that could negatively impact your ADHD medication.Your doctor can also suggest recommended dosages of various supplements and warn of possible side effects.For instance, melatonin may improve sleep in persons with ADHD, but it might also induce vivid dreaming which may be unpleasant.

