 If you suspect illegal drug activity in your area, you will want to take note of certain signs. There are many indicators that can help you figure out if there is a possible crime occurring. Take note of specific things that you see happening near the address where you suspect there are drugs.Look for shoes with the shoelaces tied together and hung over telephone/power wires. This is a signal that a drug house is nearby.
Look for large amounts of plastic bags in the yard or on the porch of the house in questions.
A porch light that is on at odd hours of the day or night is another possible indicator of drug related activity.
If a house is occupied, but the blinds or shades are always drawn, this is another possible sign that something illegal is happening.
Make a note if you see people arriving at the house/building regularly for very short periods of time. It does not take long for drug deals to be completed.
Chemical odors are a sign that drugs are actually being manufactured on the premises. You should be aware of any strange strong smells that come from the suspected residence., You can keep an eye out for people acting in certain ways. For example, keep your eye out for large numbers of people visiting the house in question for brief periods of time. Another possible suspicious behavior is a person sitting in a car for extended periods of time while pedestrians approach him.


Also be on the lookout for people standing on corners and talking to others down the street on a two-way radio.
 When trying to determine whether there is drug related activity in your area, it is useful to know which drugs are most common in your city. This can help you know some more specific things to look for. For example, if methamphetamine is a big problem, you can learn how to spot a meth lab. Your local police department should be able to tell you which drugs are most commonly sold in your area.Meth is sold in small baggies. Many meth deals occur late at night. Users often suffer from lack of sleep, and this may be reflected in their appearance.
Crack is another common street drug, and is often found in areas with gang activity. Crack is often smoked from a small glass pipe, so make sure to pay attention if you see those lying around.
 If you have a neighborhood watch, you should voice your concerns to the organizers of that group. If you don't have a formal neighborhood patrol, you can ask neighbors that you know if they have noticed anything strange. Make sure not to make unfounded accusations.You do not have to use specifics when asking your neighbors if they have noticed any signs of drug related activity. You can ask vague questions and still receive some information.

