 One of the triggers for migraines are hormonal fluctuations. Your body will manufacture and release hormones such as melatonin and cortisol in response to the number of hours of sleep you get and when you get them. These fluctuations, along with sleep deprivation, can trigger migraine headaches., Alcohol and caffeine affect your neuroregulatory system. Although the exact cause of migraine headaches has not yet been identified, most physicians agree that migraines can be triggered by changes to the neurological system.In small amounts caffeine can increase the effects of acetaminophen when taken at the beginning of a headache. One cup of coffee with acetaminophen is often enough. If you drink too much caffeine, over two cups, you can get a rebound headache later on.
 Stress triggers the release of hormones that may affect your neurological system, which can trigger migraine headaches.Not all stress reduction strategies work for everyone, so it’s important to find something that works for you.Prioritize what has to be done, take one challenge at a time and move on. Try not to get overwhelmed by the tasks that you have to complete.
Practice deep breathing. Deep breathing can lower your heart rate and reduce your stress. Positive self-talk will help to reduce your stress levels.
Get regular exercise. Exercise will reduce stress, improve your mood and enhance your self-esteem. Take a 15 minute walk after each meal, go swimming at the local YMCA, go jogging in the evening after work, or take to the bike trails with your friends.
Get plenty of sleep. Lack of sleep will not only affect your hormone levels but also your stress levels. In a study done at the University of Pennsylvania researchers found that losing just a few hours of sleep will increase feelings of sadness, stress, anger and exhaustion.Aim for seven to eight hours of sleep per night.
 The Michigan Headache and Neurological Institute recommends that you quit smoking to reduce your migraines and their severity.Tobacco triggers migraines three different ways. Smoking:


Raises the carbon monoxide levels in the blood and brain
Reduces oxygen levels in the blood and brain
Has a toxic effect on the brain and alters liver metabolism, reducing the effectiveness of migraine prevention medications

, Talk with your doctor before adding any supplements to your daily regimen.Magnesium can help to reduce migraines that are associated with a woman’s menstrual period or in people who have abnormally low levels of magnesium. Potential side effects include diarrhea and low blood pressure.
5-HTP is an amino acid that converts into serotonin in your body. Some of the prescription drugs used to treat migraines affect the serotonin levels in the body. If you already take an antidepressant or natural herbal supplement, such as St. John’s Wort, are pregnant, nursing or plan to become pregnant, you should not use 5-HTP.
Vitamin B2, also known as riboflavin, can reduce the number and severity of migraines. However, if you already take tricyclic antidepressants or anticholinergic medications, do not add vitamin B2 to your daily regimen.

