 There’s only so much one person can take and you can only be so accommodating. If you’ve had it with people meddling in your wedding, let them know their opinions are no longer welcome. It may seem harsh at first, but you’ll likely find that your relationship will stay intact if you remain respectful.

You could say, “I know that you have my best intentions in mind and you want us to have the best wedding possible, but my fiancé and I are set on what we’d like to do. Trying to meet everyone’s expectations is too stressful for us, so please keep your opinions to yourself.” You may listen to objections in the initial conversation, but then repeat this phrase as many times as needed if they continue to press you. You may meet initial resistance at first, but chances are you’ll work it out and have a great wedding because of it., If someone seems to have an opinion or suggestion about every wedding detail you share, stop talking about the wedding to them. It’s likely that what they say is taking a toll on you and ultimately making planning your wedding less enjoyable. If they don’t know what’s going on with your wedding, however, they won’t have anything to talk about.

There’s a chance they’ll notice that you have ceased communication about your big day with them. If they question it and you don’t want to make things awkward, simply tell them you have decided you want to make the wedding details a surprise from now on., If you aren’t getting through to the culprit, ask for some reinforcement from your fiancé. This is particularly helpful if the person in question is a friend or relative of your future other half. They may have a better chance of making an impact with the person than you do.

The key to making this work without upsetting your fiancé is to avoid speaking negatively about the other person. You could say, “I know you are close to this person, but they are not respecting what I say about the wedding. Perhaps you could tell them how to step back a bit. I think it would be more meaningful if it came from you.”
Keeping things respectful will likely encourage your fiancé to take charge and can keep things peaceful between them, you, and the third party.You may also consider who the person is likely to listen to. For example, they might listen to one of your siblings, one of your parents, a friend, or one of your future in-laws.

