 You can only get your criminal records sealed if you meet six specified conditions:


You must have been placed on deferred adjudication for the offense you're asking the court to seal record of. If the judge issued a deferred adjudication order, you should attach a copy of that order to your petition.You must have successfully completed that deferred adjudication. Upon successful completion, the court would have issued you an order of dismissal and discharge. You should attach a copy of that order to your petition as well.You must have been placed on deferred adjudication for an offense that qualifies for an order of nondisclosure. Three categories of offenses, including homicide or kidnapping, offenses that require you to register as a sex offender, and domestic violence offenses, are not eligible to be sealed in the state of Texas. If your offense falls into one of those categories, you are not entitled to file a petition.You must not have any disqualifying criminal history. Not only are you not entitled to have your record sealed regarding offenses such as homicide, sex crimes, or domestic violence offenses, but you cannot have the record of another offense sealed if you've ever been convicted of a crime in any of those three categories.You must have completed the waiting period after the court entered the order of dismissal and discharge. If your offense was a felony, you must wait five years. Certain misdemeanors have a two-year waiting period, while others have no waiting period at all. You can check with the clerk of court if you are unsure whether your offense has a waiting period before you can file a petition to seal the records.From the date you were placed on deferred adjudication until the end of the waiting period or the date you file your petition, you must not have been convicted of any other crime., Before you complete and file your petition, you must get a copy of your criminal record to prove you qualify to have your records sealed.


You should get a copy of your criminal record in particular if you are unsure whether you have a conviction that would disqualify you from having the record of an offense sealed. Although the Texas courts don't require you to attach a copy of your criminal record to your petition, doing so may speed up processing time., The Texas Office of Court Administration has a form you can fill out, along with line-by-line instructions for how to fill it out., Follow the instructions to complete your petition.


You can type your answers into the form using a computer. If you want, you also may print the form and hand-write your answers.
Once you've finished answering all the questions, sign your petition. It does not have to be notarized., You must file your petition in the same court where you acquired the record you want sealed.


You can file your petition in person, online, or through the mail.Filing fees to open a new nondisclosure case will be between $200 and $300.The amount of the fee varies from county to county. If you cannot afford these fees, you can file an affidavit of indigency.You don't have to have your petition served or provide notice to anyone else. The clerk will provide notice to the state through the prosecutor's office., The state may request a hearing, or the judge may schedule a hearing regardless of whether the state requests one.


The state has 45 days from the date you file your petition to request a hearing. If a hearing is scheduled, you will be notified using the contact information you provided to the clerk., If a hearing is scheduled, you must attend or the judge will not grant your petition.


Often the judge will not hold a hearing if one was not requested by the state. If the judge determines that you're entitled to an order of nondisclosure, she will go ahead and issue one.If the judge does hold a hearing, she will have two questions before her: whether you are entitled to an order, and whether issuing the order would be in the best interest of justice., Once the judge makes a decision, you will receive copies of the order from the court clerk.