 Powerful emotions can be dangerous when you are trying to recover from drug and alcohol addiction, but the stress of college can make powerful emotions arise frequently. One of the best things you can do when you experience a powerful emotion is to distract yourself from it.You can do this in a number of ways, such as by:

Going for a long walk, run, or bike ride.
Calling a friend to talk.
Reading a book or writing in a journal.
Watching a movie or favorite TV show.
Visiting the library and getting started on a project or studying for an exam.
 One reason you may turn to drugs, alcohol, or video games while you are in college is because you cannot deal with the stress that accompanies all your responsibilities. You may use your addiction to relax and relieve tension. One of the main reasons for addiction and relapses is an inability to deal with stress in a healthy way.You may have large course loads, jobs, extra-curriculars, social obligations, and family responsibilities. Instead of turning to an addiction, find healthy ways to relieve stress.One of the main ways you can cope with addiction is to learn how to relax. You must make this a habit and daily routine. If you don’t learn how to relax, all of the pressures of quitting your addiction and college will cause tension and stress, and you may relapse to try and relieve the stress.
The stress relief technique that helps another person may not help you. You have to discover a healthier way to reduce your stress than your addiction. This may include listening to soothing music, exercising, spending time with friends, yoga, or watching television., Deep breathing is an easy, effective relaxation technique. You can practice deep breathing anywhere, even in a crowd full of people or in the middle of class. You should work on breathing from your abdomen instead of your chest. Place a hand on your belly as you breathe in. If you are breathing properly, your hand will move as your belly expands outwards.Start by sitting straight in a comfortable position. Place one hand on your belly and the other on your chest. Take a deep inhale through your nose, which should cause the hand on your belly to move outward. Exhale through your mouth. Try to exhale as much air as possible while your belly goes back flat.
Once you get the hang of this, inhale to a count of four, hold for a count of four, then exhale for a count of four.
When you learn to belly breathe, you don’t have to place your hand on your stomach and can do these breathing exercises anywhere.
 Meditation is a great way to relieve stress. Meditation is easy and can be done in a few minutes each day. To try mindful meditation, sit or lay in a quiet room with no distractions. Turn on soothing music or keep it quiet. Focus on the now, on the sounds around you, the feeling of your body, and your breath as you inhale and exhale. Don’t think about the past or the future. Just stay present in the moment.You can sit or lay in a quiet room and repeat a word or mantra to yourself. Think of a word, phrase, or saying that can help you keep focused on your recovery or stay positive. Repeat this mantra over and over to yourself.
As you practice mindfulness, let yourself feel any emotions. Your recovery may cause you to feel a lot of emotions. As you sit or lay in the quiet room, let those emotions pass through your without judgment. Just name them as they float through your brain and then out again.
You can find guided meditation audio and video files online to help you with meditation if you are unsure how to do it.
 Exercise is one of the best ways to relieve stress and fight against any depression or anxiety that accompanies your addiction and recovery. Exercises increases the endorphins in your brain, which makes you feel better. It also helps you feel better about yourself and increases your self-esteem. Exercise also promotes a healthier lifestyle by keeping you active and helping you maintain a healthy weight.Try walking, jogging, sports, cycling, dance, yoga, kickboxing, or strength training. Go for a hike or kayaking. Join a gym or take a class offered by your college’s athletic department. Join a group activity, like kickball or recreational softball.
See if your friends want to get together and exercise. Exercise can be more fun and challenging if you do it in a group.
Use your exercise time as a time to be alone and regroup. Put on your favorite music or an audiobook as you go for a jog, lift weights, or use the elliptical.

