 High school students interested in pursuing accounting careers should choose classes that fulfill the prerequisite requirements for college-level classes. Mathematics classes prepare you for the courses you will need to take in accounting. In addition, you will need to take classes to prepare for the general education requirements.College accounting programs usually require students to have completed two years of high school algebra and geometry and one advanced math class such as calculus.
If you have the opportunity to take business or economics classes in high school, you should. Also, high school statistics classes are valuable for learning to apply your math skills to think critically and solve problems.;
, It’s not always necessary to have a degree to work as an accountant. But, most accountants attend college and earn a bachelor’s degree in accounting. Also, some states require accountants to have a minimum number of credit hours in accounting. For most bachelor’s degrees, you will need 150 credit hours in accounting and related business areas.Accounting degree programs are available at most colleges and universities throughout the United States.
US News and World Report has ranked the best on-campus and online accounting degree programs.Many colleges and universities offer on-campus and online degree programs. Some online programs may grant credit for your prior work experience in the field., Corporate or business accounting is different from public accounting. The bulk of public accountant work in big firms is auditing, which is confirming the accuracy and validity of financial records. Corporate accountants work in the accounting department of a business. They handle day-to-day accounting tasks such as balancing the books, tracking expenses and revenue, executing payroll and paying the bills. They also prepare financial statements to comply with government regulations. When choosing your college accounting classes, consider the requirements of a corporate accountant. Select classes that give you the appropriate knowledge and experience.Financial accounting and corporate reporting classes familiarize you with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and teach the basics about ledgers, balance sheets, cost accounting and inventory methods.
Internal auditing and forensic accounting classes teach you how to enforce GAAP by looking for irregularities in a company’s accounting practices.
While some corporate accountants may not prepare tax returns, you should still take classes in principles of taxation to familiarize yourself with these concepts.
In addition to accounting classes, prepare for management positions and graduate work by taking other business classes such as economics, finance, management, communication, and quantitative analysis.
 These kinds of activities fill your resume with valuable experience. They also demonstrate your initiative and level of preparedness for college and your career. Join a professional accounting organization such as the on-campus Accounting Student Association or your college’s chapter of Beta Alpha Psi (BAP), the international honor society for financial information students. Involve yourself in community service work, such as preparing free tax returns for senior citizens or educating community members in financial literacy. Participate in a team sport to demonstrate your ability to work well with others towards a common goal.