 OS X's Sharing menu allows you to easily share your Mac's internet connection using any of your installed network adapters. The computer sharing the network is called the "host" computer. You will need at least two network adapters installed in the host to share your connection; one to connect to the internet, and one to connect to the rest of your network.If you have an unused wireless adapter (for example, your host is connected to the modem via Ethernet), you can use it to create a wireless network that other devices can connect to in order to access the internet.
If you have two Ethernet adapters, you can connect one to the modem, and the other to a network switch or router. Your other computers and devices can then connect to this network.
 For the best results, it's recommended that you connect the host computer directly to your broadband modem via Ethernet, or use a USB hotspot. If your Mac doesn't have an Ethernet port, you can use a USB or Thunderbolt adapter., Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
 This will open the Sharing window.
 This will enable sharing for the host computer's internet connection.
 If you're connected to your modem via Ethernet, select it from the menu. If you're connected to a USB hotspot, select it instead.


Click Start to confirm that you want to enable internet sharing. Note that turning internet connection sharing on will likely disrupt any existing network you have set up.
 The method you choose depends on the way you want other computers to connect.


If you want to turn your Mac into a wireless hotspot, check the "Wi-Fi" box.
If you want to connect your Mac to a network hub or wireless router, select "Ethernet".
 If you opted to share your host's internet connection with a hub or router which the other computers will connect to, use an Ethernet cable and connect your host to the hub's WAN port., If you decided to turn your Mac into a wireless access point, click the Wi-Fi Options... to set a name and security key for the network. Make sure to select "WPA2 Personal" as the "Security" type, and create a password that won't be easily guessed.If you're in a crowded living area such as an apartment complex, change the "Channel" to something other than 6 or 11, as these are the two most common ones. Doing so will help reduce interference.
 Your host Mac is now ready to share its internet connection, and you can connect the other computers and devices as if it was a typical network.

If connecting via Ethernet, connect each additional computer to the LAN ports on the router or hub. They should automatically get IP addressed and be able to connect to the internet.
If connecting wirelessly, connect to the router as if you were connecting to any wireless network.
 This will often occur if you've made changes to the sharing settings after enabling the wireless network. The quickest way to try to fix this problem is by disabling Internet Sharing, restarting the Mac, and then re-enabling it and creating a new wireless network.