 If your students don’t already know the letters of the alphabet then you’ll need to spend time helping them to learn each letter of the alphabet.Spend time helping them memorize the name of each letter.
Test their knowledge by showing them a picture of the letter with no pictures associated with it. Once they are able to easily identify each letter, you can move on to teaching sounds.;
, Children have to be able to identify letters before they can learn about the sounds, but once they know their letters it is even more important that they understand what sounds each letter makes.Start with teaching the sound of each consonant letter.
Teach blended sounds (e.g. “br,” “cr,” “fr,” “gr,” etc.)
Teach vowel sounds. It is important to begin with the short vowel sounds (e.g. the “ah” sound as in “apple,” the “eh” sound as in “elephant,” the “ih” sound as in “igloo,” the short “o” sound as in “octopus,” and the “uh” sound as in “umbrella.” When children begin reading and come across a vowel where there is a long sound (e.g. the “u” sound in “universe”). A good way of explaining this is to say, “In this case, the vowel says it’s own name when it is pronounced.”
You can test their knowledge of each letters sounds by showing them a picture of a letter (without any visual cues on the page) and asking them to tell you what sound the letter makes (not the name, just the sound).
 In the very beginning, it is a good idea to assess how well each student can hear the sounds of each letter. Some children have a more difficult time differentiating between phonemes than other students. Take note of students who seem to be struggling and try to spend a bit of extra time with them.A phoneme is the smallest unit of sound that helps us to differentiate between similar words (e.g. between “bad” and “bag).Take note of students who appear to be struggling with identifying different sounds. For example, they may have a difficult time differentiating between sounds that are similar like the sound of “d” and “t.” These children can improve their phonemic awareness, but will need to practice the sounds more than other students.
 Dyslexia is a not uncommon problem for many people, and it is often identified when children begin to learn to read. The brains of dyslexic people process information differently than those who do not have it, and this can make reading a slow and difficult process. If you believe there is a child in your class suffering from dyslexia, it may be wise to refer them to a learning specialist at your school.There are proven methods for teaching children with dyslexia, and depending on the severity, they may need to attend special courses designed for children with dyslexia.
A child who has dyslexia may consistently struggle with learning to identify and sound out letters, and when may shy away from opportunities to sound out a word in front of others for fear of embarrassment.A dyslexic child may or may not mix up letters in words when speaking. For example, saying “mazagine” instead of “magazine.”

, It can be hard for children to visualize the sounds that letters make without having pictures to help them. Look at books together with the children and when you come across a picture of something, ask the children what it is. Then sound out the word slowly, and write the word out. This will help them associate the sounds with letters and pictures.
Try to stick to picture books that have lots of pictures of things that children come across in their everyday lives.
For example, if you come across a picture of a cherry, ask the children what it is. When they say it’s a cherry, ask them to help you sound out the word. Have them do it again, and this time, as you sound out the word, write the letters on the board.
 Once the children have mastered the different sounds of each letter, start showing them very simple words and sentences. Ask them to sounds out the words based on what they already know. Make sure to start with words that aren’t exceptions. For example, “cat,” “dog,” “ball,” etc.Try to make this fun. In order to help them develop their love of reading it is helpful to avoid turning these learning sessions into drills. Invent games that you can play together. For example, don’t just ask the children to sit in front of you and go through a whole stack of flash cards. Instead, make the game fun. Hide cards printed with different words on them around the room. Pass out a corresponding picture to each child and have them find the matching card.
Also take advantage of the various computer games that are available. Many children enjoy these games so they have fun, and improve their reading skills at the same time.
 One of the best ways to help children identify patterns is through learning how to rhyme. Often, all the words that rhyme are called a “word family.” Teaching children to rhyme will also help them recognize that words don’t necessarily have to look the same in order to sound the same.Have children take several pictures of things (with the word printed on the picture too) and group them into their families. They can do this by carefully sounding out the word. For example, if you give them a picture of a mop, have them sound it out. Ask them to find other pictures that sound like “mop” (e.g. “top,” “pop,” “hop,” “stop,” “cop”).
 You should practice reading with your students as often as possible, but keep the learning sessions short. This will help keep children from becoming frustrated and tired. Use picture books with short, easy sentences, and let the children practice sounding out the words. The most important thing you can do is be patient and encouraging. You should never make a child feel stupid for making a mistake as this will discourage them from wanting to read.Practice reading with your students wherever you go. Have them sound out the names of things you see as you go to recess or on field trips. This will keep learning fun and engaging for your students.
Encourage parents to make reading a big part of the child’s life. Suggest that they take children to the library to check out books, and keep them around the house so that children can talk with their families about these books.
 One of the best things you can do to help your students with reading is to get their parents involved. Ask the children’s parents to spend time reading with them at home. Suggest to the parents that they allow their children to get involved in the processing by letting them choose books to read from the library, having them sound out simple words, and identify letters and simple words while reading.
 You can further encourage this by reading to your students when they are with you. Although it is ideal if the parents read to the children, some parents don’t have the time or don’t enjoy reading. Thus, you can make sure that every one of your children gets at least some time reading with an adult.Be sure to let the children pick books that they want to read too. Get them involved in the reading process by having them help you sound out simple words.
 While you are reading to them, encourage them to get involved in the story by asking them questions about what you’ve read.You can ask questions after you finish reading, but you can also stop to ask questions during the story too. For example, ask them what you think the main character should do about a problem they’re having. Ask them at various points throughout the story how they think a character is feeling. For example, are the probably sad, mad, happy, or tired?

, Many children will be interested in learning what something they see every day says. Hang up some bright colorful posters that have a few simple words on them, and help the children learn to read and write these words.It can also be useful to have alphabet posters hung up in the classroom. These alphabet posters often have every letter of the alphabet with pictures that help them understand how the letters are pronounced (e.g. the letter “A” with a picture of an apple).
 Learning to read is a long process. Your students will go from not knowing the letters of the alphabet, to being able to read simple words, and will eventually learn to read whole sentences. Keep this interesting and challenging by having lots of books that vary in difficulty. As the children progress, rotate out some of the easier books, and introduce some more challenging ones.


Introducing new books will get them excited to try something new.

