 Simply grind your spices in a spice or coffee grinder. You might want to cut the spices, like the cinnamon stick, into smaller pieces before placing them in your grinder.


Set your powdered spices aside in a small bowl.
 Set this amount aside in a small bowl, as you'll need to use it later.
 Then, add 3 tablespoons of all-purpose flour. Combine the flour, fruits and nuts well. If you don't take this step, the fruits and nuts will settle on the bottom of your pan while cooking.
 Then, pour the mix over a sifter and sift it.
 Stir the sugar while heating it until it melts and turns to a golden color. Once the sugar has completely melted and changed color, add the water.
 Combine the two ingredients until they have mixed well. Then, turn off the heat and allow for the mixture to cool.
 Then, set them aside.
 Once the butter's texture is fairly smooth, add the powdered sugar little by little. Continue to beat the mix. Then, add the beaten eggs, and combine the ingredients well.
 Beat the mix well with a spoon or a hand beater.
 Mix the heated water sugar well. Then, add the powdered spices and combine the mixture.
 Mix them in well.
 Place the plate on top of the standing set. Then, heat the cooker for about five minutes over medium heat.
 Take a little butter, and grease your cake mold. Then, sprinkle a little bit of all-purpose flour over the entire cake mold.


You can also use a spray oil, or oil, to grease the mold.
 Once you've poured in the entire mixture, tap the sides of the cake mold to eliminate air bubbles.
 After the pressure cooker has heated for about 5 minutes, place the cake mold with the cake batter inside of it into the pressure cooker. Cover the pressure cooker.
 Keep the heat to low-medium.


To make sure that the cake is fully cooked, insert a toothpick into it after 45 minutes. If the toothpick is dry when you pull it out, the cake is ready. If the toothpick is wet, let the cake cook for another 5 minutes. Then, check again.
 Take out the cake and set it aside to cool for about 10 to 15 minutes. Then, take the cake out of its mold, and sprinkle powdered sugar over it. Cut in slices, and enjoy!

