 One of the first things you should do after you get diagnosed with bipolar is to learn as much about bipolar as you can. This includes the symptoms, especially the symptoms of a manic episode. You should also learn about treatment options so you can make an informed decision about how to treat the disorder.You may have misconceptions about bipolar because of your exposure to incorrect information in the past. Start researching bipolar as if you have never heard of the condition before.
Ask your doctor for resources. You can also find books on the subject, or look at reputable websites online. The Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance and National Alliance on Mental Illness are good resources to start with.
 If you are unsure about your bipolar diagnosis, get a second opinion. Make an appointment to see a different psychiatrist, or search for an expert in bipolar disorders. Getting a second opinion never hurts, especially since mental illnesses can be difficult to diagnose.


If you have only seen your general physician but not a mental health expert, go see a psychiatrist, psychologist, therapist, or other mental health professional before you start treatment.
 Learning to accept your bipolar diagnosis and getting treatment may be difficult. You shouldn’t try to do it alone. Reach out to trusted family and friends for help. Tell them about your diagnosis, along with your fears or concerns. Ask them to be there for you if you need them.Be aware that some people's opinions of you might change due to their lack of knowledge about the condition. This type of reaction would be entirely unwarranted. However, you might consider this as you are deciding who to tell., Millions of people around the world have bipolar disorder or other mood disorders. You may want to reach out and talk to others who are dealing with bipolar. These people are going through the same things you are, so they can help provide support and understand what you are feeling.


You may consider going to a bipolar disorder support group. These meetings will give you a safe space to talk about your feelings, ask questions, and discuss struggles and successes with others. You may talk to them about how they learned to accept the diagnosis. You may be able to find a support group online, such as by checking the NAMI website.Reach out online to others with bipolar. Many bipolar organizations have online communities where you can talk to people from around the world.
 If your loved one has bipolar, do your own research. This can help you understand the symptoms, treatment, and prognosis for your loved one. Visit support groups with them, offer to go to the doctor, or talk to your loved one about their condition.


It may be helpful for you to learn about bipolar symptoms treatment. Think about what symptoms your loved one has demonstrated before. Learn how treatment will help those symptoms and give your loved one a more balanced life.

