 According to traditional thinking, this breathing method should be used for both speaking and singing. However, modern vocal science says that by singing glottally with closed true vocal folds, you can let air out in minimal amounts, which reduces friction caused by air. This helps to spread the impact of vibration, preventing the development of nodules on the edges of your vocal folds.


To close the vocal folds, breathe in deeply, hold your breath and feel the set of muscles closing as you do so. These are the true vocal folds.
While you sing, focus on the true vocal folds and let out about a quarter of the air you just breathed in. This technique will prevent you from building air pressure beneath the vocal cords.
The sound should be clean, clear and more resonant than usual because you have eliminated the breathiness which can cause a muddy, unclear sound.;
, However, the voice is the place where sound is produced. According to classical training, your voice should come from your mouth and teeth. Classical singing technique was based on muscle memory and feeling, and less on science.


When singing with retraction, your mouth becomes a tool for good resonance and phonation, hence why they say that your mouth and teeth are where the voice comes from. To create good resonance, open the false vocal cords and add moderate twang. to open the false vocal cords, think of yawning; they naturally open. Keep your true vocal cords closed though.
To add moderate twang, make the obnoxious, sneering sound that children make when play practical jokes. It's a horrible sound, but if you only slightly narrow the muscles that are used to create that sound, you get moderate twang.

This helps with phonation because the sound is projected upwards through a small space, focusing it, and is then resonated in your mouth, which naturally opens to a nice 'C' shaped when your false vocal cords are open.
 If you are tense, it will show in your voice. This is a performance truth that is agreed upon by modern Estill, Musical theatre, Jazz, Classical and all genres, schools of thought and training programs. Do not tense your muscles, keep a straight back, but do not let it be stiff. This is called 'anchoring'.
 It is not good for you performance wise; the audience will be able to see your nerves.
 This can be achieved if you slightly elongate and emphasize your vowels. This doesn't seem like much, but it makes a huge difference. Make sure you don't miss "t's" and "d's" at the end of words. For example, in the word "light", many will say it like "ligh" if they're in a hurry, but it should be sung like "laight" with the double "t" because it's so easy to miss.
 You don't want to miss a breath or start of a bar just to enunciate words. The tempo always comes before enunciation.

