 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has the Star Wars logo on it with some cards in the background. Tap on it.;
, Tap the exchanging cards icon on the middle part of the bottom toolbar, and you will be brought to the screen with your trades. Tap the title on the header toolbar to see a drop-down list of filters. Tap on “Pending Trades” from here.


Pending trades are trades that are still active, either waiting for your action or your counterpart’s action. These are trades that you need to watch closely because there may be new ones appearing that may need your attention. You wouldn’t want to miss out on a good deal!
All the pending trades will be displayed, with the most recent ones at the top. Swipe up to see more trades.
 Each trade can be studied and analyzed based on the data provided. You can see your trade partner’s username, the current status of the trade, any messages left, the cards being traded, and some action buttons at the bottom.


Since the trades you’re looking at are still active, you can see the time running down since each trade will only remain active for 24 hours.
If the trade is offered to you, you will have the “Accept,” “Counter,” and “Decline” buttons.
If the trade is offered by you, you will have “Cancel” and “Counter” buttons.
 A good trade is when you have a win-win trade for both parties. You get what you want and the other player gets what he wants. Ideally, the cards being exchanged are of the same or close value.


Since the game is about collecting cards, some players may put more value on their cards over yours. Watch out for these types of trades as you may be left at a disadvantage. If you don’t like a trade offer, it’s okay to decline.
 If you decide on taking the trade offer, tap the “Accept” button below the trade. A pop-up message will appear to confirm your action. Tap on the “OK” button here to confirm your acceptance.


The cards being traded will automatically and immediately be switched between your card deck and your trading partner’s deck.
 Since the game is virtual, it depends on the whole community to rate each trader after every trade. This is how the game lets everyone know what kind of a trader you are.


After the trade, another pop-up window will appear. This one has five empty stars on it. Tap the number of stars you will give to your trading partner for this recent trade, then tap the “Rate” button. The window will close, and your rating will be reflected on your partner’s overall score.
Your trading partner will also do the same for you.

