 Navigate to the Tumblr blog you're interested in commenting on and click on the "Follow" button in the upper right corner.


You must create and sign into your Tumblr account before you can leave comments.
Note that you are unable to comment on your own blog posts. This feature only works if you wish to comment on others' posts, and if the blog you wish to comment has the feature enabled. Unfortunately, there is no way to know if the feature is enabled or disabled until you go through the process.



There is one exception to the rule, however. If the Tumblr user you start following decides to follow you back and has the appropriate setting enabled, you can leave a comment for that user before the two-week period ends.
 Go to the Tumblr blog you started following and find the blog post you wish to comment on.
 When available, the Reply icon should be located near the top of the post. It should look like a speech bubble and be positioned next to the Reblog (rotating arrows) icon.


Note that some blogs may not have comments enabled. In fact, replies are disabled by default; users need to specifically enable them in their settings before they can use this feature. For that reason, it is possible that the reply icon will be unavailable.
Some blogs may use text action buttons instead of icon buttons. In this case, look for the word "reply" near the top of the blog post.
 Click in the text box and type your comment. Note that you are limited to text replies, and your reply can only be 250 characters long., When you're satisfied with your comment, hit the "Reply" button beneath the text box to submit it.


Once you submit your comment, Tumblr will notify the user and add it to the list of notes attached to that post.
Understand that the user will be unable to directly respond to your comment on the blog post page. Instead, he or she will need to reblog your comment and add the appropriate reply in the comment field of the post box before publishing it.

Alternatively, he or she may copy the text of the reply and paste it into a new quote-style post, attributing your username as the source. The user's reply to your original comment can be typed into the same text box beneath your quoted remarks.



