 Part of managing Bipolar disorder is keeping track of your moods. You may wish to keep a journal as a way to track patterns and changes to your moods. You may have a stable mood all day, or feel depressed in the morning and manic in the evening. By monitoring your moods, you can begin to better understand any cycles or triggers you may experience.You may want to monitor how your baby affects your moods or notice certain times of the day your mood tends to change.
For more information, check out How to Manage Bipolar Depression with Journaling.;
, Not getting enough sleep can trigger manic symptoms. Too little sleep can worsen your mood. Keep your sleep consistent by going to bed and waking up at the same time each day, even on the weekends. Avoid taking naps or minimize napping, especially if it disrupts your sleep. Avoid caffeine or alcohol beyond midday, as these can also interfere with sleep.Prioritize your sleep. Remember that getting good sleep can help keep you healthy, so it’s important to put it at the top of the list.
With a baby, you may need to have help during the night to ensure you get good sleep.
 Exercise can help with symptoms of depression and may help with Bipolar disorder as well.Exercise can help you deal with stress and improve your sleep, which can help you manage Bipolar disorder better.Find time to exercise every day for 30 minutes. There’s no need to go to the gym, instead, go for a bike ride or push the stroller around your block.
 Eating healthy foods is good for you body and good for your moods. Eat meals which include fruits, vegetables, and grains. Space your meals throughout the day so that you eat regularly and your blood sugar never gets too low.Don’t eat an excessively high-carb diet, as this can lead to mood dysregulation. Other foods that can affect your mood include caffeine, chocolate, and processed food.
Omega-3 fatty acids may decrease mood swings and can be found in flaxseeds, pumpkin seeds, and walnuts.
 Learn about Bipolar disorder and postpartum Bipolar disorder. The more you know, the better you can assist in your own coping and recovery.Learn about Bipolar disorder and learn about postpartum Bipolar disorder. Ask how other women cope with postpartum Bipolar.


Ask your physician or obstetrician for referrals for professionals who deal with postpartum Bipolar disorder.
Ask friends and family members on their own experiences and what helped them cope better with Bipolar disorder.
 Many people with Bipolar disorder tend to be or feel isolated.Especially after having a baby, you may find it difficult to keep up with friends or reach out to people for help for anything that does not involve the baby. Yet, it’s important to stay healthy, and maintaining your relationships is a major way to do that.


Don’t be afraid to open up and talk about difficult things. Often, people are flattered that you would confide in them.Hire a babysitter for a night and spend time with a good friend.
 There are many benefits of joining a support group. These groups function to provide help, advice, and a safe, accepting, and confidential space to talk about Bipolar disorder.You may meet others who also struggle with postpartum Bipolar disorder.


A support group can also help you understand how other people experience symptoms and how they cope with the symptoms of Bipolar.It can feel comforting to know you are not the only one dealing with Bipolar disorder or postpartum Bipolar disorder.
 Postpartum Bipolar disorder is often treated similarly as non-postpartum Bipolar disorder, and medication is part of successful treatment. Talk to your psychiatrist about medications that are compatible with lactation.Make sure you discuss with your prescriber that you need medications that are safe to take after giving birth and lactating. You may need to switch medications at some point. Always mention concerns about lactation before trying new medications.
 Therapy plays a large role in treating Bipolar disorder. Therapy helps to provide support, education, and guidance to those who have Bipolar disorder and also to their families.Work with a therapist who specializes in treating Bipolar disorder. You may want to include your family during some sessions to help them understand what Bipolar is and how to respond to it.


You may find a therapist who specializes in postpartum Bipolar treatment.
 For those with severe Bipolar disorder, ECT may be a good treatment option. It can be used when using medications is too risky, such as during pregnancy.If you feel like medication is too risky for postpartum Bipolar disorder, talk to your treatment team about the possibility of using ECT.


This type of therapy sends controlled electric pulses through the brain after you are put to sleep. Most people report improvement of symptoms between 6-12 sessions, although some report immediate effects after the first treatment., For treatment to be successful, it’s important for you to go to all of your appointments with your psychiatrist and therapist. Take medications daily and do not skip doses or remove yourself from medications because you are feeling better. Medications often prevent symptoms, so they are best taken regularly. You can report any uncomfortable side effects to your prescriber.If you wish to make any changes to your treatment, discuss them with your treatment team first. Don’t make decisions about treatment without consulting first.
 It’s important to play an active role in your treatment. Discuss different treatment options with your treatment team, voice your thoughts and opinions, and communicate any concerns you have.If something makes you uncomfortable, speak up. Work with your doctors and build communication, trust, and cooperation with your treatment team.


Give yourself an active role in treatment. You may feel like you have no control over what happens to you, but actively engaging in treatment with your treatment team can empower you.
Always prioritize your treatment. Don’t allow yourself to get “too busy” to be active in your treatment.
 Avoid high-stress situations or jobs. Stress can trigger the onset of Bipolar symptoms, so monitor your stress levels and keep them low.If staying at home with a baby feels overwhelming or stressful to you, consider asking for help, hiring a nanny, or finding ways to lower that stress. If taking care of a baby and working at the same time is highly stressful, find ways to decrease your stress.


You may want to work fewer hours or find a less stressful job.
If you notice your stress levels increasing, take a small break. Even if it’s a five-minute break, find a way to let go of stress even momentarily.
 Find some healthy outlets for stress, such as relaxation. You may choose to start a practice every day to keep your stress levels low. Practicing relaxation for 30 minutes each day can help keep depression away and can help stabilize your moods.You may choose to practice relaxation exercises while your baby sleeps or naps, or decide to do exercises first thing in the morning.


Find relaxation methods that feel good and that you want to do every day. Try daily yoga, qi gong, tai chi, and meditation. Find one you like and stick with it.
 Substances such as drugs and alcohol can worsen symptoms of Bipolar disorder. They can also increase the chances of having an episode. Additionally, using substances postpartum can increase risks to both mother and child.Find other ways of coping with stress, such as going on a walk, meditating, or using relaxation exercises.


If you’re struggling with substance abuse, seek treatment immediately. Check out How to Find Substance Abuse Treatment.

