 You'll probably have to use a lot of force to remove the zipper stops. If you use pliers to gain more leverage, be careful that you don’t clamp down too hard and further damage the zipper. This is important, as you won’t be able to fully access the teeth of the zipper or examine the slider without removing the stops.
 Examine the slider from the side. Look to see if the space between the bottom and top of the slider are uneven. An uneven gap may prevent the slider from properly engaging the teeth.









If the slider is bent or there is a gap, take a pair of pliers and try to straighten it out.
If you can’t fix the slider, you will have to replace it. The size should be listed on the back. If the size is not listed, measure the slider. Zipper parts are measured in millimeters. A 5-mm slider is a size 5. Purchase a replacement slider at your local fabric store or online., After you’ve fixed or replaced the slider, you need to put it back on the teeth of the zipper. When replacing the slider, make sure to:









Locate the side of the zipper that has the square tab on the bottom.
Wedge the top teeth of the zipper into the slider.
If necessary, use a flathead screwdriver to wedge the teeth into the gap.
Wiggle and pull the slider until it moves down to the bottom of the zipper., Try zipping the item as normal to see if it has a complete range up and down the teeth track. There are a number issues that could continue to cause problems for you:









If the zipper continues to split and you replaced the slider, you may have purchased the incorrect size. Try a different size slider.
If you bent the original slider, the gap may still be uneven. Remove the slider and bend it again. Repeat until the item zips properly., Once you’ve replaced the slider, you’ll have to replace the top zipper stops above the top set of teeth. Without securing the stops, your slider will fall off or won’t function correctly.









Use a pair of pliers to clench the stop into place.
Press down on the stop 4 to 5 times to secure it.
Repeat on the other side of the zipper.
If you are only replacing 1 top zipper stop, make sure you place it on the side of the zipper with the tab at the bottom.