 Often a travel scam will try to entice you with language proclaiming a unique offer or an extreme discount.Keep in mind that few legitimate businesses can afford to offer expensive items such as airfare or lodging for free. A free trip typically will include hidden fees and other costs that make it more expensive than if you'd paid market rates.
Be especially wary if you are told you "won" a sweepstakes or drawing that you don't remember entering.;
, An individual trying to sell you on a scam doesn't want you to think about it, and typically will speak quickly and forcefully about the deal you're going to pass up if you don't act now.If someone is speaking quickly, interrupting your questions, or is pressuring you to act fast, be skeptical. If the offer was legitimate, the salesman would be willing to answer questions and provide any information you needed.
Scammers use high-pressure tactics to get you to commit to something on the spot. When you later figure out it's a scam, it may be too late to get out of it.
 If you receive details of an offer in writing, you have the opportunity to thoroughly evaluate it and check for any hidden fees or other costs the salesperson may try to downplay.Don't give a telemarketer your credit card or bank account number over the phone – even if they say they only need it to verify your identity. There are plenty of ways to verify someone's identity that don't involve getting a credit card number.
If you do receive written information, pay attention to dates and other restrictions. Be wary of offers that restrict your travel dates or your ability to choose certain dates.
Double-check what is actually included in the offer and what is required of you. For example, it might sound great to stay at a five-star resort for a week for $100, but there may be other charges assessed by the resort (such as daily cleaning fees) and you may have to sit through a lengthy, high-pressure sales pitch to purchase a timeshare at the resort.
Look for the rights claimed by the company extending the offer, typically located in the legal fine print of the written information. For example, if a company reserves the right to cancel or reschedule your trip without notice to you, this means you probably will never get the trip you purchase.
 Even if you're convinced the offer is genuine, look into the company and learn from the experiences of other customers.If the company provides reviews from "satisfied customers," keep in mind that the company will edit the information it provides to entice others. A company isn't going to publish a review itself if someone says the offer was a scam or that they had a bad experience.
Do an online search for "scam" or related words such as "complaints" and see what comes up. This is sometimes the quickest way to locate real reviews about a potentially fraudulent company.
If the offer requires accommodations at a particular hotel, or flight through a named airline, contact customer service for those companies and confirm that they have knowledge of or have approved the offer.

