 Straight needles are the kind that have pointed tips and a flat, wide end or knob to keep the stitches from slipping off.These are best for projects that you want to work in rows, such as scarves, blankets, and washcloths. They come in many different sizes and in different lengths as well, so you can find a pair to suit your project.


Straight needles usually come in 7”, 10”, 12”, and 14” lengths., Circular needles have a wire or nylon cord that extends between two needles. They are best for working projects in the round, such as hats, infinity scarves, and sweaters. However, you can also use them to hold all of the stitches for a larger project that you want to work in rows, such as a blanket.Circular needles come in many different sizes and with different lengths of wire or nylon cord extending between the needles. Some common circular needles wire lengths include 16”, 20”, 24”, and 32”., Double pointed needles (DPNs) are often necessary for binding off projects like hats, which you would mostly work on a pair of circular needles. Double pointed needles are also great for smaller circular projects, such as socks and mittens. You can get double pointed needles in many different sizes.


Double pointed needles come in sets of four or five needles.You may want to get a set of needle point covers if you plan to use double pointed needles. Stitches can easily slip off the ends of double pointed needles, especially if you are using metal or plastic ones. Place a needle point cover over one end or both ends of the needles while you work to avoid dropping a stitch.
 Cable needles are "U" shaped needles. If you are interested in trying cabling, then you will need a cable needle. However, keep in mind that a cable needle is not something you can use on its own. You will need to use a cable needle in conjunction with a pair of straight, circular, or double pointed needles to make cables.


Cable needles come in lots of different sizes as well. Make sure to get a cable needle that matches your other knitting needles for the project.
 If you think you might want to work with a variety of knitting needles, then you might want to get an interchangeable set. Interchangeable sets include a variety of needle types that you can connect in different ways to use for your projects. You can attach different lengths of wire between circular needles or use extenders to make longer straight needles as needed.Keep in mind that these sets can be expensive, but it may be less expensive than buying all of the different needle types and sizes that you might use.

