 If the stock volume isn't enough, there are applications on the play store, such as Volume+, that circumvent the protective limitations that may be put on the sound output of your phone."Audio Manager" and "Slider Widget" are also suitable, as "Volume+" only works for music.


Download a DSP mod such as "viper2android" from Viper Audio. Viper allows boosting audio past developer limits, and includes other features like a graphic EQ and bass boost.
Examples of equalizer apps: "Equalizer Music Player Booster" or "Power amp." Both of these apps are equalizers. That means that you can change the frequency or volume of your music.
 Download an application on Google Play or the Amazon App Store. Once installed, open your app and tap speaker settings. It can also be titled "gain."


Accept the terms and conditions. There are various options for improving the audio output that can be found "Speaker Settings.", Tap speaker modifications and select the volume you want. Don't try maximum volume immediately because it could damage your speakers. Gain increases the volume past your devices maximum volume, however, having this setting too high for a prolonged period may damage your phone's speaker.


Also, having the gain too high can make the volume seem saturated. You'll come to another screen in which you can "reprogram" the maximum volume of your phone.
 If all else fails and you still want an increase of volume, you may resort to purchasing an amplifier, such as a Boostaroo, that plugs into your headphone jack. These are ideal for motorcycle speakers, or if you want to be able to plug multiple accessories into your audio jack while maintaining high output.
 Move your audio file to your computer using an SD card, USB cable, or another device used for transfer. Increase the volume of the file on your computer using an audio editing program.


For example, if you have a music file that's not very loud, plug your phone into the computer using a usb cable, find the file on your phone (usually the song name followed by .mp3). From there, import the file into an audio editor and amplify the file as much as you like. Then transfer the file back to your phone.

