 Impulse sealers are some of the most common small-scale shrink-wrapping machines available, and they easily allow you to customize the size and shape of an item to be shrink wrapped. By first choosing the item you need to shrink wrap, you can decide on other specifics.;
, The two most common shrink-wrap films are polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyolefin. Polyolefin is more durable when it comes to wrapping items with sharp edges, and it has less of an odor when it comes to wrapping food; however, it is also more expensive.


For most jobs, PVC is still the go to film, including CDs and Blu-Rays
Depending on your specific job, you can also decide between flat rolls of film, pre-made bags in various sizes with three sides already sealed, or gauge size ranging from 60 to 100.
 An impulse sealer resembles a paper cutter that seals the shrink wrap as opposed to slicing it when you bring down the arm (though some models do also have a cutter included).Your impulse sealer will have a knob with different heat settings. The specific setting you want depends on the film type and gauge size you decided on for your item. Your film may have come with a recommended heat setting, or you can easily practice on a small piece of film to find the ideal temperature where it seals without burning., With a flat roll of film, fold the film over your item as though you’re measuring out wrapping paper to wrap a gift. Cut the film with scissors, leaving yourself plenty of room to fit the excess on the three open sides under the arm of your impulse sealer.


If you ordered pre-made bags in a suitable size for your item, then you can simply place it in the bag.
 One side at a time, place the open edges of the film onto the impulse sealer and close the arm, which will heat and seal the side.Even in models without a cutter, the heat from the seal will make it easy to tear away excess material from the sealed sides of the bag.Try to get close to the item without actually bringing it in contact with the arm on the sealer. This will lead to a clean-looking finished product after applying the heat gun, and it will also help you save on wrapping film with practice.
If you’re shrink-wrapping a product that you still need a a customer to be able to smell (such as soap), then you can use a hole punch to puncture one small piece of the sealed bag before heat shrinking., A heat gun resembles a hairdryer, but it distributes heat more evenly to the film. From several inches away, make passes over the sealed bag. The film will quickly react to the heat and shrink down to the exact size of the sealed item.Make sure you rotate the item as you pass the heat gun over it to heat the film evenly.
Using the gun too close to the film or leaving it pointed at one spot for too long can warp the film or even burn it, so ensure that you make even passes from several inches away.

