 Five vowels form the basis of hiragana. These are: あ, い, う, え, and お (a, i, u, e, o). Almost all consonants in Japanese pair with these five vowels to make up consonant groups of five symbols. These groups often have voiced and unvoiced members, which will be further explained later.


An example of a consonant group is the "K" group. The consonant sound of this group combines with each vowel to make the five symbols: か (ka), き (ki), く (ku), け (ke), and こ (ko)., Groups are easier to remember because they're unvoiced (V-) symbols are only differentiated from voiced (V+) symbols by a quote-like mark (〃) or a small circle (゜). Voiced consonants in a group will make your throat vibrate, and unvoiced consonants will not.


V-: か, き, く, け, こ (ka, ki, ku, ke, ko)
V+: が, ぎ, ぐ, げ, ご (ga, gi, gu, ge, go)
V-: さ, し, す, せ, そ (sa, shi, su, se, so)
V+: ざ, じ, ず, ぜ, ぞ (za, ji, zu, ze, zo)
V-: た, ち, つ, て, と (ta, chi, tsu, te, to)
V+: だ, ぢ, づ, で, ど (da, ji, zu, de, do)
V-: は, ひ, ふ, へ, ほ (ha, hi, fu, he, ho)
V+: ば, び, ぶ, べ, ぼ (ba, bi, bu, be, bo)
V+: ぱ, ぴ, ぷ, ぷ, ぽ (pa, pi, pu, pe, po), A nasal is a sound like an "m" or an "n." These sounds vibrate in the top-back of your throat and into your nasal cavity. Japanese has two nasal groups in hiragana:


な, に, ぬ, ね, の (na, ni, nu, ne, no)
ま, み, む, め, も (ma, mi, mu, me, mo), The "Y" group in Japanese can blend with consonant symbols that end in an い (i) sound (like き, じ, ひ / ki, ji, hi). This is represented by the consonant symbol followed by a small "Y" group symbol. The "Y" group has no unvoiced members.


The "Y" group: や, ゆ, よ (ya, yu, yo)
Some common "Y" group blends: しゃ (sha), じゃ (ja), にゃ (nya), きゅ (kyu), ぎゅ (gyu), しゅ (shu), ひょ (hyo), びょ(byo), and しょ (sho)., Traditionally, the "R" group is taught last along with three unique symbols. Neither of these two end groups have unvoiced members. All "r" sounds should be pronounced similar to the "t" sound in "water."The "R" group: ら, り, る, れ,ろ (ra, ri, ru, re, ro)
The unique three: わ, を, ん (wa, wo, n), Particles are a special part of Japanese grammar. There is no English equivalent, though it can help to think of particles like prepositions. Particles indicate the grammatical role words play in a sentence, and sometimes have a different pronunciation than you'd expect.


For instance, in the sentence, "I go to school," the word "I" is the topic and "school" a destination, so it is written,「わたしはがっこにいきます」(watashi wa (I + topic particle) gakko ni (school + direction particle) ikimasu (go)).
There are many particles in Japanese, but the most common include:

は (pronounced wa): topic marker.
か (ka): indicates a question at the end of a sentence.
が (ga): subject marker.
に (ni): indicates location, movement, marks time and the indirect object.
の (no): indicates the word before の is possessive of the word following it.
へ (e): indicates direction (of movement).
を (o): marks the direct object., The shape of hiragana symbols can be very foreign if you don't have experience writing in a similar Asian script. Practice regularly to improve your recall so that you can read these symbols quickly, fluently, and correctly.


You may want to make flash cards to help study. Write each symbol on one side of an index card and the pronunciation of the symbol on the opposite side., Many children's books and beginning learner Japanese materials are written solely in hiragana. By reading materials like these, you'll be sure to pick up some new vocab terms as you practice.You may want to make flash cards for new words, too. You can mix these in with your hiragana flash cards to add variety to your study.Some websites publish articles or simple stories in hiragana for beginning learners. An online keyword search for, "hiragana reading practice" should help you find something suitable.

