 This is the most important step. Not all toys can be adapted easily. What we need here are toys that have an "on/off" switch on them, the kind that go crazy when "on" (those that start moving, making noise and blinking lights are fine), and don't do anything but sit on the shelf when off.;
, You've got to be careful here, we don't want to end up with "extra parts" later on. This is where we have to think a bit. Find the place where the on-off switch is. If you can, play with it a bit. ¿see how the toy turns on when you flick the switch? OK, that's enough playing for now.
 If you look carefully, you'll see that the switch has a couple of metal plates that connect directly to the batteries. We'll have to solder the two cables in parallel to the existing "on-off" switch. That is, the toy should be activated by either using the "on-off" switch on the toy, or by bringing together our two cables. (check out some of the soldering how-to articles on this site for details on this step if you don't know how to solder). If the toy turns on by bringing the cables together, the you've done a great job.
 First you'll need to find a good spot to place the plug. Make sure you'll have enough room to close the toy afterwards. Drill an appropriately sized hole on the toy. Put the female plug in place. If necessary you could use a bit of silicone to fix the plug to the toy (in case the hole is too big).
 Now, cut the cable to an "appropriate" length (that, of course, depends on the particular toy you're working on) and solder the ends to the female plug. That's all for the toy part.
 In order for the toy to be activated at a distance, it's necessary to have an appropriate switch. You can buy one for about $10 USD, or make one yourself. To make the switch, get a one meter piece of stereo cable. Solder to one end a mono plug (that fits to the one on the toy) and solder to the other end a momentary switch (something like the ones used for your mouse's buttons). Momentary switches generally have three metal contacts that you can solder to. Use a bit of trial and error to figure out which two to use.
 Depending on the child, you may need to try different things in order to have them use the switch. In some cases it's enough to paste the switch to the table.

