 The first thing to remember is to that you must clean and dry your hands before you put in, or take out, your lenses. Wash your hands thoroughly with mild soap and water before handling your lenses.Dry your hands with a lint-free towel after washing them.You don't want any fluff or lint to get into your eyes.
If you are putting on makeup, put your lenses in first.
Take your lenses out before removing makeup.;
, You can clean your lenses individually to remove any surface build-up. Squirt a little lens cleaning solution, or multi-purpose solution, into the palm of one hand. Then place the lens in the solution and rub it gently with your index finger.After rubbing them, rinse them with solution.
This "rub and rinse" method is considered very effective., It's important that don't put in contact lenses that will irritate your eyes. Before you put in a lens, hold it out on your index finger and check for tears or debris. Then carefully place it on the centre of your eye as normal. When you take a lens out, be gentle or you risk tearing it.


Check to see if your lens is right side out. You don't want to put on lenses upside down — they won't fit correctly and could irritate your eye.
If you are struggling to put in or remove your lenses ask for guidance from your eye doctor.
If you have long, pointed, or slightly ragged fingernails take extra care not to damage the lens or scratch your eye., It's very important that you only use the specialized cleaning, storing and disinfecting solutions on your lenses. Never wash or rinse them in water, saliva, or anything else. Micro-organisms in the water can cause infection or even damage your sight.Never try to rinse your lenses in your mouth, this is asking for an infection.
Don't expose your lenses to any kind of water, including bottled, distilled, ocean, lake and tap water.For the same reasons, you should take them out before swimming or getting in a hot tub., Different types of lenses will require the uses of different types of disinfectant solution. It's important to use the correct one for you, so listen to your eye doctor, as well as reading the label on the product you have.You can use a multi-purpose solution to clean your lenses as well as store them.


A saline solution can be used for storing lenses, but not for disinfecting them.
If you use a hydrogen peroxide solution never put them into your eyes before completing the required process of disinfecting and neutralizing them.