 When applying face makeup, it's vital that you start with clean eyes. First, make sure that you have no eye makeup residue left from last night. Remove any last traces using an eye makeup remover in a gentle manner. Now, wash your face with a cleanser and pat it dry., Putting concealer and foundation on a dry under-eye area is not a wise decision. Instead, apply a moisturizing yet light-weight eye cream. Pat the cream onto the area around your eye (including your eyelid) until fully absorbed. Wait 2-3 minutes before you begin with your makeup so that it can sink into the skin completely., Just to be sure that there's no oily residue left on your eyelids, use an oil blotting sheet. Press it lightly against each eyelid. Oil blotting sheets are amazing at controlling shine. They may also prevent the need for numerous touch-ups throughout the day.If you don't have a blotting sheet, there are alternatives you can use: a napkin, perm-end wrappers, or parchment paper.
 An eyeshadow primer helps create a barrier between the oil on your lids and the product you put on, as well as giving your eyeliner and eyeshadow something to adhere to. Squeeze a tiny amount of primer onto your fingers, warm it up between your fingers and thumb, and apply it all over your eyelids., Eyeshadow base is similar to primer, but it is a little different. It is used to intensify the staying power of your eye makeup, intensify eyeshadow colors, and make the skin tone of both your lids look even. If you really want your eye color to pop, eyeshadow base is a good idea. Eyeshadow bases often come in pencil form. After applying primer, color your eyelids with an eyeshadow base pencil.You can find products that are eyeshadow primer and base in one.
 Once you have applied these products, apply a thin layer of translucent loose powder over your lids. Use a shadow brush or makeup sponge to apply it. In case you don't have this powder, you can also use your regular compact (just apply it lightly)., Layering eye makeup helps build extra staying power. Apply a cream eyeshadow all over your lids, using your ring finger. Then apply each color of your powder eye shadow and blend., You will want to layer your eyeliner as well. Begin with a pencil or gel based eyeliner to draw a line on your eyes, and give it a minute to set. Then, apply a waterproof liquid eyeliner to seal your efforts. Finish with your favorite mascara.If you are using kohl, you can set it with a matte black eyeshadow.
 The "sandbagging technique"--as popularized by Kim Kardashian's makeup artist Mario Dedivanovic--stops eyeshadow, mascara and kohl from traveling outside the line. Use a damp sponge loaded with translucent powder and apply it on area underneath your eye. Try getting as close to your waterline as possible. Let it sit for a few minutes, and then remove the excess using a fluffy powder brush., If your under eye area appears a little cakey, make use of a makeup setting spray. Spray it from an appropriate distance after you've done your makeup completely. Let it settle for several minutes. You will be surprised to see that it takes down the powdery look and lends a long staying power to your makeup.