 In non-formal situations, you might say ‘Apa Kabar?’ (How are you?). More formally, you might want to use ‘Selamat Pagi’ in place of Good Morning, ‘Selamat Siang’ for Good Afternoon, ‘Selamat Sore’ for Good Evening, and ‘Selamat Malam’ for Good Night.Selamat malam is not used if you want to go to sleep.;
, To pronounce it correctly simply say 'slamat'. Also its perfectly OK to omit the 'selamat' completely and simply say 'pagi'. Similar to English where Good Morning is abbreviated into 'Morning.
'), the answer will most likely be ‘Baik-baik saja’ or ‘Kabar baik’ which means ‘I’m fine, thank you.’

, Say it the way you see it. Rarely will anyone laugh if you accidentally slip. Just continue on speaking in your usual accent and you'll eventually get it right.
 ‘Mas’ meaning one younger than you, 'Pak', sir or mister (Can be used to address any male, except boys, which would be 'Mas') 'Ibu' is also used everyday, such as "Hai, Ibu!" Abbreviation is used normally, Indonesians constantly shorten things. "Bu" is an abbreviation of Ibu. Ex: Mas Bayu (young male); Pak Mulyawan (male, formal) ; Bu Kartini (married female); Mba Elita (Ms. Elita). While for married females the honorific 'Ibu' does not often change, you might also hear ‘Bapak’ (father) when a young person speaks to a male who’s clearly older or has higher position. Ex: a person middle-aged person named Djoko might be addressed as 'Bapak Djoko.'


The K and the NG are the only 2 somewhat tricky sounds of Bahasa Indonesia. The former has a dual function. Sometimes it sounds exactly like the K in English, while at other times (like in Pak) it marks a 'glottal stop:' a glottal stop is the opposite of the ahhhh-sound, as you intentionally choke off the air in your throat to end the syllable. It sounds like the Uh in Uh-oh! The second is the NG combination which produces a "velar nasal" sound similar to the way you would pronounce 'sing.' All that said, it is a minor matter that the Locals will tolerate until you eventually refine it as you learn more of the language.
 If a person is named ‘Arif Perdana,’ it does not mean his family name is Perdana. Feel free to call him with just ‘Pak Arif’. Some Indonesian even named with one single first name, without middle name or family name.
 Indonesian people use first name basis in daily life, with whomever they meet. The exceptions are married women, nobles and royalty.
 Use the name she told you when you were introduced to her. Don’t forget to add ‘Bu/Ibu’ before you speak her name.
 Experience shows that Indonesians are very intuitive communicators who can make out what you're trying to say, regardless.
 Indonesians are as a whole, open and friendly people. Smiles will do magic to oil social interactions with them. A slight nod/bow is also a common practice. The bowing should not be equated with subservience, but with extreme politeness. Westerners should not let it bother them.

