 When you're dealing with a device that is made up of two lenses lined up with each other (like a telescope or one part of a pair of binoculars), all you need to know is the focal length of both lenses to find the overall magnification of the final image. This is done with the simple equation M = fo/fe.In the equation, fo refers to the focal length of the objective lens and fe to the focal length of the eyepiece lens. The objective lens is the large lens at the end of the device, while the eyepiece lens is, as its name suggests, the small lens you put your eye next to.
 Once you have the focal lengths for both of your lenses, solving is easy — just find the ratio by dividing the objective's focal length by the eyepiece's. The answer you get will be the magnification of the device.


For example, let's say that we have a small telescope. If the focal length of the objective lens is 10 centimeters and the focal length of the eyepiece lens is 5 centimeters, the magnification is simply 10/5 = 2.
 If you have two lenses lined up in front of an object, it's possible to determine the magnification of the final image if you know the distances of the lenses and objects in relation to each other, the size of the object, and the focal lengths of both lenses. Everything else can be derived.


For example, let's say that we have the same setup as in our example problem in Method 1: a six-inch action figure 50 centimeters away from a converging lens with a focal length of 20 centimeters. Now, let's put a second converging lens with a focal length of 5 centimeters 50 centimeters behind the first lens (100 centimeters away from the action figure.) In the next few steps, we'll use this information to find the magnification of the final image.
 The first part of any multi-lens problem is the same as if you were dealing with just the first lens. Starting with the lens closest to the object, use the lens equation to find the distance of the image, then use the magnification equation to find its height and magnification. Click here for a recap of single-lens problems.


From our work in Method 1 above, we know that the first lens produces an image -3.996 centimeters high, 33.3 centimeters behind the lens, and with a magnification of -0.666.
 Now, finding the magnification, height, and so on for the second lens is easy — just use the same techniques that you used for the first lens, only this time, use its image in place of the object. Keep in mind that the image will usually be a different distance from the second lens as the object was from the first one.


In our example, since the image is 33.3 centimeters behind the first lens, it is 50-33.3 = 16.7 centimeters in front of the second one. Let's use this and the new lens's focal length to find the second lens's image.



1/f = 1/do + 1/di

1/5 = 1/16.7 + 1/di

0.2 - 0.0599 = 1/di

0.14 = 1/di

di = 7.14 centimeters





Now, we can find hi and M for the second lens:



(hi/ho) = -(di/do)
(hi/-3.996) = -(7.14/16.7)
hi = -(0.427) × -3.996
hi = 1.71 centimeters

M = (hi/ho)
M = (1.71/-3.996) = -0.428






, This basic approach is the same whether you have three, four, five, or a hundred lenses lined up in front of an object. For each lens, treat the image of the previous lens as its object and use the lens equation and magnification equation to find your answers.


Keep in mind that subsequent lenses can continue to invert your image. For instance, the magnification value we got above (-0.428) indicates that the image we see will be about 4/10 the size of the image from the first lens, but right side up, since the image from the first lens was upside down.

