 Nobody wants someone claiming to be a Christian Goth and not knowing anything about patience in faith! All the more, those in the other subcultures or the norm will accept you.;
, Saviour Machine is a good band to listen to..... Considering the lyrics are great and so are the messages. A few Unblack Metal bands work, too! There are so many Christian bands out there and Antestor is great though it is not near to the Goth type.
 To counter this, narrate to them Jesus' calling for All of Us. They're hypocrites and not you.
 Though skulls are okay, for as long as they are not horned or winged. Christian Goths wear black, but with stronger appeal to CATHOLICISM. Crucifixes are a must!

, Remember, he wanted your Daddy and your brother dead, you'd be dumb if you let the devil be.
 It's a good start. Read and learn about God's wonders and remember to accept the darkness as well.
 He was spat on and mocked in spite of his cleanliness. The Goths encounter the same thing, and most especially, so did Christian Goths! Jesus made morbid symbolism to express himself. Cutting your evil arm, taking out your pervert eye, destruction of the temple, etc. They have a dark feel in them yet a cleaner message.
 Goths are often asked from or looked down, but Christian Goths get a more hectic life! Satanism? Witchcraft? Those things don't go near the Goth subculture. For the Metalheads and Shock rockers, Devil worship gets its chance on them. If someone calls you a freak, smile and tell them to look at themselves in the mirror with their common sins written on it with black lipstick. Though Christian Goths are forgiving and patient, we get to be angry, too!

,, Darkness is not evil! Remember, Jesus was born at nighttime! Stereotypes question you in your face about this, so keep your cool and answer politely.
 Learn about its history, objective and contribute to its cause.
 The DIY is still at work and so is black. Shirts with cross designs and Anti-satanic designs work for outrageous Christian guys. Victorian dresses work good for girls especially with a cross necklace. Boots are okay and so are usual Goth clothes.
 Deathrockers can be Christians, too! Religion goes first before any stereotype! Christian Goths bring their inner goodness to their dark appearances.
 He's our Father, Master and Creator. You are a Christian before a Goth.

