 To make coconut butter, you simply process shredded or flaked coconut in a food processor or high-quality blender for about 20 minutes. Depending on the size of your blender or food processor, you can work in batches as large as 7 cups (651 g) of coconut at a time. The best machines for this process are:Food processor
Ninja
Vitamix
Blendtec;
, Turn your food processor on high and mix the coconut. As you process the coconut, it releases oils and becomes a spreadable paste with the consistency of peanut butter.If you're pressed for time, you can speed up the process by adding 1 to 2 tablespoons (6 to 12 ml) of melted coconut oil to the mix as well.
The melted coconut oil adds moisture and lubrication to the coconut. This helps to keep the coconut together better, meaning you won’t have to stop as often to scrape down the sides.
 As soon as the blades start spinning freely and stop catching the coconut, stop the machine. Remove the lid and use a spoon or silicone spatula to scrape down the sides of the food processor and pack all the coconut back around the blades.


You will have to stop to scrape down the sides every 30 seconds to a minute during the processing.
 Turning shredded coconut into coconut butter will take about 20 minutes of blending, and during that time you'll have to stop 20 to 40 times to scrape down the sides of the food processor to get the coconut blending again.The coconut butter is ready when it’s thick but slightly runny and spreadable.
 Once you’ve achieved the desired consistency, you can use your coconut butter right away.


If there are any leftovers, transfer them to a clean glass jar with an air-tight lid (such as a mason jar). You can store the coconut butter on the shelf for a couple months, or keep it in the fridge to make it last even longer., Toasting the coconut before you process it into coconut butter gives the butter a delicious hint of toasted caramel. There are three ways that you can toast coconut, and one of the more popular is baking it in the oven.


Spread the coconut out on a baking sheet or two, depending on how much coconut you're using to make your butter. Make sure the layer is thin so that it cooks evenly.
Place the coconut into an oven preheated to 300 F (149 C).
Toast the coconut in the oven for about 20 minutes. Mix it around every five minutes to ensure it cooks and toasts at an even rate.Remove the coconut from the oven and allow it to cool to room temperature before using it for coconut butter.
 Another way to toast coconut involves cooking it in a skillet on the stove. You will likely have to work in batches, especially if you're making seven cups of coconut butter.


Spread the coconut out in a large skillet. Place it over medium heat and cook the coconut for about five minutes.Stir the coconut frequently to prevent burning and promote even cooking. The coconut is ready when it turns a golden brown.
Remove from the heat and cool before processing.
 A third way to toast coconut involves cooking it in the microwave in short bursts. Coconut can burn easily in the microwave, which is why you want to cook it in small sessions.


Spread the coconut out on a microwave-safe plate or dish. Set your microwave to high and microwave the coconut in 30-second increments. Stir between every cooking session.The coconut will take about eight minutes to cook. It’s ready when it turns golden brown.
Give the coconut a few minutes to cool down after toasting, then transfer it to your blender for coconut butter processing.
 The oil in coconut meat becomes liquid around 76 F (24 C), so if your house or fridge is colder than that, you will have to warm the coconut butter before you can spread it.To warm the coconut butter, you can:Use a knife to cut out the desired amount. Transfer the coconut butter to a glass bowl and place it in a larger bowl full of hot water.
Alternatively, if you want to warm the entire jar, place the whole jar in a saucepan full of water and warm it on the stove.
Heat a small portion in the microwave. Heat it on medium heat for about 15 seconds at a time. Stir, and heat again if necessary.
Wrap the entire jar in a heating pad. Let it sit for about half an hour.
 Coconut butter makes a delicious, raw, and dairy-free alternative to butter. You can spread coconut butter on toast, pancakes, waffles, muffins or any other baked good you like.


You can also put this butter on sandwiches and other savory breads, but it will give your baked goods a slight coconut flavor.
If you find the coconut butter isn't spreading easily, divide out a portion that you want to use for spreading and return it to the food processor. Process it for a few more minutes, and add in a drizzle of melted coconut oil to help make it smoother and more spreadable.Depending on how much of the coconut butter you're processing, add anywhere between 1 teaspoon and 2 tablespoons (6 to 15 ml) of oil.
 You can drizzle coconut butter on fruits and desserts the same way that you would chocolate or butterscotch syrup. If you chill the fruit beforehand, the coconut will even become hard and form a delicious candy-like shell on top!For a really decadent treat, cover whole strawberries in a layer of coconut butter and put them in the freezer to harden. Serve as you would chocolate-covered strawberries.
 Coconut butter is a creamy and healthy way to make breakfast a little more interesting. You can mix it in with cereals, granola, oatmeal, and other breakfast foods and snacks.Try drizzling a little coconut butter into your yogurt, or add some to your morning smoothie.
 As long as you don’t mind the hint of coconut, you can use coconut butter as a substitute for milk and cream in many recipes. You can try:Using it in coffee instead of milk or cream
Replacing the dairy in cream sauces
Making hot cocoa with coconut butter

, There are lots of people who are allergic to peanuts and other nuts, and coconut butter is an excellent alternative that won’t cause an allergic reaction.When making peanut butter cookies or any other baked goods that require nut butter, use equal amounts of coconut butter instead to make a nut-free dessert.

