 The lack of physical intimacy can be difficult to deal with when in a long distance relationship. Try sending each other flirty messages during the day. These texts should be light, playful, and fun. You may even send sexual innuendos or suggestive comments to intrigue your partner.For example, you may say, “I’m wearing your t-shirt, and it smells like you” or “I can still smell your perfume on my pillow.” Try, “I miss waking up next to you” or “I’m imagining you cuddling with me on this cold night.”
Choose a time when you know your partner can fully enjoy the text. For example, don’t send them a flirty text when you know they’re in an important meeting.
You might send them flirty texts when they’re having a bad day to make them feel better.
You can also attach pictures to the text to add a more personal touch to the flirty text.;
, You can spice up your long distance relationship and have a passionate night by sexting or having phone or video sex. This allows you both to engage in sexual activities together, despite the distance between you.Try engaging in sexual activity in different ways. Sexting can help both of you anticipate being together later, while phone sex and sex via video chatting can help you both feel closer.
Talk to one another during the act, and consider using toys to enhance both of your pleasure.
Be very careful about sending intimate pictures and videos. You never know where the pictures and videos might end up. Make sure that you only send pictures or videos to someone you trust completely and know very well. Do not send pictures to someone who you have only known for a short time or who you are not completely sure you can trust.
 One way to drum up some passion between the two of you is to exchange fantasies. Since you’re not together, make it even more special by writing them down. Try texting each other sexy ideas that you’d like to try together. Spend some time writing out your fantasies in as much detail as possible in a letter.Be creative and make it a story featuring the two of you.
Include things you can do on the phone or video chatting while apart. This can make the fantasies more immediate and fulfilling.
 When you visit, take some time to hide some sexy and flirty notes around their house before you leave. Put them in places they will find, but not right away. This is a way to surprise your partner with something flirty, romantic, or sexy.You can place notes in books, drawers, under pillows, in the bathroom, in cabinets, or anywhere else they may see it.
If your partner shares living space with someone, make sure to put the notes in places only they will see.
 Anticipating seeing each other can help create passion for your relationship. Instead of focusing on missing each other, focus on what you want to do to each other, but romantically and sexually. This can create some excitement for your next visit.This can help create some sexual tension in the relationship. Talk about things you think about doing to each other, new ideas you have to try, and what you miss the most about the other person.

