 A great way to begin working on your personal accountability is to think about what your mission in life is. You could make one overall mission statement, or a few separate ones, each focusing on one area of your life. The point of a mission statement is to clearly define what you see as your purpose and also define what ways you plan to follow and achieve that purpose.Maybe you have not spent much time considering what your life’s purpose is, but this is an important piece of goal setting and goal fulfillment. Without a specific overall goal for your life, smaller goals may end up being inconsequential.
Once you have considered your purpose and written out a succinct but thorough mission statement, you can begin to make decisions based on it. Keep it somewhere you will remember and refer to it once a week or more to keep fresh in your mind what you have committed to.
 SMART goals have long been a practice in the business and personal growth sectors, and using this technique can make a significant impact in keeping yourself accountable to the goals you set. SMART is an acronym whose letters stand for: Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, and Time-bound. It’s worth noting that the “R” is sometimes called “Relevant” or “Results-oriented.” Write these goals and refer back to them frequently to keep yourself accountable to reaching them., This means making them detailed and avoiding vague ideas. For example, you might set the goal to become a published author, but this is a pretty general goal. A more specific goal would be to get an article of satire published in the New Yorker magazine. Specific goals keep you accountable by not settling for less than what the goal intended.
 This means having criteria that will determine if the goal was met. It should add concreteness to the goal. Sticking with the author example, you could add to the goal what number of articles you want to publish. Is it just one, or is your goal higher? Getting the first one done would be a measurable milestone which shows you are working toward your goal.
 This means taking stock of what will be necessary to meet the goal. This is the time to consider financial, time, and energy costs that the goal will require. To publish an article, you might need to spend many hours across many weeks researching, writing and editing. You might need to spend money to mail the manuscript. You might need to stay up late nights and lose some sleep. So the “attainable” aspect of the goal counts the cost to meet the goal.
 This means taking an honest look at yourself and your situation. You will need both motivation and ability to achieve any goal you set. Take stock of how hard you are willing to work and what level of ability you have as it pertains to a certain goal. If you consistently slacked off in English class and your friends are constantly correcting your grammar, writing for the New Yorker may not be realistic for you. However, almost any goal can be made realistic if the motivation to achieve it is high enough.
 This means having a definite time range in mind in which to meet the goal. Goals that could drag on inevitably into the future are likely to be consistently put off in service of other priorities. Deciding on the time aspect of the goal should be relatively easy and will often be determined by forces outside your control. Setting the goal of getting published within a year helps you prioritize that goal around other things.
 In the service of following your mission statement and setting SMART goals, you will need to have smaller sets of tasks necessary to achieve those larger goals. You can write up to do lists on a daily basis that will help direct the time you spend each day, and you can write up to do lists that are more ongoing and could span a week, month or the whole year.


Make long-term to do lists and prioritize which things need to be done first, second, and so on. For to do lists that you know will last a while, try to think about doing one or two of the tasks each day until they are all accomplished.
 Leaving things unfinished can begin to create a feeling of stress because you have things looming over you that are not done. Finishing one task at a time will help you see that you are accountable to the lists that you make for yourself.
 For every big life goal you set, there are 5, 10 or 20 small steps that have to be taken to achieve that goal. Therefore, micro-goals are the individual steps that are necessary. They are not only goals that will happen a little while down the road, they are goals that you will diligently begin to achieve ASAP.For example, if you want to lose 50 pounds in one year’s time, the steps will include exercising more, eating less, and establishing an overall routine. A micro-goal could be, “Today I will not eat junk food and I will walk one mile.” Micro-goals are baby steps that become the foundation for larger, ultimate goals.

