 Remove as much nearby furniture as possible, then cover the rest of the furniture and any appliances with plastic drop cloths. Lay a drop cloth or newspaper over the floor, as well.


Wear working gloves to protect your hands. Softened Artex has the potential to create stains, so you should also change into clothes you don't mind dirtying before working on this project.
 There are several products specially formulated for Artex removal, and the application procedure should not vary much between products. For best results, however, choose a "wet working system" solution.


All Artex removal solutions work by breaking down the structure of the Artex and causing it to soften.
Working wet systems are water-based, so they tend to be non-flammable and won't create any hazardous fumes.Moreover, they keep the Artex wet at all times, which can prevent dry fibers from becoming airborne.
Since these products do not allow the Artex to dry out, they may even be safe for use with Artex containing asbestos. Nonetheless, you should still consult with a professional before attempting to remove any Artex that may contain asbestos.
 Some solutions may have difficulty working through paint, so when removing paint-covered Artex, lightly score the paint with a utility knife to promote easier penetration.


This is especially important when dealing with vinyl silk paints. The plastic polymers inside of the paint can turn into a thick goo when exposed to the removal solution. Scoring the paint should make it easier for the solution to work through the goo and into the Artex beneath.
Score the paint lightly, however, since you only need to cut into the paint and not into the Artex beneath it.
 Use a large, wide paintbrush to slather the removal solution over the entire area. Cover the area as thoroughly and evenly as possible.


Follow the package instructions to determine the proper application technique. Usually, you'll simply need to apply the solution onto the surface in even, parallel strokes. Thicker formulas may require the use of a putty knife or paint roller, however.
 Depending on the product you use and the thickness of the Artex, you may need to wait 30 minutes to 8 hours before the Artex softens enough for removal.When dealing with painted Artex or notably thick applications, you may need to cover the area with foil or plastic film and allow it to sit overnight. The film should prevent the solution from drying out, and the prolonged soak time should ensure more thorough softening.
 Use a scraper tool to ease the Artex off the surface. Work your way across the entire area while scraping away the product in this manner.


When removing painted Artex, use a long-handled blade scraper instead of a standard steel one. This tool will make it easier to cleanly lift the Artex from the surface.
Press the edge of the scraper directly onto the surface, then push into the Artex with controlled, even pressure. If the Artex is soft enough, it should scrape away without much difficulty.
Scrape in straight, parallel strokes. Each stroke should slightly overlap the one before it to ensure that no small strips of Artex are left in between patches.
Let the Artex drop onto the previously covered floor as you scrape it away. Alternatively, you could attempt to scrape it directly into a large plastic garbage bag, but it can be difficult to catch all of the falling pieces.
 After removing the Artex, examine the surface more thoroughly. Verify that all traces of Artex are gone.


If any patches of Artex remain after your initial removal, you could try removing them by applying more removal product. Let the Artex soften for a longer period of time before scraping it away.
If you are unable to remove the Artex in some places with the removal solution, you could still remove it by using the steamer method.
Once you scrape away all of the Artex, wrap it up inside the drop cloth and transfer the entire thing into a large plastic garbage bag for disposal.
Return the room to normal when finished. This completes the entire process.

