 In order to get a copy of a Rhode Island birth certificate in person, you need to make sure you meet certain requirements for getting the document from the Rhode Island Office of Vital Records. If you know whether or not you may apply for a birth certificate copy, it will ensure you don’t make an unnecessary trip.Because of data privacy laws, Rhode Island requires that you meet one of the following requirements to obtain the copy of a birth certificate: be the child named on the certificate and 18 years of age or older; be the parent, guardian or legal representative of the person named on the certificate; have a court order granting you access to the document, or be a person who requires the information to determine or protect a personal or property right.;
, You will need proper documentation to submit to the Office of Vital Records to ensure that there aren’t any delays in getting you the birth certificate by mail.


You need to have a completed application form or letter of request for a copy of a Rhode Island birth certificate.If you are applying for a copy of your own birth certificate, you need to provide a copy of your official government photo ID. For example, you can provide your driver’s license, US military ID, or a passport.If you are applying for a copy of a birth certificate for another person, including for your child, you need government identification and any other legal documentation, such as a court order.If you do not have a government-issued ID, you can provide two documents with the name and current address of the applicant. For example, you can submit a utility bill, a car registration, a bank statement, or an income tax return., In addition to your documentation, you need to submit an application for a birth certificate copy. If you prefer to not fill out an application, you can write a letter requesting the birth certificate copy.The application is available online at http://www.health.ri.gov/records/howto/getacopy/.
If you prefer to write a letter of request to file in person, you need to include the following information in the letter: full name of child at birth; date of birth; city or county of birth; mother's maiden name; father's full name (if his name is on the record); full name of the person ordering the certificate; relationship to person named on the certificate, such as father, mother, or self; why you need the record; mailing address, including city, state and zip code; a contact telephone number; and your signature.If you have any questions on the application, you can call the Office of Vital Statistics at 401-222-5960.You also need a copy of your valid photo ID., There is a fee of $20.00 for copies of birth certificates from Rhode Island. You must pay this by personal check or money order when you file your application.There is a $7 fee for expedited applications.Make the personal check or money order out to "General Treasurer, State of Rhode Island."The Office of Vital Records does not accept credit or debit cards., Once you’ve collected the required documentation, completed your application or letter of request, and prepared the payment of your fees, you can file your application at the Rhode Island Office of Vital Statistics.


The Office of Vital Statistics is located at: Department of Health, 3 Capitol Hill, Vital Records Room 101, Providence, RI 02908The Bureau is open Monday-Friday from 12:30pm to 4:00pm.You can also file an application at local clerk offices in the 39 cities and towns of Rhode Island. Check the directory at http://www.health.ri.gov/records/#where for local clerk’s office addresses and phone numbers. Call to get the specific opening time for your respective office., It can take six to eight weeks to get the copy of a Rhode Island birth certificate after you’ve applied. If you have any questions about the process, you can contact the Office of Vital Statistics at the phone number listed above.


If you paid for expedited service, your order will be processed within five business days.