 Since Converse shoes are made with canvas, laundry detergent works well to remove dirt and most light stains. Mix 1/4 cup laundry detergent and 2 cups warm water in a bowl. If your shoes are covered in mud, you might need a second batch of solution for the second shoe. In place of laundry detergent, you can use any of these cleansers:Dish soap
Shampoo
Body wash
Window cleaner;
, This will be your "rinse" bowl that you'll use to rinse off your washcloth after applying the cleaning solution.
 Section by section, use the cloth to scrub away the dirt and stains. Work the soap into the canvas so it saturates all the way through. Periodically rinse the cloth in the clean water, then dip it in the cleaning solution and keep going.


If necessary, remove the shoelaces and scrub them with the washcloth, too.
You can also use this method to clean the inside of the shoes.
 Most of the dirt will come off easily when scrubbed with a washcloth dipped in the soap solution. For tougher spots, use an old toothbrush to remove ground-in dirt and grit.









Scrub the soles of your shoes and the rubber parts attached around the canvas.
Focus especially on the toe, which tends to pick up a lot of scuff marks.
A quick cleaning with wet wipes will also do the trick if the rubber parts of your shoes aren't too scuffed.
 Use it to remove any dirt or soap residue that's still on your shoes after scrubbing them. Take a good look at your shoes to see if you're content with how clean you were able to get them using this method. If stains and deeper scuffs remain, try another method to give your shoes a deeper cleaning.
 You can stuff them with newspaper or another stiff substance to help them keep their shape. Set them in a warm spot with good air circulation so they dry as quickly as possible. Let the laces dry separately, since they may take a little longer to get completely dry. Afterward, you can relace the shoes and wear them right away.


To speed the drying along, try putting your shoes outside in the sun. Proceed with caution if your shoes are a dark color, though, since the sun can bleach them a few shades lighter.
You can also use a hair dryer on a warm setting to help them finish drying.

