 "NO!" is read differently than "No." Be careful not to use excessively, however, or people will get annoyed.


You can occasionally use all lowercase text when implying a monotone in a short word or phrase, but it's used far less often than caps.
 "Y-yeah, that's g-great!" seems more hesitant than "Yeah, that's great!". Use when expressing feeling passive, nervous, or awkward.
 "Yeah, um, that's great!" is different than "Yeah, that's great!".
 Depending on context, it could mean you're angry, unsure, upset, or anything else a pause could mean when speaking normally. "Yeah... that's great..." has a different meaning than "Yeah, that's great!".
 You can use "What???" instead of "What?", "Yes!!!" instead of "Yes!", etc. Don't overuse, since it can make you seem "nooby", or newer and inexperienced with the Internet's culture.


You can also use an exclamation point and question mark together to emphasize a question. Put the question mark in front of the exclamation point or it won't look right. "What?!" is distinct from "What?".
 "I'm so thrilled for you." seems opposite of "I'm so thrilled for you!".
 "y34h wh4t 4 c00l 1d34!" is much different than "Yeah, what a cool idea!". Don't use this too often (as to not just be seen as annoying) and don't do it when mimicking your friends or they could get insulted.


Using some bad grammar/spelling phonetically while being sarcastic also helps get your point across. "yah like wat a kewl idea" is very different than "Yeah, what a cool idea!".
 "ohmygoshgoogleplusisout" is very different than "Oh my gosh, Google+ is out!".
 "Whaaaaat?!" is different than "What?!".
 They're generally pictures or animated GIFs of drawings or television shows where a character is showing an extreme expression, often with words on them. When saying what a reaction face represents, people often use ">mfw ____" (my face when ____) before inserting the image. For example, one could say ">mfw the storm knocks out the electricity" and then show a picture of an anime character rampaging.


Sparingly use reaction faces in places like chatrooms where people have to click on a link to see the face. That gets annoying.
 Every once in a while, you can hit random keys on the keyboard to show frustration. The more keys hit, the more frustration it implies. "Arrrgjkdfhldhbgfj my dog won't shut up!" is different than "My dog won't shut up!". Oftentimes, like in the example, "arrrg" is added in front of the random characters.
 Generally, these should be included outside the punctuation of the sentence. "No, I didn't. *growls*" is more descriptive than "No, I didn't.". It can also show more personality through what you write.
 Think about the tone of voice and everything else you would use to say what you're typing, and manifest it in what you're typing. People are always finding new ways to express themselves in text over the Internet!

