 Sometimes you have to make changes to avoid someone you don’t want to talk to. If you know this person is going to be at a party or gathering, don’t go.


Unless you’re in a situation where you can’t excuse yourself like school or work, you may have to choose not to attend a function to avoid someone.
Tell a close friend that you aren’t going to be attending the event. Be honest with your friend as to why, but don’t be rude.
If you are somewhere and you see someone you want to avoid talking to or interacting with, see if you can move elsewhere. If you’re at a party or bar, you may be able to go to another area and avoid running into this person.
 If you really don’t want to interact with someone but are having a hard time avoiding this person, ask people for help. You can get help from your friends, parents, your boss, or a counselor.


If you find that you can’t avoid this person because you have class or work with this individual, consider talking to someone who can help like your boss or a counselor.
Calmly explain why you can’t be around this person. Perhaps this individual makes it hard for you to complete your work because you are uncomfortable. Maybe you can’t focus in class because this person won’t leave you alone. Tell an authority figure why you need to be removed from situations where you interact with this person.
 If you are able to, be upfront and end the relationship. If you have an ex that you don’t want to see or talk to anymore, or someone that might be in your larger friend group, you can simply cut ties with this person.

Establish your boundaries once and don’t apologize. Your health and peace of mind are the most important. Though it may be hard, tell this person that you won’t engage in any sort of contact anymore.
Stick to your convictions. Some people may not easily leave you alone. But if you’ve stated your intentions, your job is done. Don’t engage anymore.
It’s ok to outright say that you don’t want to talk to or see this person again. Sometimes if you are blunt and a little harsh, people will finally get the message. You may feel mean at first, but try and remember, this is better for your personal health.

