 It is much harder to get followers if people don't know what they are following. Celebrities can get away with posting stuff from their day-to-day life, most people don't care what you are eating for breakfast. If you can tap into a specific market, from food to pets to outdoor photography, you can attract a tonne of followers who love the same thing.
 Your chances of attracting attention from other Instagram users increase even further if you are actively and meaningfully engaged with their photos. Liking a photo is better than nothing, but comments generate the most return feedback.


Sometimes you'll snag a person after leaving a comment on that individual's photo. Even if this does not happen, though, there is also a chance that someone else might see the comment you left on that photo and check out your Instagram as a result.
It's estimated that every second, Instagram users create 575 new likes and only 81 new comments. A comment is viewed as more special or more precious, so it tends to be valued over a like.
Start conversations with strangers in the comment stream of other people's photos. If you engage someone by tagging them and complimenting them and then follow them, it's likely they'll follow you back.
Keep your comments positive and take your time to write a longer comment. This will make them more interested in checking out your account.
 When you add a caption to a photo, provide a clear “call to action” to engage viewers and prompt them to comment. Once a viewer comments, the lines of communication have been opened, and you can nurture the new Instagram relationship until it produces a follower. Good examples include:


"Double tap if this made you laugh!"
"Comment with a witty caption."
"If you're happy and you know it, double tap!"
"Which should win? Choice A or Choice B? Comment to vote!"

, In particular, you should connect your Instagram account to your Facebook account. That way, you can quickly connect to Facebook friends who also have Instagram and rapidly gain followers that way.


After you connect your Instagram to Facebook, you can "auto-follow" all your Facebook friends. This, in turn, encourages your Facebook friends to follow you back, ensuring a rapid rise in your followers on Instagram.
You can also advertise your Instagram account on other social media platforms, like Twitter, Pinterest, or your personal blog. You cannot directly link the two, but the advertisement will help you reach out to people you are already connected to.
 If you're a big fan of a particular movie, show, comic, book, or entertainer, try making a fan account. With so many people posting selfies and personal stuff, Instagram can get a little crowded. Tribute pages tend to stand out a bit more, and they have the potential to gain lots of followers quickly. Popular fandoms for Instagram:


Pop stars like Bieber, Katy Perry, Beyonce, or One Direction
Any anime series
Webcomics like Homestuck, Paradox Space, Paranatural
TV Shows like Sherlock, Supernatural, Doctor Who, Once Upon A Time, Arrow, Merlin, or Torchwood
Popular books like Game of Thrones, Maze Runner, Harry Potter, The Fault In Our Stars

, Try asking your friends for "shoutouts", which is when someone on another account asks their followers to follow you. Popular accounts set up shoutout competitions, and if you get a shoutout on a popular account, you often gain many followers quickly.


You can offer to trade a shoutout on your Instagram account in return for one on theirs. Use the hashtags #shoutout4shoutout and #s4s to find users willing to do the exchange.

