 The key to being a more rational friend is to listen actively and intently. If a friend is upset about something that happened, it is important to wait to process and consider all the information given before responding. In this way, you will have the most information possible and will be able to analyze the situation fully to come to a rational conclusion or opinion. Listen actively and intently by utilizing the following.Make eye contact with your friend and observe their emotional expressions.
Avoid any distractions such as your phone in order to fully focus on them.
Clarify and restate things to make sure you are understanding your friend correctly.
Identify the difference between rational information and emotional information that your friend is giving you.
 Even though you have been working on becoming more rational, you may need to accept that others are not. It is possible that you will have to adjust your expectations and consider the other person's perspective before anticipating a level of rationality in your relationship. Be flexible and understanding with where others are in terms of their rational minds and emotional minds. Consider their perspective by attempting the following.


Step away from your current view of the world and imagine what it might be like for them.Recognize that your best bet to reasoning with them, or providing them with a rational perspective is to understand their experience and their assumptions.Acknowledge that an emotion is an emotion. If something affects someone, it is no less important. Empathy is crucial in relationships.
 When a friend confides in you, never be afraid to be the voice of reason. As you have continued to work on developing your own rationality, you friends may have noticed. Most people tend to seek advice from the person that will give an honest opinion rather than sugar coat the truth.


Be careful, though. Friends might not always come to you for advice or for a rational perspective.Sometimes friends just need to vent and share their experience or their emotion with you. Be cautious against providing constant, unsolicited advice.

