 The first thing you should do is to ask yourself whether or not the stone actually needs cleaning. Many people mistake the signs of aging for dirt or grime. Marble and other materials will naturally fade over time.Conservationists caution against an aggressive cleaning program. Every cleaning has the potential to damage the stone, even if you are exceedingly gentle.
Avoid cleaning the stone as a way to honor your loved one. If the stone doesn't need to be cleaned, you can find other ways to honor their memory.
If the stone has been dirtied by mud or other materials, than of course it is ok to clean it. Just be aware that once you begin cleaning a stone, you will find that you need to do it on a regular basis.;
, Time and weather can cause a gravestone to look less than pristine. If you notice the gravestone has become dirty, you will want to take time to carefully clean it. Make sure to choose the right products.Harsh chemicals can damage stones. Choose a mild, gentle soap.
Purchase a non-ionic cleanser. These soaps are available at retailers that sell conservation and janitorial supplies.
Non-ionic soaps do not contain the harsh salts that can damage grave stones. Read the label carefully to ensure that it says "non-ionic". Ask a member of the sales team for help if you are unsure.
 Once you have your cleanser, you are ready to gather the rest of your supplies. You will need clean water. If the cemetery has a faucet or hose you can use, take a clean bucket with you to hold the water. You can purchase gallons of distilled water to take with you if you are unsure if there will be running water near by. You should still take a bucket so that you can easily dip your supplies into the water.
Take some soft, clean cloths with you. Old towels or t-shirts will work fine.
Purchase sponges. Natural are best, as they will be less likely to damage the stone.
Take non-metallic scrubbing pads and brushes with you. Choose a few different brushes with a variety of stiffness levels.

