 While technical difficulties are frustrating, experiencing problems with computers, USB drives, and printers can provide very valid reasons for extensions. Explain the situation to your teacher (real or fake) and hope that he or she grants you an extension.


If you have to print out your paper, experiencing “printer problems” may grant you a few extra hours to work on the assignment.
If you typically store all of your work on a USB Drive, tell your teacher the thumb drive was stolen or misplaced. They may give you a few days to search for the missing drive., Often times, high school teachers and college professors require students to analyze a variety of primary and secondary sources in their research papers and projects. If you attend a small school, you may have to request the books, articles, and documents you need from other institutions. In an attempt to get an extension, you can explain to your instructor that these sources did not arrive or arrived very late. Asking for a few additional days to wait for and/or analyze the material is a very reasonable request.
 In addition to taking several classes, you may also have a job, play on a sports team, and/or be studying for standardized tests, like the ACT, SAT, or GRE. If you explain your situation thoroughly, your professor may accept this excuse and grant you an extension.


“I am taking the MCAT next month and have been studying for the test non-stop. As a result, the assignment for your class fell off my radar. May I have a few days to complete it?”
I am taking the SAT on Saturday and I really need to study for my Latin subject test. Can I have a few more days on my project?"
“I have three papers due at the same time. I am struggling to devote attention to each assignment. May I please have an extension so I can produce a paper I am proud of?”, Life is unpredictable. If you are desperate for an excuse, use this unpredictability to your advantage. Come up with a believable emergency involving a friend, family member, or yourself.


Be prepared for your professor to ask for proof or to look into your situation.