


Important: If you do choose to watch a movie, make sure you don't get comfy somewhere and continue to watch it instead of cleaning. Sing or play music as you clean. You could dance when you are cleaning.;
, Choose an interesting podcast to learn something amazing while you clean.
 Set a timer and see how much stuff you can pick up in the allotted time! (Also see the step on rewards below, as you could give yourself a prize.)

, For example: Pretend you're Cinderella and you're cleaning the house, but you have to be done in time so you can go to the ball.
 Dress up like a pop star and act as if you're cleaning up your dressing room to receive important people who want to congratulate you for an amazing performance.
 Choose colors and pick up only the things in those colors. Then switch to another color, then another, until all the things have been picked up, put away and cleaned.
 Set a certain time limit in which you have to finish tidying up that category in before you can move onto the next one. An example would be you have to pick up and put away all the clean washing in 10 minutes before you can move onto making your bed or vacuuming the floor.
 Many people get less and less motivated during cleaning. Eat a little of your favorite food or decorate your forehead with stickers; something to keep yourself from stopping.
 It may seem a dull thing to do but it's a way of tricking your mind into doing things automatically without having to think "what next?". This frees up your mind for thinking about other things, for listening to music and for having a more enjoyable time than simply scrubbing and vacuuming.
 Doing this will make your room look cleaner instantly, providing you with a good sense of motivation. Even better, it gives you space to sort things on.
 Hang up clothes, put dirty ones in the laundry basket and put away all items that aren't in their usual spot. Instant tidiness!

, After all, it'll be strewn with stuff, and cleaning gear, until the very end. Once it's cleared, the mopping or vacuuming will be a cinch.
 If a room is without a bin, bring one in for the cleaning time.
 Stop every 10 or 15 minutes to have a snack or a rest.
 Put the sprays and polishes together, floor cleaning tools such as mop, broom and vacuum together and, of course, the cleaning cloths together.
 (but make sure friends want to). Cleaning is always more fun when you have someone to do it with, and it doesn't last as long.
 For example: Tell your friend to close their eyes, tidy an object up, and your friend guesses what's missing or try to shoot items into a bin from a distance.
 If they say yes then usually you'll get into the cleaning mode.
 Highest score wins.

