 If you need to pee for a doctor's appointment due to a urine test, drinking water ahead of time is probably the fastest and safest way to induce urination.


Excess water intake is not harmful to your health. If the body receives too much water, the kidneys will naturally expel it via urine. If you know you need to pee at your doctor's office, try drinking a glass or two of water before going in.
However, if you have congestive heart failure or another condition that causes edema, you should limit your fluid intake. If you have chronic renal failure and are on dialysis, you should also limit your fluid intake.
Unless you're particularly shy about urinating in public; you do not need to overdo it. Having an eight-ounce glass of water before your appointment should make urination easier and quicker in the office., Certain fruits have diuretic properties. A diuretic is a substance that promotes the formation of urine in the kidneys, causing a person to expel urine more frequently.A variety of fruits serve as natural diuretics.


Citrus fruits in general, but lemon especially, can increase urination. They can also potentially lower blood pressure over time and can treat urinary tract infections.Watermelons get their name due to the fact they contain a high amount of water. Eating watermelon can help you build up fluid and might lead to urination.Fruit derivatives, like apple cider vinegar and cranberry juice, also serve as diuretics. You can drink cranberry juice straight before an appointment, and apple cider vinegar is an ingredient in many salad dressings., Certain herbs promote urination and can be used as natural diuretics if you need to induce urination.


The antioxidants in parsley can promote urination.Not only can cilantro promote urination, it can also lower blood pressure and regulates the digestive system.Garlic has a variety of health benefits, such as bolstering the immune system, and may also serve as a healthy, natural diuretic.Ginger helps get rid of fluid build-up and adding it to foods as a spice may increase urination., Fruits and herbs are not the only natural diuretics available. Certain vegetables might also promote urination.


Cucumbers and celery have heavy water content, which can increase the amount you need to pee.Carrots are an easy food to snack on and might contribute to more frequent urination. Having a carrot or a cup of baby carrots before a urine test might help you urinate more.Cabbage, like cucumbers, has a high water content that promotes urination., Teas and coffees promote frequent urination and having a cup of green tea or black coffee before a urine test might help you pee. However, be careful about overdoing it with caffeine, especially before a doctor's appointment. Caffeine can cause a temporary spike in blood pressure, and you want to make sure you get an accurate reading at the doctor's office., Hard, difficult to pass stool can push against the bladder and urethra, making it difficult to pass urine.Add more fiber to your diet, exercise more, and visit the doctor if constipation does not improve.


Avoid holding in bowel movements, which can make constipation worse.

