 Examine your gift – is it sturdy, fragile, box-like or have small moving pieces? Use bubble wrap to cushion any odd angles to make them less fragile during transit. Is your item shallow or hollow inside, like a vase or bowl, fill that space to make it more dense – packing peanuts, bubble wrap or firmly crumpled unprinted newsprint all work!;
, Use a new, sturdy cardboard box that’s a few inches larger than your gift on all sides to allow for plenty of cushioning. If reusing a box, make sure it’s still strong enough to stand up to shipping (no torn flaps, no holes or corner dents, no water-damage, etc.). And be sure to remove all old shipping labels.
 Protect your gifts by using at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) layers (preferably 2 inches) of cushioning around the item – top, bottom and all four sides.
 Consider sending more than one package if one item might compromise the integrity of something more fragile.
 Got a super-breakable item to ship? Use two boxes. Cushion your item with at least three inches of packing peanuts or other cushioning material, and seal it in a box. Place that box within a second, slightly larger box, with another layer of cushioning. All that added padding is added protection for your fragile item.
 Secure them so that they are not "floating" around. You may even consider taping them to the inside panel of the box and leaving a note on the gift so that the batteries don't accidentally get tossed into the garbage.
 Sometimes winter weather can strike and remove shipping labels. Paperwork can get lost from pouches. Just in case, always put an extra shipping label, business card, or letterhead with the shipper and recipient’s address information inside your box before sealing things up.
 Start with a gentle shake and continuing to increase the intensity to the point that you think it would be handled by someone who doesn't know what's inside and is under pressure to get as many packages moving along as possible. If items move, add more cushioning.
 Keeping winter elements out of your box is easy. Just seal all the flaps and seams using proper packing tape. No duct tape or masking tape!

,, Don’t "wrap" your shipping box. We admire that you wrap your gifts with care and thought, but ribbon, bows and wrapping paper can get caught in sorting machines! If you want your gift to be wrapped, wrap it first, then place it in the shipping box.
, One of the best ways to ensure your package gets to its destination on time is with proper labeling. When using a shipping label, airbill, or airway bill, fill it out completely and accurately. When using a shipping label, press it firmly to make sure it adheres to the shipping box. When using a packing list envelope, make sure the peel-off strip has been removed and the flap is firmly sealed. Place the shipping labels or packing slip envelope on the largest flat continuous surface of the box, avoiding any area that has a bend or place where the box is not complete like a seam or flap.
 When ordering something online, consider sending the gift to where you work, or to a relative, friend or trusted neighbor. Obviously make sure they are going to be at home and not out of town.
 When in doubt, contact the pros. Your gifts need to be ready, as much as possible, prior to shipping to ensure on-time delivery to their destination. certain gifts are just too precious to trust to just anyone. Your gift might be a really odd shape or have unusual dimensions.
 Most packages are sent without needing a signature. If you’re shipping something of high value – or you just want to be sure items aren’t left on a door step or out front of a residence or building – make sure that a signature is mandatory for packages to be released. The shipper or the recipient can make this request

