 If you plan on headbanging stretch your neck a little so it's not so hard on your neck to start with. Do some neck rolling and arm, knee, and leg stretching. If you're at a mosh pit, keep to the sidelines to warm up. Remember to keep your fist outstretched. At a concerts it may be a little harder, but if you have the chance, stretch your limbs discreetly.;
, If you're at a pit, give the water to a trustworthy friend in the sidelines. Remember to never get dehydrated. This can lead to headaches, lack of concentration (so disregarding other people in the pit), and especially if your dancing and getting hot, fainting.


At a concert don't be surprised when you have to pay quite a bit of money for some water. If you really need water, some concerts have security guards that will give you something to drink. Also, energy drink might be a good idea to start off with, but don't just drink them for the sake of drinking it.
 Wear clothes that fit well, but are slightly loose because you will get hot in the pit. Shoes can also come loose so wear tightly laced sneakers or boots. Nothing with spikes, studs, points, sharp edges, and no dangling earrings, because you can injure yourself and others. Simple studs or no studs. Face and body piercings look cool, but will be a liability in the pit. You would hate for half your eyebrow to be ripped off because some particularly violent monster wasn't paying attention, right? Right. It would totally mess your day up.
 Do not leave any valuables like money, cell phones, jewelry etc in your pockets because they will probably, or (depending on how violent the pit or concert is), definitely fall out and will be near impossible to find again. Leave them at home, or with a friend on the sidelines.
 There are some basic rules of etiquette that you'll need to know, some of them you can apply to a rock concert, too. The following three steps are the basics.


Copping a feel - don't do it, this is horrible, especially for the girl you're doing it to. Girls can get totally freaked out by it and will usually call out whoever did it. If you were guilty, you will be outnumbered and in for an unpleasant experience. If you see someone else do it to a girl, call out what happened and who did it and that guy will get singled out and targeted. You may get some thanks in return.
Hitting - you're not at the concert to start a fight. If you see someone trying to stir things up, either leave if you feel uncomfortable and stand on the sidelines, or move out if the way if at a concert. If you do accidentally hit someone, mouthing a SORRY! over the music or shaking the person's hand is very much appreciated.
 If they're on the floor, or have just been hit, help them up. They will probably smile and thank you. If they are seriously hurt (you may have to scream at them over the music to make sure), a simple "can you get up?" or "are you badly hurt?" is easy to reply to with either a shake or nod of the head. If they can get up and they just have a nosebleed or something, take them to the nearest medical place. Security guards may have a first aid kit on them. If they can't get up, ask some other people to help and go get some help from security ASAP. If you are hurt, ask someone to help you or go to security and ask to sit somewhere.
 Depending on what kind of rock music it is, you'll need to vary your dancing style. Let's say it's something like Fall Out Boy. Easy to dance to, since a lot their songs have a very good beat.
 Do this to that if you are knocked, you won't fall over so easy. Find the beat, and nod your head with it. Let's say the song F.O.B are playing is This Ain't A Scene (It's An Arms Race). Obviously if no one else is dancing, dancing crazily is probably not going to be a good way of upgrading your "social agenda" if you know what I'm saying? If the crowd are jumping around, putting up the "horns", or just got their arms up, copy them. Okay so just pogo around the the first verse and Patrick goes "-but I digress..." and then you know that bit where there's that wiki-wiki guitar riff? And then "I'm a leading man-" that's where you start to dance- and go crazy!

, Be careful if others are head banging too- since you could end up banging heads (you know what I mean) with them which would be horribly painful, and maybe fatal if it's hard enough. Regard others, and others will regard you.
 If you're in a mosh pit and it's pretty crowded, find a friend or complying fellow mosher, cross your arms so they form an X, elbows facing the side, not down, and firmly clasp hands with your friend or fellow mosher. Using your weight to build momentum, spin around. This will make space in the pit, and other moshers or dancers will be thankful, too. But be careful!


Make sure other people see you coming, you could end up hitting lots of people. If there is a lot of space, one of you could let go and go into a high jump, but it's not recommended since you could end up either falling onto the ground, crowd, or front of the stage, if you're close enough, and that could be fatal, or at least extremely painful. As I said, be careful and thoughtful, don't hurt yourself or others.
 Hayley Williams from Paramore uses it a lot. Just think jumping, while moving around, while bending your knees and then kicking your legs out, scuffing your shoes on the floor lightly as you go. Check out some of Paramore's live performances on YouTube. You'll know the dance when you see it. Still, keep to the beat.
 What's the point in dancing with your arms glued woodenly to your sides? But don't wave them around maniacally, you'll look slightly stupid. Bending your arms very slightly and holding them loosely will allow them to "flail" slightly and look natural.
 Jumping looks cool, especially in a mosh pit. Jump as high as possible, with your left leg bent left, and the right leg bent to the right. It looks really awesome.
 It's great fun, and even if it only lasts for ten to fifteen seconds, it will be an awesome ten to fifteen seconds! If the venue allows it, climb onto the stage, being careful not to disrupt the band or any of the equipment, and jump, tensing your body as you fall, which will make you easier to catch.


Make sure people see you coming, otherwise you could get a face full of dirt, blood and teeth. Your own teeth. Alternatively, you could use two taller people to hoist you up, using their shoulders, not standing on their cupped hands. After all, not all venues allow stage divers and you could be ejected from the concert. Again, make sure people see you coming.
Keep your arms and legs elevated, you don't want to be booting or slapping anyone in the face! Also, keep your head up, it would be extremely painful if your head is hanging back and got caught. You could break your neck. If you feel yourself starting to go down, point your feet down so it's easier to get back on the ground, plus more comfortable.

