 There are several system items that you must install before you use any Cross Fire hacks. The first of these is the DirectX 11 Technology Update from Microsoft. You can download it here. Run the installer after downloading it.;
, This tool from Microsoft is required to run the hack injectors. You can get the 32-bit version here or the 64-bit version here.


If you aren't sure if your computer is 32-bit or 64-bit, see How to Check if Windows is 32-Bits or 64-Bits.
 This is what most hacks are written with. You can download the installer here.
 There are two DLL files that you will need to download and place in your CrossFire folder. You can download msvcr100.dll from here and msvcr100d.dll from here. Make sure to select "Download ZIP-File" to just download the DLL in an archive file instead of downloading the installer.
 Extract the DLL files from the ZIP files that they downloaded in by right-clicking the files and selecting "Extract". Open the "CrossFire" folder from your Program Files in another window and drag each of the DLLs into the folder.


Some users have reported that adding the two DLL files to your C:\Windows\System32 (32-bit) or C:\Windows\SysWOW64 (64-bit) folder as well will help prevent errors., There are several communities dedicated to hacking CrossFire. Because hacks are quickly detected and blocked, you'll need to find a place where all of the latest hacks are listed. One of the most popular communities is mpgh.net. The "CrossFire Hacks & Cheats" section will have all of the latest hacks that still work.


You will likely need to create an account in order to access the download links for the hacks.
 If the forum you are using is well-maintained, all of the hacks that have been detected and blocked will be crossed out or otherwise indicated. New hacks that still work will typically be at the top of the list of threads. Browse through a few hacks that haven't been detected yet and find one that suits your needs.
 Many hacks follow the same basic installation procedure, which will be outlined here, but many hacks have specific steps that you will need to take in order for them to work.


Pay attention to the region that the hack was made for. Hacks for North America usually won't work for the Philippines, for example.
 Most hacks will come in ZIP or RAR format. If you don't have a program that can open RAR files, download and install 7-Zip (7-zip.org), a free archive extractor that can open RAR files. To extract the files, right-click the downloaded file and select "Extract".
 You will need a program called an "injector" to run the hack files. You can find injectors on the same forums that you find hacks. Look for the "Injectors" or "Tools" section of the hack forum to find the latest injector releases.
 Running as an administrator will allow the injector to modify the necessary DLL files.
 There is typically a Settings button you can click to open this menu.
 This will result in the best chances of your hack loading properly.
 This will help ensure that your injector does not get detected by the anti-cheat mechanisms. The button will turn blue to indicate that it has been activated. Close the Settings menu., This will ensure that the injector hooks into the CrossFire process.
 Most hacks come in DLL format. Browse for the DLL that you extracted from the hack archive that you downloaded in the previous section.
 Once you've selected your hack DLL in the injector, you can start CrossFire. The injector will automatically apply the hack and close itself as the program starts.
 Always test hacks with a dummy account. Hacks get detected quickly, so it's always a good idea to test your hack by logging in with a dummy account first. This will help keep your main account from being banned by using a detected hack.

