 If you want to receive free samples of new products from your favorite companies or retailers, the best way to make sure you never miss out is to sign up for their mailing lists. It's tough to keep track of all the different products available without helpful reminders, which is why online mailing lists help to keep you up to date on the newest offerings and deals that companies offer to try to hook consumers.


Generally, you might get a free coupon, or a code that will allow you to to redeem for a free sample of the new product. You might have to jump through a few hoops, but there'll be free stuff at the end of it.;
, Increasingly, online start-ups and other companies know the value of consumer data, and are willing to pay for it with prizes and cash compensation. One cool new way to get free stuff is to take online surveys that will take up a bit of your time, pick your brain, and give you some free stuff at the end, usually in the form of a gift card or other free company merchandise.
 Looking for buy one-get one coupons or totally free coupons in the weekly mailers at grocery stores, retail stores, and other places is a great way to nab free swag. Clip free coupons and keep them in separate envelopes, marked by expiration date to make sure you can redeem as much free stuff as possible. This is a common way of marketing new products to consumers. Might as well take advantage!

, While it might take some acting, one of the oldest ways of getting stuff for free is to straight-up complain to someone in charge. Most of the time, rather than trying to reason with grumpy customers or offer refunds, it's in the best interest of most retail managers to just offer some free stuff and hope the problems goes away. If you're wiling to complain to perfect strangers, you stand a good chance of getting something for free.


If you're at a store, ask to see the manager and come up with a good reason that your product was unacceptable and perhaps dangerous. "I didn't like it" or "It didn't fit" isn't a good enough reason. If it's food, it's always best to go the insect or hair route. Bring up the possibility of calling the health inspector. You'll have so many gift cards you'll need another wallet.
If you get a product you're genuinely dissatisfied with when you get home, call the customer service number for the corporation or call the store directly and ask to speak with the manager. Explain your problem with the product, and most of the time you'll be offered recompense without having to ask.
 If you're at the store and want a sample of food, perfume, or some other type of product, most retailers are more than happy to offer them, especially if you're already interested in buying. Find a salesperson and let them know that you're interested in a particularly product, and ask if you could try a sample. Most good stores will offer samples outright, but you can always ask.


Remember, just because you've gotten a sample puts you under no obligation to make a purchase. You might be considered an annoying customer, but it's your money.

