 To help lose weight in a short period of time, you should calculate how many calories a day you should consume. To do this, you can use an online calorie calculator to determine how many calories you need to eat to have enough energy to do exercise, without putting on extra weight.


Keep in mind you should never go under your daily recommended calorie intake as this can lead to unhealthy weight loss and other health issues. You should also maintain a healthy diet and do consistent exercise to lose weight fast in an effective and healthy way. Consuming too few calories might make you drop weight quickly, but it will mess up your metabolism. In addition, as soon as you start eating normally again, your weight will usually shoot right back up.
 Shape your meals so they contain one protein source, one low fat source and one low carb vegetable source.


Healthy protein sources include egg whites, soy products, and chicken. Fish such as salmon and trout, as well as shellfish like shrimp and lobster are also good sources of protein in a healthy diet. Non-fat greek yogurt is also a good way to get protein and dairy in your diet.
Low carb vegetables include: broccoli, cauliflower, spinach, kale, brussels sprouts, cabbage, swiss chard, lettuce, cucumber, and celery. Steaming or baking vegetables, rather than frying them, will ensure you receive all the nutrients and antioxidants in low carb veggies for the week.
Healthy fat sources include avocados and nuts, as well as olive oil, coconut oil, and avocado oil. Cooking with these oils will boost your fat levels without causing you to gain weight.
 Foods high in carbs and sugars cause your body to secrete insulin, which is a main fat storage hormone in your body. When your insulin levels go down, your body can start to burn fat. It also helps your kidneys shed excess sodium and water, which will help you reduce any water weight.Avoid foods high in starch and carbs like potato chips, french fries, and white breads. You should also avoid consuming foods high in sugar like soft drinks, candy, cakes, and other junk food.
Animal fats found in red meat and gamey meat like lamb can be fattening and slow down your metabolism as they are difficult to digest. Skip the steak or the lamb burger for one week as part of your meal plan.
 Rather than have a piece of candy for a quick snack, replace it with a piece of fruit that is low in sugar, such as raspberries, blackberries, blueberries, or strawberries. Replace the sugar in your morning coffee with a natural sugar like Stevia, a spoon of honey or agave.Your diet should focus mostly on healthy sources of protein, fat, and vegetables. But you should also include healthy sugar options such as fruit.
 Your meal plan should include three main meals (breakfast, lunch, dinner), scheduled at the same time of day, as well as two small snacks (between breakfast and lunch, and lunch and dinner), also schedule at the same time of day. This will ensure you eat at a consistent time for all seven days and do not skip or miss a meal. Eating about 1,400 calories a day, combined with daily exercise, can lead to healthy weight loss depending on your gender, age, height, activity level, and current weight.Make a grocery list based on your meal plan and go food shopping for the week on Sunday. Stock your fridge with all the necessary ingredients to make your meals for the week so you can prepare each meal easily and quickly., Once you have a meal plan and are eating at a consistent time every day, avoid skipping meals or not eating when you don’t feel hungry. Skipping a meal or putting off a meal until you are starving can lead to overeating and uncontrolled eating.When you sit down to eat, you should also minimize any distractions so you can focus on your food. Turn off your computer, your television and put your phone aside. Chew your food slowly so you do not eat too fast or in a hurry.
 It’s difficult to eat out and have a healthy meal. Eating out and getting take out are also quick ways to use up your food budget and spend unnecessary money.Instead, focus on making your own meals at home. This may mean you will need to spend money on healthier food, but you need to eat anyway! Might as well make your meals help you lose weight, rather than help you put on more pounds.
 Save money and cut down on your sugar intake by replacing soda and fruit juices with at least eight glasses of water a day. Cutting out coca cola and other sodas can dramatically reduce your weight and give you more energy to exercise. Best of all, water is free from any tap in your home.


Carry a full water bottle with you so you can sip water throughout the day. Sipping water will help your body to digest food. Avoid chugging water, as this can cause your belly to swell.
 Another way to save money and slim your waistline is to limit your alcohol consumption. Alcoholic drinks like wine, beer, and cocktails contain sugars that can be difficult to burn off during exercise. These drinks will also dehydrate you, leading to water retention and less energy for your workout.

