 While being on time is important every day, being seated before class starts on the first day is exactly the first impression you want to make to your teacher! It shows that you’re responsible, respectful and punctual. Make sure you do what’s necessary to get to class on time that first day and every one thereafter.If you need to set your alarm a ½ hour earlier in the morning to make sure you have plenty of time to get ready, do that. If it’s adding more books to your backpack so you don’t get sidetracked talking to your friends at the lockers, do that. Teachers do not look kindly upon interruptions during class.


Use the restroom between classes, so you don’t need to excuse yourself once class has started.
You want to be in your seat with everything out of your bag and ready in front of you before class starts. Allow the time you need for this.;
, Whether it’s an art class requiring certain brushes and paints or a math class requiring a protractor, make sure that when you enter the classroom door you have everything you need. It shows your teacher that you’re taking the class seriously. Not having everything you need leaves a less-than-stellar impression, and it takes up class time in borrowing or sharing with someone else.


Never forget to bring the obvious things like pens, pencils and the right books.
Use a 3-ring binder with dividers for different subjects to help keep things organized.
If you can’t afford something you need for the class, ask to talk with your teacher about it after class or at another time. Your teacher will do his or her best to help.
 Turning in assignments when they’re due is essential.Turning in assignments that demonstrate you took your time by being neat and legible, that you read the assigned material and that you exercised your brain in completing your work? That’s the difference between an “A” and a “B-" or “C" and will make your teacher pleased, seeing that you are responsible, have a good work ethic and care about your performance.It also allows you to follow along in class better and to ask questions you may have had while reading ahead.
If you have poor handwriting, type assignments and papers as much as possible. The easier you make your assignments and papers to read, the better! Remember – your teacher has a whole stack, just for your class. Making it easy to get through is to your advantage.
 Going along with being responsible in your homework and reading, you also need to be well prepared for tests. Studying for tests regularly almost always results in higher grades. And good grades are good for you all around. Students have different test study habits and methods. Figure out the best ones for you and put them to good use.


If you’re not in a study group, consider asking others you know in class if they’d like to form one. A good study group should have about 3-5 members. If it’s too large, it can get loud and confusing.
Cramming for tests generally results in lower overall grades.You pump your brain with information, but it’s only stored in spotty, short-term memory.
 One of the reasons cramming for tests isn’t very effective is because students who cram typically do not get enough sleep the night before an exam. The general rule of thumb is that those between 5-9 years old need 10-11 hours of sleep per night, and those between 10-18 years old need 8½-9½ hours of sleep per night to perform well in school.College students should get at least 7-8 hours of sleep per night. Getting enough sleep will make your work higher-quality and your time spent more efficiently. You also won’t find yourself nodding off in class, which doesn't impress teachers.


Going to bed with your laptop, smart phone or TV on is a bad idea. Research shows it makes getting to sleep much harder.Also avoid caffeine products, such as soda, coffee and chocolate, for several hours before going to bed. It can take 6 hours for caffeine to leave your system, often making it hard to fall asleep., Teachers often feel both excited and that they’re doing a good job when a student takes the initiative to learn more about the topics being studied in class. If you find something cool online about the Argentine horned frog, for instance, that relates to a class discussion on amphibians, print off the article and give it to your teacher the next time class meets.Ultimately, your teachers want you to learn. That’s what makes them most happy.

