 The police will need copies of anything you may have that could provide evidence of the crime. You may want to check your state's law so you understand the elements of the crime and what must be proven.One crime associated with cyber threats is assault. An assault occurs when someone intentionally attempts to inflict immediate injury to someone else, and they suffer physical or mental harm as a result. While physical injury isn't required, an immediate threat of violence is.
However, keep in mind that words alone typically aren't considered assault. The cyber threats must be coupled with other acts or circumstances that lead to a legitimate fear of immediate injury.
Since the situation involves someone's written words, freedom of speech under the First Amendment comes into play. This means that words have greater protection than physical acts. However, criminal threats generally are not protected by the First Amendment.
The key is to present not only evidence of the threats the person made, but also other information that shows your legitimate fear that the person will carry out their threats and cause you physical harm.
 Unless you are concerned for your immediate safety (in which case you should call 911), take a trip to the police station and file your report in person. This gives you an opportunity to speak directly to officers.Bring with you any and all evidence you have of the threats as well as the legitimacy of these threats and the fears you have that the person will follow through with these threats.
You also want to bring copies of any other reports you've filed, such as if you've filed a report with the FBI.
If you have friends or family members who are familiar with the situation, you may want to bring them along to lend support to your statements.
 Typically, an officer will sit down with you to talk about the crime and compile a report based on the information you provide. The officer will ask you questions and may want to retain copies of any documents you've brought with you.If you want the police to do anything about the threats, you must convince the officer with whom you speak that these threats present a real and credible threat of imminent violence and harm to you or your loved ones.
To this end, you also should tell the officer if you have any history with the person threatening you. The police typically will be more likely to take the situation seriously if the person knows you, knows where you live, and has threatened or harmed you before.
When the officer completes a written report, make sure you get a copy of it before you leave the police station.
The written report will include information on how you can contact the police department if something else happens or if you want to check the status of your report.
 If you feel you are in imminent danger, you may be able to get an emergency restraining order, which is issued at the police department and protects you until you are able to file a petition for a permanent restraining order through the courts.Police departments issue emergency restraining orders when courts are not in session and you don't have the ability to request a civil restraining order.
If the person has threatened immediate harm to you or a loved one, or if you're afraid of what they might do if they discover you've filed a police report, ask the officer if an emergency restraining order is available.
This order will keep the person from contacting you or coming near you or places you frequent such as your home, school, or workplace.
An emergency restraining order typically is only in effect for a day or two at most. If you filed your police report at the beginning of a weekend or before a holiday, it may last longer.
 An officer may contact you for further information as the department investigates the situation. However, if several weeks go by and you don't hear anything, you may want to call and find out if anything has happened in your case.Keep in mind that even if the person is arrested, he or she may never be charged with a crime. Prosecutors typically only file charges when they believe they can get a conviction.
You may want to contact the district attorney's office, especially if the person has been arrested, to find out if there's anything you can do to assist the prosecution.

