 Licensed dermatologists can provide you with non-surgical treatments for wrinkles, fine lines, and sagging or thinning skin. These treatments include Botox and and cosmetic fillers.


When injected into your forehead, Botox, a purified form of the botulinum toxin, can reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.by temporarily unclenching muscles that cause crow’s feet, laugh lines, and wrinkles. The shots take a few minutes and are relatively painless.Cosmetic fillers enhance the tissues that lay underneath your problem areas. They fill in wrinkles and even out folds. Types of fillers include collagen, hyaluronic acid, and fat from your thigh., Instead of exfoliating once or twice a week, visit your dermatologist for a chemical peel or microdermabrasion treatment.


When administering a chemical peel, dermatologists will apply an acid solution to your face. The process takes 15 minutes. Following the treatment, the top layers of your skin will peel off, leaving you with fresh, healthy looking skin.Microdermabrasion, also known as the “power peel,” exfoliates the skin with small crystals. This non-surgical treatment can reduce the appearance of brown spots, scars, and fine lines, as well as treat damaged caused by the sun., If you have creepy, saggy skin, consider undergoing a thermage treatment. Your dermatologist will use a device that emits radio-frequency energy to stimulate collagen production, which in turn firms your skin.


This is a painful treatment, but you usually only need to undergo one to see results., Instead of exfoliating the top layers of your skin, consult with your dermatologist about targeting the lower layers of skin. You may choose from two treatments: a nonablative laser or an Intense Pulse Light (IPL).


An IPL emits short pulses of light into your dermis, the lowest layer of skin. As it heats the dermis, it produces collagen. It also destroys cells and promotes cell renewal. This treatment also reduces the appearance of blemishes.Nonablative lasers treat the lower layers of skin, which significantly reduces your recovery time. This treatment stimulates collagen production, which helps to reduce fine lines and wrinkles.It also evens out your skin tone.