 Visit the website for the Arkansas Secretary of State to find a list of the state's counties. Click on your respective county. You can find your county's address, phone number, and email there. Call or go to your county clerk’s office to obtain a registration form. You can also visit your Arkansas Secretary of State’s office to obtain a registration form.The Arkansas Secretary of State’s address is: State Capital, Suite 256, 500 Woodlane Avenue, Little Rock, AR, 72201, 501-682-1010.
Alternatively, call your Arkansas Secretary of State, Elections Division at 1-800-482-1127 to request a registration form.;
, To do this visit http://www.sos.arkansas.gov/elections/Pages/request-app-through-mail.aspx. Fill out all of the required information, including your name, address, and the language you would like the form to be in. Then click submit. The form will be sent to the mailing addressed you provided., Visit the website for the Arkansas Secretary of State to find and download the form. Then print the form to fill it out., Use blue or black ink to fill out the form, and fill it out in print. Make sure to fill out all of the required information on the form, including your name, address, date of birth, identification number, and citizenship. Then sign and date it.Additionally, at the top left corner of the form, make sure to mark why you are filling out the form; for example, new registration or name change.
 Do this if you do not have an Arkansas driver’s license or a Social Security number. Acceptable photo I.D.'s include a driver's license, state I.D., passport, college or university I.D., tribal I.D., and military or veteran I.D.'s., If you do not have a valid photo I.D., then you can submit a copy of a bank statement, current utility bill, paycheck, or government check. You can also submit another government document that shows your name and address.If you fail to provide this information, then you may be instructed to vote a Provisional Ballot.
 Do this once you have completed the form. Mail the form plus any other required documents to your county clerk or the Arkansas Secretary of State. To find your county clerk’s mailing address visit http://www.sos.arkansas.gov/elections/Documents/Revised%20County%20Clerks%20List.pdf. The deadline for submitting the application is no later than 30 days prior to the election.The Arkansas Secretary of State’s address is: State Capital, Suite 256, 500 Woodlane Avenue, Little Rock, AR, 72201, 501-682-1010.
You should receive your voter registration card within two to three weeks of submitting your application. If not, then check the status of your application at www.voterview.org.

