 Or, fake it till you make it––just thinking about being more confident can help even if you don't actually feel this way. Think of who you are, and if your crush likes you the way you are, they will accept you. Having confidence is one of the key ways to get your crush's attention. Not having enough confidence will show through your words and actions. Be proud of who you are!


Stand up straight. Good posture will trick your brain into thinking you're confident.;
, Your crush may not like you if you pretend to be someone you're not. Plus, it gets tiring to have to put on an act every day. Your personality should shine through your words. Never be ashamed of who you are - don't try to hide yourself!

, Conversations can be easily started with just a simple sentence. All it takes is bravery and confidence in yourself. If you are passing in the hallways, just try to get the courage to greet them and softly smile. There is nothing more powerful than a genuine, acknowledging smile. Eye contact is also very important in this step.


If you have a crush on a girl, compliment her on things she does in class as well, or something you know she did like an event or win an award. It will mean a lot more to her if you complement her actions rather than her outfit or hair. You should show an interest in their personality, not just their looks.
If you have a crush on a guy, you might want to compliment their looks and outfits (if you really like an item of clothing they wear well, like a hat, compliment it), or focus on something they did. For example, you could say, "Hey, that presentation you did in class was great" or "You did great at yesterday's soccer game!". Things like this will boost their ego and make them feel great about themselves.
 Read some blogs or check the news. Read magazines, books, watch TV, have adventures, listen to different music, and watch different movies. If you expand your knowledge to a variety of topics, you'll have lots to talk about with your crush!

, If they enjoy a hobby that you don't, refrain from lying and telling them you like it also. Your crush will eventually discover the truth and their opinion of you will diminish.
 Never give your crush mean looks or anything to draw attention unless they know you're joking with them. When you do tease or joke with them, make sure it's obvious and that you don't really mean it. However, too much teasing may lead to hurt feelings and a sour relationship! Keep your teasing to a minimum and light-hearted; tease them only about things you know that they won't mind. Keep away from touchy topics.
 If you have any bad habits while talking to your crush, you'll be at a downside. Try to be yourself, but refrain from cursing excessively, calling everything retarded, etc. Keep your conversations innocent, clean, but entertaining in a positive way.
 After talking to crush a lot, finally come out with saying you like them, but don't say the exact line! Your line should be something like a hint, but big and clear enough that your crush will get the point and understand. Come up with something original:


"Hey uh...I've been talking a lot with you because I like you"
"Hi, nice to see you again, um, look, I like you"
"Hey. I gotta tell you something. I maybe um, sorta kinda like you a little bit"
"Uh hi.. um okay I know I'm shy and all, but I have feelings for you.." something like that might work.
"Hey um, look, I have to tell you something, and you might like it, or might not. -sigh- I like you."
"Hi, um, look, I think you're a cool person. I'm sure there's someone that likes you out there." will be good enough (see tips for more suggestions).

Refrain from sounding like you have practiced the line. One to three "um" or "ah" will make it sound more natural - stick them in appropriate places!
Try not to use "um" and "ah" too much. It will make your crush think that you're far too shy! When confessing your crush on them, let them know about it with confidence. Everyone likes someone with confidence - the more confidence, the better. However, be careful about having too much confidence!
Have eye contact when you're telling your crush you like him/her. It will make you appear more confident and it makes you look bold!



, However, if your crush doesn't feel the same about you, it's fine. There are plenty of other fish in the sea. The right person is out there, waiting for you to come around the corner. If you never get past this event, you will never find your true love! Move on!

