 You can be confident around guys by being yourself and knowing your worth. Know your worth by embracing your unique qualities and talents. Are you great at writing, playing soccer, or doing math? Are you a movie, fashion, or book guru? What are the qualities that your friends and family love about you most?Make a list of your qualities and talents. Go over this list once a week to remind yourself that you have a lot to offer, not only to yourself, but to the world.
 If you find yourself saying, "I can't do this. They are going to think I'm weird, boring, or ugly," you need to reverse these thoughts. Remember the list you made that identifies your best qualities and talents. Remind yourself that you are interesting, and that anyone would enjoy talking with you.You will begin to see that the more positive messages you send to yourself, the more confident you are.
 Increase your self-confidence by stepping out of your comfort zone. Try to step out of your comfort zone at least two times a week. By stepping out of your comfort zone, you will have more experiences to talk about and share with others. This will make you look interesting and adventurous in others' eyes.Step out of your comfort zone by doing something different. For example, go to a restaurant that serves food from parts of the world you have never been to or know little about. Or, if you're not very artistic, go to your local art museum.
 You can ease any situation with guys by having a support network. So, bring a friend or two with you in case things go stale or awkward. Let your friend know that you are little uncomfortable being around guys, but that you would like to get over it, and want to enlist their support. Having that extra support will boost your confidence because you will know if things go wrong, they can try to pick up the conversation.


Try bringing a friend that already knows one of the guys or has rapport built up with one of the guys. Sometimes a conversation between two people can be grounds for a conversation starter between other people in the group.

