 An interview is an opportunity for you to find out information about the position and the company that you can't get elsewhere. Coming prepared with a good list of questions shows the interviewer that you're interested in learning more about the position and that you are serious about the job.It also shows you're not afraid to ask questions and willing to do some legwork of your own to get answers.


What kinds of benefits do they offer?
What's the dress code?
What are they looking for from the person to fill the position?

, An interview is essentially a conversation, and you will likely need to adapt some of what you have previously rehearsed to fit properly. Carefully listen to their questions and the answers to any questions you pose so that you can use that information to your advantage.Anxious people often feel the urge to fill silences or to talk too much; try to keep your talking points filtered down to one idea if possible to avoid rambling and to allow the interviewer plenty of speaking time.
Try finding out what an employer is looking for and needs and trying to sell yourself as being a fit; "I'm so glad you're looking for an employee that is happy doing filing work and working independently. At my last job, I had a large project that involved completely reorganizing the office's filing. In addition to self-starting and managing my time and prioritization with other projects, I also regularly would ask what else I could do once I completed my tasks."

, Words like "uhm," "ah" and "well" are what we call filler words. They don't add anything to a conversation or mean anything, they exist solely to give us more time to think. This can show hesitancy or nervousness. This is why it's important that you practice what you will say on an interview first as much as possible.
 Interviews are about selling yourself, not who you would like to be. Usually as part of the hiring process you have to sign a document that states you haven't lied on your application and that you can be fired if it is discovered you falsified information. For your own peace of mind during the interview and later down the road, it is better to be truthful. If you didn't do something or don't have a certain set of experience, just admit it.
 As much as possible, you want to give your interviewer the impression that you are a confident, positive person. So even if you have to respond to a question negatively, or there is no positive answer, to try to think of ways to turn it around.


If you don't know how to use a certain program or piece of equipment, say "No, I've never used that and I don't know how, but I taught myself how to use all of these others, and I'm a very fast learner."
If you don't have experience for a certain job responsibility, say accounting, say, "No, I don't have any experience as a bookkeeper or an accountant, but I do do all of my own taxes and I balance my own checkbook. I also have some limited knowledge of Quickbooks and experience with Excel, so I'm sure I could learn."

