 Because acrylic is highly susceptible to scratching and may react negatively when exposed to certain types of chemicals, you should be selecting non-abrasive cleaning products to treat your bathtub. Ordinary cleaning products like Comet and Ajax that are recommended for bathtubs made of ceramic and other materials will likely be too harsh for use on your acrylic tub.Look for cleaners that are non-acetate, as well, as these chemicals can eat away at an acrylic surface.Mild all-purpose cleaners like OxyClean, Scrubbing Bubbles Bathtub & Shower Cleaner, Fantastik and Kaboom have been shown to produce good results cleaning acrylic bathtubs., Spray or dab a small amount of a chosen cleaning product onto a corner of the bathtub and make sure that it wipes away clean before using it on the rest of the tub. Remember to use non-abrasive cloths as well as cleansers. If you have any doubts, do a little research on gentle cleaning products that are suitable for use on acrylic.If the cleaner you’re testing has no effect on the tub’s surface, or if it causes small cracks or discoloration, discontinue use immediately and flush the spot with warm water., Hit the stain with the cleaner and allow to sit for a few moments. By now, little of the original stain should remain. The acrylic-safe cleaner will work on what’s left.While you don’t want the stain to dry, give it a quick wipe with a towel before using the cleaner so that any standing water left in the tub doesn’t dilute the chemicals.
You can and should reapply cleaner to the stained area frequently. Acrylic tubs need regular cleaning, and even if the stain doesn’t come out with the first few attempts, it will continue to fade with future cleanings.
 Go over the area once more with your sponge or washcloth. Really dig in: be forceful and use small swirling motions with the cloth to coax out lingering stains. After you’ve done all you can, rinse the entire tub with hot water. With any luck, you’ll never be able to tell the spill happened.

