, Repeat each combination several times, to make sure you know the keyword for each. Say "One is Bun, Two is Shoe, Three is Flea," and so on.


Write down the numbers 1-10 on a piece of paper and place the keyword for each next to it, from memory.
 For example, we have a simple shopping list: a dozen eggs, a box of salt, a box of rice, a half dozen bananas, a loaf of bread, a grapefruit, shoelaces, 2 bars of Ivory soap, maple syrup, and a box of pretzels.


A dozen eggs is your first item. Bun, you remember is your first word. Think of taking a bun in your hand and banging it down on a carton of eggs until every egg is broken. Or think of taking an egg, shell and all, and putting it between two buns and biting into this egg sandwich!
A box of salt is your next item. Shoe is your next key word. Think of pouring a box of salt into a shoe. Think of scooping mounds of salt off the ground with your shoe. Think of salting your shoe and eating it!
Flea is next, for a box of rice. Think about a flea using a grain of rice like a weightlifter.
Half a dozen bananas. Key word-Door. Think of six doors shaped exactly like big bananas. Think of peeling the doors. Think of throwing bananas against the door until they are squashed.
Loaf of bread. Key word-Hive. Think of a bee hive made of a loaf of bread, with bees swarming around it.
A grapefruit. Key word-Sticks. Think of taking pointed sticks and driving them through a grapefruit-and imagine the grapefruit juice squirting in your eyes.
Shoelaces. Key word-Heaven. Think of angels dropping shoelaces out of the sky. Think of an angel tying her shoelace and breaking it.
Two bars of Ivory Soap. Key word-Gate. Think of an iron spike gate with two bars of soap stuck on the spikes. Think of making soap from an elephants tusk-of ivory.
Maple syrup. Key word-Pine. Think of a huge vat of syrup being poured over a pine tree. Think of dipping a pine tree in maple syrup and stirring it.
Box of pretzels. Key word-Hen. Think of a hen laying a pretzel-shaped egg. Think of pretzels all over the ground, with hens running over them and crumbling them.
 Next to each one write the grocery item it stands for.


e.g. "One is Bun. We took the bun and smashed what?" You take it from here.

