 While powerful, the dogs will not be hard to defeat with a team of 6 Pokémon. The dogs, however, do not want to be caught, and will try to run from your the moment you encounter them. This makes them slippery and difficult to get a hold of permanently.


Any damage you do to a dog will last. If you run into them once and bring them to half health before they run, they will still be at half health the next time you see them., If you do not get the first turn the dog will likely run away before you do anything. To prevent this, make sure your opening Pokémon has enough speed to attack first. You can attach "Quick Claw" to ensure that your Pokémon attacks first as well. The go first, your speed rating needs to be higher than the dog's:



Suicune has a speed rating of 85.

Entei has a speed rating of 100.

Raikou has a speed rating of 115., Some Pokémon, such as Wobbuffet, have an ability named "Shadow Tag" that prevents a Pokémon from escaping at any time. Other Pokémon can use abilities like Mean Look, Block, and Arena Trap that keep the dog in place as long as the Pokémon is still in battle.


Attacks like Wrap and Fire Spin do damage over a few turns and will keep Pokémon from running. They will last for 3-5 turns before needing to be re-applied., These effects are often difficult to land, but when successful they will keep the dog from fleeing and make your capture balls more effective. Try moves like:


Sleep
Spore
Paralyze
Poison.
 This obnoxious attack shared by Entei and Raikou forces you to run away from the battle and the dog to disappear. While there is not a lot you can do to avoid it, putting the dog to sleep or paralyzing it will prevent it from using Roar against you.


The attack "Taunt" will negate the effects of Roar, but you need to use it your first turn to be effective., If you kill the dog you will be unable to capture it ever again. Use quick, effective moves like False Swipe and Night Shade to get their health down without causing massive damage.Don't ever gamble with a big attack -- if they run before you capture them they will reappear with the exact same health they left with. This means you can take your time.
 Every time a ball misses the Pokémon becomes a little easier to capture, so don't be disheartened if the first few fail. You can put the animal back to sleep or paralyze it to make capturing even easier.


You will likely need 50 or more Ultra Balls to succeed. You would rather have them, after all, than run out of them when you need them.
Timer Balls, which gain power the longer the battle goes on, reach their peak performance after 25 turns. Use your Ultra Balls to weaken the Pokémon, then launch your Timer Balls later in the battle to use them effectively., Using the Master Ball is the simplest way to catch a difficult Pokémon because it is impossible to miss. Once you've met the dog, forget about trapping it or lowering its health -- immediately throw the Master Ball. This is a guaranteed method of catching your legendary dog.


Remember, however, that you only get one Master Ball in the game. That said, this is one of the perfect places to use it.

