 If you filed your patent after May 29, 2000 and your patent was delayed because the USPTO was taking longer than normal to process the paperwork, you may be eligible to file for an extension. The extension will cover the time lost from your patent term for the delay. The length of the extension you are approved for will depend on the delay time frame, but will not be longer than 5 years.
 If you were initially granted less time than later legislation allows, you may be eligible to request an extension on your patent for the newer patent term. Under the Uruguay Rounds Agreements Act, utility patents granted before June of 1995 may be given an extension to 20 years instead of the original 17 years. This does not apply to design patents.
 A patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act is sometimes given to those who qualify.This applies to those whose products or processes, such as medications, medical devices, food and color additives, require testing and approval by the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) before they can be marketed. The period of time that you were unable to sell your product because you were awaiting FDA approval may be restored as an extension to the original patent. , All application forms for patent extensions can be found on the USPTO website: here for applications filed before September 16, 2012 and here for those filed after this time frame. Know that there are filing fees associated with this application.The process for filing for the extension depends upon which reason for extension the patent falls under.


Generally, the application for extension must be in writing, include the identifying information for the patent, information about why the applicant is entitled to an extension, relevant dates to determine the length of the extension, copies of the patent documents, etc.
Be sure to check with the USPTO for the exact amount of the fee (around $1,000) and the proper procedure for requesting the extension for your case.
 It can take up to several months for the USPTO to process your request. As with any government process, patience is best. If you are eligible and have a good reason for an extension, then there's a chance you could be approved so waiting is worth it.
 If your extension request is denied, you have the right to appeal your denied request. Appeal forms can be found on the USPTO website: here for applications filed before September 16, 2012 and here for those filed after this time frame. Reasons for denial include defects in the paperwork you submitted to the USPTO asking for the extension and your invention being ineligible for extension. File an appeal and address any of the issues that your extension was denied in your written appeal.


The appeals process begins with your Notice of Appeal and fee payment. It will continue through various steps until it reaches the Patent Trial and Appeal Board. The board will make a decision on your case and complete the appeals process.
 It could be very beneficial to consult with an attorney to review your options, especially if your request is denied. Your lawyer may be able to offer suggestions and ways to supplement your application. Filing for a patent extension can be complex and your lawyer can ensure that it is done correctly.

