 This isn't a practical step for many people, but if you're lucky enough to live somewhere you don't need a car to get to work or the grocery store, you're sitting on a huge mound of cash in the driveway. There are some helpful steps to complete this process:Gather your car's information. Find the title and registration, maintenance receipts and records, and a car history report. Also know the features of your car (CD Player, seat controls etc.)
Having regular receipts and records for oil changes and routine maintenance can show that your car was well cared for and can help you get a good offer.
Set a price for your car. To find the right price, you can look up the value of your car with Kelly Blue Book or look in the classifieds section of your newspaper to see what price cars like yours are selling for.
Advertise the car online and in newspapers. In your ad specify the model and year of the car, its features, its true condition (if it is in need of repairs be honest), your asking price, and acceptable forms of payment. Include lots of photos and multiple ways to contact you.
 Advertise it for free on Craigslist, or for a small fee in the local newspaper. Clean and organize everything you intend to sell, and lay it out in front of your house or apartment on the morning of the day of the sale. This approach works best for people who haven't previously sold things for cash out of necessity, and still have a lot of items to sell. People are more interested in bigger yard sales.
Price everything slightly high, but be willing to haggle down. Most yard sale items will reasonably sell for 1/3 to 1/2 of the original price, if the item is in good condition.
Keep your prices in $.25 intervals to keep change handling simple.
To make up the difference, try to feature some bigger items, like furniture and exercise equipment, that you can get a bigger chunk of change for. Place these items at the end of the driveway or yard to lure in buyers.
Many neighborhoods have a coordinated yard-sale day. It is a good idea to hold your yard sale during this event because it will draw in a large crown of potential buyers.
 There are two basic ways to do this if you need to turn a quick profit: Craigslist and eBay.


On Craigslist, post your item for sale in the appropriate section of the site. Be sure to post pictures if you can; people often don't bother with listings that don't have photos attached.
Use the word “firm” if you refuse to haggle on the price; use “OBO” to indicate you might be willing to go down on it a bit.
On eBay, you can set various time and purchase options, which may have fees attached to them.
If you choose to sell it at a fixed price with the Buy It Now option, you will have to pay a flat fee of a couple dollars in addition to a percentage of the sale price. Buy It Now allows you to control your selling price.
If you choose to sell your item at auction, choose a period of time the auction will be active. Sunday evening is said to be the most lucrative night of the week for auctions by frequent eBay sellers. , Pawn brokers are people who will pay cash for just about anything you own that isn't disposable or perishable. Pawn brokers tend to pay very low amounts and won't haggle.


Bring your items with you to the pawn shop. Most pawn shops keep short hours for security reasons, so go before 4PM to be sure you get in.
Decide whether or not to accept the offer. Expect to get $60 for a $500 bicycle, and on down the line proportionally. In most cases, you should only visit a pawn shop if you absolutely need money right now and have no other options available as you won't get a good value on your items.
 There are collector's markets for just about everything with any cultural significance, from commemorative plates to video games and old toys. If you arm yourself with knowledge, you can make a killing buying items for cheap and selling them to collectors at a profit.Specialize in one type of collectible. You might specialize in retro toys or specialized glassware. Start by seeing what collectibles you already own and build from there.
Know your subject. Do the research to find out what an item in good condition looks like and is worth. Know which items are commonplace or super rare. Rare items will get a better price.
Visit cheap places. Yard sales and thrift shops are your best friends as a collectables reseller.
Use computer resources. Websites that specialize in collectibles can help you to gauge what collectibles are selling for in your area.
Sell online. You'll often get a better price online than you will selling to a local collector, and this can widen your customer base.
Get to know dealers and insiders. These people can be great connections for you to advertise your collectibles and get to know vendors who can help you sell your items.

