 Use a Phillips screwdriver to remove the Emtek door hardware from the door. You don't need to remove the internal latch (that thing that keeps the door shut). Only remove the two screws holding the lever to the sides of the doors.;
, Use an Allen Wrench to loosen the Emtek knob or lever's turn post. You need to do this until you can pull the turn post (that brass post with a spring wrapped around it) out of the lever. If you don't have an Allen Wrench that fits your Emtek hardware, you can order one online.
 Now that you've loosened the Emtek lever or knob with the Allen Wrench, you can remove the turn post and the spring from the lever.
 You should now be able to see the inner mechanical parts that keep your Emtek lever stiff. If your entry set is sagging, you should still see these parts for the inside lever. If your hardware doesn't look like this, stop now. You might be using a type of Emtek product that this fix-it guide will not show you how to correct.
 Once you loosen it up, you should be able to pull it out with your finger. This part keeps the torsion spring and keyed washer pressed together.
 After removing the clip, remove the washer underneath it. (This is not the keyed washer that might be broken.)

, Shown here is one of the top offenders for a saggy Emtek lever or loose knob. The green arrows point out the two places in the spring that usually break. If you're still not sure if your torsion spring is broken, it will not be sitting tightly in place. Take it out and examine it. The picture below shows an Emtek lever with a new spring. If yours is broken, you need to buy one, but it's important that you keep reading and make sure that your keyed washer is not also broken.
 We still need to check the keyed washer. Pry out the torsion spring with a screwdriver. If it's stiff and hard to pry out, that's a good thing. That means that the spring is still strong and does not need replacement.
 This is the piece that the torsion spring pushes against. Look at the picture to see where this washer may be broken. Many Emtek keyed washers break in the middle. The two keyed pieces become weak over time. If any part of this is broken, you'll have to buy a new one.
 If the keyed washer looks broken or cracked, remove it with a screwdriver.
 Follow the steps below to reassemble the Emtek lever or knob, then see if it continues to sag. It's possible that the torsion spring just slipped off and needs to be placed on securely. However, if these steps don't reveal the true cause of your saggy lever, you might want to try contacting Emtek and find out if they can help.

