 Adoption procedures and requirements vary significantly among states, and specific cities or counties may have additional steps you must complete. Before you begin the process of adopting an adult stepchild, make sure adoption will serve the goals you have in mind.The adoption process typically isn't complicated, and you can usually do it without an attorney. However, you may want to consult an experienced adoption attorney if you're unsure whether adoption will do what you want it to do.
For example, you can't use adult adoption for immigration law purposes. If you have an adult stepchild who is not a citizen or lawful permanent resident and you want to change that, you can't do so by adopting them.
There may be requirements that apply to all stepparents adopting stepchildren, regardless of the age of the stepchild in question.
For example, some states require you to be married to your stepchild's biological parent for at least a year before you can legally adopt them.
Some states have additional requirements that must be met by the stepchild you want to adopt. For example, in Arizona you can adopt an adult stepchild, but only if they are under 21.;
, It's a good idea to sit down with your spouse and your adult stepchild, as well as any other family members, and talk about your reasons for wanting to adopt your adult stepchild.Your stepchild needs to know that any legal parental relationship with the other biological parent will be severed if you adopt them. This can impact inheritance if, for example, your stepchild's biological parent dies without a will.
It's also important for everyone to understand that adoption is permanent. If you and your stepchild's biological parent divorce, your stepchild still is your adopted child – unless the child's other biological parent agrees to adopt them back.
Generally, reversing the process can be legally complicated – and may be impossible depending on your state's eligibility requirements.
You want to make sure that everyone understands the reasons for the adoption and is on the same page regarding the process. Having the support of the entire family can make the process a lot easier.
 States that allow adult adoption require consent from the person you want to adopt. Even though your stepchild is an adult, your state may also require consent from that child's biological parents.Consent from parents is required because through adoption you terminate a legal parent-child relationship.
Even though the child has reached adulthood, this still affects other matters such as inheritance rights.
If your adult stepchild is married, you also may need a consent form from their spouse.
Other states, such as Oregon, only require a consent form from the adult stepchild. There is no need to contact biological parents or get consent from anyone else.
 You must have a complete and signed consent form for everyone required to consent to the adoption, or your petition for adoption will not be processed by the court.If your state requires consent from both of your adult stepchild's biological parents, things can get complicated if one of them hasn't been in your stepchild's life for many years, or if their whereabouts are unknown.
Many states have a process whereby consent can be waived if the parent hasn't contacted or supported the child for a number of years.
You may want to consult an attorney if you are unable to locate someone from whom consent is required.
Typically you must have the original, signed form to file with the court. However, you probably want to make copies for all involved, including your adult stepchild and the person who signed the form.
Keep in mind that most states also require signatures on consent forms to be notarized.
 Most states have a form packet that you can pick up at the county or family court where you plan to file your petition. In some jurisdictions, you also may be able to find these forms online.If you download forms online, make sure they are appropriate for the specific court in which you plan to file your petition. There may be additional forms or items that are specific to particular counties or courts.
If there are no forms available, you can check your state's adoption law to find out what information must be included in the petition.
You may be able to get copies of adoption petitions filed in other cases from the clerk of the court and use those as guides. However, in many states adoption records are sealed and only available for parties to the case.
 Your form packet typically will include instructions. Make sure you read them carefully before you begin filling out your forms. Some courts may have specific requirements related to the printing and format of your answers.The petition requires information about you, your adult stepchild, and the reasons you want to adopt them.
Typically you also must include information about your adult stepchild's biological parents.
Along with the petition, you're also typically responsible for preparing an order. This is the document the judge will sign if he or she grants your petition.
The consent forms you had completed and signed must be attached as exhibits to your petition.
You'll want to make enough copies of the complete packet that everybody involved can have a copy for their records.
 When you've completed your forms, you must take them to the clerk of the court that handles adoptions in the county where your adult stepchild lives. Typically this will be the county civil court, but in some states adoptions are handled by the probate court.Some courts don't charge any filing fees for adoptions, but others do. Filing fees for an adoption typically won't be more than a hundred dollars, but you may want to call the clerk's office first to make sure.
You also may be able to find out information about filing fees by going to the court's website.
Take your originals as well as the copies you've made. The clerk will stamp all of them "filed" with the date and give the copies back to you.
The clerk also typically will schedule a hearing date. This is when the judge will review your petition and decide whether to grant the adoption.
There may be additional preliminary requirements, particularly if your adult stepchild is mentally or physically disabled. The clerk will let you know.
 In some states, you may be required to have your adult stepchild and their biological parents served with your petition. This is so the court can be certain that they all have legal notice of the proceeding.Who must be served typically depends on the consent process. If you have a consent form from a parent or spouse that you filed with the petition, you don't have to serve the person who signed that consent form – they already know about the adoption.
On the other hand, if consent from someone, such as a biological parent, is required but not given, the court may require you to serve that person so they have the opportunity to object to the adoption.
If your state requires a consent form from someone and you were unable to get them to consent, you may want to consult an attorney regarding the procedure in adult adoption cases.
 When the scheduled date of your hearing arrives, go to the courthouse at least a half hour before the time listed on your hearing notice. You want to make sure you have time to get through courthouse security and find the correct courtroom.You don't necessarily have to wear a business suit to court, but you should dress conservatively and respectfully. Clothing you would wear to a church service or a job interview typically is appropriate.
Make sure you have your copy of the paperwork you filed with the court. You may not need to refer to it, but it's still a good idea to have it.
In many cases, an adoption is a celebration. Any friends or family members who want to witness the proceedings are welcome to attend.
The judge may be hearing several cases the same day as yours. Unless you've been told otherwise, take a seat in the courtroom gallery until your name is called. Then you and anyone with you can proceed to the front of the courtroom.
 Different courts have different procedures, but essentially you will be asked to present your petition to the judge and explain why you want to adopt your adult stepchild.In many courts, the judge will simply ask you questions rather than requiring you to make a speech to present your petition.
Some courts may proceed more formally, with the judge requiring you to present your petition through a brief monologue. typically you can just read from your petition – you don't have to have any special words prepared.
Make sure you speak loudly and clearly so the judge can hear you. If the judge asks you something you don't understand, ask for clarification.
The judge also may want to talk to your adult stepchild, to make sure they understand the proceedings and have voluntarily consented to the adoption.
 After all parties have been heard, the judge will decide whether to grant or deny your petition. Even if you believe everything about your case was relatively straightforward, don't take it as a given that the judge will grant your petition.Judges occasionally refuse to grant adult stepchild adoptions, typically because they are concerned about the parties' intentions or motivation for completing the adoption.
For example, judges may refuse to grant the adoption if they are concerned that it's being done to defraud someone, or to attempt to avoid debts your adult stepchild owes.
In most cases, though, the judge will grant the adoption. They typically let you know this decision from the bench, although it may take a few more days to get the finalized order.
 If the judge grants your petition, you should receive copies of the written order within a few days after the hearing. Those orders can be used to change your stepchild's birth certificate, update insurance policies, or anything else.There may be official forms to be completed and submitted to your state's vital records office. The court clerk may have copies of these forms, or will be able to tell you where to get them.
Expect it to take several weeks, or even months, before a new birth certificate is issued.
Typically your adopted stepchild must have the new birth certificate before they can change their name elsewhere, such as on their Social Security card and government-issued identification.

