 Gym leaders and certain types of themed trainers often structure their teams around a certain type of Pokémon: water, electric, poison, etc. However, a single-type team isn't very balanced. Prepare your team to fight many types of Pokémon. You should have Pokémon on your team that are strong against most of the main types—even several of the most common types., A balanced team might include a Fire Pokémon, a Water Pokémon, and a Grass Pokémon. The three Starter Pokémon always give you a choice between Fire, Water, and Grass. For instance, in Pokémon X/Y, the Grass starter is Chespin, the Fire starter is Fennekin, and the Water starter is Froakie.No matter which starter you choose, however, you'll have the chance to acquire the other "starter" types in the wild or through trades.

Fire Pokémon are strong against grass, ice, bug, and steel types, but weak against water, ground, dragon, and rock Pokémon.
Water Pokémon are strong against fire, ground, and rock types, and weak against electric, grass, and dragon types.
Grass type Pokémon are strong against water, ground, and rock types, but weak against fire, poison, flying, bug and dragon types.
 You will probably encounter Bug, Flying, Poison, Psychic, and Electric Pokémon in the early game and throughout your adventure. This is not to say that they cannot be very powerful! Flying Pokémon, in particular, can be useful for quick transport as well as strong, hard-to-counter Flying-type attacks.

Electric Pokémon are strong against water and flying Pokémon, but weak against grass, electric, ground, and dragon types.
Flying type Pokémon are strong against grass, fighting, and bug types, but weak against electric, rock, and ice types.
Bug type are strong against Grass, Psychic, and Dark, and weak against Fire, Flying and psychic.
Poison type Pokémon are strong against grass and fairy, but weak against ground, rock, psychic and steel types.
Psychic type Pokémon are strong against fighting and poison types and ghost types, but weak against ghost, dark, and steel Pokémon.
 Ground and Rock types are resistant to a wide variety of common types, although they do have their weaknesses. Their defensive stats are usually high, which balances out the weaknesses of some other Pokémon. Fighting types are strong against some of the physical and commonly "hard to hurt" types, although they are open to great damage from special attack-prone types.

Ground type Pokémon are strong against fire, poison, electric, rock, and steel types, but weak against grass, flying, and water types.
Rock type Pokémon are strong against ice, fire, flying, and bug types, but weak against fighting, ground, and steel types.
Ice type Pokémon are strong against grass, ground, flying, grass and dragon Pokémon, but weak against fighting, fire, and steel.
Fighting Pokémon are strong against normal, ice, rock, dark, and steel Pokémon, but weak against poison, flying, bug, ghost, fairy, and psychic types.
 Some Normal Pokémon can grow to become very powerful, but they won't give you a significant leg up over any other type. Normal type Pokémon are not statistically stronger against any other type, and they are weak against fighting, ghost, rock, and steel. The upside of Normal Pokémon is that they are versatile: they can often learn TM moves from diverse other types., Dark, Dragon, Ghost, and Fairy are relatively rare in the Pokémon world, but these types can be some of the most powerful fighters when used in combination with hardier and more common teammates.

Dark type Pokémon are strong against ghost and psychic Pokémon, and weak against fighting, fairy, and bug Pokémon.
Dragon type Pokémon are strong against other dragon types, but weak against ice and fairy.
Ghost type Pokémon are strong against ghost and psychic types, but weak against dark and psychic types.
Fairy types are strong against dragon, fighting, and dark, and weak against poison and steel. They are resisted by fairy and fire.
Steel type Pokémon are strong against ice, fairy, and rock Pokémon, but weak against water, fire, and steel.