 You'll need a pair of teacups per set of curtains. While they don't necessarily have to match, you may prefer that they do. If they don't match, it is still a good idea to match up teacups with similar colors and general pattern. In addition to searching around your home for teacups, visit second hand or antique stores, online stores, thrift stores and even yard or garage sales.


Choose by shape and size as well. Base this decision on your curtain’s fabric and amount of material you need tied back.






Test drive different teacups. Hold each teacup next to the drapes to be sure that they're the right choice.






Choose a cup that isn’t chipped or cracked. The cup must be able to withstand being transformed from a teacup to a tieback––cracked cups may split. And chipped cups won't look as pretty.
Test the handle. If it has been glued back on after a break, the cup will be unsuitable because a lot of pressure will be placed on the handle joins when attached to the hook.;
, Essentially you will pulling the drapery through the actual cup and then hanging the handle on a hook. The hook may be key to not only how it holds the cup handle but how it looks. Explore porcelain or other material options for the hook, in addition to the usual metallic ones.
 An errant piece of porcelain in your eye can send you to the emergency room––take precautions to prevent injury.



Perform this action on a workbench or somewhere that has good traction. You don’t want to be drilling into the cup and have it slip out from underneath you.
 The size of the hole will be dependent on the girth of the curtain that will be slipped through. It's highly recommended that you place masking tape around the hole to add some strength when drilling and to help prevent cracking.
 The best drill bit for this would be one suitable for drilling tiles (which are often made from similar delicate material). When drilling:

Go slowly in the marked area. Don't blaze through this––porcelain is delicate and may crack if you're too aggressive or speedy.






In some cases, it is easiest to drill smaller holes and to gradually expand these into one larger hole.
Brush aside residual dust after you’ve drilled through the cup. Keep reassessing whether you need to make the hole larger. When you're happy with the size, stop drilling.
 It can be handy to have a friend help here, especially if the curtain fabric is heavy or in an awkward position.


Play with where exactly you’d like the teacup to sit on the curtain. Sometimes having it located higher on the curtain than normal will increase its decorative effect.
 Position the cup so that the handle is firmly linked to the handle. Readjust the teacup to ensure that the design shows clearly.


Test the strength of the handle's hold. If the grip fails, the teacup will most likely shatter if it falls on the floor so having a strong, reliable hold is important.
 Repeat as many times as you need to make matching tiebacks for the room.

