 During the first trimester, the fetus’ internal organs, such as the heart, are starting to develop. Note that the fetus in this stage does not yet resemble a human being but more of a seed with facial features and a discernible tail ,which will later form the lower extremities. Upon ultrasound, at 8 weeks of gestation, a gestational sac can be observed. At the end of 12 weeks gestation, the sex of the baby should already noticeable.During this time, the baby will most likely grow from 1 centimeter (0.4 in) to 8 centimeters (3.1 in) in length. The weight should be between 400 mcg and 45 grams.
 During this time the fetal heartbeat should become audible with the use of a Doppler (an instrument that can detect fetal heart sounds) but towards the end of the second trimester it can be heard using a stethoscope. The sex can also be determined through ultrasound. Other internal organs such as the liver and pancreas are fully functioning. Other notable features of the fetus during this trimester are the presence of lanugo (downy hair at the back and extremities which help regulate heat upon birth), brown fat (for heat insulation) and vernix caseosa (a substance that regulates heat). The fetus has already established waking and sleeping patterns.


During the second trimester, the fetus should now be about 10 centimeters (3.9 in). Towards the end of 24 weeks it should be approximately 36 centimeters (14.2 in). The weight should be between 55 grams to 550 grams.
In case a woman gives birth at only 24 weeks of gestation, the baby should be able to survive with constant monitoring and care under a neonatal intensive care unit.
 Because of the presence of lung surfactant, the lung alveoli can fully function. Note that during the third trimester, the eyes of your baby should now be fully open. The fetus should now look more like a baby. Fat deposits are present on the arms and legs. It is best to start reading aloud and listening to classical music during this time because the fetus is now aware of sounds. During the third trimester, the baby now assumes either a vertex (head first) or breech position (foot or buttocks). There is now lesser lanugo towards the end of this trimester.


During this trimester kicks can be felt during the waking hours of the baby which can be strong enough to cause mild discomfort to the mother.
The length of the baby should now be around 35 centimeters (13.8 in).

