 As a ski or snowboard instructor, you will make money doing what you love. You will be spending your days giving ski and snowboard lessons, and will have time to explore the backcountry on your weekends.


Get certified as a ski or snowboard instructor. A variety of companies offer courses to get certified as a ski or snowboard instructor.
If you are Canadian, you may want to inquire with the Canadian Ski Instructors alliance about training and employment opportunities.If you are American, you may want to contact the Professional Ski Instructors of America about training and employment opportunities.If you are an American snowboarder, you may want to contact the American Association of Snowboard Instructors., If you are passionate and committed to your yoga practice, perhaps now is the time to take it up a notch and become an instructor. As a yoga instructor, you can get your workout and make money at the same time. You will be leading classes of beginner, advanced, or specialized yoga students.


You may want to make a gradual career transition. If you are thinking about becoming a yoga instructor, remember that you will need to work in the early mornings before most people go to work and in the evenings. You should also keep in mind that it is a lot of work to get a yoga practice or studio going, so you may want to gradually transition or keep your regular job.There are various types of yoga certification. You may want to look for educational opportunities and certifications at the Yoga Alliance, which is a non-profit organization for the yoga community., As a fitness instructor, you will be doing personal training at your local gym, leading boot camp classes, or other group fitness classes. In this work, you will spend most of your time in an exercise facility and will have more opportunities to work out. If you are leading fitness classes, you will be getting exercise while getting paid.


Decide on a personal trainer certification. There are a variety of organizations that offer certification. Some of the more reputable organizations include the American Council on Exercise, the National Academy of Sports Medicine, International Sports Sciences Association, American College of Sports Medicine, and National Strength and Conditioning Association.Start a boot camp class. You will be paid to inspire other people to move their bodies in your local park or fitness facility. If you don’t want to spend the time getting certified as a personal trainer, this can be a good option for making money while working out. You can design your own fitness program and advertise classes on social media. You can earn $100 an hour., As a dance instructor, you can earn money while getting an intense workout in a wide variety of dance styles. You can earn money teaching dance classes at ballet schools or private dance academies.To gain an edge, consider getting a dance teacher certification. The cost of getting certified as a dance teacher varies quite widely, so look for a program that meets your needs., As a physical education teacher, you can work in schools. Leading groups of students in gym classes and sports, you will have to stay in shape in order to keep up with the next generation.


You will need to get professional certification as a teacher in your country or region. Look into teacher certification programs in your area with the option of specializing in physical education.

