 Stimulants like coffee, alcohol, spicy foods and chocolate can trigger hot flashes and night sweats.Caffeine and alcohol are also diuretics that may hasten dehydration and contribute to these symptoms., You need 1,200 mg of calcium a day, which you will get from eating/drinking 2-4 servings of calcium rich foods, like dairy products, sardines, canned salmon, broccoli and legumes., Older women need 8 mg of iron a day. It can be found in lean red meat, chicken, fish, eggs, nuts, and leafy green vegetables.,

A small piece of fruit, or large slice of melon or pineapple, is one serving.
Three heaping Tbsps of cooked vegetables counts as one serving.Other good sources of fiber include whole-grain breads, cereals, pasta, and rice.
 Soy contains plant estrogens, called isoflavones, that may reduce symptoms of menopause. It is preferable to get soy from foods in your diet rather than use supplements, since research on the safety and efficacy of supplemental soy is ongoing.Try adding tofu or tempeh to your meals instead of meat some nights.
Roasted soy nuts make a great snack and are healthier than peanuts.
Other foods with phytoestrogens include pumpkin, sesame and sunflower seeds, and certain vegetables, like celery, green beans and rhubarb.
 Protein rich foods containing this amino acid include turkey, cottage cheese, oat and legumes. Tryptophan helps the brain make serotonin, which can moderate your mood through the day and help you control ability to sleep and your appetite.Other ways of controlling mood swings are to avoid skipping meals, especially breakfast, and limit your sugar intake.
 Also, drinking a glass of cool water at the onset of hot flashes might lessen their strength by cooling down body temperature. The aging process itself, of which menopause is a part, reduces the body’s ability to conserve water, and hot flashes and night sweats increase water loss more. Dehydration prevents nutrients and oxygen from circulating through your body properly.Women who drink more water typically have less frequent and severe hot flashes overall.
Staying hydrated also eases moodiness and anxiety.
Keep a glass of water near your bed so you can drink it if the onset of night sweating wakes you up.

