 One simple, direct, and fairly long-lasting way to get rid of unwanted hand moisture is simply to soak it up! You can do this a variety of ways, including applying an absorbent powder to your hands. Try pouring a thimble-sized amount of baby powder into your hands and spreading it around gently and evenly — you should immediately notice your hands feel cooler and dryer. Below are just a few more powders you may want to consider using:


Chalk
Talcum powder (note that talc can be poisonous if inhaled in significant quantities)Corn starch (sometimes specifically used for this purpose in Hispanic countries, where it is called "maizena")
Baking soda;
, Many people apply antiperspirant under their arms every today to control underarm sweating. Believe it or not, you can get the same effect by spreading a little antiperspirant on your palms. Dry your hands by wiping them with a towel before you apply your antiperspirant so that it can do its job of plugging your sweat pores properly.Make sure to use an antiperspirant — not just a deodorant. Though the two products are often combined into one, they're not the same thing. The former fights excessive sweating, while the latter simply controls the odor from sweating.
For the strongest effect, use an antiperspirant with aluminum compounds as its active ingredients. Aluminum is one of the strongest, most effective antiperspirant chemicals available. For serious situations, you may even want to investigate prescription antiperspirants (like Drysol) which have higher concentrations of aluminum., For mild cases of clammy hands, sometimes simply carrying around something you can use to soak up moisture throughout the day is enough to beat your clamminess. Cloth handkerchiefs make great re-usable hand towels, while disposable paper towels and alcohol wipes offer instant convenience.


Though alcohol wipes are wet, they don't usually make hands more moist in the long run. Alcohol evaporates very quickly, taking other sources of moisture with it as it leaves the hands. In fact, some people with delicate skin complain that alcohol wipes leave their hands feeling too dry for their liking., If you're having a hard time keeping your hands dry, you may want to experiment with washing your hands frequently. Washing with soap and water can strip your hands of their natural oils, making them feel drier, so you may be able to get your hands drier in the long-term if you make a conscious effort to increase the number of times you wash your hands each day.


Note, however, that frequent hand washing can sometimes leave hands too dry, especially if you use harsh bar soaps or soaps that contain detergent.If your hands become irritated or dried out from frequent washing, switch to a moisturizing soap — it's almost always more unpleasant to have raw, cracked hands than it is to have hands that are a little clammy.

