 Examples include petroleum jelly (Vasoline), or other thick creams that may be recommended by your doctor or dermatologist. An emollient is best applied to your psoriasis lesions right after a shower or bath.


You can also make your own emollients at home, using ingredients such as cocoa butter, almond butter, coconut oil, olive oil, and beeswax among other things.
One example is to mix 4 ounces of cocoa butter, 4 ounces of almond butter, and 2 ounces of shaved beeswax. Use heat to mix them the ingredients together, then place them in a heat-proof container and let them cool before use.
Another example is to mix 4 ounces of extra virgin olive oil with 2 ounces of coconut oil, 1 ounce of vitamin E oil, and 1 ounce of shaved beeswax. Again, mix the ingredients with heat so that they meld together, then put them in a heat-proof container and let the mixture cool before use.
Other thick moisturizers that can be used to treat psoriasis include Eucerin cream and Cetaphil cream. Products labeled as "lotions" are not good enough emollients — look for creams.;
, When you apply it over the affected areas, it brings down the inflammation. It can help psoriasis flares to be resolved (or at least improved) in the shortest amount of time possible.


There are various strengths (potencies) of corticosteroids that you can get.
A simple hydrocortisone cream of 0.5% or 1% can be purchased over-the-counter at your local drugstore or pharmacy.
Stronger corticosteroid creams will need to be prescribed by your doctor.
You can also get shampoos containing corticosteroids if you have psoriasis lesions on your scalp.
When applying steroids, apply to the affected area only. Do not use a topical steroid for more than three weeks at a time without consulting a physician. Do not use steroid cream around the eyes. Refrain from abrupt discontinuation of the medication.
Potential side effects of steroids include skin thinning, changes in pigmentation, easy bruising, and stretch marks.
 Calcipotriene or calcitriol are both related to vitamin D and have been proven to be effective in the treatment of psoriasis. These topical preparations are often used alongside corticosteroids, and tend to be applied twice per day. Speak to your doctor to obtain a prescription, and for specific dosing instructions depending upon the severity of your psoriasis.
 These are not typically used first-line, but rather, are reserved for cases that are unable to be resolved by the strategies listed above.


Consult your physician if you are interested in receiving a prescription for one of these other topical treatments for psoriasis.

