 Visit your local library and check out some books about medieval times, or use technology instead. Figure out what life was like back then compared to modern life: what people ate, how people dressed etc. Choose a medieval princess from history that you like as inspiration. Alternatively, you could base your style on a Fairytale Princess for a much less historically accurate but equally adorable approach.;
, Look for some with flowing sleeves on the end. Search for a medieval dress at the store first and if you can't find one, purchase it online. if you can't find these types of dresses online or at the store, just wear any plain dress with a medieval design. If you want to wear a skirt, try wearing a tank top with it. Wear the colours of your country. For example, if you live in France, wear blue, white, and red.
 Shoes such as Yeezys and Nike didn't exist back then. Instead, wear a pair of brown or black old fashioned shoes which can easily be found from a local costume or shoe store.
 Download some catchy classical music onto your cellular device. You could also buy some CDs. Replace modern music with old songs instead. Play classical music when you're getting ready in the morning to feel just like a real princess.
 Say things such as "beautiful", "swimmingly", "elegant","dashing" "beauty", and "Ails" (such as "Father looks troubled. What ails him mother?").
 Using slang words such as slay and basic isn't very medieval at all. Cut out slang from your vocabulary little by little to make it easier on yourself.
 Even though in Medieval times, they talked in Old English, they also spoke a little Latin. Purchase a book or Latin dictionary to widen your vocabulary. Look for Latin speakers or local lessons. Be sure to practice every day. It may be tricky, but it's worth a try!

, For a princess, you may have a prince. Have a prince who is always charming, doesn't swear, and loves medieval times. This, of course, is optional. It's not mandatory to have a prince.
 Try going to an etiquette class. This will make you more classy. Also, if you're at home, you don't have to have etiquette if you don't want to. Just outside your doors, you must have manners, nobody likes a slob.
 In medieval times, people's religion was normally Christianity. But, if you have a different religion, then keep it, you don't have to change it. Being atheist is fine too, don't force yourself into a religion if you don't want to.
 If you can, find a friend who can dress you or redress you. Obviously don't force them. Have someone cook your meals and serve you like your mother or father.
 Do what makes you feel happy! Kill them with kindness, being rude back will just add fuel to the fire.
 Pretend that your parents are king and queen of the kingdom, treat the with dignity and respect. Listen to your parents when they tell you to do something. Don't talk back. You shouldn't just respect your parents, respect everyone, especially your elders.
 When you're a princess, there's never a dull moment. Spend your time doings things you love, and surround yourself with people who love you for you.
 Romance is key in a relationship. Dance with your prince to some classical tunes and invite his family over for dinner. Do a romantic activity together that you both enjoy such as treating yourself to dinner at a fancy restaurant. If he wants you to do something that you don't want to do, he isn't your true prince.
 A prince`s job is to defend a princess; while there will be no evil witches trapping you in a cage only for you to be romantically rescued by your prince, there are other things for your prince to protect you from: for example, make sure that he knows he can protect you from insects: give him a kiss on the cheek every time he comes to your rescue.