 Having a positive attitude is an important part of any person’s sense of humor.Staying positive can help you be more relaxed, humorous, and attractive to a girl.Finding the positive even in negative situations can help you come across as easygoing, considerate, and kind. All of these traits can attract a girl. Although finding the positive may not be easy at first, it may reveal itself quickly. For example, if you spill wine on your shirt, say “well, I guess that means I get new clothes.”
Think about the people who send out positive vibes. If you're not already competent with setting people at their ease, what do these guys do that you can put into action too?;
, One important part of being funny is being playful. You can do this through light teasing or always looking for the fun or humorous angle in a situation. Leave the serious stuff for serious times and watch the object of your affection become closer to you.If you're feeling temporarily down, try and keep the negativity to yourself. You may also want to reschedule seeing your girl until you're feeling more upbeat. A lasting impression of you being down or negative is not the foot on which to start a meaningful relationship.You can be playful with your girl by teasing her nicely or tickling her if she is open to it.
Other ways you can be playful are by engaging her in lighthearted and spirited conversations.
 Whether humor comes naturally to you or not, you can always work on your comedic skills. By thinking of things or situations that are funny, you can work on developing your funny side, which may make a girl attracted to you.


Don't force being funny, which usually doesn’t work. Instead, try to see the humor in things, and use those situations as a takeoff for a joke or anecdote.For example, if you see a large dog dragging a lady down the street, you can talk about the dog taking the lady for a walk instead and build on the story from there.
Remember to be natural. Being funny can be innate, if you have enough confidence to let your humor shine through.
The more often that you practice making jokes, the more refined and second-nature they will be when you want to impress a girl.
Expect your humor to fall flat on occasion. In these cases, use the bad joke to make another and get the conversation going again.
 Facial expressions, body positioning and movements, and tone of voice can all impact how funny you seem.Using physicality to your benefit may help your girl laugh and be more attracted to you.You can use a number of different elements of slapstick to get laughs from your girl. Use falling, double takes, slipping, tripping, and collisions to your benefit.Using eye movements when you’re looking directly at your girl can also engage her and make her laugh., Jokes that border on inappropriateness, are insulting, or are simply crude may push your girl away from you. Avoid telling any sexist, ethnic, or religious jokes or ones on topics that push the boundaries. This may help strengthen your relationship.Avoid making jokes about women, her friends, her family, or other female matters. Also try and avoid jokes about weight, appearance, or dress size.It doesn't matter how funny you may think an inappropriate humor is, there is a lot of room for a woman to misinterpret your joke. While it’s ok to tease, making personal jokes is dangerous ground.Nastiness may also have your girl wondering if you'll turn on her next.
 Don’t place any pressure on your girl or to laugh. Laughter should be spontaneous and arise from humorous situations. Trust your instincts on when to make your girl—and you—laugh.Trying to be funny when you don't feel funny, or when it just isn't clicking for you, may cause distress and can detract from the enjoyment of spending time with this girl. Remember to not try too hard!
Laughter can come easily if both of you are relaxed and enjoying each other's company., Respecting a girl's individuality and special qualities is an essential part of earning her trust. Trust makes it easy to enjoy one another's company, which in turn encourages her to laugh.Every girl has a different personality and sense of humor. Understand that what might make one girl laugh won't necessarily with another. Get to know her to help ensure that you can make her laugh.Make sure to not say anything she may find offensive. For example, saying “mmm, battered women sounds delicious,” probably won’t elicit laughs from most women. In addition, you don’t know if she or someone close to her past trauma related to such sensitive subjects.
If your girl doesn't seem to find anything funny, that's may be a sign that you may not be compatible. It could also mean that she's going through a rough patch and doesn't find much of anything happy. See how she reacts around other people. If she laughs at their jokes but doesn't find yours very humorous, move along.
 Listening intently to your significant other is an important part of creating humor. Good comedians usually observe the details of situations around them and from here reflect back by shining a light on an aspect that others might not have considered.


By listening carefully, you'll learn her cares, worries, and interests, all of which are important observations in making her laugh. This can give you material with which to play and keep conversation flowing.
Use the comedic callback, which is a reference to an event that took place earlier in another conversation or event.This may make her laugh and also strengthen your relationship by showing her that you pay attention to her.
For example, if you are crossing a stream and she tells you to be careful you can jokingly say “like you were the last time we were hiking and fell in the water?”

, Laughter is infectious and enjoying a humorous situation together can help cement your bond or make her more attracted to you. You can enjoy situations spontaneously or even put yourself in places that you know both of you can laugh openly.


Mimicking her sense of humor is one way to laugh together. If it's risqué, for example, use off-color humor, too. Keep it natural if you can: if your humor is naturally sunny and gentle, adopting a dark, sarcastic style could come across as forced.
Only follow her lead once you're sure of her style of humor. Forgive nervous silliness on her behalf if she seems unsure of how to react.
Ask about her favorite comedians, funny movies, or sitcoms. Watch or reference them when you are together to help stimulate a relaxed and funny atmosphere.
 If you have a close and intimate relationship, you can tickle a girl to elicit laughs. Tickling is a good way to break down both laughter and physical barriers. You can playfully ask her if she is ticklish and then try it out while smiling.For example, ask her if her feet are ticklish. Whatever her answer, ask if you can test this out. If she lets you, remove her footwear and start tickling her feet. You could then aim higher by tickling her sides her neck.
Give her the opportunity to tickle you back.
If she asks you to stop or seems uncomfortable, stop right away so that you don’t upset her.
 Fun activities can help invoke laughs. By doing something together that both of you like, you may create a humorous environment that can strengthen your bond.


Decide together on something fun and adventurous that you might like to do. You could ride a tandem bike or motorcycle, take a helicopter tour, go water sliding or visit a local theme park; or even just see a funny movie.
You can go alone or with a larger group. Making yourself stand out as funny in a crowd may make your girl feel greater attraction to you.
 When the two of you are not together, have a collection of funny material that you can send her. Whether by text or email, funny anecdotes, articles or videos can help strengthen your bond by giving you conversation pieces and reminding her that you are thinking of her.


Find a website that specializes in sweet pictures of animals doing funny things, such as kittens sitting in a shoe or piglets in boots. Send her some of the photos to make her laugh, which can be a great tactic if you know she is having a bad day.
Send her funny jokes about things you know will make her laugh. You can search online or write a joke you think she’ll like yourself.
Send her funny photos of yourself, from baby photos to more current snaps.
Share the links with her to funny sites that you enjoy.

