 While it is aging, wine needs to be kept at a constant, chilly temperature and a relatively high humidity. It needs to be kept as dark as possible and disturbed as little as possible.


The aging temperature is perhaps the most important criterion. Fifty-five degrees Fahrenheit (13 Celsius) is the ideal temperature. Any colder and the wine will barely mature in flavor, while warmer temperatures will lead the wine to mature quickly and clumsily, soon deteriorating into a worse state than that in which it began.
Temperature swings must also be avoided. Because wine cellars are nearly always dug into the earth at basement level, their temperature is regulated by the insulating properties of the surrounding mass of soil. Avoid storing wine in any area where drafts, sunlight or any other factor will produce temperature swings.
High humidity is also an essential factor. A humid wine cellar prevents each bottle's cork from drying out and losing its seal. Once the seal is broken, a wine spoils very quickly.
Low light and movement are the final important considerations. Excessive light can damage and degrade the wine through the glass bottle. Disturbances, such as picking up or rotating the wine bottles, can disrupt the delicate chain of chemical reactions that leads a wine to mature well.;
, The vast majority of wines produced in the world are intended for immediate consumption, and will actually deteriorate if you attempt to age them. However, some wines age well for a handful of years, while a select few can benefit from several decades of maturation.


If you are new to aging wine, consider starting with some robust, highly tannic reds. Big, flavorful Bordeaux and Cabernets will benefit immensely from the softening of the tannins that aging provides.
Other types of wine that benefit from aging include Port and various dessert wines. Whites wines generally do not require aging, although more complex vintages of Chardonnay, Riesling, or Sauternes can mature well over a few years.
 A final consideration when aging wine is the position in which the bottles are stored. Wine should always be stored on its side, which keeps the cork moistened and prevents it from drying out.

