 Use an awl or skewer to cut small holes on opposite sides of each other near the bottom of the jug. If necessary, use a pen or a Phillips head screwdriver to slightly widen the holes so they can accommodate a wooden dowel.Make sure to line up the holes neatly so the dowel will fit in straight.
You can create a pair of holes for one dowel if you plan on making openings for birds to access seeds on two sides of the milk jug.
If you want to make openings on four sides of the jug, poke two pairs of small holes for two dowels. Make sure one pair is slightly above the other in order to fit both dowels.
 Find a thin wooden dowel at your local home improvement or craft store. It should be long enough to stick through the jug with two or three inches (five to seven centimeters) extra on both sides.The extra lengths of dowel on each side will provide perches for birds.
Run a second wooden dowel through the other pair of holes if you’re making four openings instead of two.
 Use a box cutter or a pair of scissors to create larger holes from just above the dowels to the part of the jug that starts to curve to form the stem. These openings will allow birds to access the birdseed you’ll place inside the feeder. You can make two openings or cut one on each of the jug’s four sides., Choose electric tape in your favorite color to cover the raw edges of each opening. The cut plastic edges can be sharp, and you wouldn’t want any birds to get hurt. The tape also provides decoration and adds a personal touch to your bird feeder. Try making stripes or other patterns with the tape.
 Use the awl or skewer to poke two small holes at the top of the bird feeder where the cap would attach. Thread nylon string through the holes, fill the bottom up with birdseed up to the dowels, then hang the bird feeder in your garden.

Use an artificial fiber like nylon or string made of metal instead of twine. Weather will wear and weaken down a natural fiber like twine, and your bird feeder could fall.
You can coat the string with petroleum jelly to help deter squirrels.

