 Look for tops, skirts, and dresses that nip in at the waist to accentuate your naturally sexy hourglass shape.


The cinched or narrower section of a garment should hit at your natural waist, which is the smallest part of your midsection, between your ribcage and belly button.Try peplum or wrap style shirts and dresses, which show off the narrowest part of your midsection while flaring away from the stomach below. A wrap dress makes for an attractive everyday look, while peplums easily create a sexy evening look; both can be dressed up or down.
Try skirts, shorts, and pants that are intended to be high-waisted, hitting anywhere from the bellybutton up to the natural waist, which accentuates the waist but also creates some support for the lower abdomen if you want it.
 Buy pants and jeans that accommodate a larger waist and hip section by looking out for curvy fits, or material with enough stretch to create both comfort and a sexy body-hugging look for the waist, hips, and backside.


Make sure that the waist on any pair of pants fits comfortably when standing and sitting. Remember that the waist can stretch with wear, but should fit when just washed as well.
Try jeggings or other popular pant styles that feature an elastic waistband for optimal comfort and extra curve-hugging. A wide stretch waistband fits more comfortably than a smaller one that may dig into the waist or lower stomach.
Opt for a mid-rise or high-rise fit to slim the lower abdomen for a sleek look., Opt for solid colors in dark or jewel tones for a sleek evening look that flatters your waist and hips. Keep patterns subtle and smaller in scale for a chic and sexy style.


In general, lighter colors will visually highlight and darker colors will reduce, so choose color for your top to draw attention to your midsection, or dark neutrals to downplay it.
Try patterns with geometric shapes that point downward, like vertical stripes or chevrons, for an elongating effect for the middle of the body. You can still use more horizontal or larger patterns for any areas you want to accentuate.
 Wear tops made with fabric thick enough that it won’t cling to your body where you don’t want it to. Make sure ruffles, beading, or other embellishments that can be sexy are placed on areas you want to highlight rather than downplay.


Embellishments that add volume to a garment should hit only at areas of your body you want to accentuate or widen. However, features like a belt or ruching can help narrow an area like the waist if you want to define that sexy hourglass shape.If you choose thinner fabric for garments around your midsection, look for items that drape, fold, or gather to avoid uncomfortable or unflattering clinging.
Wear a tank top or control undergarment underneath a top that is too thin to provide a smooth base.