 This one is hard to accept, but keep in mind that in some situations the mother actually loved/"loved" the father. Many people think that they're going to marry their baby's daddy, but end up single parents. Maybe this brings about the bitter venom baby mama's tend to spew. Ask your man about the relationship, how he felt about the news of his child's conception and the end of the relationship. That might help you understand the baby mama more and your man more.


There is the other situation of mothers getting pregnant to keep someone and there is NO understanding that. So stop trying.;
, It's pretty silly to sit there and imagine "If she wasn't here, all of this would be easier! If she would just sign over custody and be gone..." Yes, it would be easier as far as drama goes - but wake up, she's not going anywhere, so stop beating yourself up over it.
 Put it out there that you aren't trying to replace her, you acknowledge that there is a bond you cannot break between herself, the child, and your man. This might help clear the air a little bit between you and her. Most mothers see another "motherly figure" as an impostor to the throne in a way, make sure she's aware you're going to rule your household accordingly, but the child will still know who their mother is.
 If the mother does something that upsets you, don't be the aggressor and call her out on it. It's going to be met with sassy conversation followed by a swift "you are not their mother! You have NO SAY in what happens in their life" and a prompt dial tone in the ear which can be a severe blow to your step-mom ego to be reminded that in the end, the children are not yours. When things like this happen, default to your man to handle it. Make him aware of how you feel and let him handle it how he sees fit. If you verbally fight with the mother, she'll verbally fight with your man, you'll vent to your man, he'll snap from all the griping - relationship over. Communication is key.
 Your feelings are just as important and valid as his. Just because you are not the one with the child doesn't mean you don't have some say in how the situation with that child is handled. If he is truly wanting the relationship to last these are changes he will be willing to make. After all, a relationship implies that both parties will have a buy-in.

