 Everybody loves home cooked food, especially when it is a surprise. Cook something that your sweetie pie loves (e.g., a recipe from mom, peanut butter cookies with chocolate kisses). Make sure you surprise your sweetie pie. If it is impossible to do this at home, surprise them with lunch at work. Have a friend they do not know hand deliver it to them or their secretary. Try to find a pretty box or tin to put it in.;
, Iron their work shirts, pants, and skirts. If you know that there is a pile of dirty laundry or a sink full of dirty dishes, don't waste time, get to it and clean up. Tell your sweetie pie that you wanted them to spend more time with you that evening and less time with the dishes. If they insist on doing them with you, have fun with the soap bubbles and make sure you stand really close while scrubbing.
 Hand written love letters and notes are really sweet. Find some pretty writing paper or make your own. Cut out heart shapes, magazine pictures, make a 3D card. Make sure you spend time on it, your sweetie pie will notice and feel special. Mention a moment that you two spent together and felt really close. This will bring back memories and remind your sweetie that you did not forget your first date or how you met. Leave the letter in a place where they will least expect it (on their steering wheel, in the sock drawer, in the fridge, in their bookbag, inside their laptop).
 If possible, arrange for your sweetums to have a day off at work. Contact their boss and explain what you are doing. Make sure they do not have any meetings or anything important to do. This should be done on a special day; like their birthday, an anniversary, or just when their seems to be an unresolved issue between you two. When they get up in the morning thinking they are going to work, let them know that they will be spending the day with you and not to worry because everything has been arranged.
 Go in to town for some fun, go out in the country for a picnic, come up with some kind of scavenger hunt. If there is something important to talk about, make sure there are no distractions and give them your full attention. Do not end the day until you both feel good.
 Do not let them sit on the couch unless they are wearing comfy clothes, this means you show up looking comfy too. Find out before hand what movie they would like to watch or make sure they have not seen it, unless of course it is their favorite (even if it is an obnoxious man movie or a sappy romantic love story). If you know they can easily push a button on their remote to watch any movie they would like, find an old black and white that is only available at the movie rental store. Let them know you wanted to share with them something you both have not seen.
 Have the magazine come with their nickname printed on it instead of their full name. This will let them know that you probably did this and will make them laugh.
 Call their friends and have them come pick them up to have guy's or girl's time. If there are kids, stay home and cook them dinner and put them to bed. If their favorite sports team is playing that night, arrange for his friends to come over and cook them themed snacks and have beverages cold and ready. If there is a soon to be wedding for your or one of your honeybun's friends, leave the house or apartment so her girls can come over and discuss plans. Have food to be delivered to them.
 Always, always greet or part your sweetie pie with a kiss and a hug. Don't forget to do this. If you two haven't been doing this lately, bring it back. Not just a quick kiss on the cheek either, really pull them in gently and hold them. Say that you love them, or if you're relationship hasn't reached that far yet, just tell them how you really dig them. Hopefully you will not weird them out.
 They will be surprised and wonder what the alarm is for. Tell them with excitement that it is time for: a back massage, a dinner date, or something else creative.

