 If your legs are swollen or you have been sitting for a long time as in a overseas plane ride, blood clots can form and spread to your lung arteries, causing blockage. Lung conditions cause chest pain that can worsen when you breathe, move, or cough.


Get to an emergency room as quickly as possible.
Lung conditions may require emergency surgery to alleviate symptoms.
 They become inflamed, and can fill with fluid, which results in the phlegm and mucus you see when you cough. The chest pain you experience may be accompanied by:


Fever
Coughing up mucus or phlegm
Fatigue
Nausea, and vomiting

, In mild cases, you can simply rest at home and wait for your immune system to fight off the infection. But if the infection grows severe it can become life-threatening, especially in children and the elderly. See your doctor if:


You have trouble breathing
The chest pain worsens significantly
You have a fever of 102 F (39 C) or higher that won't go down
Your coughing won't subside, especially if you're coughing up pus
Be especially careful with children under two, adults over 65, and anyone else with a compromised immune system.
 However, even if antibiotic treatment is not an option for your infection, he can still give you medication to deal with the chest pain or reduce the coughing that worsens the pain.
 Pneumothorax (collapsed lung) occurs when air leaks into the space between your lungs and your chest wall. Both conditions cause severe shortness of breath or a bluish discoloration of the fingers and mouth.


In delicate patients such as the elderly or long-term asthma sufferers, the intense coughing from pneumonia can sometimes cause a lung blockage or tear in the lung.
 If you suspect a pulmonary embolism or pneumothorax, then seek immediate medical attention. In addition to chest pain, both conditions cause severe shortness of breath or a bluish discoloration of the fingers and mouth.


Both conditions require immediate medical attention. The blood leaking into the chest cavity or the air escaping into it can rapidly collect and compress your lungs. These conditions will not resolve on their own, but require medical assistance. Call emergency services or get to an emergency room as quickly as possible.

