 Open a new web browser tab or window, and visit the Google Docs website.
 Under the Sign in box, type in your Gmail email address and password. This is your one Google ID for all of Google’s services, including Google Docs. Click the “Sign in” button to proceed.


Upon logging in, you will be brought to the main directory. If you already have existing documents, you can see and access them from here.
 Double-click on the document you need to sign. It will be opened in a new window or tab.


If you need to create a new document to be signed, click the large red circle with a plus sign on the lower right corner. A new window or tab will be opened with the web-based word processor.
 You can install some add-ons on Google Docs that will allow you to digitally sign your document. Click the “Add-on” option from the main menu bar then on “Get Add-ons.” The Add-ons window will open.
 Look for “sign.” Type it in the search box on the top right corner of the window, and view the results matching your search.
 Click the “Free” button right beside the selected add-on. Most of them are free. The add-on will be installed to your Google Docs.


A good add-on for signature is HelloSign.
 Once installed, you have to create your digital signature. A panel will open on the right side. Click the “Draw new signature” button here. A small window will appear where you can draw your signature. Position your cursor on the dotted lines and start drawing your signature. Click the “Continue” button to proceed.
 Your digital signature will be stored by HelloSign. You can view it on the right panel.
 Position your cursor to the location where your signature needs to be placed.
 Click and drag your signature from the right panel to the position where you want it to appear. The signature will be inserted.
 The image of your signature may be too big or too small. Click on it and dots will appear on its borders. Click and drag on these dots to adjust and resize your signature.
 Changes will be automatically saved.

