 Studies have shown that you can train yourself to feel compassion for those around you through practice. Compassion practice is a kind of training that will help you better empathize with the people in your life, making kindness an easier endeavor.Compassion practice is made up of mental exercises that you should try to do on a daily basis.
Studies have shown that compassion practice can reduce the hormones in your brain associated with stress.
 Spend a few minutes of your day imagining someone you care about needing help. Focus on the way they would feel and try to envision their stresses and concerns. Create a complex scenario in your mind and imagine their difficulties in as much detail as you can.This exercise will help you to appreciate the difficulties the people you love go through. Developing an understanding of your loved one’s struggles will help you develop empathy toward others.
You can also use this exercise to help you develop more compassion towards yourself. For example, after thinking about how you would treat a friend who was suffering or struggling with something, consider how you treat yourself when you are suffering or struggling. Are you kind to yourself? Do you show yourself compassion? Or do you refuse to acknowledge when you are struggling or suffering? If you treat yourself harshly, then consider the reasons why. What might change if you were kind to yourself?, Take some time out of your day to focus on the things you have in common with the people around you. Think of the emotions they are experiencing or have experienced and add the phrase, “just like me” to the end of each. Try saying some of the following statements to yourself throughout your day:“This person just wants to be happy… just like me.”
“This person is trying to avoid suffering in his or her life… just like me.”
“This person has been down, sad and depressed at times… just like me.”

, Establishing empathy for others and finding what you have in common are just the beginning. Now, as you imagine the suffering of people that you know are ultimately a lot like you, think about what it would mean to you if someone were to go out of their way to be kind to you in the same position.Think about how much it would mean just to know someone was hoping things would get better for you.
Focus on that joy you can imagine others experiencing. That feeling is the basis of compassion.
 Use the progress you’ve made in the previous steps to put your training to good use. Try to find a small gesture you can make for another person each day. It doesn’t need to be anything significant, it just needs to be intentionally kind. Start by sharing a smile or a kind word, and over time you will develop a habit of not only empathizing, but also acting on that empathy.Start with small gestures, but from time to time take an opportunity to go out of your way for others.
Think about the way your kind gestures made people feel and reflect on the way your kindness affects others.

