 Measure 2 cups (473 ml) of half-and-half and pour it in a medium saucepan along with 8 ounces (235 g) of chopped semisweet chocolate, 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar, and 1/4 cup (27.5 g) of cornstarch. Whisk the mixture over medium heat until it thickens. This should take around 1 minute.Whisk constantly to prevent the pudding from becoming lumpy.
 Turn off the heat and stir 2 tablespoons of unsalted butter into the chocolate pudding, so it melts. Let the pudding cool for a few minutes and cover it with plastic wrap. Press the plastic wrap directly on the surface of the pudding to prevent a skin from forming. Chill the pudding for at least 2 hours.You can refrigerate the pudding for up to a day before making the hand pies.
 While the chocolate pudding chills, get out a large mixing bowl. Stir together 2 cups (250 g) of flour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Add 6 tablespoons (76 g) of room temperature shortening and cut it in, so the dry ingredients become coarse and sandy.You can use your fingertips or a pastry cutter to incorporate the shortening.
 Crack one whole egg in a small prep bowl and add 5 tablespoons (74 ml) of ice water. Use a fork to beat the egg with the water and stir it into the flour mixture. The dough should start to come together into a ball.Ensure that the water is ice cold. This will keep the dough light and flaky.
 Use your fingers or a bench scraper to divide the pastry dough into 6 evenly sized balls. Sprinkle a little flour on your work surface and place a ball of dough on it. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough into a 6-inch (7.5 cm) disk. Do this for each of the dough balls.Remember to turn the dough occasionally as you roll it. This will prevent it from sticking to your work surface.
 Put the egg white in a small prep bowl and whisk it with a fork. Dip a pastry brush in the egg white and brush a 1/2-inch (12 mm) border on each disk of pastry dough. Scoop out 1/3 cup (76 g) of the chilled chocolate pudding onto the center of the disk. Fold one side of the pastry disk over the filling and onto the other side. Push down on the edges and crimp the edges with a fork, so the filling is sealed in.The pudding should be totally cold or it may warm the pastry dough, making it tough.
 Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and put the hand pies on it. Refrigerate the pies while you heat the oil. Get out a large, deep skillet. Pour in 3 cups (709 ml) of vegetable oil and turn the heat to medium-high. Check the temperature of the oil with a deep-fry thermometer. The oil is ready once it reaches 375 degrees F (190 C).Chilling the hand pies will help them crisp up as they fry.
 Once the oil is hot, carefully lower 2 hand pies into the oil. Fry them for 3 minutes and turn then occasionally. They should turn a golden brown once they've finished frying. Remove them with a slotted spoon and cool them for 15 minutes. Sprinkle them with confectioners' sugar and serve them. Fry the remaining hand pies in batches.Remember to check the temperature of the oil before you add the next batch of hand pies to the skillet. The oil must heat back up for the pies to fry properly.

