 Orange and yellow fruits and vegetables, such as carrots, pumpkins, lemons and oranges, contain vitamins and antioxidants that will help keep your eyes white. Eating green, leafy foods like spinach and kale also have a positive effect on your eye health.Nuts like almonds, walnuts and peanuts also contain minerals that promote eye health.These fruits and veggies will also help to detoxify your liver. A healthy liver will help keep the whites of your eyes clear and bright. If your liver is full of toxins, then it may not be able to process foods and vitamins as efficiently as it should. Detoxify your liver by drinking a glass of beetroot juice on an empty stomach, or eating carrots and spinach., Reducing the amount of foods that contain refined carbohydrates and sugars, as well as wheat, can help your body process foods better and detoxify your liver.Decrease the amount of unhealthy foods you eat, particularly at night, which can interfere with a good sleep pattern.
 Your eyes depend on good levels of Vitamin A and C to maintain their health. In addition to eating foods rich in these vitamins, take a supplemental vitamin every day. Also boost your level of omega 3 acids by taking 4 capsules every day of omega 3 or fish oil supplements.
 Getting enough sleep every night will ensure that your body is rested and consequently that your eyes are rested and restored to their natural white color. Get at least 7 to 8 hours of sleep every night. If you are having trouble falling asleep, try soothing music or 10 minutes of meditation before going to bed to ensure that your body knows that it’s time to sleep.
 Bright white eyes rely on adequate hydration, and keeping your body hydrated will help replenish your body’s fluids, thus reducing puffiness and redness in your eyes. Drink 8 to 10 glasses of plain water every day, or approximately 64 ounces.
 Both of these will dehydrate your body and add to puffiness and redness to your eyes. They also can interrupt good sleep patterns, which may interfere with you getting 7-8 hours of sleep every night.
 Smoking irritates the eyes and can cause redness. It can also dry out the eyes. Eliminating smoking from your daily habits can help your eyes restore their natural color and hydration. Dust that can be found both outside and inside can also irritate your eyes and make them prone to redness. Pollen and other allergens might also contribute to eye irritation. Use an air purifier indoors to reduce these irritants if they are hard to avoid.
 Working on a computer all day long can take a toll on your eyes, but it might not be an option to reduce the amount of time you spend on the computer. If you must work on a computer for several hours every day, then you should address ways to help reduce eyestrain. These can include installing proper lighting, changing your computer’s settings so that your monitor is the same brightness as the rest of the room, blink more often, exercise your eyes, and so on., UVA and UVB rays can damage your eyes over time, and exposure to sunlight contributes to yellowing your eyes. Wear sunglasses that protect your eyes from UVA and UVB rays. Most sunglasses available today will have this feature, but be sure to check the label. Try to wear sunglasses whenever there is even a little glare outside. There doesn’t need to be blue skies and sun for you to need sunglasses. On cloudy days, there may be quite a lot of glare that can strain and damage your eyes., You may have a medical condition called jaundice that contributes to yellowish eyes. Jaundice is a condition when hemoglobin in your blood is broken down into bilirubin and does not clear through your body properly. If the bilirubin builds up in the skin, it causes the skin and eyes to appear yellow. Jaundice can indicate a medical issue most commonly having to do with the liver, gall bladder, or pancreas.Talk with your doctor to rule out jaundice and any underlying diseases or conditions that may be contributing to yellowish eyes.

