 If there is a serious issue that you must resolve with the host, it is better to do it privately than in front of the rest of the family. Wait until the host has a free minute. If they are busy trying to run the event, they may be frustrated and annoyed that you are bothering them, increasing your chances of a fight.


If you feel that something is about to blow up, tell the host that you want to step aside. You might say, “Look. Let’s not discuss this here. If you want to talk, let’s step outside.”
If you can, wait until after the event has wrapped up. Before the host leaves, you might ask them, “Hey, can we discuss what happened tonight?”
In many cases, a family event is not the best place to deal with such a conflict. Although you may be upset or frustrated, it may be easier and more productive to wait a day or two before bringing it up to the host. This will allow you to prepare what you want to say without becoming emotional.
 Keeping your composure is important to resolving conflict. By becoming upset, your host might be defensive, angry, or guilty. A calm, even voice and a gentle tone can help your host feel at ease as you bring up the issue.If your host says something to upset you, you can try counting to ten before responding.
Deep breathing can help restore a sense of calm. Relax the muscles in your body as you do this.
Pull another family member aside, and talk it out with them if you feel as though you need to vent.
 If you and the host are beginning to argue, instead of asserting your different perspective, try to find something in common with what they are saying. By focusing on your commonalities, you reduce the risk of argument, and you help keep them calm.For example, if there are arguments about the menu, you might say, “I think we can all agree that we should have plenty of different options.”
You can also redirect the conversation towards a less contentious topic. You might say, "Isn't it great that everyone could come today?"
If you are disagreeing on how to do something, try to find a compromise. You might say, “I know that you want to take a hike after the reunion, but I think that will be hard on some of the older family members. How about I stay back with them while you go on the hike with everyone else?”

, Your host has probably spent a great deal of time planning the event, and they may want to make sure that things go as smoothly as possible. To help out, provide suggestions to solve problems as they come up. Do not simply state the problem or try to argue for one perspective.For example, you might say, “Well, since there doesn’t seem to be many options for the vegetarians in the family, how about I cook some vegetable dishes for them on the side? Or we could pick up something up from a restaurant.”

, Some people might use guilt against their family members as a way of coercing them to do things. Remember that while it is nice to help out your family, you can refuse their requests. Do not be afraid to assert your boundaries. You can let the person know that you understand why this is important to them, but you should also reinforce that you are unable or unwilling to do something.You might say, “I understand how important this is to you, and I would be love to be able to spend more time with you, but I just cannot get there until the day before the wedding.”If you're uncertain whether or not you should refuse the host's demands, ask yourself how you will feel in a few days. Do you think that helping will cause you to resent the host, or will you not care in the long run?

, If you lost your cool, you should apologize to the family member as soon as possible. Alternatively, if they have gotten angry at you, you should try to forgive them. In this way, you can mend your relationship, and there is a chance you both can still enjoy the event.Try to address the issue in a polite, non-confrontational way. State why you felt so upset so that the host can avoid it in the future. You might say, “I am so sorry for snapping at you. I think I was just stressed out by all the work that needed to be done. I think I might need a break to cool down.”
Do not tell someone you forgive them until they apologize to you. If they do apologize, you can say, “It’s no problem. I forgive you. I understand family events can be stressful.” If they do not apologize, try to swallow your anger and move on. Telling them that you forgive them without an apology first can be seen as presumptuous.
It is ok to take some time to forgive the host. You do not need to forgive them immediately. Focus on getting through the event. Afterwards, you can work on reconciliation.

