


Skating dress/costume
Tights without holes or tears
Skates
Knee highs 2 copies of your music
Hair and Make up supplies
Bunga pads/Ankle sleeves ;
,


Take a warm/bath or shower then get into your most comfortable pajamas.
Make sure you don't stay up too late and get a good night sleep because you don't want to be tired on competition day.



Make sure you wake up or set an alarm so you have plenty of time to get ready. Have a nice but not too big breakfast so you don't get an upset stomach. Do not eat after you have put on your costume and/or make up because you could smudge your make up or get something on your costume.
Make sure your hair is up and your make-up makes you stand out on the ice because the ice makes you look much paler then you are.
Make sure you have everything in your skate bag including any other costumes if you are skating more than once.
 When you arrive make sure to register and turn in your music. Some competitions give you small gift bags and at most competitions you will get a program that shows the official skating order. Find your coach.
 After stretching you will put your skates on and skate a warm up. During the warm up make sure you skate around the rink once and run through your program at least once. Your coach will tell you what else she wants you to do. After the warm up while you are waiting stay warm and move around to make sure your muscles don't get tense. Make sure you relax and focus. Relax Relax Relax!

, Keep your head up and SMILE! Skate your best! If your music stops or glitches keep skating unless the judges signal you to stop. If you trip or fall, just keep skating and pretend it didn't happen. It doesn't matter how you place as long as you skated your best!

, Wait for the results because they can take a long time if the judges are slow or there were many people in your flight. After you get your scores, collect your medal if you get one and smile for pictures. If you didn't place well, don't be disappointed as long as you skated the best you could.

