 You need to have a pure and good intention because Allah is good and pure so he only accepting good and pure offerings. And we must know that our actions are will be judge by our intentions. And we must have the intention to seek only Allah's pleasure and to seek closeness to him AND NOT BECAUSE OF SHOWING OFF that we are a knowledgeable person, if your intention is this Allah will never five you a reward but punishment and torment and also He will not accept the good deed you have done because of your showing off, and the worst is God will call you a liar on the judgement day and he will put you in the hellfire as a punishment of your hypocrisy, like the religious scholar narrated in a hadith.;
, For God to answer your Du'a you must need to have a righteous life far from doing unlawful things, remember Allah (God) is far removed from every imperfection and only accepts that which is lawful (23:51;2:172), so if you are living with the unlawful lifestyle, one thing is for sure, Allah will ever accept and hear your Du'a to Him except you repent and ask for His forgiveness. When you are making a dua you also need to be patient (sabr) and do not be one of the un-sincere servants as the Prophet (saws) said in a Hadith: " The dua of any one of you will be answered so long as he is not impatient and says, ‘I made dua but it was not answered. "and also he said " Let not any one of you say, ‘O God, forgive me if You will, O God have mercy on me if You will. Let him be resolute in the matter, whilst knowing that no one can compel God to do anything." so be one of the patient Muslims.  However sometimes God responds in a different way, He might keep some evil away from the supplicant, or He will reward him with something good but not exactly what the supplicant asked for.  It is important to remember that God knows what the future holds and we do no (2:216), Sometimes God will save his response to a dua until the Day of Resurrection when a person will be most in need of it.  (cf. http://www.islamreligion.com). Make dua and be patient and never give up, for God will answer, in the best possible way, at the best possible time (21:88;42:26). Even the Prophets of Allah has also their problems, but instead to loose hope the patiently turn to Allah ad put their trust to Him (7:23;21:87;2:83;28:24;20:25-28;7:155-156;27:15;38:35;) all we need to do is to be patient, never and never and never give up and the most important submit your self to Allah. In sha Allah He will grant you the knowledge you want to gain, just wait patiently ad be a good student, in sha Allah if He saw that you are serious in searching knowledge He will give it to you some day.
 We humans are created by God in order for us to worship him (51:56), so if you really understand the purpose of your creation, you will never be like the arrogant people, you will learn to humble your self in submission to God, and do not be like Iblis who refuses to prostrate and give homage and respect to Adam (15:30-35), remember that those who are humble and God conscious are most honorable i the eyes of Allah i the mids of us. You must keep away your self to the men with their pride, because Allah does not love each arrogant boasters (31:18). Remember that if Allah gives you good things or let say you learn new knowledge, instead of being an arrogant person, the more you need to humble your self to others, because Allah loves the Humble toward other creation. Being a Humble person is a sign of a True Muslim (25:83).
 Allah love those who seek knowledge (Behar ul Anvar v : 1; p : 172, Alkafi v : 1), and seeking knowledge is much better than performing fast and salat a thousand years ( Behar ul anvar V : 1 ; P : 166), Masha'Allah, you see how important the seeking of knowledge? God will grant you more of this if you will do it for his sake. ' “O young nation; keep your honour by being polite and your religion by knowledge. ”Knowledge is more than what you can learn all of that, then learn the best one. ” Ghorar ul Hekam. and it is said in the quran: { Say (O Muhammad): “This is my way, I invite to Allaah with sure knowledge.”} .

