 One must know what he/she feels for that be open to making some effort. This is important because your mind gets ready to work a bit more than usual when you could express your feelings in words. One way to open your mind is by reading what you would like to be able to do. Like when you start reading this article you will have already begun the process of wanting to improve your skills regarding the same.;
, Take a paper and write down 15 things that you value in life. It could be a combination of things that you have and don't have. This step takes you out of feeling conscious of your basic needs. Many people are conscious of their reality. One thought, "If it could be someone's a reality, it should be good enough to be spoken about too. If it is not something to be open about then it should not be a reality too." Meaning, respect your reality or state or wants because if you could want it, you should dare to speak about it too. If it is too embarrassing to be spoken about, think about whether you really need to follow it or not. If your response is a 'Yes' that you need to follow it or want to follow it, then do not be apologetic about going for it. In the meantime, people may laugh because it sounds funny to them or just to fulfill your fear of being laughed at. So quit being conscious. Be open. When you are not bogged down by the fear of 'others' consider your work half done.
 Speak to yourself like you are being interviewed about a particular topic. Try not to do it around people as their interference may slow or interrupt your continuation. Do it in your mind, before sleeping or any time you feel comfortable doing it. This step is not necessary but it adds to your progress and confidence.
 One big reason why it becomes difficult to speak or write what you feel is fear of being rejected or getting outcast. It is a tough road and you would like to do what you like and see if you are judged for being yourself. If you are judged then the message is clear that you are not accepted for who you are but for what you do to yourself in order to fit in. Also, those people around you are not very accepting of you at the moment. They may be in the future. For that, you have to bring out the real you with all your real feelings and let go of what happens at first. Let time go and don't be in a hurry to form decisions. All this controls you when you try to articulate your feelings. Hence, knowing is for good.
 While you are at the above-mentioned steps you will use a lot of words to express your feelings. Sometimes when you know what you have to say but you can't seem to remember that one word, search for it. Ask it to someone who might know or search for it on the Internet. When you know enough words to express yourself you could go on and on without stopping.
 Sometimes it may so happen that you are perfectly expressing your feelings but you are not getting a good response. It does not mean you can't express yourself, it means that those to whom you are trying to speak with are not quite into it. If you find someone who is interested in listening to what you have to say, the conversation would go well. If you don't find such people but you could speak about what others wants to hear about then express yourself there. It means either do what you know or does what others don't know.
 It's as simple as that! Instead of speaking you could do other things to tell/show people exactly how you feel. For example, you could use a song. Write a song OR ask them to listen to a song and say something explaining that's how you feel. It works ;)