 Cut the butter into pieces and put it in a pan with an even temperature. A heavy aluminum pan is ideal, but thin copper or aluminum pans should work as long as you do not overheat them. If your only options are cast iron or stainless steel, stir the butter frequently to distribute the heat.








Do not use salted butter, as the salt will become extra concentrated during clarification.
You'll lose about ¼ of the butter's volume during clarification. If the recipe calls for 1 cup drawn butter, start with 1⅓ cup butter.
 When butter melts, it separates into three components: a layer of milk solids on top, butterfat in the middle, and water at the bottom.Once the milk solids (a white foam) are floating on the surface, skim them off and set aside.









You can use the milk solids to flavor popcorn or anything else that pairs well with butter.
 The clear layer in the middle is clarified butter, or in other words pure butterfat. Transfer this to a new container.









Discard the water left at the bottom of the pan.
 Ghee is an Indian variation on clarified butter. The process is more difficult (it's easy to burn the butter), but it adds a nutty flavor and doesn't waste any butterfat to skimming. Although traditional ghee starts with a fermented milk product, there is a common labor-saving alternative that some people use to make "drawn butter:"








Bring the butter to a gentle boil over medium-low heat.
Wait for the foam to break apart and sink to the bottom.
Turn off the heat once the bubbling has mostly stopped. This means the water has boiled away.
Simmer for a little bit longer, until you see and smell the milk solids browning lightly at the base of the pan. Take care not to burn them.
Pour the butter through a damp cheesecloth or coffee filter to strain out the browned solids.
 Optionally, transfer the clarified butter to a clean pan to stir in other ingredients. One minute of sautéing with a couple cloves of finely chopped garlic adds a delicious aroma and flavor.Lemon juice, tarragon, or chives are also popular additions, as is a simple sprinkle of salt and pepper.








