 Use just enough salt to coat all sides of the fish evenly. Set the fish aside for 15 to 20 minutes.


Make sure that the fish has been thoroughly cleaned before you use it. If working with fillets, you simply need to rinse and dry the fish. When cleaning fresh fish, you must remove the scales, gut it, and rinse the flesh.
Slice each fish into 7 or 8 pieces before rubbing it with the salt.
Let the fish sit out at room temperature. You can cover it loosely with plastic wrap, but do not create a tight seal.
 Combine the two ingredients in a large bowl until the salt evenly coats the cooked rice.


The rice must be soft and cool when you mix it with the salt.
 Transfer the salted fish to the rice mixture and mix thoroughly, mashing the fish and rice together until evenly combined.


Use gloved hands or a wooden mixing spoon to combine the ingredients together.
 Transfer the mixture to clean, dry glass jars. Cover the top of each jar tightly.


Leave at least 1/2 inch (1 cm) of empty headspace at the top of each jar.
You can either use separate jars or a single jar. If using a single jar, make sure that it can hold approximately 1 gallon (4 L).
Cover the top of the jar tightly with plastic wrap. Place the cap on securely over the plastic wrap.
 Place the jars of buro in the vegetable drawer of your refrigerator. Let the sit there for two weeks before you use them.


The buro can also be fermented in a cold cellar or basement, but in this instance, a refrigerator is recommended.
 For long term storage, keep the buro in your refrigerator or transfer it to a freezer.


When stored in a refrigerator, the buro should last for one or two months. When stored in a freezer, it should last for three or four months.
 To prepare the buro for eating, sauté the amount you want in a skillet or saucepan coated with hot oil. Cook it with minced garlic and chopped onion for best results.


sauté the garlic and onion in the hot oil until they turn light brown and become fragrant. Cook the ingredients over medium heat.
Add your desired amount of buro to the pan and continue cooking for 10 minutes, or until browned.
You may also want to add 1 to 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml) of sugar to the buro as you cook it to help balance the sour, salty flavor of the pickled fish.

