 This is located in the northwest corner of the Donut Plains, directly above the Donut Ghost House. You can visit it throughout  the game to get mushrooms, Yoshi, fire flowers, feathers, and 1-ups as needed.;
, Magikoopa is your first enemy and his weapon is magic. You can defeat him temporarily by jumping on his head or by throwing a shell at him. He always comes back after a couple of minutes as long as you remain in his area.


Wait a few seconds upon first entering the castle and Magikoopa will destroy one of the rotating blocks in your vicinity. This will allow you to drop down and proceed to the next section of the castle.
 Break the rotating blocks to get a fire flower, a feather, and a 1 up. Just be careful when you grab these items -- don't fall into the hot lava!

, Get the feather from the question mark square at the end of the rotating block area and defeat Magikoopa so that you may complete the next couple of steps without him getting in your way.
 It will be surrounded by coins. Get all the coins from the sides, but leave at least one or two under the door.
 Just grab it and move forward with it.
 The coins under the door will turn to blocks that you can stand on.
 You may still defeat the castle without doing this, but passing the midway marker allows you to avoid starting over at the beginning of the map every time Mario bites the dust. If you die, you'll start there next time.
 Move carefully.
 As you are watching, the best route for Mario to take will be revealed. You'll see where you need to jump and when to avoid getting crushed.
 You will also find a green switch block containing a feather. Grab it.
 This contains a row of orange pipes. Lemmy and two of his friends will rise out of the pipes in random order and then will duck back down again at short intervals.
 You can do this by locating him and jumping on his head before he sinks back into the pipes and pops up somewhere else. You have to jump on him three times to vanquish the castle and proceed to the Twin Bridges area.
 Pat yourself on the back and get ready for the next adventure!