 A major reason for laziness is a lack of motivation. You can be discouraged by a daunting pile of tasks, or a feeling that the challenges of your day simply aren't worth motivating yourself for.Think of the big picture. It can be easy to get lost in the day-to-day tasks of life and not realize what you're working toward. Take some time out of each day to remind yourself how the task at hand is contributing to larger goals for your life. These can be financial, fitness, or education goals that will help your career and personal life. Make a list of reasons why you want to accomplish tasks before you.;
, You may feel less motivation to do something if it feels insignificant. Stay optimistic and when you complete a task, give yourself a pat on the back. This will also help keep you from being lazy because you are seeing the fruits of your labor.


Whether its exercise, school, or work, make sure you have objective, achievable goals along the way. Write them out and check them off when you accomplish them.
 Laziness can be a self-perpetuating cycle. It can be a type of self-loathing. When you are lazy and fail to complete a task, you can sink into a depression that makes you less likely to keep pushing.If you keep telling yourself that you are lazy, you'll always be lazy. From now on, stop that kind of internal conversation. Tell yourself repeatedly that you are a man of action. Visualize yourself as a hardworking person finishing all the necessary tasks at hand. Do this every day for 30 days until it becomes a habit.
Make time for relaxation. There is a tendency to always associate inactivity with laziness. This produces guilt and can perpetuate more laziness. Rather than beat yourself up, allow yourself time to relax with no guilt., Rather than go at everything alone, put yourself in a situation where peers and family can help motivate you. Group accountability is great motivator for staying fit, staying on task, and moving toward goals.

If you're trying to get in better shape, find a gym buddy or an exercise class. It will feel like you are letting others down if you skip and you are more likely to keep at it. If it is a school goal, find a friend in the class that can help you study and stay on track with achieving grades you want.

