 Many times, racing thoughts include a worst-case scenario. You may be obsessing about how something bad is going to happen, or have nothing but negative thoughts running through your head. One way to help stop these racing thoughts is to actively turn the negative thoughts into something positive or more neutral.For example, if you have racing thoughts about a mistake you made at work, you may think that you are going to get fired. Instead, tell yourself, “Everyone makes mistakes. I will not lose my job. If asked, I will explain my mistake and move on.”

, Racing thoughts are generally worries about something you have done in the past, or something that may or may not happen in the future. To help calm your mind at night, think only about the present moment. As you lay in your bed, you can only control that moment. Reminding yourself that you can’t change the past or future can help calm your mind.Ask yourself, “How do I physically feel right now? How do I emotionally feel right now?” And focus on how you feel in that moment, not on the worries about the past or future.
Tell yourself, “I am in control of the present. I cannot control the past or future. The present moment is causing me no anxiety or stress.”

, Sometimes when you have racing thoughts, you may lie in bed and try to stop the thoughts. When the thoughts don’t stop, this might cause you to feel upset or frustrated, which can feed more thoughts into your head to be anxious or upset about. Instead of fighting them, try accepting them.This means you may say, “My thoughts are racing right now. I am not going to fight them.” By doing this, you take some of the control away from the thoughts, which can help them start to slow down or go away.
 Try stopping racing thoughts by visualizing them going away. Think of each thought as something separate. Then, come up with a way you can get rid of the thought. This might be like a leaf on a stream, letting go of a balloon into the sky, or a cloud floating by in the sky.For example, when a thought comes into your mind, imagine putting it on a balloon. In your mind, let go of that balloon with the thought and let that thought drift off into the sky. Do this to each thought as you let go of them.
 Racing thoughts are a common symptom of anxiety disorders and other mental illnesses. If you are suffering from racing thoughts that don't get any better, consider seeing a doctor or mental health professional to treat the underlying problem. Receiving proper treatment should help your racing thoughts.Treatments for anxiety disorders and other mental illnesses include medication, therapy, and lifestyle changes.

