;
, Repeat the procedure for the other side of the page starting from the other top corner this time. This step is done so that you can draw perfectly parallel horizontal lines from one side to the other.
 Then using the marker, start at the top and fill in the space between the 1st and 2nd lines, making the area between them completely black; repeat this for the space between the 3rd and 4th lines, 5th and 6th lines, and in the same order until you reach the last line. Now you should have a page with 2.0mm thick black horizontal lines separated by 2.0mm from each other.
, As you keep walking back you will notice that it gradually becomes harder to distinguish between the black segments and white segments of the page till you get to a point that the whole page seems like plain grey with no lines. At this point stop and slightly move forward till you can just distinguish the dark and light areas. Mark your position by placing the ruler on the floor just in front of your feet and parallel to the wall.
 Note that to be as accurate as possible, the tape measure must be perpendicular both to the wall and to the ruler when you perform your measurement. This article will use the symbol "d" for this measured distance in the calculations step.
 For instance if you measured 3.45m for "d" and insert it in the formula you will get 40 and thus an acuity of 20/40 for that eye. Furthermore the smaller your "d" the larger the denominator and the worse the acuity would be and vice versa. Note that 20/20 is achieved at a distance of 6.9m!

, You can also repeat them a 3rd time with both eyes open to measure your binocular visual acuity.
 What the visual acuity actually measures is the smallest angular distance between 2 points in space that the eye can resolve (ie. see both points rather than one). This so called "Minimum Angle of Resolution" or MAR is standardized to be 1.0 minutes of arc (ie. 1/60th degree) for a normal eye. Thus if a person with 1.0arcmin acuity mark 2 points on a wall with 2.0mm separation between them, he can't be farther than {(2/2)/}=6900mm=6.9m away from the wall to resolve the separation! if the MAR is 2.0arcmin (acuity of 20/40), either the separation between the 2 points must be doubled or the distance of 6.9m must be divided in half for the person to be able to see, and this is how you just calculated your acuity!

