 This will provide you with the measurements needed for the fabric amounts. You will need three panels for each curtain (2 curtains in total), each panel measuring one third of the entire length.

Add 8cm/3 inches to the top of the top panel. This provides the heading.
Add 16cm/6.5 inches to the bottom panel for the curtain's hem.;
,,,, Add the middle panel on top of it. Face the right sides together, aligning the raw edges. Pin the two panels together, then stitch the panels together at one edge, allowing a 1/5cm / 5/8 inch seam allowance. If the fabric has patterns, stripes or checks, match as best you can before sewing. Press open the seam.,, Cut to the width of the panels. Pin over the seams that join the curtain panels. Stitch in place, sewing both edges of the braid. This will cover the seams and make the curtain appear more streamlined., Press in a 6cm/ 2.5 inch hem. For the base, press in an 8cm/ 3 inch hem. Press in the angled miters. Pin and sew the hems in place., Press in a 2cm/ 3/4 inch around the side edge and a 2cm/ 3/4 inch base hem. Pin and miter the corners, then stitch all in place., Place the lining onto the back of the curtain, matching up the corners with the curtain's corners. Pin in place and slip stitch onto the curtain fabric. However, do not stitch the base edge, as this helps the curtain to hang better., The ties should be placed one every 25cm/10 inches across the top of the curtain, so measure to determine how many you'll need. To make a tie:

Cut a strip of fabric measuring 6 x 50cm/ 2.5 x 20 inches for each tie.
Knot the ends of each strip.
 Mark a line 8cm/3 inches below the top raw edge across the top of the curtain. Use an invisible marker that fades or tailor's chalk., Pin each tie halfway sitting on the line you just drew. Stitch all the way along the row, capturing each tie halfway on the line (this is easiest done with machine stitching)., Pin and slip stitch the fold in place., Stitch using slip stitch to close.,, The tie top curtains are ready to tie onto the curtain pole using the top ties. Simply tie into bows around the curtain rod all the way along the length of the rod. Leave enough room to push the curtains back and forth with ease.