 The most basic way to style your bangs it to let them loose, and simply making sure they’re in order and presentable. After washing your hair, use a round brush and a blow-dryer to dry your bangs to perfection. Roll the brush under the bangs and pull them away from your face (on the heavy side of your part) to ensure that they are dried in the right direction.









If necessary, use a flat iron or straight iron to get your bangs just right.;
, For those days when you’re running late and don’t have time to wash or style your bangs, a twist-and-pin is the perfect go-to style. Gather your bangs in one hand, and twist them away from your face along your hairline. Pin them on top of your hair using bobby pins. To keep fine fly-aways at bay, use a misting of hairspray over your twisted bangs. You’re done!









For an up-do, you can continue twisting hair beyond your bangs before pulling it all up into an elastic or pinning it at the back of your head.
 Like the older, more sophisticated version of the twist-and-pin, a straight pin-back may be the easiest of the bang styles. Style your entire head of hair as you normally would, and then brush your bangs straight to the side or top of your head. Use bobby pins to secure them at their ends, and tuck the pieces that stick out under the rest of your hair.
 A classic look that can add interest to any style, the pompadour is accomplished by teasing and pinning your bangs. Separate your bangs out and pull them straight forward. Use a brush to back-comb the bangs to create a poufy-base. Pull your bangs back over the teased section, and brush it out a bit to deflate the poof. Twist the ends a single time, and then pin the bangs down with bobby pins on the top of your head.









You can choose to style the pompadour slightly off to the side if you want, but this may require longer bangs and thicker hair.
You can leave your hair down, or pull it up with this style depending on the look you’re going for.
 Although this style requires a little more time, it offers up beautiful results. Separate your bangs out from the front section of your hair, and pull the rest of your hair up with an elastic band. Begin french-braiding your hair from the roots of your bangs, and continue braiding until you run out of hair. You can either use a small clear elastic band to secure the style, or you can let the rest of your hair down and pin it in place with the use of bobby pins.








You can do different types of braids in order to create a different look. French and Dutch braids are the easiest to accomplish with bangs, although you could attempt a Rope or Fishtail braid as well.
 If you’re not afraid of heights, try flipping your head over and pulling all of your hair (including your bangs) into a ponytail on the top of your head. As is currently popular, you can wrap the ponytail up into a topknot or tease it a bit to add volume and a playful edge. If you place the ponytail high enough on your head, you should be able to pull your bangs straight back with no loose pieces or bobby pins required.
 If you’re just tired of having bangs and are in the process of growing them out, give the illusion of bang-less hair by covering them up. Part your hair deep to one side just above your ear, and brush it over the top of your bangs. You can pin your hair back if too much of it is hanging in your face, but leaving it down should allow you to maintain the illusion as well.








This still may only work for very long hair, as shorter hair doesn’t have the necessary weight to hold down the bangs and cover them up.

