 A big garbage bag or a garden bag is ideal. A plastic grocery bag won't do your kite any favors and won't be big enough to reap any real high-flying reward. Go for the big guns.


Lay it on a flat surface. You'll need a clean, flat surface to work on to make sure your kite is built as stream-lined as possible.
 You'll be drawing half of your kite, so when you open the bag, it doubles in size. Starting near the top of the bottom seam, draw two sides of a triangle (the third side is the edge). When you have all the dots in place, flip it over and trace on the other side.









The seam should be 11 1/2" (29 cm) long.
The bottom line should be 10 3/4" (27 cm) long and should end 1 1/2" (3.75 cm) higher than where it started.
The top line should connect from the top of the seam to the end of the bottom line. Draw a line -- this will be referred to as the "fold line." Then add a 2" wide (5 cm) flap that begins 2 1/2" past the starting point of the top line and extends all the way to the bottom. Two of your edges will now be small squares instead of points.
 This is a small triangle that will control the flight of your kite. It should be 5 3/4" (14.5 cm) tall and 4 1/2" (11.6 cm) wide. Draw those two lines starting at a common point and connect the two with a third line. Cut it out with scissors.
 Clear as mud? Place tape on the edges of the kite (only 1/2 of it or so, to minimize weight) but not the flaps that start 2 1/2" from the top and extend to the bottom.
 Long, wooden, BBQ grill skewers should do the job. The straightest one you can find should be placed down the middle. Cut it to length and snip off the pointy end. It should go from the highest point to the bottom.









You'll also need skewers on the edges. Place one on each side on the fold line that stops with the edge of the flap (2 1/2" from the top). Ideally, these are just as straight as the center skewer.
4 3/4" (12.2 cm) down from the top of the center skewer, place another skewer perpendicular, forming a cross. Cut it to length, with the ends resting on the skewers on the left and right. This piece is known as the spread and gives your kite structure. Apply glue to both ends where it meets the side skewers.
 Grab some flying line and tape down 2 lengths onto it on both sides (sides mirroring each other). Wrap a bit of tape around the corners to make them strong.









Where the four strings meet, tie a knot. Then, towards the end of the string, tie another knot. Tie the loose ends of the strings at their respective corners into knots, too, flush against the plastic.
 The glue is dry? Great. Fold over those pesky sail tabs over the left and right skewers and adhere with tape. Then fold over the tape you previously applied onto the ends of your skewer cross.
 Poke a hole through the plastic right where the two center skewers intersect. The keel should match the angle the center skewers form; thread the upper keel lines through the hole and secure with a knot.









Do the same for the edge of the keel. Poke another hole for where the keel ends and thread the line through, again securing with a knot. Now that the keel is lined up properly, attach tape to secure it to the plastic.
 You know that extra string you have hanging from your keel, the one with two knots? That's what you'll be attaching your line to -- that's how the keel controls the flight of your kite. Because of this, make sure your keel isn't coming to come off or adjust!









As for a tail, simply slide a length of plastic (or ribbon) between the center skewer and the plastic and loop around. The tail is more for looks than anything. Don't wrap it too tightly and you can always remove it later if you don't like it.

