 Consuming soy in food has been linked to a number of health benefits, including relief of menopausal symptoms, prevention of breast and prostate cancer, reduction in bone turnover, and reduction in heart disease. In women who are diagnosed with PCOS, consuming soy has also been proven to reduce total and LDL cholesterol, reduce insulin, reduce inflammatory markers, reduce oxidative stress, and reduce levels of testosterone., Each gram of unprocessed soy protein provides 3 to 4 grams of isoflavones. In other words, you should aim to consume roughly 9-12 grams of soy protein per day. If you don’t want to worry about specifics, simply including an unprocessed source of soy protein in your diet 3-4 times per week should help you meet these marks.You can try eating miso, tempeh, tofu, or edamame to get your 36 milligrams.
 In order to reap the health benefits from soy, it is important to consume unprocessed sources of soy protein. These include miso, tempeh, tofu, edamame, high quality soy sauce, and soy nuts.Be sure to always read packages. Tofu, for instance, is sometimes packaged with preservatives and other additives. Good quality tofu should contain only soybeans and a coagulant (such as nigari).
 Processed soy products include soy milk, soy cheese, soy protein powders, and meat alternative products. Try to avoid foods that contain hydrogenated soybean oil and/or soy protein isolate. These products are not good sources of soy isoflavones., Miso is a fermented paste created from soybeans, and it is one of the healthiest and easiest ways to consume beneficial soy isoflavones. Miso can be used in place of (or in addition to) stock or bouillon. It can be used in dressings, gravies, and other sauces. The most popular way to consume miso is to make a pot of miso soup.


Miso can be found at health food stores and Asian markets.
Always read ingredient labels. Avoid miso that contains MSG (monosodium glutamate).
 Tempeh is dense cake of fermented soy beans. It can be sliced, crumbled or chopped, and used in most recipes that call for meat. Tempeh is an excellent source of soy isoflavones.


Try making your own tempeh bacon to use on sandwiches or in other recipes.
Tempeh can be purchased at health food stores and Asian markets.

