 Cover the sides and bottom of a small styrofoam cool chest with aluminum foil.The aluminum foil will reflect the sunlight, allowing the chest to heat up enough to melt the wax.
Opt for a styrofoam cooler or cooling chest instead of a plastic cooler or other container. The styrofoam acts as insulation, so the heat remains primarily on the inside instead of seeping out through the sides of the chest.
Solar heat is both "green" and safe. The inside of the cooler should get hot enough under the right conditions, but the heat is usually gentle enough to prevent the wax from scorching or catching on fire.
 Sit the block of beeswax in your foil-coated cooler. Place a sheet of glass or clear acrylic on top of the cooler and secure it in place with duct tape.


If you want to speed the process up, consider cutting or breaking the block of wax into smaller pieces. Smaller chunks of wax will melt down much faster than larger blocks.
 Place the chest in direct sunlight, using the warmest spot possible. Keep it away from moisture and shade.


This process will work best on a warm, sunny day. Avoid using it on a cloudy or rainy day or in the evening.
If you are using this process to melt beeswax in a cooler season, keep the container inside and choose the warmest location possible. During warmer seasons, you can keep the chest inside or outside.
 Give the wax a few hours to melt. Check on its progress every 20 to 30 minutes.


Never leave melting wax completely unattended for more than a few minutes at a time.
Get an early start. Starting the process in the morning or early afternoon will give the wax plenty of time to melt inside the heating chamber.
Consider monitoring the temperature of the heating chamber by placing an oven thermometer inside. Beeswax melts around 145 to 147 degrees Fahrenheit (63 to 64 degrees Celsius). Do not allow the temperature to exceed 160 to 170 degrees Fahrenheit (71 to 77 degrees Celsius), since beeswax can begin to discolor past this point.
 Once the wax melts down, you can use it in any project calling for melted beeswax.

