 Many jewelry makers entered into the profession after earning a formal degree in Gemology, Jewelry Design, or Accessory Design.However, a formal degree is not strictly necessary. Some reasons to strongly consider a formal education include:


If you are brand-new to the profession and have no contacts in the industry
If you will need to use advanced software or 3-D printing technology in your jewelry designs
If you hope to work for a large jewelry manufacturer that requires formal degrees
If you wish to pursue competitive, highly sought-after managerial positions in the industry;
, Even though education can provide one pathway to a successful career in jewelry making, many successful professionals used alternative methods to get their jobs. These strategies include networking, apprenticing, or growing a small, informal side business into a larger company.A formal degree in jewelry making is not necessary for every aspiring jeweler and should be considered carefully. Some reasons not to pursue a degree in jewelry making include:


If you wish to pursue jewelry making as a hobby, part-time job, or side business instead of your full-time career
If you already have a local client base for your jewelry designsIf your jewelry designs can be accomplished without sophisticated tools or technology
If you have contacts in the industry who can give you an apprenticeship or entry-level position
If you are unable to pay for a degree
If you are unable to spend 1-4 years pursuing a degree

, There are dozens and dozens of schools, institutes, and programs that provide training in various jewelry making techniques.However, these schools can differ in their emphases and training programs. Before you enroll in a program, decide on the specific set of skills you wish to acquire. That way, you will know whether a program will fit your needs. If you want to open your own independent boutique, you might wish to choose a program that will help you learn how to run your own business or design scarves. If, however, you wish to craft jewelry for a large ring manufacturer, you might want to find a program whose sole focus is on gemology, gem-cutting, and gem-setting. Some possible skills you might wish to learn could include:Metalsmithing and blacksmithing
Gem appraisal, cutting, and setting
Waxwork
Mold-making
Engraving
Watch repair
Graphic design software and technology
The history of jewelry making
Jewelry design
Accessory design (such as scarves, handbags, etc.)
Retail management

, There is a wide variety in the types of degrees and certificates you can pursue in jewelry making, from a certificate you can attain in a few weeks to an official 4-year degree from an accredited university.A certificate can teach you one or two specific skills (such as watch repair). An Associate's degree will provide you with a more comprehensive training in the industry. A Bachelor's degree will allow you to attain training in your industry as well as acquire other types of skills and knowledge (such as business administration or the history of design).In general, you can attain a certificate from a local community college or a specialized jewelry institute. You can attain an Associate's degree from a 2-year community college or technical school. And you can attain a Bachelor's in Fine Arts (or BFA) from a 4-year college, university, or art institute.
If you're not in the position to pursue a formal degree, you can take a few basic courses at your local community college or art school.
One way to help you determine what kind of degree to get is to examine the resumes of people who have the kinds of jewelry making job you want. Do your idols and mentors have a few specialty certificates, or do they have formal degrees? If there is a company you admire, take a look at their job postings to see what their minimal education requirements are.
At a few schools, a Master's in Fine Arts degree in jewelry is also possible, though this is likely not the best option for somebody just starting on this career path., No matter what, you will want to attain your education at an institution that is reputable. Make sure that your program is either with an accredited college or university or is affiliated with a major jewelry professional organization, such as the Gemological Institute of America.Be wary of programs that are unaccredited or that are affiliated with for-profit companies: they are more likely to be expensive, delay graduation, and their certificates will not hold as much weight., Many of the courses you take while in a jewelry making program will require you to create unique jewelry pieces of your own. Perhaps you will design rings, cut gemstones, or create a unique mold for resin. Many programs will require that you complete a portfolio of your projects in order to graduate. However, even if your program does not require it, you should still build a portfolio to help you gain a foothold in the industry.A good jewelry making portfolio should:


Look professional. Take clear, well-lit photographs of all of your pieces, and design the portfolio in a professional and attractive manner. Photos are best taken with the jewelry on a back or dark background, with the jewelry itself lit to its best advantage.
Demonstrate your versatility. Are you an excellent engraver as well as a metal-smith? Be sure to include examples of all the different skillsets you've acquired at school.
Have a compelling narrative. Do not just rely on photographs: try to explain the decisions you made about how to design and craft your pieces of jewelry. What rationale did you use? How do your designs differ from your classmates'?
Be selective. During your training, you will likely make a number of mistakes. Only choose the best possible pieces to include in a professional portfolio. Ask a classmate or professor for advice if you are having trouble choosing what to include.
Have a physical and a digital version. You will want a hard copy of your portfolio printed on high-quality paper with high-quality ink to show to employers and clients in-person. You will also need a digital copy that is readable on a professional website and that you can email to potential employers or clients.
 During your time in a formal education program, you will have to take a number of exams, studio courses, and also develop a portfolio of your designs and creations. However, if you want to become a jewelry maker, it is important that you consider your education a stepping-stone to a career and not an end-goal in and of itself. Some ways to help leverage your education into a fulfilling life as a jewelry maker include:


Asking your teachers and professors to introduce you to other professionals in the community
Working or interning at a relevant company during your education
Attending networking and professional conferences to meet potential employers
Showing your growing portfolio to professionals to get their advice
Building a professional website to showcase your skills and portfolio

, Some jewelry programs will provide placement services that will allow you to find internships to continue building your skills. An internship will allow you to gain practical experience in jewelry design as well as meet new clients, employers and customers. After your internship, you may be offered an entry level position that allows you to sell, inventory, and make light repairs. A senior position will involve collaborating on designs and eventually leading design projects.

