 Pair stacking bands on one finger. Alternate by leaving the next finger bare and pair bands on the next one again.;
,,,


Exact pairing of identical gold or silver bands has an effect of broader rings that people love.
 Like a ruby with an emerald, or an emerald with a sapphire, or a Tanzanite with an aquamarine. This is only for pairs.


Style divas usually wear gemstone bands with plain vintage bands and plain classic bands. Sometimes they wear three different gemstone bands on one finger for the uber cool look. It looks something like this: Ruby, emerald and sapphire on one finger and then sapphire, diamond and emerald on another finger. The combinations are numerous.
 Consider this as another great way of wearing stacking bands. White gold, yellow gold, rose gold together on one finger or rose gold on one finger and white gold band and yellow gold band on another.
 Choose plain gold or silver thin bands for different fingers, or wear only silver on one and only rose gold on another and only yellow gold on yet another finger. Alternate these among themselves for the multilayered effect.
 This is among the hottest celebrity trends. It accentuates the size of the solitaire. The solitaire could be a white or a colored diamond. A gemstone solitaire can be similarly worn. A close enough effect is created with two thin bands on the finger right next to the solitaire finger.
 Wear an emerald set in yellow gold band with a sapphire set in white gold and a peridot set in rose gold on one finger. Find other exciting color combinations to go on two other fingers. Or wear color soiree on the middle finger and plain bands on each finger on either side.
 Remember that a very few stacking bands are complete without the midi- serpent ring. Flaunt one on your middle finger as other fingers flash multilayered bands or gemstone and plain bands.
 Mix and match on one finger and wear plain ones on another.
 This is especially effective when yellow diamonds are worn with white ones in yellow gold finish and white gold finish together on the same finger.

