 These are like sunglasses for your telescope. They will cut down glare, bring out much more surface detail, and give you better contrast. As you can see from the pictures below, the left one is too bright to see the dark craters that are easily seen in the right picture.




#8 Light Yellow filters help to increase the detail in the maria (craters) on Mars, enhance detail in the belts on Jupiter, increase resolution of detail in large telescope when viewing Neptune and Uranus, and enhance detail on the moon in smaller scopes. This filter has 83% Visible Light Transmittance which means that only 83% of light passes through it into your eye.

#11 Yellow Green filters help to bring out dark surface detail on Jupiter and Saturn, darkens the maria on Mars, and improves visual detail when viewing Neptune and Uranus through large telescopes. This filter has 83% VLT.

#12 Yellow filters bring out the polar ice caps, enhance blue clouds in the atmosphere, increase contrast, and brighten desert regions on Mars. They also enhance red and orange features on Jupiter and Saturn. This filter has 74% VLT.
 Understand that #21 Orange filters help increase contrast between light and dark areas, penetrates clouds, and assists in detecting dust storms on Mars. Orange also helps to bring out the Great Red Spot and sharpen contrast on Jupiter. This filter has 46% VLT.




#23A Light Red filters help to make Mercury and Venus stand out from the blue sky when viewed during the day. Used in large telescopes, light red sharpens boundaries and increases contrast on Mars, sharpens belt contrast on Jupiter, and brings out surface detail on Saturn. This filter has 25% VLT.

#25A Red filters provide maximum contrast of surface features and enhances surface detail, polar ice caps, and dust clouds on Mars. Red also reduces light glare when looking at Venus. In large telescopes, a red filter sharply defines differences between clouds and surface features on Jupiter and adds definition to polar caps and maria on Mars. This filter has 14% VLT.




#38A Dark Blue filters provide detail in atmospheric clouds, brings out surface phenomena, and darkens red areas when viewing Mars. Dark blue also increases contrast on Venus, Saturn, and Jupiter in large scopes. This filter has 17% VLT.

#47 Violet filters are recommended only for use on large telescopes due to its extremely low VLT percentage (3%). A violet filter provides contrast in Saturn's rings, darkens Jupiter's belts, reduces glare on Venus, and brings out the polar ice caps on Mars.




#56 Light Green filters enhance frost patches, surface fogs, and polar projections on Mars, the ring system on Saturn, and belts on Jupiter. This filter has 53% VLT.

#58 Green filters increase contrast on lighter parts of Jupiter's surface, Venutian atmospheric features, and polar ice caps on Mars. Dark green will also help bring out the cloud belts and Polar Regions of Saturn. This filter has 24% VLT.




#80A Blue filters provide detail in atmospheric clouds on Mars, brings out detail in belts and polar features on Saturn, and enhances contrast on Jupiter's bright areas and cloud boundaries. A blue filter is also useful in helping to split the binary star Antares when at maximum separation. This filter has 30% VLT

#82A Light Blue filters function much the same as #80A Blue while maintaining overall image brightness. Light blue will also help to increase structure detail when looking at galaxies. This filter has 73% VLT.

