 Getting away to an exotic location might provide the most benefit to your mental health because it will allow you to gain a new perspective and experience new things. If you have a dream vacation, then now might be the time to plan and take it. For example, maybe you have always wanted to visit Paris, or you dream about spending a week on the beach in Jamaica. Whatever your dream vacation is, start looking into how you might take it.


Identify activities you’d like to do ahead of time. Identifying what you want to do while visiting your dream vacation spot and creating an itinerary can help to reduce stress while you are there.Try looking into all-inclusive packages from travel agencies or on sites like Groupon. Sometimes booking these kinds of trips can save you money on expenses like airfare, food, and lodging.
Shop around for airfares to your dream vacation spot. Some sites even allow you to set up alerts to let you know when the price has dropped.
 Resorts can offer you a stress-free vacation plan, which might be beneficial to your mental health if you are overwhelmed by the thought of planning a vacation. Many resorts are all-inclusive, so you do not have to worry about finding places to eat, activities to do, or hotel rooms. Everything is there in one location.


Try looking into some special interest resorts. For example, some resorts focus on helping you relax and rejuvenate, while others might offer a program to help you lose weight and change poor eating habits.
Keep in mind that all-inclusive resorts can be quite expensive. Look for resorts that are within your price range to minimize the stress of the vacation.
If decide to stay at a resort, then you may want to plan at least one activity outside of the resort, preferably something you have never done before. This will help to maximize the mental health benefits of your vacation by forming some new connections in your brain., If you can’t take much time off of work and you don’t want to spend too much money, then you might look into a weekend getaway somewhere closer to home. You can spend a night or two in a nearby city or get away to a rural location if you want to escape the fast pace of city life. Vacationing close to home can offer you some of the same mental health benefits of going somewhere far away. You can see and do new things while getting a break from your normal routine.


Look into nearby cities you have never explored before to find out what attractions they have. They might have some interesting museums, landmarks, or restaurants that you can check out. If you enjoy sports, then look into sporting events that are happening the weekend you plan on visiting.
Check out nearby campsites if you want to escape to nature for the weekend. If you have your own camping gear, then you might reserve a campsite for the weekend at a national forest. Or, if you prefer to sleep indoors while you are enjoying nature, then you could book a cabin for the weekend or even rent an RV.
 If you cannot leave town and you don’t have much money to spend on a vacation, then you can always plan a staycation. This is when you explore your own area as if you are a tourist visiting and enjoy time at home doing things that you rarely get to enjoy, such as a favorite hobby or lounging on the sofa. A major benefit of this type of vacation is that it will cost you little to nothing and you don’t have to worry about packing or traveling far away.For example, you could take a walking tour of the downtown area of your city, take a sunset cruise on a local lake or river, attend a local fair or festival, or visit the local historical society. Take your camera along and take some pictures to help you play the part of someone visiting the area on vacation.
You can make staying home more like a hotel as well. Try putting out some “amenities” for yourself, such as a fuzzy robe and slippers, a candy bar, and some special toiletries. Take a luxurious bath and allow yourself to just lounge and enjoy yourself at home for the day. Watch movies, read a book, or listen to music.
 If you cannot spare any time for a weekend staycation, then you might consider taking a 15 minute mini-vacation. There are lots of different ways that you can get into a vacation mindset without getting behind on your personal and professional obligations. Some options include:Spending your lunch break outside. Try going outside for your lunch break on a nice weather day and just enjoy the time. Go for a walk through a scenic part of town or find a picnic bench to sit and enjoy your lunch.
Sipping an umbrella drink in your backyard. If you have very little time to spare, then you might consider taking 15 minutes in the evening to head outside with a lawn chair and a cocktail (or mocktail) and sip the drink while enjoying your surroundings.

Meditating or doing some yoga. If you need to relax and take a break from your daily stressors, then doing 15 minutes of yoga or meditation can also help. Or, you can even just sit quietly, close your eyes and breathe deeply for 15 minutes.
Try taking a 15 minute vacation every day. Set aside 15 minutes that is just for you and use it to do nothing but relax.

