 If you are concerned about your child’s weight, schedule an appointment with her pediatrician. She can diagnose weight problems and help develop a plan for your child to safely lose weight.Your child's pediatrician will also evaluate your child and may order lab or other tests to determine if there is a medical cause for the weight gain or if there are any complications from it.


Make a list of your child’s eating habits, exercise or activity level, and let the doctor know about any medications, limitations, or conditions your child has.
Ask the doctor questions you have about childhood obesity, diet, or exercise.
Talk to the doctor about ways you can support your child’s weight loss. She may suggest meeting with a dietitian and children’s fitness professional to help you find the best and safest ways to support your child.;
, Even if your child doesn’t have special dietary needs, her diet probably needs some adjustment to lose weight and stay healthy. Talk with a registered dietitian about how to help your child lose weight while giving her all of the vitamins and nutrients necessary to maintain her health.Tell the dietitian about what your doctor suggested to help your child lose weight through diet.
Give her information about what your child eats and what types of food preferences your child has. The dietitian may be able to suggest healthy food options that taste good and help your child lose weight.
Ask any questions you have about what your child needs nutritionally as well as any suggestions the dietitian has for helping your child lose weight.
Ask your doctor or local health facility to suggest a registered dietitian., In addition to diet, exercise is often one of the key ways doctors suggest that children lose weight.Beyond active play time, you may want to meet with a certified fitness professional who works with children to either train your child or suggest an exercise program for her.


Look for a trainer who has a youth fitness certification. These types of trainers are better options for your child than those at gyms or fitness centers.Be aware that certified youth fitness professional can help your child exercise and lose weight even if she doesn’t get much activity.
Ask the trainer any questions you might have about how you can get involved in helping her suggestions or doing exercise together with your child.
 Most doctors’ weight loss suggestions are based on your child’s age. For example, the doctor will likely suggest that a child under the age of 12 lose about one pound per month, but a child over the age of 12 may safely lose up to two pounds per week.For a young child who is not severely overweight, the goal might be to stop the child from gaining more weight rather than to help the child lose weight.Figuring out how many calories your child needs to function and lose weight sensibly can help you plan her meals.Calculate the number of calories your child needs per day by consulting information on her age and nutritional needs.For example, an eight year old child needs about 1800 nutrient rich calories per day. For your child to lose weight, you’d need to reduce her food calories slightly and make sure she gets exercise every day of the week.Remember to not be too extreme in limiting calories. Not only can this be unhealthy for your child, but also undermine her self-esteem and progress.
The best thing to do is to meet with a dietitian to determine your child's daily calorie needs for weight loss

, Eating nutritious and regular meals as well as snacks can help your child lose weight. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends giving children nutritious food choices from the five food groups in appropriate portion sizes.Incorporate choices from the five food groups every day. The five food groups are: fruits, vegetables, grains, lean proteins, and low-fat dairy.Give your child three nutrient packed meals per day that include foods from the five groups. In addition, she should also have two healthy snacks such as low-fat string cheese or apple slices.Following this routine can keep her full and less likely to want junk food.
Use small amounts of sugar, salt, and fats to make your children enjoy their food more., Parents often overestimate how much food their child needs.Follow appropriate serving sizes for your child’s age.Learn suggested portion sizes for your child’s age.For example, a five year can have ¼ cup cooked vegetables and ½ cup salad as part of a meal.Serve smaller portions and limit second helpings to reduce the chance that your child will overeat., Limit the number of unhealthy food choices you have in your home or make available to your child. Foods like cake or cookies and drinks like soda are often loaded with fat and calories.Choose fruits and vegetables and other healthy options when food shopping.Keeping food choices healthy in your house can help your child avoid unhealthy foods.
Look for hidden sugar in your food choices. Read the packaging for terms like corn syrup, sucrose, dextrose, or maltose.Avoid banning sweets entirely to prevent cravings or overindulging.Consider introducing fruit-based snacks and desserts in place of baked goods., While you may be tempted to completely change your child’s diet to help her lose weight, make changes only gradually. Children have sensitive palates and can be resistant to change, so proceeding slowly can help her get used to a healthier diet.


Replace processed foods with healthier options. For example, substitute white rice with brown rice and add more vegetables that your child likes.
 There is evidence that having family meals together can help your child make more nutritious food choices. This can help her lose weight safely.Schedule dinner at the same time every night to help establish a routine.Allow your child to participate in cooking or setting the table. These activities can make mealtimes fun, help her learn about nutrition or food, and get her to make better food choices.Consider limiting how much you dine out, especially at fast-food chains, which can be a trap for unhealthy foods.Help your child make good choices if you go out. For example, your child might like chicken tenders with apple slices instead of fries.
 Exercise and activity can help your child shed excess weight. But beyond burning calories, it builds their bones and muscles, helps them sleep and stay alert during the day., The word “exercise” may scare your child—or you. Having unstructured activity to get your child moving can help her lose weight in the same way that an exercise program does.Be aware that a child needs at least an hour of moderate to vigorous activity a day.
Encourage free playing activities like hide-and-seek, jump rope, or jumping on a small trampoline.
Give your child the option of joining a sports team like your local swim or soccer team.
Try different activities until you find one your child likes. For example, if your child likes art, nature hiking or rock climbing might be a good choice for her.
 You can increase the amount of activity or exercise your child gets by limiting the time she is allowed to sit around the house. Set a specific time or schedule that your child can watch TV, play computer games, or talk on the phone.Remember that your child will need some rest time, especially if she is not feeling well. Allow her some time to “do nothing” to help her settle down and refresh.
Consider allowing your child to do computer games that get her moving.
 Incorporate your whole family into activity time. This can emphasize the importance of activity for the whole family and prevents your child from feeling singled out.Consider making activity a pre-dinner ritual. For example, you could play a game of family touch football and follow it up with a nutritious meal.
Make sure to praise your child for their activity and making healthy food choices.
 Children who need to lose weight may struggle with self-esteem issues and other medical conditions.While your child may occasionally lack motivating or balk at your suggestions or rules, giving your child support without being judgmental or critical can help institute and reinforce healthy habits and build her self-esteem.You can provide support by:


focusing on the health benefits of weight loss over appearance
being sensitive to your child’s feelings
talking to your child about her feelings or needs
praising your child’s efforts whenever you get a chance
focusing on or pointing out positive goals
having patience with her to help prevent eating disorders., It may be difficult for children to understand why they need to lose weight, which may cause them to push back on your suggestions or changes. Talking to them about possible consequences of being overweight, such as health problems or not fitting into clothing, can help them more tangibly focus on the goal of slimming.Use terms that kids can easily understand. For example, you could say, “it’s important to keep moving and watch what you eat. Those extra pounds can make your bones hurt or might make it more difficult to run fast when you’re playing soccer.”Let kids knows that excess weight can affect them now and in the future from everything such as health to their choices in clothing.
Let your child know that losing the weight might prevent any teasing, bullying, or rejection they’re experiencing.
 It may seem like a good idea to tell your child about “bad” foods when changing her eating habits. However, this can be counterproductive and cause her to rebel against you by sneaking the food or overeating it when she is outside of your home.Talk about “healthy choices” and “less healthy choices.” For example, you could say “an apple is a healthier choice than a cookie for your snack.”
Remember that it’s ok to allow your child an occasional treat or less healthy choice.
 A child may simply refuse to get moving and eat healthier choices. Give her different reasons to lose extra weight without promising sweets or food treats.Promise to do an activity with your child that she wanted to do if she makes healthy choices for a week.If she’s hungry enough, she’ll likely eat it.For example, she might want to go to a local water park. Take her as a reward for eating well and being active.
Buy her a small gift for meeting goals. For example, she might like a new dress or had her eye on some shoes. Surprise her with one of these for losing a pound in a month.
Try and avoid promising her sweets or treats as a reward. Save these for very special occasions.If she’s hungry enough, she’ll likely eat it., There is evidence that families with similar eating habits enjoy the same types of health. Consider your child’s palate when cooking, but don’t make her any separate meals to appease her.Realize that it is ok if your child skips a meal or if she refuses to eat. If she’s hungry enough, she’ll likely eat her meal.

