 If it's because many people tease you and you think you have to change, don't, if they can't accept you, there not your friends.
 People may tease you if yesterday you were wearing all black and now you're really girly. Wear a black shirt, but it needs to look girly. Wear some good fitting jeans. Wear black shoes, not combat boots or anything that looks Gothic. Wear Vans or flats. Work with what you already have. Make sure your hair looks nice. Straighten it with a straightening iron or blow dryer . Or you can curl it with a curling iron. Make sure you have no fly aways. Wear natural looking makeup. No dark eye makeup or lipstick. If someone compliments you, smile and say "Thank you." Be nice to everyone today., That weekend or as soon as possible. Do NOT buy anything black, at least not on this shopping trip. Buy things that YOU like. Don't worry whether it looks Gothic or not. Do NOT go to Hot Topic, unless you're going for a scene look., But on each day, get girlier. Like on one day wear some really cute accessories or a cute purse. Or wear white shoes instead of black., This is your day, so enjoy it! You've transformed. You may wear whatever you'd like on this day. Look around, and see what has changed since you've gotten a new image. Are people nicer? Have you made new friends? Are you happier, more outgoing? Then congratulate yourself, you should be proud., Too much brushing causes hair to look dull, flat and eventually your hair will start to break off. Wash your hair every other day, depending on your hair type but don’t use too many products or your hair will look greasy and just gross! If you have straight hair, curl it. If you have curly hair then straighten it, be unique. Always try different hairstyles. Try a messy bun, ponytail, braids and other simple hairstyles. Remember, it’s not healthy to keep curling and straightening your hair., Be sure to read romantic novels and listen to a few love songs, even write your own romantic poem., Choose a non-comedogenic, or non-pore-blocking, facial cleanser appropriate for your skin: dry or sensitive skin needs something gentle, fragrance-free, and dye-free; oily skin will likely benefit from a product containing salicylic acid, which helps clear out clogged pores., Choose a nail polish in the color of your choice and begin to paint your nails, only if your school allows it, remember to be girly with your school style. Even change your Rucksack into a hot or bubblegum pink, handbag.