 In 2005, the Whole Grains Council began to release products that contained a “100% Whole Grain” stamp. The stamp allows consumers to identify whole grain products quickly and reliably. If a product contains this stamp, the consumer can rest assured that the product:


Contains at least a full serving of whole grain per recommended serving size.
Contains only whole wheat.
Products that carry the “Whole Grain” stamp must contain at least half a serving of whole grain per recommended serving size.;
, Whole wheat is just one type of whole grain. While searching for whole wheat bread, you may come across products labeled "Whole Grain." These breads may contain whole wheat, a different type of whole grain, or a combination of several whole grains.Read the label to determine if the product is made from 100% Whole Wheat.


A whole grain contains all three parts of the kernel: the bran (outer layers), the germ (part that generates new plant growth), and the endosperm (inner layers).Other types of whole grains include brown rice, oats and or oatmeal, and wheat berries., As grain kernels are processed, parts of the grain are removed. If the label does not include the word “whole” in front of a grain, the entire kernel may not be present in the product. When you shop for whole wheat bread, remain wary of products with the following words on their labels:


Wheat or wheat flour
Semolina (purified endosperm of durum wheat common in pastas and cereals)Durum wheat (dense wheat commonly used in pastas and cereals)Organic flour
Stoneground
Multigrain (this term indicates that the product contains multiple types of whole grains ‘’’and/or’’’refined grains., Throughout the refinement process, the three parts of the wheat kernel are separated. Each part of the kernel is repurposed and sold as its own product. Avoid products that list parts of the kernel on its labels. These terms include:


Enriched flour: when wheat flour is refined into white flour, the bran and germ are stripped away, leaving only the endosperm.
Bran: this is the outer layer of the kernel.
Wheat germ: this is the part of the kernel responsible for new plant growth.