 Never stick to an inflexible opinion. Instead, constantly listen carefully what the other thinks, or has to say. If she mentions something that's bothering her, take it seriously and respond or apologize.


Actively listening and responding to the other person will make overall communication easier.
 This is a huge source of conflict between people. Try letting go of the need to be right all the time. Instead, learn to go with the flow and communicate, without worrying about who's "right" or "wrong."Letting go of the outcome will be difficult at first, but you may find that your stress level goes down. Without needing to be right all the time, you can begin to enjoy things and respect the other person.
 Sometimes being with the same person too much can become stressful. Giving yourself alone time can give both of you a break, reduce tension, and make you more appreciative of each other when you do spend time together.


Spending time with your own friends can improve your mindset, making you more positive and fun to be around. Your partner might also need some time to be themselves with their own friends.
 This will improve your empathy and awareness of what she is going through. Don't wait for a fight to consider what's happening with her. Instead, regularly try to understand the problems and joys of the other person. This will make you feel more connected and less conflicted., If something begins troubling you, plan how you will bring it up to the other person. Decide what you're going to say, how you'll say it, and when you'll bring it up. Keep your statement brief and specific.


Avoid bringing up problems in the heat of the moment or without much prior thought. Doing so will make you more likely to accuse the other person, respond emotionally, and simply fight.
 If you find that you still struggle with conflict, seek help. Ask the other person if she is willing to attend therapy or mediation. If she doesn't want to, consider meeting with a therapist on your own. While this may not solve all of your problems, you may learn how to react and feel better about your situation.

