 There are many different types of comedy such as slapstick, wisecrack, and parody. Do you have a skill for Pivot Stickfigure Animator, do people find you randomly funny? Whatever your strong suit of comedy is, make this the base that you use for the majority of your videos. If you like a few different genres of comedy, mix them together or have some parody videos, some sketches, etc. If you can't think of any, then say what you think in your mind. But don't take it too far and make it offensive.;
, Your title could be simple or long, it doesn't really matter as long as it's catchy and people will remember it. Using alliteration or rhymes might help your title stick into others' minds. Before posting your video, don't forget to research your title to make sure that it doesn't already exist.
 Although it's possible to make great YouTube videos all by yourself, getting some other people to help you out by acting, filming, and editing will not only make it easier for you, it's more fun and your video looks more professional.
 Write down what's going to happen in your video, and don't forget to include something funny, such as good old jokes, random humor, or advertising random objects.
 Choose a camera and get out and film. If possible, filming with a real video camera is the best option, as the video quality is high. However, you can also use the video function on your digital camera. If need be, a last-resort choice would be a webcam. Webcams are usually low-quality, blurry, and experience a bit of lag, so unless yours is high-quality, opt for something else. If you have tripods or boom microphones that you're able to use, these can boost the quality of your video.
 Ryan Higa/Nigahiga (a very famous comedian on YouTube) kept his bloopers, as did Jim Carrey's comedy movies. Use it at the end of all videos, possibly while the credits are running to keep viewers entertained. Bloopers are almost always funny and will keep your audience smiling until the very end of your video.
 It's now time to upload them to YouTube, make an account or sign in. Your video should be under 10 minutes long unless it's a special of some sort (such as a Christmas Special).
 If you want to make it faster, show your video to your friends and tell them to tell it others. Post your videos as video responses to famous comedy videos to increase the chance of them being watched.
 The more subscribers the better, and the more you'll get famous and well-known. Do not spam people!

, You don't want your subscribers to leave, so repeat this process over and over again. Make even more funny ones and be friends with other comedians so you can make films together.

