 There could be several situations, like if your hamster is injured, that will require you to handle your hamster prematurely. Make sure you wear gloves if you do this, because your hamster will probably try to bite you. Be as gentle as possible as well. Before your hamster is used to you, he'll probably struggle when you pick him up. Make sure to apply only light pressure or you risk injuring him., Hamsters are prey animals, meaning that they're naturally used to bigger animals hunting them for food. Therefore your hamster will probably perceive you as a threat until he knows better. If you try to handle him before this period is up, he'll probably bite out of fear. For the first week you own the hamster, just let him explore his cage without touching him. In the meantime, there are exercises you can do throughout that week that will get him used to your presence and gradually make him comfortable enough to handle., Your hamster must be comfortable at each stage of training before you move on to another. Make sure he is receptive to everything before you progress, or you risk scaring him and setting back the training process.
 Hamsters are nocturnal animals, and will be more active in the evening and at night.Take advantage of this by waiting until the evening to start any training. Your hamster will be more awake and receptive to new experiences.


Also stick to a regular schedule. Hold training sessions every evening. This repetition will help your hamster get used to you more quickly.
 Hamsters have sensitive hearing and can pick up on slight sounds. Loud or harsh noises will scare them, while a soft voice will attract them. Before handling your hamster, spend some time talking in a soft voice. If your hamster learns that you produce soft sounds and not loud ones, he'll be more willing to come over to you., Like most animals, hamsters rely heavily on their sense of smell. When your hamster is used to your scent, he'll be willing to trust you.Start by washing your hands. This will prevent you from spreading germs from your hamster, and also ensure that there are no other scents on your hand besides your own. If you smell like food, the hamster might bite because he thinks he can eat you.Slowly insert your hand into the cage and leave it there. For the first day or two, your hamster will probably just run away. It is important to not chase after him, as this will frighten him more. Simply leave your hand motionless and wait for him to approach you. It may take a few days before your hamster is comfortable enough to approach.
When your hamster does approach you, remain still. He's only investigating, and a sudden movement will scare him off again. He'll probably cautiously sniff you a few times. Wait until he gets very close and starts sniffing all over your hand before progressing further.
 When your hamster has grown comfortable enough to approach you, start giving him treats like broccoli or cauliflower.Again, always make sure you open the cage and put your hand in slowly to avoid startling your hamster. Also make sure the hamster can see the treat and that it's not hidden in your hand. Otherwise, he might think your hand is the food and bite you.Don't try to pick him up when he takes the treat. He's still getting used to you and touching him will still probably startle him. Repeat this process for a few more days until your hamster eagerly runs over when you put your hand in the cage.
 When your hamster has grown comfortable enough to approach you, then you can start petting him. When he comes over, slowly lift your hand and pet him. Start with just a finger, and then if he is comfortable use the rest of your hand., After your hamster is comfortable with being touched, then you can try picking him up. This will probably be a week or two after you first get him. Hold out your hand and let your hamster climb in. When he does so, you can lift him up and start playing with him., After your hamster is trained, it will require regular interaction to keep him that way. Try to pick him up every day so he stays acclimated to your scent and is eager to interact with you. If you neglect him, you may have to train him all over again., Even after your hamster is used to you, he can still get startled by sudden movements. Hamsters have poor eyesight and usually interpret any sudden movements as a threat. To avoid bites, always approach your hamster with gradual movements to avoid scaring him., Hamsters bite when they're scared or stressed. If yours starts struggling or trying to get away while you're holding him, that means he's gotten uncomfortable. Pay attention to this non-verbal cue and put your hamster down. Otherwise, he may resort to biting to make sure you get the message., Even when your hamster is used to you, there may be times he just isn't in the mood to be handled. If your hamster doesn't approach you when you reach into the cage, leave him alone. If you grab him when he isn't in the mood, he might bite you., Hamsters are naturally nocturnal creatures, meaning they're more active at night. That means that there's a good chance your hamster will sleep for a portion of the day. Don't disturb him if he's asleep. He'll probably interpret being suddenly awoken as an attack and naturally bite. If your hamster is asleep, let him stay that way.