 One of the easiest ways to locate a licensed acupuncturist in your area is to use the search engine or registry provided on the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture & Oriental Medicine (NCCAOM) website.Keep in mind that the NCCAOM registry only includes practitioners who elect to make their information available through the registry. This means that it is possible for an acupuncturist to be licensed but not appear in the registry.
If someone you know recommended a specific acupuncturist, you can use the NCCAOM website to verify their licensure or contact the organization by phone or email to confirm they are licensed.
 Your physician has likely referred patients to a licensed acupuncturists in the past, and should be able to recommend one.Even if you receive a recommendation from your physician or another medical professional, it’s a good idea to use the other steps in this article to verify the individual is a licensed acupuncturist and make sure their licensing is up to date.
 An acupuncturist may be certified through the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine, but not licensed through the state they are located in. As a result, it’s a good idea to contact your state’s acupuncture board to verify whether an acupuncturist is licensed to practice in your area., Another helpful way to find a licensed acupuncturist is to research patient ratings and reviews online. These will often provide insight into whether an acupuncturist is licensed, but also provide you with invaluable information about their bedside manner and skills.


Contact an organization like the Better Business Bureau, either online or by phone, to see how other patients rate this acupuncturist.
While patient reviews can be helpful, don’t rely on them exclusively. Instead, use them in conjunction with the other methods discussed in the article so you can be confident that someone is a licensed acupuncturist.
 To get a more detailed review of a licensed acupuncturist, ask the office for a current or past patient referral.


Many offices are prepared for these requests and will try to provide the contact information of a patient with a condition similar to yours that the acupuncturist treated.
If the office declines the request because of privacy concerns, don't be alarmed. You want to work with an acupuncturist who is professional and will respect patient privacy.

