 It will boost your immune system against the strains that doctors expect to be the most common in the coming year.It isn’t perfect, but it can really reduce how often you are sick.
You can get the vaccine as an injection or as a nasal spray.
 This will prevent you from infecting yourself with viruses that you may have gotten from shaking hands, touching handrails, etc.


Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are also effective.
 If you are in a small, confined space with lots of people, you are increasing the chances that at least one person near you will be carrying something. This includes:Schools
Offices
Public transportation
Auditoriums

, By eating well, you can give your immune system the energy it needs to quickly fight infections.Get enough vitamins by eating plenty of fruits and vegetables. Excellent sources of vitamins include apples, oranges, bananas, grapes, broccoli, peas, beans, spinach, cauliflower, squash, and asparagus.
Get enough fiber with whole-grain breads and grains like bran, oatmeal, and whole-wheat.
Supply your body with protein through lean meats, poultry, beans, fish and eggs. Avoid fatty meats.
Avoid pre-packaged processed foods. They are more likely to be high in sugar, salt, and fat. They will give you calories, without also providing the nutrients you need.
 Stress can lower your immune system and make you more susceptible to infections. You can reduce stress by:Exercising. Try to exercise at least five times per week. This will cause your body to release endorphins and help you relax.
Getting enough sleep. Most adults need about eight hours a night. Some people need as many as nine or 10 hours.
Meditation
Yoga
Massage
Having close relationships that provide social support. Talking will make you feel less alone.
 The effectiveness of these methods is controversial. Some studies say they help, others say they don’t; however, these are some frequently used remedies:Taking vitamin C when you first start getting symptoms may shorten the length of time that you are sick.
Echinacea may help the immune system. It is available in multiple forms, including tablets, liquids, and teas. Discuss it with your doctor if you are taking prescription medications.
Zinc may help if it is taken right when symptoms start. But do not use zinc nasal sprays. They can damage your sense of smell.
 Smoking weakens your body's ability to fight off illnesses including the flu and the common cold. By quitting smoking or avoiding smoke exposure, you will help to keep your body healthy.