 Unless your spouse or friend has specifically directed you to purchase "that exact decorative thing" for the house, just don't go there. It's way too personal and worst of all, it's blatantly invasive. Remember the stories about people scrambling around to find Great Aunt Jemima's ugly duckling sculpture whenever she visits only to have her thump through the door before they get it on display?! Maybe those aren't stories - maybe it's precisely what you do. The reality is that people don't want to feel obliged to include your idea of style with theirs. They already have a good notion of what they perceive as their style and without specific knowledge of how to add to that, you will end up causing guilt, distress, or thoughts of disposal!;
, You might feel you're being generous forking out $1000 on that coffee making super deluxe that requires at least half the bench space but sadly, unless it was asked for specifically, it's likely your generosity will cause intense discomfort. Assuming someone loves the appliance and its tricks as much as you do is problem number one. Problem number two is assuming they will be more than happy to make room for it in their already limited space. And problem number three is the reality that it's very hard to hide a large appliance and "forget about it". Don't be surprised if you find it on eBay come January.
 Vouchers are great. The reason is several fold: Vouchers give freedom of shopping expression. Vouchers oblige a shopping-shy person to go somewhere they might otherwise feel is beyond their budget or style and try out new "somethings". Vouchers take away the guilt, the misjudgments, the messiness of personal style infliction. And vouchers can be for services as much as goods: Services such as massages, spa visits, hair styling at expensive salons, movie visits, a ride in a balloon, a rock climb, etc. The wonder of service vouchers is that you can give something to people that they might not otherwise allow themselves to indulge in. How wonderful is that?!

, Surprise is for the vague and the wandering souls who hope gifts will bring them a sense of direction. There is no harm in asking someone directly what it is they'd really and truly appreciate as a gift for Christmas. If they appear uncomfortable, or worry about costs attached, make it easy by asking for a list of their wildest to their most frugal ideas. And assure them that something will be "sorted" as a result of that list! It can be very reassuring to both purchaser and recipient to know that the gift is truly wanted.
 When that nasty habit of making the Christmas tree appear as if it is swimming in gifts has overtaken your household each year, it's time to take stock and do a rethink. Quantity is not all that we might dream it to be; quantity often means a reduction in quality, a surfeit of dollar store fill-ins and a tendency to feel overwhelmed and worn out with the extent of gewgaws getting opened. As for watching children open too many gifts, that can be a wipeout of its very own, especially as they cease to remember who gave them what as the opening continues.
 A really fantastic gift is the one that replaces something much loved but worn out or on its last legs. It's even better where the gift replaces something that is broken but the owner never "got around to buying a new one". In the case of "voids", ask about missing items, such as the missing trousers amid the glut of t-shirts, etc. Fill the gaps and help create balance.
 Homemade food, homemade clothing, homemade kits, etc., make eminently suitable gifts provided you do a good job of them. The care lavished on them more than makes up for the lack of a commercial brand name and packaging. Great ideas include gift baskets of jams and jellies, homemade candies, screen-printed t-shirts, knitted scarves, eco-friendly cleaning kit (with printed instructions), homemade flavored alcohol or vinegars, etc.
 Give your time to do things such as repairs around the house, collecting the groceries, preparing the Christmas meal, babysitting, etc. For some families who travel vast distances to be with the wider family at Christmas, the mere fact of your presence is a gift, one that hides the realities of the costs of travel, accommodations, making arrangements for pets/plants at home to be cared for, etc. That in itself is a huge gift and reflects the focus on what Christmas spirit is really about–sharing time together for spiritual and emotional nourishment.

