 A guy is much more likely to notice a girl who loves who she is and who's proud of herself and the way she carries herself. If you look like you're already happy with yourself and your life, then the guy will want to be a very large part of it. If you seem desperate to find a guy to make you feel whole, you'll be much less likely to attract any man that comes your way.


Learn to love being yourself. Not meeting someone else's standards of beauty, or of how a woman should act.
Love whatever you do, whether it's talking to friends or being in class. A guy will be able to tell if you're content with living your life, and will want to join in.;
, Though you may feel like it's impossible to really love the way you look, it's easier than you think. Find three aspects of your looks that you truly adore and focus on emphasizing those when you get dressed. If you're unhappy with your figure, you can exercise to build muscle and burn fat; this will also make you feel more energetic and positive. Do whatever you have to do to truly love the way you look, and any man will be sure to follow.


You don't need to get a wardrobe makeover to feel good about how you look in your clothes — just wearing a few key items that you love can make you look and feel good no matter what happens.
You don't need to wear three or four layers of make-up, either. Just wear whatever makes you feel pretty while staying comfortable, but try to make it natural (if that's what you're looking for).
Keeping up good dental and bodily hygiene by showering daily, washing your hair as often as you need to, and brushing and flossing will also make you feel good about your fresh looks.
Don't try to look like everyone else. If you have gorgeous curly/frizzy hair or cute but small boobs, don't try to hide your unique features or emphasize what you don't have, just be true to yourself!
Don't keep checking your reflection in a mirror or window whenever you're out. This will make guys think that you're very insecure about your looks. So, save the scrutiny for the ladies' room.
 A guy will be much more likely to notice you if you just look like you're having a blast. Though it may be hard to look like you're ballin' if you're taking a math test or sitting in a waiting room at the dentist's, you should always stay positive. Smile whenever and wherever you can, and laugh often.


If a guy sees you out with girlfriends, you'll look much more appealing if you're laughing, giggling, and just looking like you're having an awesome time.
Don't spend all of your time looking around the room for someone better to talk to or checking your phone — if you look like you don't want to be there, a guy will take the hint, and leave you alone, if you obviously look like you don't want to talk.
 It's great to catch the guy's eye from time to time and to go back to laughing with your friends. It's not-so-great to stare at the guy, smile too eagerly, and step away from your friends as you wait for him to approach you. Don't apply your makeup in public, fidget with your outfit, or keep walking past the guy 100 times hoping he'll just walk over to you. This will certainly make him notice you — but not in the boyfriend type of way.


If he doesn't notice you right away, don't force it by awkwardly tapping him or winking at him. This will only push him away.
 Walking by the guy will help get his attention. Just walk by with a purpose, your head held high and your posture straight. Don't linger or walk like you don't know where you're going, but don't march right past him, either. Just walk slowly enough for him to notice you, to check out your cute outfit, and to see that he wants to know you better.


If you're walking towards a friend with big smile on your face, that will get your guy's attention even more.
 If you want the guy to notice you, then you should hold his gaze for just the right amount of time. Don't longingly stare into his eyes for hours — just keep eye contact for a few seconds to show him you're interested. Don't look too eager, but let him see that you'd be open to talking if he approached you. You can even give the guy a little smile to show that you want to see where this goes.


When he does approach you, give him a coy but distinct smile to let him know that you want to start talking to him.
 You only get one first impression, so you should make it count. Once the guy notices you and comes over to you, you should be friendly without coming on too strong, and approachable and just easy to be around. Put him at ease by making a small joke or poking fun at yourself, and avoid any negative or controversial topics to show him that you're fun to talk to.


Just smile and keep things light. You can talk about the deep stuff later.
Don't complain right off the bat. Guys want to hang out with girls who like to have a good time instead of nagging or being negative. If you're negative right away, that says something about what it would be to hang out with you all the time.
 Your body should say that you're confident and ready to talk to the guy. Keep your head raised and don't slouch or cross your arms over your chest. Avoid fidgeting with your jewelry or clothes or you'll look too nervous. Instead, lean in to hear the guy talk, and even give him a light touch on the arm or knee if things are going well.


Don't lose his attention. Keep looking into his eyes and avoid searching the room, making eye contact with your friends, or checking your phone every five minutes. This will make the guy think that you have better things to do than to talk to him.
 Once you're more comfortable, you can start flirting with the guy. Tease him a little bit, and let him tease you back — show that you're comfortable enough with yourself to let him poke fun at you. You can play with your hair a bit or even lick your lips to draw even more of his attention to you. Flirting is all about keeping things light and having fun — you don't have to tell him you think he's hot or start standing way too close to him to send him the message.


Talk a bit more softly than usual. This will make him lean in to hear what you have to say.
 Now that the guy has noticed you, you have to make sure that he wants to keep talking to you and appreciates the unique and amazing person that you really are. You should be yourself, but you should also work to maintain a positive vibe and to stick to topics that are uplifting, funny, and light. This is not the time to talk about your grandmother's funeral or how much you hate traffic — that can come later, when the guy knows you better.


If he complains about something, you can join in to bond with him. But as a rule, don't complain too much at the beginning.
Talk about the things that make you happy, like your hobbies, friends, or pets. He'll catch on to your enthusiasm.
Don't be overly disagreeable — even if you disagree. You don't have to hide your true feelings, but if it turns out you don't agree on something important, like your political beliefs, don't jump into an argument right away.
Ask him about the things he loves to keep things positive. Ask, "What's your favorite thing to do on the weekends?" instead of, "What do you hate most about school?"

, You should not only be positive, flirty, and fun to talk to, but you should actually be interesting. Keep up a good conversation by showing off your sense of humor, being a little bit silly, or mentioning something interesting you read or saw in the news that could lead to a good conversation.


To engage the guy, ask him a few questions about himself to make him feel special. Ask about his interests or passions — just don't get too personal.
Just say yes. If he asks if you've ever seen a certain movie, don't just say "No," but say, "No, but I heard it was amazing. What was it about?" Don't cut off any outlets of conversation just because you don't know much about the topic.
Be witty. Impress the guy with your ability to keep up a funny and sharp banter. Don't say "that's funny" if he makes you laugh, but answer back with an even funnier comment.
 It's great to get noticed, but guys can notice lots of girls. You should make him see what makes you so special by opening up a bit and talking about the things you care about — just not too much. Let him know what you love to do in your free time, how much you love your pets, or just mention a crazy experience you had, like climbing Mt. Kilimanjaro or studying abroad in Buenos Aires.


Whatever you talk about, let the guy see your passion for your life and your interests.
You should let him see that you're special, but don't just monopolize the conversation by talking about how great you are. Make sure that you're both contributing equally to the conversation.
 Finding common ground with the guy is a sure fire way to get him to keep talking to you. Whether you find that you love or hate the same sports team, spend your summers in the same place, or love the same band, this is something that can keep you talking for a long time and can open up other avenues of conversation.


If you've had your eye on the guy for a while, you might even know what his interests are. You can try to sneak them into the conversation to get the guy talking for longer.
 If it's going well, then you should go beyond getting the guy to notice you — get him to ask you out. The easiest way is to use your common interests as an excuse, such as mentioning that the band you both like is playing next week, or saying that a new sushi bar opened up in town if he mentions he loves sushi. You can also just give him a light complement and let him see that you like hanging out with him.


You can be less subtle, and even mention that you want to do something fun over the weekend but don't know what — just don't be too obvious about it.
Now that the guy has noticed you, it's up to you to keep his attention. If you're true to yourself and stay fun and positive, he'll be asking you out in no time at all.
 Find all of his social media pages and follow them — but not all at once!

Make sure to like and comment on his stuff. The heart eyes emoji will always work. Seeing you pop up in his news feed will make him start thinking about you...
Don't bombard him with messages and comments; that could be creepy!

, Then text him on holidays and the such.