 If you aren’t looking at your spouse, you aren’t giving them your full attention. Put down the iPhone or computer and turn off the TV. It’s nearly impossible to pay adequate attention to someone when our attention is divided., Making eye contact with your spouse lets them know that you are focused on them alone and ready to listen. Your facial expression matters, too. Don’t scowl at them or roll your eyes when they begin speaking., Often, we think we are listening to our spouse, when we are busy crafting our response or argument in our heads. This is not good listening because you’re only partially hearing your spouse because your main focus is on what you’re planning to say next. This leads us to jump into the conversation, usually before it’s our turn to speak. Few things are more detrimental to a spouse who needs to feel that they’re being heard than being repeatedly cut off mid-sentence by their partner.


To be a good listener, it's important to avoid dominating conversations. This is related to not interrupting and might seem obvious, but often couples begin to struggle with this concept over time: you can’t be listening if you’re speaking. Be patient and allow your spouse as much time as they need to talk or vent to you., Everyone feels busy and overextended at times between work, school, and family obligations. However, it is important to carve out even ten minutes a day to sit with your spouse and talk. The benefits of this are twofold. First, if you mention to your spouse that you want to prioritize talking to them, then that shows that you care about your relationship and are willing to be proactive to help improve it. Secondly, the ten or more minutes you set aside will help your overall communication if you use the time to give each other a “status report” on your days and how you’re both feeling.


Try to ensure that your discussions are productive. Don’t use this private time to complain that the house is dirty, even if it is. Use this time to talk about a tough project at work or an upcoming event you both have, for example. Then be sure to ask your spouse how their day went and actively listen to them.
If you have truly opposite schedules that make this difficult, then you might try Skype or FaceTime as ways to still communicate with each other.