 There's a saying: "You're never fighting for the reason you think." It may look like you're fighting about money, sex, or something else, but there's usually some feeling underneath that hasn't been fully expressed, maybe even something you hadn't realised you were feeling. Identifying the root feeling can help you calm down and make up with your partner. Common feelings that many fights can be traced to include:


Inadequacy. You feel like you're not good enough and you can't quite believe that your partner would want someone like you - at least, not for long.
Fear of abandonment. You're worried that your partner will leave you - literally, perhaps by cheating on you or by becoming emotionally distant. A little bit of alone time after a fight is good, though. It lets each partner cool down so that hot-tempered things aren't said.
Feeling taken for granted. You feel unappreciated, perhaps used.;
, Learn how to practice nonviolent communication. Telling your partner something like "I feel scared when I see you talking to other girls," or "I feel angry I don't have the money to pay for this right now" allows you to get to the core issue and often helps him or her to understand your feelings without arguing about it.
 Did you snap at your partner? Are you trying to control the outcome of the fight? Is it easier to get what you want by manipulating the situation rather than asking directly? We all do these things to one degree or another. If you can find a way to own up to your part in the argument, without trying to blame or wrong yourself or your partner for it, it may open up a whole new dialogue.
 Sometimes if you can apologize for something you did (even if you didn't "start" it), it can disarm your partner and result in him or her apologizing as well. Something like, "This is not where I wanted this to go, and I'm so sorry it has. Can we take a breather from the disagreement, collect ourselves and try again, only this time less angry?" Always remember: don't apologize for things you didn't do just so the fight will be over. Be sincere.
 Wanting to win an argument is the surest way to keep it going. It's a no-win situation and keeps you from truly connecting with your partner. There's an old saying: "Would you rather be right, or be happy?"

, You can only control yourself and your own pace of learning. If your partner isn't getting it, you can't force him or her to see what the issue your way. There's information in any argument for both of you, but it's impossible to make someone see things from your point of view. Either they do, or do not.


If you're holding out for an apology, and your partner isn't giving it, consider openly forgiving him or her anyway. This kind of acceptance, if you don't do it in a condescending way, might show that you accept your partner's imperfections, which can help him or her be less defensive. Example: After succinctly expressing how you feel (as described earlier), say "I know you didn't mean to hurt my feelings by forgetting about our anniversary. I do still feel hurt, but I'm willing to trust that you didn't do it on purpose, and you'll try to remember next time. OK?"

, The sooner you two can experience some form of joy and lightheartedness, the better. Successful relationships have a five-to-one ratio of appreciations to criticisms. Actions that create genuine positive feelings will help to replenish the emotional bank account of your relationship by noticing and expressing lots of things that you really like about your partner and yourself, and the way you are together. If you're still feeling down about the whole thing, though, start with yourself.
 If your argument has been a nasty one, you may want to make an agreement with your partner about the boundaries and terms of your relationship. For example, "I agree not to call you nasty names." Or, "I'd like for us to agree that we talk about what's going on without yelling at each other."

