 Understand that bee pollen only makes up a fraction of a percent of an average sample of raw honey.Ensure that you are consuming a more sufficient amount of bee pollen each day by taking bee pollen directly instead. At the same time, eliminate the risk of dosing yourself with more than you intended, which may happen with raw honey.Although the amount of bee pollen in honey may not be effective in combating allergy symptoms, thyme honey has proven to be effective against them thanks to other ingredients.Combining processed thyme honey with local bee pollen may allow you to fight symptoms in general while building a stronger immunity to specific pollens.
Do not consume bee pollen if you know that you are allergic to bee stings or if you have suffered anaphylactic shock in the past.
Consult your doctor about using bee pollen if you are pregnant, nursing, or using blood thinners.
 Visit a natural food store or farmer's market to find bee pollen from a local source. Make sure that you are going to be consuming pollen that is found in your area, thus containing those pollens that you are allergic to. Failing a local source, purchase a bee pollen that features a wide array of colors. This indicates a wider variety of pollen types, increasing the chances that it includes the one you need.Bee pollen is available as a liquid, pill, or powder; however, best results are often found with bee pollen that hasn’t been processed., Before you begin taking daily doses, test your current sensitivity to the pollen’s ingredients. Place a very small dab of liquid, powder, or granules on the tip of your tongue and then close your mouth. Hold it there for two minutes. As long as you experience no allergy symptoms, swallow the measure. Wait another 24 hours before beginning your daily regime, just in case any delayed reactions manifest.Discontinue use if you suffer an allergic reaction to such a little amount.
 Start off with small daily doses of a half-teaspoon or even less. Pay close attention to your body to spot allergic reactions if and when they occur. As long as you are clear, slowly increase your intake over a four-week schedule, with the aim of consuming 1 to 3 tablespoons (14.8 to 44.4 ml) each day afterward.Be careful not to rush the process. If a larger amount causes allergy symptoms, cut back to an amount that proved safe and stick with that for a while before attempting another increase.

