 Wash your feet and hands regularly to minimize the risk of fungal and bacterial infections, which can be extremely itchy. Use a mild soap, which is sufficient to keep your feet and hands clean and prevent infection.Wear absorbent, cotton socks to help prevent your feet from getting itchy if your feet tend to sweat a lot.
Wear gloves made of a natural fiber such as cotton to prevent itchiness.
 When you purchase soaps and detergents, choose products that are labeled mild, scent free, dye free, or hypoallergenic. These products contain fewer harmful chemicals that can irritate your skin and cause itchiness.Any product marked “hypoallergenic” has been tested for sensitive skin and will not irritate your skin., Pruritus can can occur because of an allergen or a specific irritant. Knowing what triggers your itching spells can help you avoid the irritant and help relieve and further discomfort.The trigger could be an allergen, food allergy, cosmetic, environmental factor, insect bite, or harsh soap or detergent.If you wear jewelry, the itching could be a product of an allergy to the metals in it.If you suspect a specific trigger, try to limit your exposure to it and see if it relieves your symptoms., When your skin becomes itchy, a signal is sent to your brain that tells you you need more water. This is because itchiness can often be brought on by dehydration. At the same time, if the inner layer of your skin does not get enough moisture, it can lead to an itching sensation. Drink water throughout the day and make sure to drink a full glass before you go to bed.


Try to drink at least 8 to 12 glasses of water a day. If you get bored with water, add some juice to the water to give it some flavor.
You can also eat food with high water content like cucumbers, cherries, tomatoes, celery, green peppers, watermelon, strawberries, cantaloupe, and broccoli., Your condition might become worse if you expose yourself to potential irritants like chemicals or pollen. If you know the things that you are allergic to—including food and dust—do your best to stay away from them.


If you don’t know what you are allergic to, go to an allergy specialist who will run some tests to figure out what substances you are allergic to.
 Certain foods and beverages that are known as vasodilators, including coffee and alcohol, can exacerbate itchiness. Excess sweating can also make it worse. Avoiding vasodilators and situations that cause you to sweat profusely may help minimize your itching and discomfort.Common vasodilators are caffeine, alcohol, spices, and hot water., Having undue stress in your life can exacerbate itching. Trying to reduce the amount you have in your life may minimize or heal your itching.You can use a variety of techniques to reduce stress including therapy, meditation, yoga, or exercise.