 In this day and age, most of the bills you pay can probably be taken care of without trying to set up automatic bill pay or asking someone else to take care of it while you are away. All you will need is a good internet connection and a computer or smart phone to pay your bill.Even if you can’t pay the bill on the company website, the company may have a telephone number you can call to make a payment. If you will be in a foreign country, consider using an internet phone service such as Skype to make your call. This can save you a lot of money if you don’t already have an international calling plan.
If you plan to make the calls over an internet phone service, look to see if the company has a 1-800 number you can call. Internet phone services will usually allow you to make these calls for free.
 If you don’t already have it set up for certain accounts, call the company and tell them that you would like to be able to make online payments.If they don’t offer the service, ask whether you might be able to make payments over the phone.
 Since you will be paying each bill yourself as you would when you were at home, you’ll need to make sure you are keeping up with your payments. Write the due date of the bill on the calendar, and how much you have to pay.


If you have to call to make the payment, it might be a good idea to make a note of this on the calendar so you don’t forget.
 Many companies will send an automated email a few weeks before your bill is due, so it’s a good idea to check your email regularly just in case you have forgotten about a particular bill.Usually, they will also email you if something unusual occurs. For example, if your credit card company notices unusual activity on your account, they may send you an email to confirm that you made the charges.
 On the day that the bill is due, or a few days before, log into your online account and follow the step-by-step instructions on how to pay your bill. Some companies will offer to store your payment information so you don’t have to get out your debit/credit card each time you pay the bill.Avoid paying bills in a place such as an internet cafe. These connections are not always secure, and you run the risk of getting your computer hacked. If you can’t find a place where the connection will be secure, then it is best to just call and pay your bill over the phone.

