 During summers, Shreveport is very humid and hot, but there is a likelihood of snow during winters. It also gives you a mix of cold and warm weather if you decide to visit during both summers and winters! Rain also comes with summers and there is a risk for hurricanes. If the weather is unpleasantly warm, you can always have a refreshing, cold drink!
, There are two airports in Shreveport that you can fly into. Those are the Shreveport Regional Airport, which can be found intersecting between Interstates 20 and 220 and Louisiana State Route 3132. The other option is the Shreveport Downtown Airport, only several miles from downtown Shreveport. That airport's planes are smaller than the regional airport., The route is in the east-west between Dallas, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia. You can also get to Shreveport from Alexandria, Louisiana from I-49., You can get there easily by driving from other states that border Louisiana. You can get there from Little Rock, Arkansas in over three hours, Dallas, Texas in over two hours, Biloxi, Mississippi in nearly six hours, and from Memphis in just over five hours!

In Louisiana: Shreveport is also near Minden, Louisiana (28 minutes away), the town of Monroe, Natchitoches, and hours away from various cities in Louisiana such as New Orleans. Furthermore, Shreveport is six hours away from Grand Isle, the bottom of Louisiana.
 There are many hotels in Shreveport; you can even stay at one of the casinos, such as the Eldorado Resort. There are even some old-style hotels such as the Remington Hotel and Spa. Check them out! , This restaurant has special Cajun and Southern Culture food, and many people enjoy it. For example, there is a lot of crawfish that is spicy, hot and in season, and Cajun dishes, po-boys, etc. , It's on 1665 Industrial Loop, and it has a lot of wonderful food to offer, including pasta, salad, steak and different types of seafood. The food there is flavorful as well. , It is the most ancient restaurant that is still in business, and it began operating in 1927. The main specialty is muffalettas, also known as "muffys" (or as they call it, "the muffy"). It's an altered version of the cold cut sandwich with olives, mustard and American cheese on top, which is from New Orleans. However, the "muffy" is smaller and it can serve one person., These shrimp are also known by the alliteration of "Shreveport-style stuffed shrimp". These shrimp started in the Freeman and Harris Cafe kitchen. These are huge shrimp that contain the stuffing of Creole-dressing and served with tartar sauce that is spicy. The shrimp are also deep-fried. You can find Shreveport-style stuffed shrimp at Eddie's Restaurant (1956 Hollywood Ave), Brother's Seafood (4916 Monkhouse Drive) and DNC Café (1765 Milam Street)., The casinos are one of the most fascinating parts of Shreveport. They include the Eldorado Resort Casino and the Sam's Town Hotel & Casino. More information about them can be described below. The Eldorado Resort Casino: Features games that can be played on the table, such as slots and poker. You can also try a Texas Hold 'Em tournament or a slot machine. Slot machines are very abundant! There are also several choices for dining, such as a restaurant entitled The Vintage, which is a steakhouse, and the Sportmans' Paradise Cafe. Sam's Town Casino: Live music and gaming opportunities provided! There is also a large variety of tables for gaming, as well as slot machines. There are sometimes nights of three-card poker competitions, as well as slot tournaments.
 This is on 501 Texas street. It's a very interesting walk and shows off the history of Shreveport! You will be able to walk with several tour guides and learn all about tales regarding Shreveport's history as well as haunted areas. This attraction is definitely for those interested in haunted things. The walks take, by estimate, almost two hours with continuous storytelling. , That's actually the science center of Shreveport, right on the riverfront. You will be able to see more than 290 exhibits about science, space science, mathematics and technology. There is more to be offered though -- there is an IMAX Dome theater, laser space dome planetarium, café, gift shop, etc. It's worth checking out., The address is on 201 Clyde Fant Parkway. This cruise is especially for you if you love the water and wish to ride a boat. It's also an educational opportunity for you to capture the history of the Red River, as well as see floating casinos that formed from old boats. Many people who take this cruise see wildlife in the wetlands of the Red River, as well as those in the Cross Bayou.

This cruise can hold up to 35 passengers. You can find unblocked views of the surroundings through a huge observation deck, and you can also see sights inside through spacious and big windows.
 There is a trail for walking, place for picnics, playground, fields for baseball and softball and a multipurpose building. The park is 23 acres overall. , It's found on Elvis Presley Avenue, which is historical. The auditorium is a great place for touring acts, sports events, concerts played live, parties and much more, so it's definitely worth seeing. The auditorium provides seats for over 3,000 people and the arena is 6,300 square feet (wow!). In addition, this auditorium has tons to offer, from a tremendously large stage to food areas.

