 Place 1 cup (93 g) of raw walnuts and and 1 cup (150 g) of raw almonds in the bowl of a food processor. Pulse the mixture until the nuts are finely ground.If you prefer, you can use all of one nut rather than a combination. The nuts should total 2 cups (240 g).;
, Once the nuts are ground, add ¾ cup (60 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder and ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of sea salt to the food processor. Pulse the mixture lightly until it is combined. Pour the mixture into a bowl and set it aside for the moment.You can substitute cacao powder for the cocoa powder if you prefer.
 After you’ve removed the nut mixture from the food processor, add 2 ½ cups (425 g) of pitted dates to it. Pulse the dates until they are reduced to small bits. Transfer the mixture to a bowl and set aside for the moment.If you are using dried dates, be sure to soak them in warm water for at least 10 minutes. Drain them well and then process them.
 Pour the nut and cocoa mixture back into the food processor and begin processing it. Slowly add handfuls of the the ground dates to the nuts and cocoa to mix them in until you achieve a dough-like consistency.Keep in mind that you may not need to add all of the dates. If you squeeze the brownie mixture in your hand and it holds together, you don’t need to add any more dates.
 For the brownies, you’ll need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) baking dish. Use a piece of parchment paper to line the dish so the brownies won’t stick.You can use wax paper to line the baking dish if you prefer.
 Once you’ve lined the baking dish, transfer the brownie mixture to it. Add 2 tablespoons (22 g) of cacao nibs and the remaining ½ cup (47 g) of raw walnuts to mixture and toss the ingredients together until they’re evenly distributed.If you prefer, you can substitute almonds for the walnuts.
 When the brownie mixture is combined with the nibs and walnuts, use clean hands to press it into the dish. The brownies should be flat and firm when you’re finished.If you find that the brownie mixture is sticking to your hands as you press it, it may help to lay a piece of plastic wrap over it to form a barrier between the brownies and your skin.
 After you’ve pressed the brownies into the pan, use the edges of the parchment paper lining the dish to lift them out. Use your hands to squeeze in the sides to form a smaller square.Squeezing the mixture this way will create thicker, denser brownies. You can skip it if you prefer thinner brownies.
 After you’ve squeezed the brownies into a smaller square, return them to the lined baking dish. Place the dish in the refrigerator for 10 to 15 minutes to firm up.Be sure to place the parchment paper back in the dish with the brownies.
You can chill the brownies in the freezer if you prefer.
 Add ¼ cup (59 ml) of almond milk to a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave the milk on high for 45 seconds or until it is very warm.You can substitute another non-dairy milk for the almond milk if you prefer.
If you don’t have a microwave, you can heat the milk in a pan on the stove until it is just simmering.
 Once the milk is warm, add 1 cup (175 g) of chopped, dairy-free dark chocolate to the bowl. Loosely cover it with foil and allow the mixture to sit for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the chocolate melts., After the milk and chocolate mixture has sat for a few minutes, add ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of sea salt and 2 tablespoons (26 g) of melted coconut oil to the bowl. Stir the mixture well with a whisk and chill it in the refrigerator for 10 minutes to thicken up., After the chocolate mixture has chilled, remove it from the refrigerator. Begin adding ¼ to ½ cup (31 to 62 g) of powdered sugar a little at a time to thicken it up further. Whisk well to ensure that the frosting is fully combined.If the frosting is still too thin after you add ½ cup (62 g) of the sugar, you may need to add a little more.
 Once the frosting is prepared, use a butter knife or offset spatula to carefully smooth it over the brownies. Make sure all of the brownies are covered with a generous amount.The frosting is an optional step, but it definitely makes for more decadent vegan brownies.
 After you’ve spread the frosting over the brownies, sprinkle some chopped, raw walnuts over them. You can also add some cacao nibs as a garnish.The garnishes are optional. You can leave the frosting on its own if you prefer.
 When the brownies are garnished, use a sharp knife to cut them into 12 even squares. Serve them with a glass of non-dairy milk or your favorite warm beverage.Keep any leftover brownies in an airtight container. They will stay fresh for 3 to 4 days at room temperature or 7 days in the refrigerator.

