 A floor manager must communicate effectively -- managing what the Director instructs -- with other members of the production crew and with studio audiences.


Join a group, such as Toastmasters, to practice public speaking. You may want to take educational courses in public speaking.
Familiarize yourself with principles of effective business communication through classes, reading or observation.;
,


You do not need a college education to work on a studio floor, but the field is very competitive. You may have an advantage if you have formal training.
 This is often the first step in a production career, and it may help you to build knowledge, experience and contacts.


You may supervise production assistants and assistant floor managers when you work as a studio floor manager. Knowing these jobs thoroughly may be an asset.



Observe both the director and the floor manager during productions. A good working relationship between these production crew employees is important.
Roles on the studio floor include camera operators, lighting, audio and talent. As a floor manager, you may coordinate these crew members.
 This may help you to hear about employment opportunities for a production crew.


Industry groups include American Women in Radio and Television and Producers Alliance for Cinema and Television (PACT).



TV production is very much a network-driven industry. Stay in touch with people who help you along the way and ask them to keep you in mind and to recommend you for open positions.
Build your network by participating in local seminars and by working on volunteer community productions for your local cable system.
Ask a production contact who has been especially helpful to you to serve as a mentor, career guide and reference.
 Look at industry sites and general employment sites. Consider checking with contacts you have made and the placement office of your school or vocational program.


In addition to floor manager positions, consider all studio floor employment openings. Smaller studios may combine roles.
As a member of a production crew, you may be among the first to know when a floor manager position becomes available.
Many companies fill positions for the studio floor with in-house candidates or by referral.

