 If you have a puppy who seems to be developing with these traits they may have dwarfism.


Short legs with larger joints (usually in the correct proportion to one another; seen in virtually all dwarf dogs)
Under bite (front upper teeth are behind the front lower teeth when the mouth is shut)
Large head in proportion to body
Excessive panting
Snoring
Under bite
Bulging eyes
Pain of the spine;
, As mentioned many of these traits may not be a concern for the dog. As a puppy grows some of these traits may be decreased or increased, it is important to recognize them early so you can pick up on any changes that may be a sign of discomfort.


If you are considering getting a puppy of a breed that has these dwarf traits, consider a well-recognized breeder who recognizes the potential health risks of their breed. Not all breeders are concerned with maximizing the health of their puppies. You need to be critical of a breeder. Often exaggerating the traits that the breed is known for can be done most easily with inbreeding leading to sever health issues. For pets form a pet store it is always a gamble with the health of the puppy. Puppies with these symptoms that are mix bred often have fewer health risks.
  These symptoms are most likely suffering from breathing difficulties .


Possible symptoms include:

Snoring
Excessive panting
Breathing through mouth only
Under bite
Caved in appearance of the muscle
Loud, snoring-like or difficult breathing


These symptoms may not be due to dwarfism but they should be monitored. There are surgical procedures available for sever cases to reduce the amount of tissue in the nasal cavity that is likely causing the issue. In puppies this is only recommended in severe cases, as the dog is still developing and this procedure may lead to further issues.
 As mentioned some breeds will have shorter legs, and they will be perfectly happy and healthy. Some exceptions may include:


Disproportionate lengths in front and back legs. If your dog’s legs are disproportion you may need to purchase a rolling brace to allow them to move more easily.
Bowed legs. You will notice this more easily in the front legs. Bowing legs is something you should treat. While several things can cause this, a good calcium diet will help your dog’s bones develop and prevent uncomfortable bowing.  Large breeds can be put on a diet that will slow explosive growth and be fed supplements to strengthen and fortify bone development. The earlier you detect and treat this, the less risks your dog will face.
  For large breeds that spring up to size rapidly with dwarfism. The difference in the structure of their legs can cause difficulty walking and often pain. Extra weight can increase this pain so getting more activity and a healthy diet is key. To help develop muscles, a swimming pool or lake is a very good option. Like humans with leg injuries, water therapy can take their body weight off their legs and allow it to build more easily. Go swimming with them. Depending on the breed you may want to purchase a life jacket for your dog to ensure their head stays above water.
 To keep breathing issues from affecting your dog’s health you can:


Minimize intense activity. This can be difficult with an energetic puppy, but try to take them on light walks and keep them in a calmer state
Try oxygen therapy. If a puppies tong turns blue or their gums appear pale, they are not getting enough oxygen. This type of treatment will require a special mask for your dog that you will hold on their snout. If you do not have this system on hand seek emergency care immediately.
 If a dog is experiencing pain in their spine you will want to determine the cause as soon as possible. Take your dog to the vet. Dogs with dwarfism are much more likely to develop serious spine issues, which can potentially cause paralysis. Inter vertebral Disc Disease is one such issue which has several forms that can occur at any point on the spine. Symptoms will include


Reluctance to preform usual activities

lack of enthusiasm for walks
lack of interest in treats
no interest in play


Pain during petting or grooming exhibited by

yelping
withdrawing
nipping
shaking


Fatigue. You will want your vet to examine your dog’s spine and preform x-rays to determine what the exact cause of the pain is. ""For treatment”“ your vet will discuss the possibility of physical therapy, massages, or surgical options. It is very important that you contact your vet immediately if you notice spinal pain as delaying increases the risk for lack of mobility and nerve damage.
 Similar to yourself, a dog will loose their puppy teeth once they reach adult hood. If a puppy tooth is not properly erupted it can cause pain while eating and a lack of desire to eat. ""Do not attempt to pull"" these teeth can often have very long roots and can be extremely painful to remove. Attempted removal may result in sever gum tearing Your vet will be fully prepared to remove the tooth for you and may locally numb or sedate the dog depending on temperament and severity.
 This is an issue with swallowing food. This occurs from paralysis of the esophagus, and can lead to food or water resting in the esophagus or aspirating into the lungs. Investigate how to care for them.
 Thinning of the skin, scaling, and wrinkling are found in some dogs with dwarfism. Thin skin may result in skin being torn more easily(sometimes from grooming), scales can irritate the skin, and wrinkles if not cleaned can result in infection.


For thin skin. Use specialty brushes soft silicone brushes are available that will reduce skin injury. If your dog gets cut easily during play, you may need to reduce brush in your yard that can snag their skin. Try to reduce any rough play if this causes bleeding.
For scaly skin. This is simply a result of dry and irritated skin, but it should be treated if your dog is uncomfortable. Special shampoos are available for dogs with this condition that help eliminate residue and improve moisture for their skin.
Wrinkles aren’t too tough to deal with you will just want to be aware of them. Your dog may need regular bathing, but you can also purchase a cleaning solution that you can apply with a cotton ball.

