 A Thrianta rabbit needs a sturdy, roomy cage to live in. A cage also gives him security when you are not around to watch him. The minimum cage size for a single rabbit is 12 square feet. However, to give it a comfortable spot to live, the cage should be wide enough that the bunny can stretch out fully, high enough that his head doesn’t touch the ceiling when he stands on his hind legs, and long enough for him to hop three to four lengths when up and about.The cage needs enough room for your rabbit to stretch out. The minimum width of the cage needed for a Thrianta rabbit is two feet, while the length needs to be at least six feet so he can hop three to four times in the cage. The height needs to accommodate your rabbit standing on his back legs, so the cage should be two to three feet tall.
Consider making the cage a little bit larger than the minimum. The cage needs to have space for a litter box, his food and water dishes, and a resting box. Ideally, make the cage at least twice the minimum recommended amount of floor space.
You can make the living space from a hutch, a small shed, or a roomy dog crate.;
, Your rabbit needs an exercise space in addition to his cage. This exercise space needs to at least be 32 square feet. You can make an exercise area from a run, an aviary, or even a wire pen. You can set up a spare room to let your rabbit run freely in without having to set up a cage or an exercise area at all.For example, you can set up an area that is eight feet by four feet. You can also give your rabbit a six feet by six feet space.
 Your rabbit’s cage needs a solid floor, like a piece of carpeting or wooden flooring. Fleece fabric can also work since it won’t leave strings in the digestive tract if your rabbit eats it. Do not have a cage with a wire floor because they can give your rabbit sores on the bottom of his feet.Smaller rabbits, like the Thrianta, may get their feet stuck in the wires and injure themselves.
 Your rabbit’s living space needs bedding. This will be where your rabbit sleeps. Your rabbit will eat the bedding, so it should be edible. Good materials to make bedding out of include meadow or timothy hay, natural fiber blanket, pelleted paper, or other organic products.Your rabbit should have enough bedding in the cage so he can move it around and burrow in it.


The bedding should be checked daily. Clean the bedding as often as necessary. If your rabbit is going to the bathroom in his bedding, he needs a larger area to roam and exercise. Unclean bedding can lead to fleas, flies, and other pests, causing health problems.
Harmful bedding products for your rabbit include straw, cardboard, newspaper, wood shavings, sawdust, cat litter, or cedar or pine products.
 You can choose to let your rabbit live outdoors or indoors. Indoor rabbits generally live longer, happier lives and are more social. Outdoor rabbits are more skittish, susceptible to the elements, predators, mites, flies, fleas, and other complications.


You can set up your rabbit’s living area inside your house and set up his exercise area outdoors.
When placing your rabbit’s living area outside, you need to make sure to place it in a spot that protects your rabbit. Place is away from direct sunlight, drafts, damp areas, extreme temperatures, or loud noises. Always give outdoor living spaces a roof to protect the rabbit from the rain and other elements. The cage should be placed so predators and other animals cannot get to it or inside.
 If you choose to let your rabbit live inside, let your rabbit run free in one room. Your rabbit room should have everything your rabbit needs, like a litter box, a hay feeder, food dishes, and water bowl in one area. Set up things for your rabbit around the room, such as cardboard castles, bunny condos, puppy pens, or rabbit cages., Rabbits need a litter box where they can do their business. For a small Thrianta rabbit, a medium to large sized plastic cat litter pan will make a good litter box. Put fresh hay inside the litter box.For multiple rabbits, you can either set up a very large litter box or place individual boxes for each rabbit.
Confine the rabbit to the cage until he is consistently using the litter box.
 Rabbits will eat hay while they go to the bathroom. This means you need to set up your litter box with two different ends. On one end of the box there should be a kitchen area filled with clean hay to nibble. The other end should be the bathroom end where your rabbit will do his business.
 Rabbits like to hide from anything that scares them, like predators and loud noises. Your rabbit needs hiding places in his living area and exercise area.


Good hiding places include cardboard boxes, systems of cardboard tube tunnels, or any low enclosed area easily accessible.Rabbit hiding places can also be bought from pet stores.
 A rabbit’s favorite hobby is chewing. If you decide to keep your rabbit indoors, protect your rabbit and your home by covering wires, trim, furniture, and other similar things. Keep an eye on your rabbit when he runs around the room. Give him an acceptable chewing object if he tries to chew on wires, furniture, or part of the house.


Protect electrical cords by tucking them inside hard plastic tubing split lengthwise. You can also hide cords behind wood work or trim, wrap them in spiral wrap, or use concealers to keep them out of sight.You may also want to completely remove wires from any room your rabbit will be running around in.
Rabbits will also chew on furniture, door edges, trim, wallpaper, sheetrock, and carpet. To help keep your house safe, place a board or cardboard over any places that your bunny may want to chew. Put cardboard or 2x4s under furniture, like beds, couches, or chairs, so the rabbit doesn’t burrow up into the soft underside of it. , To help prevent your rabbit from chewing on things he shouldn’t, give your rabbit plenty of items to chew on. You can give your rabbit alfalfa cubes, grass hay stuffed in cardboard tubes, fresh apple, willow or aspen branches, or rolled up cotton towels., Your rabbit needs a water dish in his cage. Try a ceramic dish for a water dish.If you let your rabbit have an entire room, make sure there are multiple water dishes set out in the room.
 The most common thing in a rabbit’s diet is a high quality grass hay. Your rabbit should have grass hay in unlimited amounts. Daily, you should throw away wet or dirty hay and replace it with fresh hay.


Don’t feed your rabbit alfalfa hay as the main part of his diet. This hay is too high in protein and calcium and should only be fed as a treat.
 Your rabbit should eat commercial rabbit pellets daily.An adult Thrianta rabbit can have ⅛ to ¼ cup of pellets daily. Always provide your rabbit with fresh pellets, so change them daily.


Don’t feed a rabbit grain or seed mixes. If a rabbit has a seed or grain mix, he will pick out the parts of the mix, giving him unbalanced nutrition.
 Green leafy vegetables are important for a rabbit’s nutrition. They add fiber and moisture to your rabbit’s diet, which is needed for healthy digestion. You can give your rabbit all kinds of lettuce, except iceberg which is nutritionally deficient, carrot tops, broccoli stems and leaves, dandelion greens, and bok choy. A Thrianta rabbit needs one to two loose cup of these a day.


Introduce new greens to the rabbit slowly so they don’t cause diarrhea, which can be fatal.
 Rabbits can have a few tablespoons of treats each day. Treats include starchy vegetables, like carrot roots, and fresh fruit. The majority of your rabbit’s diet needs to consist of hay, pellets, and leafy vegetables.


Never feed any other human foods to rabbits, especially not corn or other grains.
 Your rabbit’s litter box needs to be cleaned often. Rabbits will avoid dirty litter boxes. You should never go two days without changing the litter box.


To clean the litter box, dump everything into the trash. Wash the box, then add more bedding and hay.
Make sure to check all of your rabbit’s hay often. You want to make sure to keep your rabbit’s space as clean as possible to avoid any diseases.
 The Thrianta rabbit has a medium length fur, which needs minimal grooming. Brush your Thrianta rabbit with a soft bristled brush once a week to remove any loose hairs. You can also wet your hands and stroke the hair to help remove loose hairs and to keep them from flying around the room.When you brush your rabbit, check the skin and ears for any crusts or parasites. If you find any, contact your veterinarian for advice on how to treat it.
 If your rabbit chews, the teeth should wear normally and your rabbit will not have any problems. However, some rabbits may end up with teeth that need filing or trimming. If the teeth need trimming, take your rabbit to the veterinarian to clip them.Don’t try to trim your rabbit’s teeth yourself. You could crack a tooth, which can become infected or abscessed.
 Most Thrianta rabbits are healthy as long as a proper diet is fed to them. Once a year you should take your rabbit to the vet for an examination to make sure all is well.


This examination will include a tooth check to make sure the teeth are wearing properly. If not, the veterinarian may need to trim them so the mouth or teeth don’t become injured.
 When your rabbit is four to six months old, he should be neutered (or spayed if she is a female). Neutering or spaying keeps rabbits from getting pregnant if you own two rabbits of the opposite sex. It also prevents aggression or urine spraying, along with reproductive system cancer and infections., Usually, rabbits fed proper diets live healthy lives. However, monitor your rabbit for signs of illness, such as refusing to eat or drink, diarrhea, not pooping for a day, eye or nasal discharge, drooling, swellings, reddened skin, or fur loss anywhere on the body, not hopping or moving like normal or unable to use back legs, dark, red urine, or a fever of more than 105 °F.If you see any of these, contact your veterinarian immediately for an examination.

