 Scalp eczema can cause problems for your scalp or any affected areas of your skin. Common symptoms include flaky skin (dandruff), itching, red skin, scaliness or crusting of the skin, greasy patches, and hair loss.Inflammation leads to red patches and high fatty acid content, which can make the skin greasy and yellow in some people.In infants, it is common in the scalp and can present as red, dry scaly plaques, or in more severe cases as thick white or greasy yellow scales.
Other skin diseases such as fungal infection, psoriasis, dermatitis, and lupus may resemble scalp eczema. However, these differ based on the location and layers of the skin involved.If you aren’t sure whether your symptoms match those of scalp eczema, see your doctor. S/he can help you determine the cause of your symptoms and whether they are severe enough to require treatment.;
, In addition to decreased oils and moisture present, doctors believe that a certain kind of yeast, Malassezia furfur, has a role in causing seborrheic eczema.Malassezia yeast is usually present on the outer surface of the skin. In those with scalp eczema, this yeast invades the superficial layers of skin and secretes substances that increase fatty acid production. This leads to inflammation and enhances production and dryness of skin, which causes the skin to flake.


If your eczema is atopic, meaning that your family has a tendency to develop eczema, yeast may not be the culprit. Doctors believe that many people with atopic eczema have a faulty skin barrier due to a changed gene within the skin’s structural proteins., While doctors are not certain why some people develop seborrheic eczema, and others don’t, there do appear to be some factors that increase your risk, including:Being overweight or obese
Fatigue
Environmental factors (such as dry weather)
Stress
Other skin issues (such as acne)
Certain medical conditions, including stroke, HIV, Parkinson’s disease, or head injury

, Alcohol removes protective oils from the skin surface, causing the scalp to dry out. This can make the flaking and itching worse and may be a contributing cause of seborrheic eczema.Be gentle with washing your skin and scalp. Do not scrub! Gently massage your skin with your fingers when washing your hair. The goal is to clean your hair without stripping the oils from your scalp.
 Though it can be difficult to avoid scratching when a part of your body feels dry and itchy, you should try not to scratch the affected areas because the skin can become irritated and bleed.


You could even cause a secondary infection if you scratch excessively.
 It is unlikely that you will be able to completely “cure” your disease with an effective treatment. Scalp eczema appears and then disappears when it is treated. However, it usually comes back and will require continuous treatment. Luckily, many of the treatments can be continued for long periods.