 Find a nice and quiet place to talk whether it's a park, room etc. Choose the time you want to talk to her.


If you have known her for a year or less, it's probably better to pick a semiprivate place, such as a park, beach, mall, or restaurant. Some women (especially those who have had bad experiences with men or are homophobic) feel fear when someone admits to liking them. If the two of you are very comfortable around each other, then private places are also fine.
Avoid bedrooms; your friend may think that you're trying to imply something.;
, Pick out one of your favorite outfits, and consider makeup if you don't usually wear it. There's no need to dress like you're ready for the Oscars, but looking a little extra beautiful will help boost your confidence.
 You'll want to set a serious and compassionate tone to the conversation, so that she feels comfortable.


For example: "Latisha, there's something I've been wanting to tell you for quite a while. It may take you by surprise, but it's important to me, so may we please talk for a minute?"
"We need to talk" is usually a bad way to start; it may make her feel intimidated or nervous.
 This is big news, and it'll take her time to sort out her feelings. Tell her that you understand that this is big, and that if she wants to take time to think, you understand that and you're okay with it.


Fishing for a response is likely to elicit a negative reaction.
Don't overanalyze her immediate response. Sometimes, people's gut reaction is very different from how they truly feel. Allow her to think about it, so she can give you a response from the heart.
Be prepared for both the worst response ("I'm straight") and the best response ("I feel the same way about you!").
 It's natural to feel nervous, but it's important not to allow it to overcome you, because it will prevent you from listening and having a good discussion.


You can always scream into a pillow or treat yourself to a movie marathon afterwards. (You earned it!)

, Sometimes people need time away to sort out how they really feel. Waiting is tough, but it also means that she's thinking hard—i.e., there's a solid chance that she's gay or bisexual!


If she still hasn't given you a clear answer after a week, then she's probably shy or really struggling. Reach out to her through a note, phone call, or text, letting her know that you're thinking of her and are open to talking if she is.
 This will depend on her answer to you.


If she likes you back, then you can become girlfriends, and start going on dates.
If she feels uncertain, then you may want to continue being friends, and see where it goes from there. Or, you may decide to get over her, because uncertainty is too painful.
If she isn't interested, consider whether you're interested in still being friends. You may continue being friends, take a break for you to get over her, or end the friendship. All of these are okay things to do. You can move on, party, meet new girls, and find someone new who will fall for you.
 Confessing a crush is very difficult, especially when the crush is of the same gender. Treat yourself to something nice (involving your new girlfriend, or all by yourself), and feel proud that you took the initiative to state your feelings. You deserve it.

