 To protect your strands against breakage, you should be careful about when you untangle your hair. The one rule of thumb to follow is that you should never tackle knots immediately after shampooing your hair. The elements of shampoo that wash your hair also strip away natural oils, leaving your hair dry and prone to breaking — especially if you’re tugging at knots. You should also wait for your hair to dry if you are going to brush it, because water can weaken your hair follicles and leave your hair prone to breakage. You should address tangled hair:Before shampooing, with your hair completely saturated, or
After both shampooing and conditioning, when the conditioner has begun rehydrating your stripped, shampooed hair.;
, The one tool to avoid when detangling hair is a rounded brush. Long, tangled hair can wrap around a rounded brush and get caught, making a bad situation even worse.Instead, use a flat brush that will be able to move through the hair without getting wrapped up in it. If using a comb, make sure to work with wet hair after it’s been conditioned., You may be tempted to start at the roots and work your way to the end, but this can make the tangles worse. With this method, you’re just brushing your tangles down instead of out, either making the knots denser and harder to extract or pushing multiple knots into each other. Instead, begin untangling the knots at the ends of your hair first.
 Using your flat brush or comb, work your way up the length of your hair. Don’t tug or force the brush through knots, as this could cause the hair to break. Be gentle and deliberate, using your fingers as an aid to detangle the hair.
 If you reach a point where you can’t detangle a knot without damaging your hair, you might need to use a product to help. Whatever conditioner you use on a daily basis will be very useful; just apply it to the tangled strands and leave it in as you continue trying to work the knot free. You can also use a moisturizing hair mask or a detangling spray or cream — all of which can be purchased wherever shampoos and conditioners are sold.
 For daily upkeep, you want to make sure that you’re not leaving any knots in your hair, as they can build up over time and result in mats. This might take some time, so turn off the water in the shower if necessary. This will both prevent water waste and make sure you’re not stuck in a cold shower by the time you’re done.

