 You can use butter, flavorless cooking oil, or non-stick cooking spray. Put the pan aside when you're finished., Sift the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Stir everything together until well-mixed., Pour the white granulated sugar into a separate bowl. Add the egg, buttermilk, melted butter, and vanilla extract. Stir the ingredients together with a whisk until smooth.Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often. There should be no streaks of egg yolk or clumps of sugar.

Do not use all of the buttermilk. You are only using ½ cup (120 milliliters) of buttermilk for now.
 Pour half of the flour mixture into the sugar mixture. Stir it in with a spatula, then add in the rest. Keep stirring, scraping the bottom and sides of the bowl, until the mixture is smooth and there are no streaks or clumps., The batter that's in the bowl will eventually become the chocolate swirl. Do not snip the tip of the piping bag just yet. Keep the piping bag upright in a bowl or cup to keep it from tipping over., Melt the chocolate first, then pour it into the remaining batter. Sift in the cocoa powder, and pour in the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of buttermilk. Stir everything together until smooth and no streaks remain.You can melt the chocolate in the microwave or in a small double boiler.
 Snip the tip of the piping bag with a pair of scissors until the opening is about ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide., Do not squeeze the batter into the bottom of each well. Rather, fill just the left side of each well. You will be filling the other half with the plain batter. Make sure that you only fill the cavity three-quarters deep. If you fill it all the way to the rim, the doughnuts will overflow as they bake., Make sure that the plain batter touches the chocolate batter. Again, fill the cavities no more than three-quarters of the way.If you fill them all the way to the brim, the doughnuts will overflow., Stick a toothpick into the first well, and stir it around until the two batters swirl together. Repeat this step for the remaining wells.Do not over-stir the batter; you want it to be streaky., Let them finish cooling, about 10 to 15 minutes. You can prepare the glaze during this time, but don't get impatient and try to glaze the doughnuts while they are still warm., Heat the heavy cream in a small saucepan on the stove or in a cup in the microwave. Bring it to just below a boil, then set it aside. Sift together the icing sugar and the cocoa powder in a mixing bowl. Stir in the hot heavy cream with a whisk. Keep stirring until it is smooth.The glaze should be thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.

If the glaze is too thin, add more icing sugar, 1 tablespoon (7.5 grams) at a time.
Heat the cream over medium-low to medium heat in a saucepan for a few minutes.
Heat the cream in the microwave on high for 2 to 3 minutes.
 Pick up your first doughnut and turn it upside down so that the bottom is facing up. Dip the top of the doughnut into the icing. Pull the doughnut up and let the excess icing drip off. Turn the doughnut right-side-up, then set it down onto the wire cooling rack. Repeat this step for the other doughnuts.

Make clean up easier by placing a sheet of parchment paper or wax paper under the wire rack to catch any drips.
 You could also add some white or chocolate sprinkles on top of the icing while it is still wet for a hint of color. Let the icing set all the way before you serve the doughnuts.