 Your brow should start where the pencil meets your brow. Plan to remove any hair between that point and the beginning of your other brow. , Angle the pencil so it is in line with the outer side of your pupil. The place where the pencil touches the brow is where the highest point of your brow arch should be.
 This is where your eyebrow should end. , This will be your guide when you are removing the hair.
 Choose tweezers that have a slanted edge. You can line them right up with the brow bone or flip them over for more precise hair removal., It will soften the hair and open your pores.


If showering is not an option, wet a washcloth with warm water and drape it over your eyebrows for a few minutes.
 Unless a hair falls far above your eyebrow line, only remove hair from below your eyebrow. This will help you keep the shape of your brow.
 You can find one at a beauty supply store or your local drugstore.


Wax kits come in a couple of varieties. You can purchase wax that you warm up and then apply, or pre-made wax strips.
Waxing your eyebrows yourself can be tricky, so if you are worried about making a mistake, it might be better to leave this to the professionals.
 This will help ensure that the wax sticks to the hair and not to your skin. , In order to avoid making a mistake, only wax a little bit at a time. Start at the outer part of the brow and move inward, toward the arch.
 Press the wax strip firmly to the hair you are removing. Use your pencil as a guide.


Hot waxes usually include a plastic or wooden applicator that you use to coat the area, followed by a strip to cover it with. Wait for it to cool.
 Not only will this remove hair best, it will also minimize the pain.
 Depending on the salon, you may have the choice between waxing and threading.


Threading is an ancient Indian hair removal technique, which involves weaving hair between pieces of thread and then pulling the thread to remove the hair.Waxing will be done more quickly, but threading can help with ingrown hairs.
 Ask friends for recommendations or look online for salon reviews. Some estheticians will be better at removing hair with less pain.
 If you are trying to change the arch of your brow or want your eyebrows to be a specific shape, let your esthetician know so she can incorporate your wants.
 Use an eyebrow pencil to fill in patchy brows.


People with blonde hair should use light brown pencil; redheads look best with honey-colored brown pencil; and deep brown or black works well for brunettes. , Move the brush upward and outward. Set them in place for the day by applying a clear mascara.
 If you have grey hair or dye your hair a color other than your natural color, you will want to dye your brows to match. If you're a natural redhead trying to pull off brunette hair dye, bright red eyebrows will give it away!


Going a shade darker with the dye will make your eyebrows appear fuller.
No dye is FDA approved for your eyebrows or eyelashes, so be aware of the risk when you are dyeing your eyebrows.
Eyebrows fall out and grow back quickly, so you will have to dye them every week or two to maintain them.
 There is some eyebrow-specific conditioner available on the market, but you can just use your regular hair conditioner and it works just as well. As long as you're washing your face, you don't need to wash your eyebrows specifically--you've already got it covered.You can condition your brows at the same time you condition your hair. Just make sure not to get any conditioner in your eye!

, If you've been over-tweezing, you may need to rehab your eyebrows. Experts recommend you stop tweezing for 16 weeks. This may be very frustrating at first, as your brows will look a little overgrown, but eventually they will start growing back up to the brow line.At 16 weeks, you can start to tweeze the hair closest to your eyelids.
It will take four to six months before your eyebrows fully grow in, after many months of over-grooming.

