 If something doesn't sound right then it is up to you to figure out why it doesn't sound right.All music is based upon experimentation and the same theory used over 400 years ago. The reason to study theory is to learn about what musicians of the past discovered by themselves.
 It’s important that you attend to each specific sound. You don’t want your music to end up sounding like one big wall of noise. Sometimes light rebalancing is enough to completely change the sound of your song. Understand that each individual element is very important to the overall structure., Don’t only take the prerecorded sounds from the program that you are using. You should always be on the search for new sounds to spice up your music.Use the internet to find websites that offer sounds – there are tons of them out there, and you can even find a few that offer the sounds for free if you look hard enough.


You can also pull from the sounds on other programs. If you stick with the sounds on your program for too long your music will become stagnant and repetitive.
 It’s important that you continue to search for new sounds. The more creative your sounds are, the less stale your music will feel. You want something that people can dance too, but you also want to stand out from the crowd., You can take out the drums and bass to leave a string riff or you can have a beat play alone. You can even change styles completely. However, many think the most important thing to pay attention to is the kick drum.If you feel like your music isn’t gelling or just hasn’t come together yet, the kick might be the problem. This is the heart of your song. If your mix isn’t coming together, change the kick drum sound or rhythm.
 Get some friends together, have some drinks, and check out the danceability of your new track. Your friends will probably be excited to hear your new music and you'll get to see which parts of the song people seem most into. This is a great way to have some fun and hear a few critiques at the same time.

