 It can be about whatever you want it to be about art, music, sport, anything. Go on your website at least once a week and update it and read the comments and posts.;
, You could either write one in a book or online. If you decide to go the online route, you could post your story as a weekly or monthly blog. This will help keep your readers coming back and you could always advertise your website on Facebook and Twitter .
 Search on the Internet for some free art classes or information about the history of art write down the key points or notes and then illustrate them with drawings the best thing about this is that you don't have to be a good drawer or start taking art classes that cost money you could just scribble and make a picture out of it like its an ocean wave or something like that.
 not a normal 'dear diary' thing a diary that you use to draw in, like an art diary but more direct the first page after the title page could be an 'about me' page the next you could do a self portrait or maybe you could make a picture like the country side entirely out of pencil shavings. Last page suggestion is kinda dorky but it keeps you entertained.
 This is a fun idea even if you don't have younger siblings because like the story idea you could post it online! but if you do have siblings you can write them a script and get them to practice their lines and then rehearse in front of mum, dad or your guardians. if you like the script idea but don't know what to base it on perhaps you could visit wacky websites and pick a theme from there if not then you can always use Google to help you out

, This will keep you occupied reading about celebrity fashion and gossip, the hottest trends and whatnot. I know for sure that Dolly.com has weekly newsletters so try them first.
,,, Christmas tree lights, candles, alcohol, ice, snow, heat, wind, leftovers, excess wrapping paper etc etc can all be Christmas health hazards. To survive, make sure nothing in your home over Christmas is an unacceptable risk to life.