 There are tons of authors who write about how to love your body no matter what.Search online for books and blogs about “body positivity.” These will generally emphasize loving your body at any weight.
Find a blogger who’s a role model for how you want to feel about your body.
Avoid magazines and TV shows that emphasize thinness as an ideal.;
, You have skills and talents that don’t have anything to do with your weight. Don’t lose sight of everything else that makes you who you are.Write down a list of your strengths and positive qualities. You can refer back to it any time you’re feeling down.
 Affirmations are short sayings that you can say to yourself when you need a boost. Even if you’re feeling good, saying your affirmations daily is a good practice.Say your affirmations in the mirror. That way, you’re literally talking to yourself.
An affirmation can be as simple as, “I’m perfect the way I am” or “My body is beautiful.” Choose something that is meaningful for you.
You can also remind yourself that your body is not just for looks. It’s also for playing with your kids, walking your dog, and for romance. Practice gratitude for all the wonderful things your body can do, instead of just paying attention to how it looks.
 Spend time with people who are focused on things other than body size. Do fun activities together to get your mind off of your weight.Don’t spend time with people who complain about their weight. Their negativity can easily rub off on you.
Always avoid people who have negative things to say about your weight. That is not their business, and it’s also bad manners.
 If someone says you look good, or that they like your outfit, accept it gracefully. Say “thank you.”Don’t deny or dismiss compliments. When you do that, you’re telling yourself that you don’t deserve it. But you must-- or that person wouldn’t have said anything.
 This can be hard, since we’re so used to it. However, everyone’s body is unique, so comparisons aren’t very helpful.Look in the mirror, and like what you see. You won’t have anyone to compare yourself to.
If you catch yourself comparing yourself to someone else, say one or two of your affirmations.
 Many overweight people avoid certain activities because they’re self conscious or afraid. Write down things you’ve been putting off due to your weight.Some people avoid social situations or dating when they’re overweight.
Some people avoid travel when they’re overweight because they worry about having enough energy.
Many of these activities are things you can absolutely do when you’re overweight. You may find that many of your fears are unfounded.
 This may be something on your list. However, it doesn’t have to be. Try out a new activity and see how you feel.You can ask a friend to do a new activity with you. That can make it more fun and less intimidating.
You can also do something new by yourself. You can take a dance class or a ceramics class and you won’t have to worry about a friend seeing you mess up.
 There’s no rule that says you can’t wear certain things because you’re overweight. Find styles and colors that you feel great in.If it’s hard to find clothes you like in stores, go online. You’ll find tons of styles in your size. Body positive blogs often have links to their favorite plus-size clothing sites.
Comfort is key. No one feels fabulous when they’re constantly pulling their shorts down. Choose clothes that fit you well and that you can wear all day without discomfort.
 Don’t put off dating or intimacy because of your weight. People date and enjoy physical intimacy at every size. Romance can be an awesome mood booster and confidence builder, too.If you’re trying online dating, be honest in your profile. Post photos that show what you look like. The people you meet will already be excited about you and know what to expect.
 No one feels great about themselves every day. Continue to say your affirmations and spend time with positive people. If you’re having a down day, tell yourself that it’s okay and tomorrow may be different., Get some fresh air. Even spending 15 or 20 minutes outside is good for your mental and physical health.Being outside increases vitamin D intake. Vitamin D is good for your immune system.
Being outside has been proven to reduce stress and improve brain function.
 Exercise has been proven to increase self confidence and boost moods. Make it something you'll enjoy. If your choice of exercise wipes you out, take it easier.Walking is a great form of exercise. You might enjoy a long walk in a natural setting, or around your favorite shopping mall.
Have a dance party in your kitchen. You can move to your favorite songs,and no one will be watching.
 Decide how many days per week you’ll exercise. Three days per week is doable for most people and will have an effect on your physical health.Online tools can help you build up to a goal. Plans such as “Couch to 5K” provide routines that are safe and goal oriented.
Make sure your goal is focused on fitness, rather than weight loss.
 Personal trainers are fitness professionals. If you’re struggling to start exercising, a trainer can help.Some personal trainers work in specific gyms. Others will meet at your or their house. If gyms aren’t your thing, meeting at a private home might feel good to you.
You can also exercise with a friend. Pick a buddy who you’ll enjoy meeting with regularly.
 Sports are fun because they're social, too. You can join an amateur team in your town, or start your own.Some sports are more active than others. Soccer and basketball have most players actively running throughout the game. Golf and baseball are less fast paced.
Play for fun. Don't get hung up on competition.
 Group fitness can be fun and encouraging. When you’re in a class, you’ll feel like you’re all in this together. It also provides a fun social outlet.Most gyms offer classes free to members. You can try out different classes and stick with the ones you like.
Most cities have free exercise meetup groups. People meet in parks or other areas to workout, run, or bike together.
 Always make sure the exercise you choose is healthy for your body. Your doctor can make recommendations or suggest alternatives.