 Again, you have to fall within the age range of 19 to 32. You also should hold a 4-year degree from an accredited university or college. U.S. citizenship is a prerequisite, even if you are already serving the country as an active, enlisted soldier. If you are already serving in the military, the OCS review board can waive the requirement for a four year degree, as long as you pass the ACT or SAT with minimum scores of 19 and 800 respectively.You can receive a special waiver up to the age of 39.You must also be eligible for “secret security clearance” upon completing a background check. These background checks vet a candidate’s honesty, sexual history, drug and alcohol use, and ties to foreign entities.You can’t apply for OCS if you have more than 6 years of active federal service (AFS) upon entering OCS., If you are already in the military or the Army Reserves, then your unit will forward your application and supplemental materials to the OCS selection panel. Your commanding officer will need to put in a recommendation on your behalf and the OCS selection panel will consider testimonies from the men and women in your unit.


You need to check with your chain-of-command about applying to OCS. Applicants who do not have the support of their commanding officers will not be considered for OCS.
 Active service members are also subject to background checks that investigate their criminal history, alcohol and drug use, personal character, etc. The OCS review panel will not count minor traffic offenses, but every other run-in with the law or the court systems will be considered.
 The APFT (Army Physical Fitness Test) vets the active military member’s physical capabilities. You need a score of at least 60 in each area of the test to apply to OCS. This test is comprised of push-ups, sit-ups and a timed two-mile run., After completing your basic training in the military, you are required to gain further instruction on the job you hold in the military. The U.S. Army requires active service members to complete the AIT before applying to OCS., At least three commissioned officers will review your application and candidacy for OCS. These officers take all aspects of a candidate’s background, training, education, and existing service records into account. Prior to this board review, candidates must complete a 2-page, handwritten essay addressing why they want to become officers. You will have one hour to complete this essay.Candidates will be rejected if they have previously entered OCS, but failed to complete the course.
Candidates will likely be rejected if they have received censures or demerits from their commanding officers during their period of service.

