 Sometimes the only way to do that is to work it in to your schedule intentionally. Invite your partner out on a date, take care of any necessary details like babysitting or transportation, and make it happen. See if you can make it a routine, such as Saturday night dates. This can offer you an opportunity to connect and talk about your week.
 If you’ve been with your partner for a long time, she has likely seen you at your best and your worst. While it is impractical (and perhaps unnecessary) for you to look your best whenever you’re together, try getting “spruced up” before going out on a date together. Think about when you were first dating and you would spend extra time getting ready for the date so you could be sure to impress.
 Play and laughter create strong connections and reinforce relationships.If you set aside time to do things that make you feel happy—and you do them together—you will likely feel closer to your partner. Try something new and fun together, or take some time to get out and do something silly.


Some new things you could try together include trying new sports, ziplining, an obstacle course, mini-golf, a video game, a board or card game, or even attending a sporting event together.
 You probably held hands with your partner when you were first dating, so why not now? Simple touching outside of the bedroom can often help you feel closer and revitalize the bond between you.
 Think of love as an action. Every day, find ways to show your partner how much you care about them. Make it so that they couldn't ever forget that you love them.
 Don’t let go of your sex life because you have other demands in your life. If necessary, plan or schedule your intimate moments. Build romance into your schedule, and talk about ways to revitalize your love life if it seems to be waning.You may consider visiting a sex therapist if you have trouble solving intimacy problems on your own.
 Go back to the place you met or where you had one of your first dates. If you have children now, go somewhere that you used to frequent before you had kids but haven’t been in awhile. Going back to these places with your new perspective as an established couple can help you remember where you came from and appreciate how far you have come.
 Traditions can help couples (and families) establish shared experiences and viewpoints. Marking anniversaries, birthdays, or a day that is uniquely meaningful to you with a ritual or tradition can bring you together. It gives you the opportunity to reflect on past years and speculate about the future.

