 Move furniture away from your radiators. Opt for curtains that don’t wrap around the radiator. You should avoid putting anything on the radiator itself at all costs, but placing a shelf above it, if you have room for it, can help stop the air from rising directly above it and can bring more warmth to your home.


Better yet, place a layer of heat reflective aluminum behind your radiator. If the radiator is connected to an outside wall, the heat will reflect into the room, instead of absorbing into the wall itself.;
, Carpeting is a great way to insulate your floors. If you like the look of hardwood floors, buy an area rug to use in the winter. Any exposed wood will be less effective at trapping heat than a nice, warm rug; in fact, up to 10% of heat lost in homes comes from the uninsulated floors.
 Close them immediately when the sun goes down to lock the heat in your house.
 If you like your current curtains, purchase thermal lining at your local fabric store. Attach a layer to the back of the curtains with self-adhesive Velcro, and then remove the lining in the spring. If you don't want to pay up for new curtains, you can line them yourself with cheap fleece or other less costly materials.You can also place curtains in front of doors or smaller windows to add more protection from the cold.
 The letter box on your front door may be letting in the cold; put up an extra barrier in front of it and find another place to receive your mail. If you have a chimney but aren't using it, you can also invest in a chimney balloon to keep it from letting in the cold and releasing the warmth in your home. Also, if you frequently step out to smoke or just have people going in and out of the house all the time, make sure that the door is open for as little time as possible.If you want to get fancy, you can even invest in (or make) a draught excluder, which is a stuffed piece of material made of cotton that is placed at the bottom of doors to keep out the cold. Sometimes they are shaped like little dachshunds or have cute patterns like stars or hearts on them, and they can add a nice decorative element to your home.
 If you have a larger home with one or more rooms that you don't use regularly (such as a guest room), then keeping those doors closed will help the rest of your home keep warm because the unused rooms won't be using up the warm air circulating throughout the house., Though insulating your home professionally can get expensive, doing it yourself can be done as well, as long as you're prepared, and it can make a big impact on the temperature in your home. You can use things like rolls of foam, mineral wool, glass fibre, and recycled paper products. Just make sure that you wear goggles or a face mask and protective clothing when you do it., Investing in a down comforter, flannel sheets, and some extra blankets and pillows can go a long way in keeping you warm when you sleep. Though it may cost some extra money up front, you'll find that you won't have to turn up the thermostat as high as you normally do when you sleep., Exhaust fans in your bathrooms, as well as in your kitchens, actually pull hot hair that rises to the ceiling out of your home, which is the last thing you want when you're trying to stay warm. If you do use them, then make sure you only do it when it's really necessary., You may not know it, but the way you have your furniture arranged may be keeping you cold. Avoid placing furniture directly in front of a large window, or pushed up against an outside wall, or you'll feel colder when you sit on it than if it were placed in a more central, warmer part of the house.

