 Walking your dog regularly improves its overall health by keeping its weight under control, promoting good digestion, reducing stress and bad behavior, and helping your pet sleep better. It also strengthens your bond with your dog and its trust in you. Make the most of your weekend with your pet by taking a leisurely and scenic walk through a local park., Playing fetch and frisbee with your dog are great ways to bond with it. These games will allow your dog to burn off extra energy. If your dog does not take to this simple game easily, take the time to teach it how to fetch by guiding it through the process step by step (e.g. teaching it the "Drop it" command using correction and reward).


Some breeds are instinctively more inclined to chase and retrieve things than others (e.g. retrievers and spaniels), but all breeds can be shown how to fetch with the right prompting and encouragement.
 Socialization with other dogs is very important for your pet to acclimatize it to interactions with other animals, and to prevent aggression due to fear or lack of experience. Take advantage of free time on weekends to visit a dog park and let your dog play freely with other pets, whose owners you can socialize with in the meantime. Visit http://www.dogpark.com/ to search for a dog park or dog run in your city.Monitor your dog while it is in the dog park. If you notice it exhibiting signs of distress or aggression, remove it immediately.
 On a rainy day, visit a dog friendly pet store like PetSmart to keep your dog active and entertained. Your dog can interact with other dogs and customers while shopping, and it will get some exercise by walking around indoors. You can also pamper your pet by buying it things like:A new collar or leash
A new hair brush
Treats, bones, rawhide, or jerky
Dog clothes
A new bed or blanket
Toys

, Agility trials are events where trainers guide dogs (off leash) through elaborate obstacle courses that may include tunnels, hurdles, balance beams, and climbing structures. Dogs can burn off extra energy and gain confidence from agility training. This activity may be pursued for fun or competitively.For more information, visit the American Kennel Club website at https://webapps.akc.org/club-search/#/agility to search for an agility club near you, where your dog can get agility training and practice.
 If you have a breed of dog that is well suited for vigorous exercise (e.g. a Husky or Rhodesian Ridgeback), consider bringing them for a backpacking trip on a nearby trail. Check with local authorities to make sure that dogs are allowed on the trail, and inquire about whether permits are necessary. Prepare your dog for the exercise prior to this adventure by talking it on long walks or short hikes, and read up on basic first aid to treat your dog in the event of illness or injury.Be sure to bring water for both you and your dog, as well as a first aid kit.

