 To ensure that the grill is hot enough to cook the scallop kabobs, it’s important to preheat it. Set the heat to 350 to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (177 to 200 degrees Celsius), and allow it to fully heat.If your grill doesn’t have specific temperature settings, preheat it on medium-high heat.
If you don’t have a grill, you can use a grill pan to make the scallop kabobs. Preheat the pan on your stove over medium-high heat.;
, For the kabobs, you’ll need 20 asparagus spears. Use clean fingers to snap off the tough ends of the spears and throw them away. Next, use a sharp knife to chop the asparagus into 2-inch (5-cm) pieces.You can substitute your favorite vegetable(s) for the asparagus. Bell peppers, zucchini, and squash are ideal options.
 Once you’ve chopped the asparagus, thread it and 40 sea scallops on 10 6-inch (15-cm) wooden skewers. Place one scallop and then one piece of asparagus, and continue the pattern until the skewer is mostly full, with just enough free space to hold it when you eat.To ensure that the wooden skewers don’t burn, make sure to soak them in water for at least 30 minutes before grilling the kabobs.
 Set the kabobs on a platter or tray, and use a basting brush to apply ¼ cup (59 ml) of herb-flavored olive oil over the scallops and asparagus. Next, place the kabobs on the preheated grill and allow them to cook for 2 ½ minutes on each side or until the scallops are fully opaque.You can find herb-flavored oils, such as garlic or basil, at many grocery stores or you can make your own by heating the olive oil to 180 degrees Fahrenheit (82 degrees Celsius) over medium-low heat and pouring it over the dried herbs of your choice. Allow the oil to cool, and store it in an airtight container. Don’t use garlic to flavor homemade infused oil, though, because there is a risk of Botulism and other dangerous bacteria.
Keep the grill closed while you’re cooking the skewers.
 When you’ve finished grilling the kabobs, transfer them to a platter. Sprinkle them with salt to taste, and serve with some lemon wedges that you can squeeze over the scallops.Tabbouleh salad and/or grilled pita wedges make ideal side dishes for the scallop kabobs.

