 Certain foundations and bronzers can be very thick, causing dry skin and clogged pores. These products can also use unnatural ingredients that tamper with skin's natural chemical balances, causing uneven complexions.









The best method to create an even skin tone with makeup is by using a lightweight tinted moisturizer. It will give you the natural looking coverage you crave and also hydrate your skin.
Remember to always wash your face at night and remove all traces of makeup to keep skin clean and clear.
 Finding the right color blush for your skin type can be very flattering. It adds a healthy flush to your skin and helps the apples of your cheeks stand out. Take a big round brush and dip it into your favorite blush color. Use circular motions to apply the blush to the apples of your cheeks.









Find the apples of your cheeks by smiling in the mirror and applying the blush to the roundest part of your cheeks. Only add enough to give you a healthy glow.
If you have cool toned skin, try using a pink or cranberry colored blush. For warm toned skin, peach and red colored blushes will look best on you.
 The skin underneath your eyes is very thin and sensitive, and this often leads to dark circles that can make you look tired. To help them blend in with your regular skin tone, lightly apply an under eye concealer to disguise discoloration. These concealers contain green undertones that help cancel out the purple hues underneath your eyes.








Rub your finger in the eye concealer and dab it under your eyes. Always start from the outside corner of your eye and work your way in to prevent wrinkles.
Never rub the skin under your eye when applying. This will also lead to wrinkles and broken capillaries, which causes even darker circles.
 You can play up or play down certain features on your face with a brush, a brown bronzer and a makeup highlighter. Contouring can help your cheekbones stand out, redefine your jawline, or even make your nose look smaller. Contouring can be tricky at first, so to help you along, try watching a makeup tutorial to get you started.








Makeup highlighters are used to bring attention to features that you want people to focus on such as your cheekbones or jawline.
Bronzers help to shape under your cheekbones to slim down a face.

Begin with a brush that has lightly been brushed into bronzer. Dust off the extra bronzer and start by applying the brush at your temples and working your way down to your cheekbones using circular motions.
Keep going until you reach the middle of your jawline and then stop. This is an easy step to give you beautiful cheeks.
 Black mascara is flattering on everyone and is easy to apply. It pumps up thin lashes and helps lengthen short ones. For a softer look, you can try using a brown mascara.









After you apply mascara, curl your lashes with an eyelash curler that will open your eyes up even more.
Don't apply more than one coat of mascara because it will begin to clump up and make you look unkempt. Keep it simple with one coat and wash the mascara off every night.
 Well groomed eyebrows will enhance your natural cheek and eye curvature, which brings out beauty and femininity. Head to a saloon so that a professional can wax your eyebrows to give you the best shape for your face.









You don't want to pluck your eyebrows too thin or too short. Keep the natural lines of your eyebrows to help create definition in your face.
If you need to add to your eyebrows, purchase an eyebrow pencil that will fill in or darken areas on your brow to give a fuller look.

