 Certain people are more likely to get RLS, either because it runs in their families or because they have a condition that causes RLS to occur. Knowing which RLS risk factors affect you can help you figure out the best way to prevent and lessen the symptoms since you’ll be able to address the cause of your RLS.


Iron-deficiency anemia, varicose veins, diabetes, and lung disease can all cause RLS. If you have one of these conditions, getting appropriate medical treatment may also help to prevent RLS from occurring.Twenty-five percent of pregnant women experience RLS, but it usually goes away at the end of pregnancy. During pregnancy, there are lifestyle changes you can make to prevent or ease the symptoms.
If any of your close family members have had RLS, your chances of having it may be increased. There’s nothing you can do to alter this risk factor, but you can make changes to prevent or lessen the symptoms.
Being overweight or obese can predispose you to RLS more readily. Taking steps to lose weight may help prevent RLS.;
, Those with a sedentary lifestyle seem to be more prone to getting RLS.Include more exercise in your daily routine but start gradually, especially if you've not exercised for a while. The kind of exercise that is most beneficial is anything moderately strenuous, and doing it regularly.Try swimming, cycling, walking fast, running, gym work, yoga, and so on.


Brisk walking four times a week for 30 minutes at a time has been shown to lessen the severity of RLS over a few months.
Intense leg workouts can help. Try a week of daily intense leg exercises lasting around 20 to 30 minutes; cycling or fast walking are excellent choices.
Swimming is a very gentle way to stretch leg muscles, especially if other forms of exercise cause you to cramp when stretching.Exercise not only helps to prevent RLS but can also help to reduce symptoms if they are already present.
 Over time, wearing the wrong types of shoes or walking barefoot can cause your arches to fall. See a foot specialist who will help you to determine if fallen arches are contributing to your RLS. Your foot specialist will be able to recommend actions to take.


You can buy arch inserts at many shoe stores. Wearing these inside your shoes will help to support your arches and can help to relieve your RLS symptoms.
You may find it uncomfortable to walk on hard floors in bare feet; try wearing slippers around the house to soften your landing.
 Keep hydrated and meet your water needs every day. Drinking plenty of water is thought to help to reduce RLS. The amount of water needed to keep you adequately hydrated is dependent on your personal needs and health. As a general rule, drink water every time you get thirsty, and substitute water for coffee, sugary drinks and alcohol as often as possible.
 Caffeine appears to contribute to RLS, so minimizing the level of your daily caffeine intake can be helpful.Caffeine is found principally in coffee, tea, cocoa, chocolate, and energy drinks. Avoid any stimulants by way of medication or drugs., Alcohol seems to exacerbate RLS, so try to reduce your intake and don't consume alcohol in the evenings.If you are a woman of any age or a man over 65, then have no more than one drink per day. If you are a man under 65, then have no more than two drinks per day., The risk of RLS seems to be higher for people who smoke. To prevent RLS, eliminate or reduce the number of cigarettes you smoke per day, and cut out any other products that contain nicotine., If you find that your legs bother you during a period of rest (provided it is not bedtime, and you are not trying to sleep), then try doing something that will stimulate your mind.For instance, doing crossword puzzles, reading, writing, or working on the computer can be a way to distract your mind, which can in turn actually alleviate symptoms of RLS and/or prevent them from starting in the first place.



If you're taking a medication that lists RLS as a side effect, talk to your doctor about other options.
 It is wise to consult your doctor before trying this approach to ensure that it is a safe option for you.


Low iron (measured as ferritin in the blood) has been shown to be correlated with increased symptoms of RLS. Therefore, for people with low iron levels (as shown on blood tests), taking iron supplements can be helpful in the prevention of symptoms.
However, doctors do not advise to take iron supplements by symptoms alone, without first getting a blood test confirming low values, as it can put you at risk of elevating your iron levels too much. Always talk to your doctor before proceeding with iron as a means of preventing RLS.
 Two drugs have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of restless leg syndrome: Requip (Ropinirole) and Mirapex (Pramipexole). These drugs are designed to be used specifically as the treatment for RLS. Depending on your symptoms, your doctor may also prescribe one of the following types of drugs to treat your RLS and to prevent symptoms:


Sedatives (such as clonazepam and zaleplon) are helpful for those whose sleep is disrupted by RLS.
Anticonvulsants (such as carbamazepine) are helpful for people who deal with daytime RLS symptoms.
Pain relievers are prescribed to patients with severe RLS.
 Massage and acupuncture may also help prevent RLS symptoms. A massage can reduce tension in your legs and relax you as well.Acupuncture has shown some benefit for RLS in some studies, but the results are not conclusive.Consider scheduling yourself a massage or acupuncture treatment.

