 Finding time for shut eye can be difficult in your busy life, but doing so is imperative. Lack of sleep can contribute to depression, and make for an otherwise miserable day. Eliminate other activities from your day if you must, but find ample time for rest on a daily basis. Aim for 7 to 9 hours each night.


Your brain processes memories and new information while you sleep. Not giving it the time it needs to rest and restore itself can actually lead to changes in the structure of the brain., If you’ve ever tried to meditate you may have found it to be difficult at best. Providing your brain with these quiet moments daily, however, has a variety of positive effects. Improved memory, better focus, and greater decision-making skills are just a few of the benefits you may see if you meditate every day.


If you’ve tried to meditate and failed, try again. You may find that over time it becomes easier. You can also attempt to master one of the many different types of meditation, such as guided meditation, sensory meditation, moving meditation, or mindful meditation., Take a few minutes each day to play games that make you think. Games like Sudoku and crossword puzzles force you to use your brain and allow you to enjoy yourself at the same time.


Install a mind game on your phone if you don’t have much time during the day to play. Having a device with games installed with you allows you to participate in them on the train or bus ride to work, while waiting to pick up your child from school, in the lobby of your doctor’s office, or wherever you have a few minutes to spare., Believe it or not, some foods are better than others when it comes to your mental health. Foods that are rich in nutrients increase productivity and can even prevent memory loss. Eat these foods daily and you’ll likely find a noticeable boost in your mental health.


Foods that are high in Omega 3 fatty acids, such as eggs, certain fish, walnuts, and leafy greens improve concentration. Flavonoids, which are found in coffee, berries, dark chocolate, and leafy greens, also greatly benefit the brain.