 If you do not like your patch and would like to use a different method of pain management, talk to your doctor about switching you to a different pain medication. If you would like to switch to a lower dose, your doctor might choose to switch you to an equivalent amount of a new opioid, then wean you off of that.


Depending on the type of pain you are in, the side effects you want to avoid, and the medications covered by your insurance, your doctor will advise you on the right alternative and devise a conversion plan.
Your doctor might want to switch you to oral morphine, oxycodone, or methadone.
Do not switch medications or stop taking your medication before consulting your doctor.
 When your doctor prescribes a new medicine, he may advise you to start cutting your dose of fentanyl. Make sure you do not begin decreasing your dose until your replacement medication has arrived in your home. A prescription does not guarantee delivery. You will put yourself at risk of pain if you cut your fentanyl dosage and your new medicine does not arrive on time., When the medicine is in your home, and your doctor has given you the order, remove your patch. Dispose of it safely as you always do. Your doctor may advise you to wait until you have worn through your current patch and it comes off. She may also advise you not to wait. Follow your doctor's orders as to timing.
 When you remove the patch, the fentanyl will still be in your system, so you won't need as much of your new medication at first. Your doctor will prescribe you a "rescue" opioid for the first 12 hours after your patch is removed. After this 12 hours, you will likely be told to begin taking 50% of your new dose. After 24 hours, you will start taking 100% of your new dose.


After the first 12 hours, you can still take your "rescue" opioid if you experience a pain crisis.
 Schedule a follow up appointment with your doctor before you have been off of your patch for a week. Your new medication may take a while to start working, or it may work well at first and then cease to be effective. Ensure that you have a means to get to the hospital if you experience a crisis your rescue opioid cannot cover.


If you find you have become addicted to your fentanyl patch, consider entering a rehabilitation program.
Prepare for withdrawal. Even using new medication, you may experience withdrawal symptoms. Take time off to get used to your new medication, and rally family and friend support.

