 You want to make sure the time, money, and energy you’re investing in your studies are worth potentially working less or having an extremely busy schedule. For instance, if you’re going to school to earn a higher degree while working a career-oriented job you already enjoy, your job may take precedence.Some students work full time while attending school part time. This may work especially well for supplementary degrees.
Talk to a counselor at whatever school you’re considering about class or program options that will work for your work schedule.
 If you have solid job, you likely want to keep it, and may even be working towards a promotion. Having a degree may even help you pursue the career goals you’re already working towards. Fortunately, you may be able to incorporate the experience you’re gathering at work into academic assignments as well.


For instance, if you your job requires you to monitor the business’s social media account, you can likely apply the knowledge you’re acquiring at work to a marketing assignment in a business class.
You may even be able to select topics for assignments based on your job. For example, if you are assigned a project on designing a new marketing campaign, you could model the campaign on the business you’re already working for, and win points with both your professor and your boss in the process.
 Avoid inundating your employer with the specifics of your schedule outside of work. However, it is worth telling them ahead of time when you know you’ll be tied up with academic responsibilities. Especially if you’re only studying part-time and working more consistently, you should remind your boss when finals are coming up. Let them know as early as possible to make it easy for them to accommodate a bit more time off for you., If you need to work but are trying to acquire some credits towards a degree, consider switching to a job that will offer a more flexible schedule or a lower time commitment. Particularly if the job you have now is unlikely to allow for career advancement, you may be able to find a job that will keep a paycheck coming while allowing a bit more time for work.


For instance, lots of service industry positions can allow for evening-and-weekend-only work schedules. Accordingly, they may also allow you to take an extra class.
Consider a job bartending or serving at a popular restaurant or bar. These positions, though sometimes challenging, have the potential to earn you a high hourly wage, and are potentially less likely to be a source of distraction when you’re not at work.

