 These questions briefly come up in AP exams and related high-level academic testing. Knowing when to anticipate these kinds of questions will help you deal with them as they arise.;
, In some kinds of tests, only primary documents will be included for DBQ questions. Others may include the use of secondary source documents.


Ask questions in class and learn about how to use secondary source documents. When you have to prioritize sources, this task can often be confusing. Having some upfront knowledge about how to order various levels of source material can help you with more complex DBQ questions.
 Some types of DBQ questions will rely not just on text, but also on some visuals included in the test packet. Having familiar knowledge of what will show up in source documents can also help you on test day.
 DBQ questions measure specific skills that you will use later in life. Bring these skills to the table when dealing with these question formats.


Make good use of comparisons and analogies. In some kinds of academic tests, the goal is to employ good comparisons in addressing or responding to text cues. Look for effective analogies and draw lines between congruent ideas to score well.
 In some kinds of DBQ questions, another goal is to argue one side of a situation or support one point of view. Even though experts recommend seeing the source material from various points of view, you may be able to benefit from boiling down the material into one supportable stance.


Create a thesis statement. The thesis statement will effectively state your position for the response. This is the most important part because it provides a brief sentence(s) on what you are about to write. A strong essay will most likely have a strong thesis, and vice versa.
Support the thesis statement with well-ordered examples or ideas. Part of going beyond the basics with DBQ questions is being able to draw out supporting ideas for a general thesis statement from wherever they are within the text. Follow this strategy and employ it in either essay questions or a series of short-answer questions as the test develops them.
 The AP essay readers are not looking for a summary of each documents. They want to know if you can use the information provided in the documents and use analysis with critical thinking, and tie it in with other documents.
 Back up your details with document references. Make sure to include the document number at the end in parenthesis.
 In other words, what point of view is missing from these documents? If all the documents are from high-class aristocrats, could the missing voice be the common people's perspective? If all the documents are written or said by men, the missing voice may be women's point of views. Explain why it would be beneficial to the reader. Something as simple as this will earn you a point.


Make the transition to the body of the essay by citing the additional document: "To better understand how these documents relate to each other, a document about x would be useful because..."
The rubric for this type of essay only asks for one additional document, but AP essay readers are really looking for TWO additional documents; the more the merrier. Simply include one more viewpoint.
, This will show the AP essay readers that you know your history background, which is a big plus for you.
 For example if the document is about the Great Depression, you may want to include information on the TVA, Works Progress Administration, Public Works Administration etc. Remember to analyze and not state facts.

