 I recommend using a blank sheet of paper, and if this not going to be a masterpiece, then using copy paper is a less expensive alternative. I also recommend using pencil because you are able to erase mistaken marks. Some people like to use erasable pen (yes it does exist), but I wouldn't because sometimes it can leave a slight stain that you cannot remove.;
, Once you improve, you may like to experiment with using a sandpaper-like surface to add definition to your work.
 Draw a shape that looks like an almond. These two eyes have spacing between them that is just as large a one of your eyes. In the inner corner of your eye, soften the tip of your "almond" so that it looks curved on the inner corner. The eyelid is about a fourth of a centimeter above your eye. Follow the outline of your eye at this distance to create the eyelid. The iris of the eye is a circle, but when drawing an eye, unless your character is in shock, you will not see the whole circle. The eye can be any color that you prefer. Eyelashes are not to be too long. Try to keep it reasonably short .
 If the nose slants down, the person is older. If the nose is rounded up, it is a younger individual, typically. If the nose if wider, it would most likely be an African American or Native American. If the nose is more narrow, then it is most likely a Caucasian. This does not always apply, though, so check your image or live model for confirmation.
 As you know, or will know now, the mouth has two parts, it is not just one long line. The mouth extends to the center or your pupils on both sides of you face. The upper lip is usually slightly bigger than your lower lip, but this is not always the case, again check your photo or live model for confirmation. For females, the indention of the upper lip us usually more defined that that of a male. Also, the upper lip can cause shadowing onto the lower lip depending on the lighting. This is what gives the look of separation between the lips.
 Your ears start just slightly above your eyes. Something you would not notice if you were not looking for it. They extend to the bottom of your nose. In case your are new to the concept of drawing ears, let me give you a couple tips. If your are drawing a face straight on, remember that your ears lie slanted on your head. They do not stick out like a giraffe's.
 Depending on the size of your person, the size and shape of the head could change. Remember that you have temples, too. Adding this characteristic makes your drawing more detailed and skillful. Also, your neck is as wide as where the outer points of your eyes are.
