 While you want to be supportive and responsive to a child with RAD, you also have to help them learn to respect boundaries and establish self-control.You can help treat reactive attachment disorder if let the child know what your expectations and limits are.


Tell the child what your behavior expectations are upfront and in a way they can understand. For instance, you might say, “I want you to sit in your chair when we’re at the table.”
Let them know what is okay in terms of expressing emotions and what isn’t. You could try saying, “It’s okay to feel upset, but it’s not okay to hit anyone.”

, When a child with reactive attachment disorder is showing behavior problems, it can be frustrating and you may find yourself getting upset.When you are treating reactive attachment disorder, you should remain calm so that you can provide caring, consistent, effective discipline.


Take a time out if you need to. It’s okay to step away for a moment and let someone else care for the child for a few minutes if you find yourself getting too upset.
Practice deep breathing by inhaling and exhaling slowly and deeply a few times to relax yourself and relieve your stress.
 When you are treating a child with reactive attachment disorder, you can handle their behavior issues by letting them know that you understand how they feel. Doing so responds to their need to be heard and can be used to help them express their emotions appropriately.


Tell them when you notice they may be feeling frustrated, angry, scared, or lonely. For example, you could say, “It seems like you are really disappointed right now and angry because we couldn’t go.”
Talk to them about the appropriate way to express their feelings: “When you feel afraid, it’s okay to let someone know, but screaming at them can scare them, too.”

, Children with RAD are often used to adults being unpredictable and unreliable. They may be accustomed to tension and stress even after a difficult situation is over.When you are treating reactive attachment disorder you should check in with the child after you have disciplined them to let them know that things are okay, that you still care about them, and will be there for them.


Talk to them about the incident that occurred and how it was resolved. For instance you might say, “I think we were both stressed a little while ago. I’m glad we worked it out.”
Tell them directly that you care about them and will continue to be there for them. For example, try saying, “No matter what, you are important to me and I’ll always support you.”

, One of the most important things you can do to help treat reactive attachment disorder is to show the child consistency.This means being consistent in your discipline as well as your responsiveness and care for them. Doing this allows them to know what to expect with you and to feel secure in your actions.


Disciplining a child for a certain behavior one day and then letting it slide the next day confuses them.
Being consistent lets the child know that you are predictable and that they can rely on you to do what you say.

