 Body image is how individuals assume others perceive their bodies. Much of what your child perceives about their body is influenced by societal pressures through media, friends, and loved ones. Those who are not satisfied with their bodies are at higher risk of developing depression, anxiety, eating disorders (95% are within ages 12 to 25 years), low self-esteem, early sexual activity, substance use, and suicidal thoughts., Be the role model and positive influence that your child needs by showing them that you feel good about yourself and your own body. The more they see you be positive about yourself, the more likely it is that they’ll adopt the same pattern of behavior. Lead a healthy lifestyle for both you and your children by eating balanced meals and maintaining daily physical activities such as going on walks in the park.

Avoid saying “Wow, you look great! Did you lose weight?” to anyone when your child around. While this comment may appear to be a complement, it sends the message to your child that people need to look a certain way or be a certain weight to look great.
 During youth and adolescence, children go through many physical changes that may make them uncomfortable. If weight gain is an added concern for you child, youth may feel very emotionally distressing and overwhelming for them. You are your child’s primary source of support, so try to be approachable and available when they need you.

Do not force your child to talk if they aren’t comfortable. Rather, ask your child if they would be comfortable speaking to another adult for advice, such as a teacher, a counselor, another adult relative, or someone else they trust.
 Adults have an inherent trait of wanting to fix everything. Before you can do that, however, you’ll need to hear what the child is trying to say. Simply sit and listen to them tell you how they feel about the teasing. Just getting it off their chest can offer relief and help them feel better about the situation knowing they have you on their side.

Give the child your full attention when they are talking with you. Maintain eye contact and nod while they talk to you. Now is not the time to be on your phone or watch TV while you’re having this important conversation., Having one-on-one time with the child can do wonders for their self-esteem. It makes them feel important and reinforces your love for them. During this time you can continue to tell them how much you love them and how amazing they are.

Allow them to choose an activity. Try not to push anything physical on them, as they may feel like you are pressuring them to do something that helps with their weight., Whether you are a parent, teacher, or coach, you may know the general personalities of the kids you're around. If a kid comes to you feeling down about teasing, you can help them cope by opening them up to new positive friendships.For instance, if you're a teacher and a child tells you about teasing, you might suggest, "Cora, I know Rachel had a tough time last year with a bullying incident. How about I introduce the two of you? I'm sure she can give you advice and support that I can't relate to."

