 Excess estrogen is often responsible for hormonal imbalance, which can cause ovulation disorders and lead to ovarian cysts.


Elevated estrogen levels can lead to the development of more ovarian cysts and cause pain in your ovaries.
If you are taking any hormonal estrogen supplements, stop taking them to allow your body to return to a hormonal equilibrium.
Consult with your doctor before making these changes.;
, Herbs to avoid include black cohosh and blue cohosh, lavender, licorice, dong quai, hops, rhodiola rose root, red clover blossom, saw palmetto berry, motherwort leaf, and tea tree oil.


Additionally, be aware of other common sources of estrogen, such as flax seeds, tofu, soybeans, sesame seeds, multi-grain bread, soymilk, garlic, hummus, dried apricots, and prunes.
 Progesterone is a naturally-occurring hormone that helps balance the level of estrogen in your body, and regulates the body's reproductive functions.


Elevated levels of estrogen in the body usually suggest a deficit of progesterone.
Balancing the levels of estrogen and progesterone through natural means could help shrink ovarian cysts and lessen the probability of recurrence.
 Vitamin B6 is essential to maintaining adequate levels of progesterone in your body.


B6 functions by breaking down excess estrogen in the liver to create hormonal balance.
Whole grains, walnuts, lean red meat, seafood, bananas, potatoes, beans, spinach and fortified cereals are all examples of foods rich in vitamin B6.
The recommended dose of vitamin B6 is 2 mg per day.
 Vitamin C improves hormone levels, such as progesterone, and increases fertility.


This is because vitamin C enhances the luteal phase, or the start of ovulation in women, wherein there is a surge in the levels of progesterone.
Take 750mg of vitamin C daily for six months to increase the production of progesterone in your body.
 Zinc is a mineral that signals the pituitary gland to release follicle stimulating hormones that promote ovulation and the production of adequate levels of progesterone.


Foods rich in zinc include shellfish, crabs, veal liver, dark chocolate, wheat germ, chickpeas, watermelon, lean red meats, pumpkins and squash seeds.
Your daily intake of zinc should not exceed 25 mg.
 Maintaining adequate levels of magnesium in your body can elevate your progesterone levels.


Good sources of magnesium are: halibut, okra, spinach, whole grain cereals, black beans, squash seeds, raw plantains, pumpkins, nuts, and dietary supplements.
The recommended daily intake of magnesium for women is 320 mg per day.
 Apply an ice pack wrapped in a damp towel to the area where you feel pain two or three times per day, for about 15-20 minutes.


The cold temperature can offer relief from pain by numbing the nerve endings.

