 Create cozy warmth in colder seasons by heating the space around your bed with a space heater. Or, try an electric heated blanket for even more warmth right in your bed.


Choose a radiant heater if you want to heat the objects in a room (like your bed and yourself) that it’s pointed at. Choose a combustion heater to heat the air in the entire room.Take care to follow all safety instructions for space heaters and heated blankets. Don’t put a space heater too close to bedding or other linens, and turn it off when you leave the room.
 Choose dark colors for your bedding, curtains, or even the walls of your bedroom. Darker tones help a space feel more closed in around you, in a good, cozy way. Mix up the textures in the space as well to create further comfort.


Incorporate a variety of textures into your bed and bedroom by including several rugs, curtains, and of course your throw pillows and blankets. Layer on faux furs, knits, quilts, and any different fabrics and textures you can think of.
If you want to include dark colors but don’t want the space to look too dark, try using a gradient of colors for different items. Black, grey, and silver are a great combination, as are a dark navy blue, medium blue, and light blue.
 Light scented candles, use a spray, or disperse essential oils in a diffuser to add a relaxing scent to the air around your bed. Stick to natural fragrances for the best effect.


Try scents like lavender, Roman chamomile, and sandalwood for traditionally relaxing scents, or anything else that helps make you feel cozy.Some scented sprays are designed or safe for use directly on pillows and bed linens. Spritz some of this spray lightly on your bedding to distribute the scent right where you’ll sleep or relax.
 Use lamps, lanterns, and strings of lights around your bed for softer, cozier lighting. Favor natural light during the day and low light or no light at night.


Turn out an overhead light and use low lamps and string lights instead to create softer, dimmer light.
Replace bulbs in overhead lights or lamps with lightbulbs in a warm hue that are 40 watts or lower, or use a dimmer switch in place of a regular on-off switch to quickly make your main lighting softer., Create a cozy ambience by putting on your favorite relaxing music or sound effects. Use your favorite slow-paced music played at a low volume, or use a soundtrack of relaxing sounds to make the setting extra calming and inviting.


Stick to acoustic music, ballads, classical, or other slow-tempo music for the most universally relaxing sounds. However, you should also stick to your preferences to choose whatever calms you down the most.
Try websites or CDs that feature sounds like those of falling rain or a crackling fire. Unless rain is already falling outside where you live or you happen to have a fireplace in your bedroom, these recorded sounds can help replicate the cozy feeling that the real thing elicits.

