 People may call guests noobs because they can't talk. Don't let that bother you. Familiarize yourself with the popular places and events.;
, People probably won't make fun of you as often if you have an account. Many people consider guests as a noob, because they can't talk or it's a player at a young age.
 Be intelligent, witty, kind, and well-informed. The more quality posts you make, and the nicer you are to other players, the more popular you will become.


Forums are a place to be clever. One wrong post can lead for you to be known in a bad way, so make sure you think before you hit post.
There are bunkers. Bunkers are places for forumers to go in when spam-bots or strict moderators come in the forums.
Spam-bots are usually alternate accounts used by the same person. They spam random things across the forums and usually, people won't post at that time.
 Talk to people. Ask them to add you as a friend, but make sure you know them well; there is a limit to how many you can have

, Help other players with their work, if they ask you; even make a cool level that people will like.
 It costs money but when you have builders club you get Robux everyday, get more money faster, can make more places, etc. (This is optional.)

, Assemble an inventory of valuable items. You can use these in trades with other players. The more you trade the more you become known, and having a valuable inventory will help you be respected as a better player.
 Learn to script on roblox. Ask for help on the forums. The better at scripting you are the better your place will be.
 People won't come to it if they don't know about it.
 On games like Apartment Life, don't delete other peoples stuff. It just makes them mad and hate you.
 Always check the descriptions of games and the Roblox FAQ before you ask, to avoid being called a noob.
, Send some people friend requests and you'll get lots of profile views & visits on your game. .
 Don't copy other people's style instead try to find your own style and color palette that compliments your skin tone and your body type.

