 Keep it below the thing that you are trying to light. The flame will remain vertical, regardless of the angle of the lighter, and you may burn your hand if you try to hold the lighter horizontally.


Keep your hand away from the flame, and from the thing that you are lighting. Be careful not to burn yourself.
 Fire is powerful, and it can easily take on a life of its own. Never light a fire that you aren't prepared to put out on your own.


Avoid lighting fires in flammable settings, at least until you are more confident in your ability.
Only strike your lighter in a well-ventilated area. If you smell gas in the air, or if you know that there has been a leak, don't risk igniting it. Avoid using your lighter while filling up gas, or while handling containers that have held flammable gas.
Be especially cautious when lighting fires in dry woodlands or grasslands, particularly in the summer. Wildfires can burn thousands of acres from only a spark, and the wind can take a fire out of your control in an instant.
 If the lighter burns for too long, it will overheat, to the danger of your hand and any flammable surroundings.


Lighters are made from metal and plastic, both of which conduct heat rather well. Be careful not to burn yourself.
If a lighter grows too hot to handle, let it cool down for a few minutes before you resume using it.
 Some lighters come with a small switch on the side--usually a black plastic back-and-forth switch between + and - signs. The + side will make the biggest possible flame, and the - sign will make the smallest possible flame. You can usually adjust the switch to any point in between.









If you want to conserve gas, keep the switch toward the - side. Adjust as necessary.
If you want a large, impressive flame, or if you want to keep your hand far away from the thing that you are lighting, keep the switch toward the + side. Be aware that this will guzzle the fuel reserves much more quickly: larger flame means more gas.
 If you're venturing to high altitudes, consider bringing matches.
 This is the smooth band of metal that runs around the center of the spark wheel's circumference. This trick may help if you do not have the finger strength or the flexibility to turn the sparkwheel otherwise.









Turn the sparkwheel until you find the gap in the safety band: a point where the metal does not quite meet. Stick a narrow but sturdy object, like a key or a screwdriver, through the flame hole of the lighter, and use the rim of the hole as leverage to pry the safety band apart.Work slowly, and protect your eyes--the safety band has been known to fly off suddenly.
Be aware that the safety band is there to keep children from using the lighter.Your sparkwheel will turn more easily with the band gone, but make sure that you store it properly.

