 Antlions are very active diggers, so make sure they have enough space to dig out a pit for their prey.Use a plastic cup or a similar small plastic container. It should be clear so you can observe the antlion. Make sure it’s at least 4 inches across. Wash your container with lukewarm water and non-toxic detergents.
Order an antlion den or Zen garden. You can search online if you'd prefer to purchase a premade habitat, such as an antlion den.
Make sure your antlion environment has enough space. As antlions get bigger, they will need more space to dig and build their “den”.;
, Antlions can survive in any environment, though sand and dirt is its natural home.Filter out your substrate, especially if you’re using anything that may have rocks or clumps of dirt. Antlions can remove any large blockages, but it will be easier for them to have a smooth and consistent place to live.
Fill your environment about halfway with sand. Make sure the antlion is not smothered by the sand and has enough space to build a pit.
Make sure the diameter across the level of the sand is at least 4 inches. This will make sure your antlion has enough space to build their pit.
 If you want to keep an adult antlion, make sure you have covered the habitat so it won’t escape. Also, put a small stick in the sand for it to perch on so its wings will develop properly.


Recognize when your antlion stops eating. This is a clear sign that they are beginning their pupa stage.
Antlions spin a cocoon under the sand in order to become an adult. This stage will last approximately 3 weeks.
When antlions emerge as an adult, they will have wings. Make sure you have prepared their environment so they cannot fly away and have somewhere to perch.
Cover the habitat with a ventilated lid or net so the adult antlion won’t escape. They will fly out of the habitat if you’re not careful and they can hurt themselves outside of their habitat.
Free your antlion when it becomes an adult so it can procreate. Adult antlions will grow too big for your habitat. This will enable it to reproduce and live out its relatively short life.

