 One of the most recognizable fashion trends of the 1980s is, of course, big hair! Part dry hair into one- to two-inch sections.Back-comb the hair towards the root with a long-tail comb. Spray each section with a firm-hold hairspray as you go, and then apply a final all-over mist of spray once finished.Start with the lower layer of your hair and work upwards towards the top of your head in order to conceal the teasing.;
, If you have short hair in the front, top, or all over, decide if you want to spike or curl it to achieve a glam 80s look. Using a large-barrel curling iron, take a thin layer of bangs closest to your forehead, and curl it under. Then make one or more large, back- or side-facing curl(s) on top. To spike your hair, massage a dollop of pomade into your hair, and push your hair up and back with your fingers or a brush.


Seal either look with a heavy-hold hair spray and a blast of air from a hair dryer.
 Pull your hair up so that it sits in a bunch somewhere between the top and crown of your head. Alternately, you can gather all of your long hair to one side a few inches above your ear. Secure it with a hair elastic…or, better yet, a glam take on a scrunchie!Another option for an 80s updo is a big, messy topknot bun.
Use an all-over mist of firm-hold hair spray to keep the look in place.
 Do this to all of your hair, or just certain sections. Use a hair crimper with a zig-zag pattern to achieve crimped hair. To get tight 80s curls that mimic the then-popular perm, use a curling iron with a small barrel, such as 3/8 of an inch. For a similarly springy look, tightly braid into sections hair that is just slightly damp, and leave it in overnight. Alternately, you can put your hair in Jheri curls.Hair irons utilize varying heat settings, so follow the instructions that came with your hair iron to know how long to hold it to your hair. If you don’t have the instructions, look on your hair iron for the brand name and model of the product, then search online for its instruction manual.
 Wear a head band with a large, floppy bow. Or, add a fancy bandana in lieu of a headband. If you want your hair up, secure it with a banana clip!, Pick a clothing material that was popular in the 80s, such as leather, satin, or spandex. Look for bold patterns like animal prints, stripes, and brightly-colored floral or safari prints – especially in neon colors! Patterns that incorporate metallic or fluorescents like pink, green and purple were definitely happening in the 80s.


Patterns and clothing pieces with a heavy black-and-white contrast are totally 80s. For example, zebra prints and black-and-white stripes.
Other popular themes in 80s patterns include palm trees, paint splatters, cassette tapes or boomboxes, lightning bolts and squiggles.
 Wear a dress or jacket with big shoulders (think shoulder pads!). For pants, opt for a closely-tailored pair, or a slightly baggier, high-waisted version. If you like the “popped” collar look often seen in 80s fashion, look for a top with a large, stand-up collar. Keep an eye out for clothing pieces with details like large buttons or bows. You can find 80s clothing on eBay and Etsy, or try your luck at a local thrift shop.Suitcoats in the 80s were often in colors, instead of black or neutrals. Pair it with a satin or iridescent shirt and add a wide, patterned tie.
Dresses often had bulkier top portions, with fitted bottoms that fell midway between the thigh and the knee. For example, dresses with peplum tops and fitted skirts. Dresses commonly had ruffles and rouching on the shoulders., Take a sweater by the arms and tie it loosely around your neck. Arrange the body of the sweater so that it falls down your back. Or, opt for a stole or cape to drape over your shoulders.Wearing a sweater over your shoulders works well for a business casual look. You can wear this with a collared dress shirt (with or without a tie) or a polo shirt, and khaki pants. Loafers look great with this style, as do pants that end right at the ankles.
A cape or stole is a dressier look. Wrap a shawl around your shoulders, or drape a faux fur cape so that it hangs in the crooks of your arms. Wear it over a dress or an elegant jumpsuit.
 Penny loafers and suede shoes were popular for both males and females in the 80s. Other shoe options are jellies, or stiletto heels with pointed toes.Try wearing jellies with a skirt, dress or shorts. You can wear them barefoot, or with tights or knee-high stockings.
Penny loafers and suede shoes can be worn with any business casual outfit. Think long pants or knee socks.
Stiletto heels with pointed toes look best with dresses or skirts. Satin or patent leather heels are very 80s, as are versions with bows on them.
 Don full tights or wear footless leggings as tights. Look for tights in bright colors and bold prints. Optionally, you can add scrunched leg warmers from mid-calf to the top 1/3 of high-heeled shoes.For example, geometric patterns like checkerboards or Tetris designs were popular in 80s tights. Lace tights were seen, as were tights with animal prints.
Instead of patterned tights, you can choose tights in a solid, bright color. Your legwarmers don’t need to match your tights.
 Layer big, funky necklaces and bangles. Choose big hoop earrings, or earrings with large, dangling shapes such as stars. Look for colorful jewelry, or opt for a dressier look with rhinestones. Add a colorful watch, if desired.Wear big and colorful necklaces, earrings and bangles for a glam 80s look a step up from casual. Giant hoop earrings in bright colors go well with floppy hair bows, and outfits that layer lace or fishnet details into a top and skirt. Put on a Swatch Watch, and you’re good to go!
Rhinestones and velvet dresses went hand-in-hand in the 80s. Alternately, you can add rhinestone jewelry to formal satin pieces, or an iridescent taffeta gown.
 Haven’t you heard the 80s song “Sunglasses At Night?” When selecting 80s sunglasses frames, think oversized. Popular frame styles were horn-rimmed, aviators, and those that employed “shutter” lenses.Wayfarers and the Clubmaster, by the brand Ray-Ban, surged in popularity in the 80s.Look for any style of sunglasses where the temples have neon colors and/or wild patterns, differing from the rest of the frames.
Wear “shutter shades” in a bright, primary color or a fluorescent hue.
 Look for belts in black, white, metallic, rainbow, or neon. Elastic and leather materials are very 80s. Look for a belt with a large circular buckle, and wear the buckle towards the front (over your navel), or to the side. Your belt can be wide or skinny – you can even layer skinny belts to really channel the 80s vibe., Whereas these days people style their eyebrows with everything from wands and brushes to gels and pencils, the 80s celebrated untamed brows. If you want to fill in your brows, though, opt for a brow shadow or pencil that is darker than your hair color, like Madonna did in that decade., Choose 80s shadow colors such as pink, blue, purple, and/or orange. You can stack multiple colors on your upper lids. Freely apply it from your eyelids to your eyebrows.Don’t hesitate to use glittery shades…glitter was quite popular cosmetically in the 80s!

, Line your upper and lower lids with black pencil. Look for a creamy eye pencil for this look. Once applied, smudge it lightly with your fingers or an eyeshadow applicator. Add black mascara to your upper and lower eyelashes.Substitute navy or dark purple for the black eyeliner and mascara, if you prefer.
Another take on this look is to use dark eyeliner on your top lids, and a brightly-colored eyeliner on your bottom lids. For example, try lining your top lids with an inky black, and your bottom lids with a deep sky blue.
Line your lids normally right near the lash line. Optionally, you can extend the outside edges into cat eyes.
 Choose a foundation color a couple of shades lighter than your natural skin tone, if you want to be authentically 80s! This gives you a better canvas to accentuate the colors of the rest of your makeup. Don’t be afraid to pile on the foundation – just make sure to use a makeup sponge to blend it so that the contrast between your face and neck isn’t as striking., Choose an 80s blush color like bright pink or deep plum. Apply it to your cheekbones and about an inch above and below. Use circular motions to apply the blush with a round makeup brush.Many shades of pink blush were happening in the 80s, from pure pinks to purplish pinks as well as more coral hues. Whichever color you choose, apply it boldly to really capture the style of the decade.
80s fashion often saw blush extending from the cheekbones up into the hairline at the sides of the face. If you want your blush to make a statement – as 80s blush tended to do – go for it!

, Fill in around your lips with a lip pencil, then apply a glossy lipstick. Choose a bright lip color like hot pink or electric purple.If you want the 80s look with lipliner darker than the lips, use a lip pencil at least a couple of shades darker than your lipstick.If you’re really brave, don the 80s trend of a super-unconventional lip shade, such as grass green.