 People are more attracted to individuals who seem to laugh and smile more often. Take time to appreciate the little things at work and when you see coworkers in the morning, make eye contact, smile and greet them by name. Praise the good things they do.


When you encounter difficulties, try not to let them get you down. Think of them as opportunities to help you grow through challenging yourself to rise above adversity.
Don’t worry about problems at work or at home; have confidence you’ll solve them when they need to be solved.
Don’t dwell on workplace mistakes. Instead, celebrate your successes and those of others.
At office parties, seek to be the life of such a party without becoming the butt of office jokes. Avoid getting hammered and doing something extremely embarrassing (which would definitely take you off the running list of being the attractive person in the office). Instead, maintain a clear head and approach parties as networking opportunities and as a chance to make your awesomeness even more evident.
 Don’t boast about how great you are––instead, walk with pride, make eye contact and smile.


Maintain good posture at all times. How you carry yourself sends a clear message to those around you. Standing and sitting tall and walking confidently but with ease will let people know that you have self-respect and personal dignity, qualities which are supremely attractive.
 If you want to have an attractive personality, be courageous at work. Make decisions that you stand by because you believe in their worth, even when others do not. Share your vision for project outcomes even when others are groaning that it's not possible. Having the confidence and courage to voice positivity and take chances others won’t can make you very appealing.


Avoid being arrogant or aloof. Instead, be humbly confident in your skills and aptitude. Although you should already be competent and able in your current role, make every effort to avoid coming across as conceited about what you do. There’s a fine line between letting your smarts shine and being a braggart. Avoid “tooting your own horn” or pointing out that you think you're smarter or more capable than another coworker.

