 Sometimes it is important to discuss your problems with others. It is good to get input from those that you love and respect. This will show you, if nothing else, that feelings about same-sex marriage are varied and complicated.


For example, ask your best friend or husband or wife how he or she feels about same-sex marriage. Say, "I am trying to accept a same-sex marriage. How would you deal with this?"

, One place this might be possible is at a meeting of PFLAG (Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays).PFLAG is an organization made up of straight people working to increase gay and lesbian rights. Many of its members, however, have not always been so accepting. They have had to work through problems accepting gays and lesbians and they may be able to help you do the same.


Don't be afraid of going to a PFLAG meeting even if you still have reservations about same-sex marriage. Remember, many of the people at the meeting were probably in your shoes some time ago and so they should be understanding about your struggles.
There are also online forums where you can discuss issues you are having with those who have also gone through them. One such forum is hosted by Empty Closets., Some issues we simply cannot work out on our own. If you want to accept a gay marriage but are struggling seek out the guidance of a counselor or a religious leader the is accepting of same-sex marriage. They will help you through the process and give you the time you need to work through your problem.


If you belong to a religious institution that does not accept same-sex marriage consider visiting with a religious leader from a different denomination or faith that does accept it.They may have a different interpretation of religious texts that can help you accept both same-sex marriage and your religious faith.
Look for a therapist or counselor who is accepting of same-sex marriage. They can help you to process your feelings and come to terms with the issue.
 If you don't, or can't, talk to anyone about this issue, then find information online or in books. Researching the subject will help you realize what the same-sex couple is going through, and it will give you the knowledge to support them, and maybe even yourself during this time.


Look for unbiased data on same-sex marriage. Because the issue is so political, there are a lot of websites out there with very biased information. Only take information seriously that comes from good sources. For example, the Pew Research Center is an organization that compiles scientific data from all over the US.