 DSPPs allow you to take advantage of Dollar-Cost Averaging (DCA), which is the strategy of investing with a fixed dollar amount each month regardless of the stock price. Some months the stock price will be high, and others it will be low. However, over time, the average stock price will go down. This reduces the risk of investing a large amount of money at the wrong time.You are using the same strategy if you are investing in a 401(k) or a 403(b).


With DCA, the dollar amount remains the same each month, but the number of shares purchased varies because of fluctuations in the price. This strategy allows investors to ignore the short-term market and invest in companies over the long-term. It works because the market historically has shown strong returns over the long-term.;
, Although DSPPs are a wise investment for many beginning investors or those with a small amount to invest, you should also be aware of their shortcomings. Your investments may be inadequately diversified. Also, the fees can become expensive. In addition, the record-keeping is daunting. Finally, you have no choice over the purchase date of your stocks.Lack of diversity is a drawback of DSPPs. Unless you invest in a number of different companies across a variety of industries, your investments will not have adequate diversity.
The fees, although low, can add up over time. Many companies charge initial setup fees, purchase transaction fees, sales fees and more.
Investors must keep track of the cost of stock purchases in order to calculate capital gains taxes due. Those with multiple DSPPs over many years have to keep track of a multitude of transactions for each year.
You have no control over the trading date and price. Some stock purchases may take weeks.
 If you have a small amount of money to invest, and you don’t want the returns to be wiped away by expensive brokerage fees, then consider a DSPP. DSPPs allow you to purchase shares of stock directly from a company with the help of a transfer agent. You don’t need a broker to be the middleman. DSPPs are also known as no-load stocks.DSPPs are generally available from large, well-established companies.
You can agree to automatic monthly withdrawals from your checking or savings account to purchase more stocks.
A transfer agent is a third party that represents the company. It may be a bank, a trust company or a similar organization. Corporations hire transfer agents to maintain records of stock transactions and investors’ account balances, to cancel and issue certificates and to deal with any problems, such as lost or stolen certificates. Some companies choose to act as their own transfer agent, but most use a third party., Large, publicly-traded corporations often have DSPP programs. Consult informative websites such as Computershare. These websites have databases of thousands of companies that can be searched by industry and location. They also provide information about investments strategies.Do a quick search to get a complete alphabetical list of companies that offer DSPPs. Or do an advanced search to filter companies by industry or initial investment amount. See the minimum share purchase and the minimum purchase dollar amount. Click on the Plan summary link to view more information such as plan fees and features.
 Go to the investor’s page of the company’s website. Look through the FAQs to find a link to information about DSPPs. This link will take you to the company’s transfer agent.On the transfer company’s website, find information about the DSPP for the company in which you are interested. This will tell you about any associated fees, the minimum required to open the account and the minimum monthly investment.
Supply information such as your name, address, social security number, bank account information and monthly withdrawal amount.
Indicate whether you want the dividends to be sent to you monthly or reinvested into additional stock.
You don’t have to set up a monthly withdrawal to purchase additional stocks. It is possible to make a single, one-time investment of a fixed number of shares.
Reinvesting your dividends to purchase additional stock is known as a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.

