 Take a fine mesh food grade bag, usually used for making nut milk, and place 4 ½ ounces (128 g) of ground coffee in the bag. Cinch or fasten the bag closed so the coffee won’t come out.These types of mesh bags are reusable, so you’ll be able to wash it and use it the next time that you brew coffee.
If you don’t have a mesh bag, you can mix the ground coffee directly into the water in the next step. However, you’ll have to strain the coffee concentrate to remove the grounds after you've refrigerated it. Pour it through a fine mesh sieve before mixing the concentrate with water.
 When the coffee is secure in the mesh bag, place it in the bottom of a 2-quart (1.9 l) pitcher. Add enough cold water to the pitcher to fill it to the brim.For the best tasting coffee, use filtered water.
 Once the coffee is in the pitcher and it’s filled with water, place it in the refrigerator. The coffee will need to brew for at least 12 hours, so it’s a good idea to place it in the fridge the night before you plan to drink the coffee.You may want to experiment with different brew times to see which results in the best tasting coffee. Start with 12 hours, and play around until you’re happy with the flavor.
 After the coffee has brewed for approximately 12 hours, take the pitcher out of the refrigerator. Pull the mesh bag with the coffee out of the water, and squeeze it over the pitcher to extract all of the coffee flavor before discarding the grounds.Make sure to wash the mesh bag thoroughly, so it’s ready for the next time you plan to brew coffee.
 The liquid in the pitcher will be an extremely concentrated form of coffee, so you need to dilute it with water. Mix 1 part of the coffee concentrate with 1 part of hot water for a cup of hot coffee.Coffee that is prepared through cold brewing is 67% less acidic than coffee prepared through hot brewing.
You can also mix the coffee concentrate with cold water and add ice if you prefer iced coffee.
 If you don’t use up all of the coffee concentrate, store it in the fridge. Unlike traditional hot brewed coffee, it won’t go stale so it can keep for up to two weeks.