 After signing up, you can begin uploading your songs to the site or you can record live on the site. With you songs on the site you not only will they be discovered by fellow musicians and listeners all over the world, but you can also share links the rest of your fans.;
, Similar to Soundcloud, Reverbnation allows musicians, labels, and listeners to your music and gives them the option to become a fan. With Reverbnation, you have opportunities to submit for radio play, musical internships, major and independent record labels looking for new artists, some services you want to use you may need to purchase, but it's possible to build a strong fan base with reverbnation with no cash out of pocket.
 After you create a Facebook artist fan page and add the BandPage app to the page. You then can add your music, videos, merch, etc. for the enjoyment of your fans.
 Twitter music promo tools are endless and any Google search will show you that, but one good one is 'Tweet For A Track'. The site's name speaks for itself––when your fans tweet about you or your music, they'll receive a free download of one of your songs in exchange.
 CoPromote allows you to sign up with either email, Facebook or Twitter accounts. Following sign up, you're prompted to select your interests. You then are matched with Twitter and/or Facebook messages that you post to your accounts and in return you expand your fan reach. Create a promotion, include your link and your fan reach is automatically applied. You are now set up to receive Tweets,Retweets and Facebook posts about you and your music to tens of thousands of people free of charge!

, Every band/artist needs a press kit, and now that we're in the age of technology most things are electronic, including artist press kits. PresskitTo allows you to sign up for a free account to create a press kit to submit to fans and other opportunities in order to further your career.
 Even if you already have a Jango Radio account, you'll need to signup for an artist's account. After you sign up at radio airplay, log in and upload your music, photo and a bio, then pick the artists most similar to your sound (such as Lady Gaga, Beyonce, Paramore) and your music will be included in stations with their music and discovered by their fans. Any fans you collect will sign up for your mailing list and be added as your artist stats.
 Shoot videos performing your songs and upload them on Youtube. Monetize, pick a category, allow mobile views and comments for feedback and don't forget to tag, tag, and tag some more!

, On Bandcamp, fans can discover your music and if they like it they can buy it directly from you you. You can promote your music and sell it and your merch while retaining 100 percent of the profit. Simply upload album art and the tracks on the album, set a price, add your PayPal email, publish your release and you're all set.
 Number One Music (N1M) is a trial site, meaning, they give you a certain time period to use the fan builder function, but since you can link Soundcloud, your fans will most likely join you there. Your music will rank on the charts locally, nationally and globally, in genre specified and unspecified.

