 Your military member is your sponsor, and the reason you will receive some benefits. The benefits include, but are not limited to, the privilege of driving on post, use of the base/post exchange, buying groceries at the commissary, and Tricare health insurance. If you do not have a sponsor, you will not be able to get a dependent ID card. The following is a list of the most common dependent recipients:


A lawful spouse
A widow
Children under 21-years old
Children between 21 and 23 who are going to college
Adult children unable to care for themselves;
, Pretty much every form you sign while in the military, or part of a military family, is going to require multiple forms of ID. You’ll need to bring your photo ID (e.g. a driver’s license), a social security (SSN) card, and a birth certificate. For different dependents there are specific forms of ID required:For a spouse, the wedding license is required.
If a couple already has a child before marriage, the child’s birth certificate and SSN card is necessary.
If the military member is adopting his new spouse’s child, then the child’s adoption papers, birth certificate, and SSN card are required.
All these forms have to be originals. No copies are accepted.
 All service-members are in DEERS (Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System), and so are their legal dependents. It's essentially a worldwide-accessible database of names that identifies military sponsors, their families, and other applicable personnel who are eligible for benefits.You can either go to your local Military Personnel Office (MILPO) or access the Real-time Automated Personnel Identification System (RAPIDS) site.
 They must sign the DD FORM 1172-2 (Application for identification card/DEERS enrollment) for you to obtain any benefits. For deployed military members, there are three possible substitutions:A DD FORM 1172-2 can be notarized and signed abroad, as long as there is a verifying official (VO) on hand.
A special power of attorney for IDs and DEERs, common for families experiencing separation, can be granted to a dependent of legal age.
The RAPIDS site can be used with an active Common Access Card (CAC) to digitally sign a document. Once the document is digitally signed, it can be accessed remotely wherever the dependant attempts to sign up for an ID card., After your enrollment in DEERS has been verified, you’re almost finished. You’ll need to bring two different forms of ID to MILPO, and one of those must have your photo on it. There are two different forms left, however, that can be filled out at the MILPO:



DD FORM 1173 – This is the form titled United States Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card, for dependents of active duty, Reservists who are active duty for greater than 30 days, retirees and those receiving retiree pay, Medal of Honor winners, and a few other eligible dependents.

DD FORM 1173-1 – This form is titled the United States Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card (Guard and Reserve family member). It is for dependents of Reservists, former Reservists, and Reservists who die after they become eligible. 