, You'll see a place where you can enter a number to look up your case status.
 After submitting your immigration forms, you should have received a receipt number verifying that your forms were received. The receipt number can be used to determine the status of your case.


The receipt number should appear on all application notices you have gotten from the USCIS.
The receipt number should be 13-characters long. It begins with 3 capital letters.
Omit dashes when you're entering the number.
 Once you enter the number, the website will pull up your application status. You'll see what steps your application or petition has already gone through and what steps it still has to go through before completion.
, It's a list of actions you can take within the website to find information you need.


, You can either register as an applicant customer or as a representative for an applicant customer.
 Read the page listing all of the terms and conditions, the click "Accept."

, You'll need to enter your name, address, and email address, as well as create a user ID and password.
 You can choose to sign up for email updates or updates sent by text to your phone.
 The USCIS will send an automatic update each time the status of your application or petition changes.
 This will help you estimate the duration it takes to process your form and check its status. Depending on which step you need to take to continue your immigration process, you may have filed one of the following types of forms:


Application for citizenship and naturalization.
Form for authorization by employer (immigration sponsorship by employer).
Asylum form (if you need to live within the USA as a protected refugee).
Application for family-based immigration (immigration sponsorship by family member).
Status adjustment form (if you want a document proving change of status).
Application for immigration through adoption.
Replacement form (if your current immigration documents have been lost or stolen).
 You can do this using the following method:


Go to the USCIS website.
Select "Processing Times" (under the "Find" heading on the left menu bar).
Use the Case Processing Table at the bottom of the page to estimate the processing time. You will need to provide the name of the field office and service center where you sent your application and then click on the "Processing Dates" button. You can then see a chart showing the processing time for the form number and name that you had filed.

