 If you are in charge of the planning, you should have some suggestions in mind before giving them a call. Whether it’s a first date or your fifth date, talk to the other person about the things they would like to do (and eat!).


Remember that you are going out together. Think of activities that you not only enjoy, but that you would like to do with your date.
If you are still getting to know each other, be sure to plan something that allows you to talk. Have dinner at a quiet restaurant or go to an outdoor exhibit.
Once the date is planned, ensure that you both know what you’ll be doing so that you can plan your outfit accordingly.;
, If you are planning an epic date, you’ll need to have good timing. Don’t plan at the last minute and offer some scheduling options.


Don’t assume that your date is free on Friday evening. Offer a few days and times that work for you. If it’s a first date, have a clear start and end time. That way you won’t get stuck in an uncomfortable situation for too long if things don’t go well., Once you know your date’s interests, you can plan something unconventional that will set you apart in a nice way. Remember that you may need some extra time to plan if you’re doing something special.


Go for a hike or go to the beach if you like outdoor activities.
See an art show or a explore a new coffee shop if you are more low-key., Going out to brunch may be enough for a great date. If you are having a good time, however, you may not want to part ways too soon. Plan a secondary activity near by in case the fun hasn’t ended. Look up bars or coffee shops in the area. Suggest going for a drink to keep the conversation going. , You don’t want to find a great restaurant, only to learn that there are no tables when you arrive. If you plan an activity like rock climbing, call in advance and let them know when you are coming. Find out if you’ll need to bring anything extra. If you do get to your spot and find that you can’t get in, it’s good to have a plan B. Do your research beforehand, and have something else in mind.
 Despite your planning, things don’t always work out as you’d imagined. Hopefully you and your date will read each other well and things will flow nicely. If things are going well, something unplanned may arise spontaneously. Don’t be afraid to step out of the box if you both agree that a change of plans would be fun.

