 Another option for a noncompetitive is to choose a sport that is noncompetitive by nature and find a local class. For instance, your child could take recreational gymnastics or dancing. You can find classes through your parks and recreation department or through local studios and gyms.Keep in mind that the competitiveness of many sports depends on how you play them. For instance, dancing can be competitive, but your child can also just take a class for fun.
Golf is another sport your kid could try.
 Rock climbing may strike a bit of fear in your heart as a parent, but it can help kids build confidence. Plus, they are only in competition with themselves. Each climb is a chance to learn something new and to gain new skills. Check your area for rock climbing walls that offer classes to kids., Yoga is another great athletic activity that your child can get involved in. It increases flexibility, and it is completely noncompetitive. It can also help with focus and balance. Many studios offer classes for kids, so check in your area to see what's being offered.Your kid might not like the idea of going to a new class by themselves, so why not take a class together? Many studios offer kid and parent yoga classes, for instance. You'll both have fun and increase your activity level at the same time.
 Another option for an individual sport is swimming. While of course swimming can be competitive, it can also just be something fun your kid learns to do. Start with swimming lessons, and then check to see if there is a noncompetitive league in your area. Plus, learning to swim gives your kid a necessary life skill., If you want your kid to try other sports, such as skating and biking, you'll need to get them the necessary equipment. Your kid can rent skates if they only skate at a rink, but if they're going to skate elsewhere, they'll need the skates to do it. Similarly, biking can be a good sport for kids, but they need the bikes to do it. Also, check if your area has any clubs for kids that focus on these sports.

