 Tongue scrapers or cleaners can be purchased at the pharmacy or big box stores like Target or Walmart. They may feel less invasive than a larger, wider-surfaced toothbrush.


A tongue scraper is a small tool made of plastic or metal that gently removes debris and plaque from the tongue. To use a tongue scraper, place its edge toward the back of your tongue and gently pull forward. Repeat as needed to cover the surface of the tongue, rinsing between scrapes.To reduce the gagging reflex, simply do not place the tongue scraper as far back into your mouth as you use it. Find the farther point you can place it without gagging, and start there.
 If the tongue scraper method does not work, you can use dental floss to clean the surface of the tongue.


Take a normal length of dental floss and drag it down across your tongue. This works well for individuals with a particularly high gag reflex, but it does not remove as much debris from the tongue as other methods.
As with the tongue scraper, to reduce the gag reflex you will need to find the farthest distance back on the tongue that you can place the floss without gagging.
 If a tongue scraper or floss still triggers your gag reflex, a simple wet washcloth might be all you need.


Use a soft, clean washcloth and moisten it with warm water. You can add a bit of toothpaste if you like, but it isn't necessary, especially if the taste of the toothpaste contributes to your gag reflex.
Wrap the cloth around one finger and gently rub the surface of the tongue to remove plaque and debris. Go as far back on the tongue as you can without gagging, rinsing the cloth periodically.
 People with very strong gag reflexes or sensitive tongues may not find a tongue cleaning method that works for them, but use of a good mouthwash can eliminate most of the problematic bacteria and leave the mouth healthy and clean.


Look for an antimicrobial mouthwash containing fluoride and alcohol. Be sure to rinse the teeth for 30 seconds then spit the mouthwash out completely. Do not drink water or rinse the teeth for at least 30 minutes after using mouthwash. Brands like Listerine Total Care are effective at reducing bacteria in the mouth and leaving the breath fresh.Ask your dentist about a prescription for an oral rinse of chlorhexidine gluconate. Using this twice a day may eliminate the need for tongue brushing and help you battle gingivitis.

