 Place 1 1/2 cups (270 g) of dry quinoa into a mesh strainer and rinse it for 2 minutes. Place the rinsed quinoa in a large pot and with 1/2 teaspoon of salt and 3 cups (705 ml) of water. Bring the water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low and cover the pot. Let the quinoa simmer, boil lightly, for 10 to 15 minutes. Remove the pot from heat and let the quinoa cool completely.You'll know the quinoa is cooked when it has absorbed most of the water. Fluff the cooked quinoa with a fork after it has cooled slightly.
 Mix together the ingredients for a light dressing in a small mixing bowl. Whisk together the following ingredients and then add salt and pepper to taste:½ cup (120 ml) of extra virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon of balsamic vinegar
2 garlic cloves, pressed
½ teaspoon of dried basil
½ teaspoon of dried thyme

, Drain a jar of roasted red peppers and chop enough to make ⅓ cup (60 g). Place it in a large serving bowl along with the other vegetables and cheese. You'll need to slice and add ⅓ cup (134 g) of pitted kalamata olives, ⅓ cup (50 g) of crumbled feta cheese, and ¼ cup (6 g) of basil that you slice thinly.If you don't have the time to prep all of these ingredients, you can substitute a purchased salad mixture and add shredded cheese of your choice.
 Add your cooled quinoa to the bowl of vegetables and cheese. You should also stir in 3 cups (64 g) of arugula and 1 15-ounce can (420 g) of drained garbanzo beans. Stir the quinoa salad to combine all of the ingredients.You could also substitute the kale or frisee for the arugula.
 Pour the Mediterranean dressing over the quinoa salad and toss it gently. Try to coat all of the ingredients with some of the dressing. You can garnish the salad with extra slivers of basil or more crumbled feta. Serve the salad at room temperature and refrigerate any leftovers.Keep in mind that the arugula will wilt if you refrigerate it for several days. If you're going to make this salad in advance, try to make it the same day you plan on serving it.

