 As a starting point, you should figure out where and when you would like your story to take place. It could be on Earth or on another planet altogether. It could be tens, hundreds, thousands or maybe even millions of years in the future.Remember, not everyone has to live on a spaceship or consort with aliens for your story to be futuristic.
Make your decisions based on what kind of story you would like to tell about the future. If you’re projecting a time when humans have evolved to be bodiless, you might want to set it further in the future than if you still include humans who look much like they do today.
 To write a credible futuristic story, you have to start by creating your future world. In fact, the story itself should arise from your world. Now that you have the basic wheres and whens down, it’s time to start figuring out the details. The more detailed your world is, the more people will believe in it as they are reading.Start by considering what makes your future world different from today and what things are the same. Then, delve into the details of how your future’s technology, society, politics, and environment are structured.
Take notes about each of these categories. Not all of them may come up in your story, but it will help you to fully imagine the world you’re introducing to readers.
If you know lots of particulars about your world, you can sneak in concrete details related to them that will make your setting seem more real to readers.
Keep in mind that your decisions about how to characterize a future world should be driven by what sort of commentary you want to offer about the present. If you think Artificial Intelligence is a positive thing, for example, then you can start by imagining a utopian world in which the human race has been replaced by AI.
 Decide if your future will be more or less advanced technologically than today. Imagine what technological developments may have taken place between now and then. Remember to consider not only big-picture changes, like the ability to time travel, but also what kinds of tech people will be using in their everyday lives, such as modes of transportation or communication., Now, consider what the inhabitants of your future world will be like. What will they look like? What species will they be? Map out the norms you imagine for their general family structures, occupations, and lifestyles.Seemingly mundane details, such as what people eat and drink or what their houses are like, will go a long way towards establishing a compelling future world.
 Besides ruminating on your future’s social norms, you should take time to imagine what its political system looks like. How are territories recognized or divided in your world? Do nations or countries still exist or is there a significantly different geopolitical arrangement? What sort of government(s) exist in your world, and who holds political power?, What does the natural world look like in your future? Think about its weather or climate and landscape as well as its flora and fauna.


For example, if you’re setting your story on a future Earth, you might consider which species have evolved and which ones have gone extinct. You could make predictions about how the climate has altered and which land masses are now covered in water.
 There should be an internal logic to how your world is imagined. When your audience is reading the story, all the concrete details included in it should make sense to them and check out with one another.For instance, if people have evolved to communicate telepathically, they probably wouldn’t still be using mobile phones.

