 Look for shampoo made for goat hair at your local pet store or online. Goat specific shampoo will be gentle on the goat’s coat and ensure it retains its natural oils.In a pinch, you can use mild soap like Dawn dishwashing detergent. Make sure the soap is gentle and does not contain any harsh chemicals like bleach or ammonia.;
, Make sure the goat doesn’t slip away during washing by tying it up to a secure spot, such as a post next to a drain. Put a collar on the goat and tie it up so it is secure.Tying the goat up in an open area with a drain will ensure the water can drain properly off the goat when you wash it.
 It can be tricky to wash the goat on your own, especially if the goat is large or skittish. Ask a friend or partner to help you hold the goat and soothe it while you wash it.


If you are practiced at washing the goat and have secured it by tying it up, you may not need a second pair of hands.
 Place the bucket of water close to the goat and within your reach. Pour a few drops of the shampoo into the water and mix it together., Carefully lift the bucket of water and pour the soapy mixture over the goat. Avoid getting any of the mixture in the goat’s face or eyes. Let the soapy mixture fall over the goat’s coat. Make sure you get the goat’s hind legs as well.You can also use a sponge dipped in the soapy mixture to drip the mixture over the goat. Do this until the entire goat is covered with the mixture.
Let the water run down the goat's coat to clean it. Do not scrub or rub the goat's hair as this can strip it up of its natural oils.
 Use a bucket of clean water to wash off the soapy mixture on the goat. Lift the bucket and pour the mixture over the goat to rinse it off. Make sure all the soapy mixture is removed from the goat’s coat.You can gently run your hand through the goat’s coat to help distribute the clean water in the goat’s coat and remove the soap.
 If you are washing the goat on a warm day, let the goat air dry in direct sunlight. Make sure the goat is tied up and under constant supervision so it does not wander off and get dirty before it dries.It may take some time for the goat to dry in the sun, but this method will result in a beautiful, clean, fluffy coat.
 Another option is to use a blow dryer to dry the goat quickly and efficiently. Use a blow dryer on the gentle heat setting. Tie up the goat when you blow dry it to make the job easier.Move the blow dryer all over the goat in a side to side motion to dry their coat. Use the low heat setting so their hair is not damaged by the heat.
 Gently wipe the water off the goat’s coat. Try not to rub the goat’s hair, as this can damage it and remove the natural oils. You may need to wipe the goat down several times with the towel to get it dry.