 A terrarium is good, and should be ten gallons at least. Avoid getting terrariums that are longer than they are tall, because these frogs love to climb. The terrain can be dirt, bark, or small gravel. A small water dish also is a must but make sure in is no deeper that 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) for tadpoles and 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep for adults as they are not good swimmers and can drown! Be sure the frog has things to climb on, and lots of places to hide in. Tree frogs enjoy plants. It is better to buy fake plants, because some real ones are poisonous to frogs.;
, If you don't, tree frogs will dry up and die. You need to mist the living space frequently to keep humidity between 65% and 90%. You can do this with a spray bottle, and do it several time per day. If you do not wish to use a spray bottle, or are unable to do so very frequently, an automatic mister can be purchased at most pet stores. These can be set to keep humidity within a certain range. You need a hygrometer to monitor humidity and a thermometer for temperature.
 If your home is cool at night, or has no heating, a small heater can be purchased to keep under the frog's terrarium. If you have no cooling system in the summer, you will have to find a way to keep your frog's area cool. Preferably not a fan, because this can act as a de-humidifier.
 The crickets should have nutrients dusted on them before feeding them to your frog. You can buy crickets with the nutrients already on them at most pet stores, or you can buy the powder separate and sprinkle it on yourself. You can feed your frogs mealworms occasionally as a treat.
 Although White's Tree frogs are among the toughest breeds available, they are especially prone to overeating. Some can even form fat all over the body, especially above the eyes, which can lead to blindness. If you think your frog is too skinny, feed them a few extra crickets per week, but cut back once your frog puts on more weight. Learn how to diagnose frog illnesses to help keep them healthy. If you suspect that your frog may be ill, see a vet with amphibian experience immediately. Almost all frog illnesses are fatal if medical attention is not sought right away.
 Some people are even known to bring their White's with them places, allowing the frogs to sit on their shoulder. However, do not attempt this unless you are certain that your frog will not jump off your shoulder (most can be trained not to) and is not afraid of crowds.
 You can buy your frog a companion. They get along with other White's (be sure they are both the same gender unless you want babies), Red Eyed Tree Frogs, and Green Tree Frogs. Be sure they are all around the same size because large frogs will eat smaller ones.

