 Depending on your parents’ beliefs and opinions, they may have strong negative opinions about other cultures. Pointing out the good things about your friends may help your parents accept your friends.It can help your parents realize that people of other cultures can be good people and do good things.


For example, let your parents know that your friends make good grades or volunteer in the community.
You might say, “Dad, my friends are the reason I’ve improved in Chemistry. We study together and they explain the parts I don’t understand.”
Point out when your friends do something you know your parents would admire or value. For instance, “Mom, my friends volunteer at the children’s center every weekend.”

, Getting into trouble at the same time that you are trying to get your parents to accept your friends from other cultures will not help. Your parents may use your behavior as justification for not accepting your friends of other cultures. Your parents may say that your friend’s culture is a bad influence on you.


Continue taking care of your responsibilities. Go to school, do your work, and participate in activities the way you always have.
Don’t start doing things like staying out late or being disrespectful to your parents. They will probably blame your friends and won’t let you see them anymore.
 Your parents may have held their views about culture for their whole life. Don’t expect them to change these views and become more culturally tolerant overnight. Be consistent and patient with your parents. Talk to them and gently correct them on cultural issues whenever it’s appropriate.Be prepared to have several conversations with your parents about cultural issues. Always remember to remain calm when you have the discussions.
Give your parents time to get used to you having someone from a different culture in your life, and theirs.
You can even say things like, “I know you’ve felt this way for a long time. But I’d like for you to try to hear what I’m saying and think about it a little.”

