 Some people are born old. You can see it in their eyes. They tut tut everything and they act superior all the time. It is best to keep away from such people because they will inform you of such things as "grow up", "that is beneath me", "how childish" and "that is so very immature". You may have heard a 10 year old or a 60 year old say these things - it matters not - both of them are old at heart.;
, It is possible to dress young and not be accused of being mutton dressed up as lamb. Don't wear a bikini if you have flab spilling out over the bikini bottom, whatever your age - 10 or 70. But if you're 70 with an enviable body, why shouldn't you flaunt it? Ask the 18 year old splutterer just what his problem is - you're not asking him on a date after all. If you have great legs at 70 - you have great legs. So be it.
 Listen to the radio, watch the news and read the papers. Use the Internet as an information tool. Stay up there with the trends, the news items and the facts. And be a source of reasoned wisdom when the young-in-age folks get panicked and outraged by ridiculous media hype. You've already lived through it all and know better. Help them to see that too.
 Yes, you keep being told this every day of your life from the day you're born. There's a reason for that - it works. It keeps your bones in shape, your tush in shape and your muscles flexible. It means that as you get older, you can still bend over without having to ask somebody else to pull you back up. Seriously. Just do it. The great thing about getting older is that you have a much better understanding of which exercise works best for you. Just because someone swears by aerobics does not mean it works for your needs - keep trialling different exercise techniques and settle on those that make you feel good, alive and supple. And then stick with it. Become an instructor for other young-at-heart people if you get really enthused. After all, why not?

, Kids get embarrassed by parents from about the age of 10 - until about age 99. It's a human curse thing that comes with being a parent. So the sooner you get over it, the better. The great thing is that they'll get their turn at knowing how it feels when their kids do it to them and on and on ad infinitum. What you do need to do is to tell them that you'd appreciate support for your young views on life and not criticism and that they can leave their ageist attitudes at your front door. If not, they're definitely not welcome to your marathon yoga session nor your great alcohol-infused tea parties. You've got better things to do than to be upbraided by their bizarrely placed morals.
 Who says you can't stay trendy and still listen to the classics. Beethoven's a classic; Shakira will probably be one some day too. The key is to have broad music tastes and keep them all guessing. Anyone who listens to only one music genre is a dead bore, whatever their age, so having varied tastes keeps the "trying-to-be-hip" critics right off your case.
 We tend to embarrass our children. Grandchildren are another case. They like hip grandparents in the main. It sets them apart from the kids with old fuddy-duddies for grandparents and it sure beats the dull parents who can't get with the funky grandparents! Seek them out as allies. They'll be very willing to keep you in touch with youth culture and help decipher the ins and outs for your curious mind.
 Never stop traveling. It is the key to a healthy mind, an open heart and makes up for all those years you went without travel to save money. Make sure to have the right medication on hand and know where the escape routes are if needed. But, provided you're healthy on the whole, traveling as a young-at-heart person is no less worrying than a young-of-age person and certainly a lot safer than someone wearing next-to-nothing and getting drunk at Ibiza in the hope nothing bad will happen. Keep your wits about you as any traveler is meant to and you'll be fine. And write your travels up - in a diary, a blog, even a book. That will serve as inspiration for others and is a great reminder for you and your family.

