 You've heard it a million times: turn off the lights when you leave a room, and don't leave the TV on all day! These small actions are more important than ever when it comes to reducing air pollution, since the electricity that runs your lights and appliances is generated by emissions-producing coal or natural gas plants. Here are a few more ideas for cutting back on the energy your household uses on a daily basis:


Take advantage of natural light. Set up your work or study space near a window that gets bright light all day, so you won't have to switch the lights on.
Have one room in the house be the "bright room" at night, rather than lighting up the whole house all the time. Your family can gather in the brightest room to read, study, or watch a movie before bedtime, rather than spreading out.






Unplug your appliances when you aren't using them. That goes for big appliances as well as small ones - TVs, computers, toasters, coffee makers, etc. Even a phone charger left plugged in can sap energy all day long.






Replace outdated large appliances with models that are designed to conserve energy.
Buy your electricity from low or zero pollution facilities. Look into the options available in your area., Try to allow your body to acclimate to the changing seasons instead of using your heater and air conditioner to keep the temperature steady all year long. Blasting the heat and air is a major drain on energy, so break out your hand fans and warm sweaters to help you adjust to weather changes rather than relying on your thermostat.


When you're at work or away on a weekend trip, make sure to adjust your thermostat so that it's not pumping in cool or hot air the entire time you're away., Heating water requires a lot of energy, so being mindful of how much hot water you use is an important practice. You can start by taking shorter showers and skipping baths, since both require an abundance of hot water.


Turn your water heater to 120ʡF (49ʡC), so that the water never heats beyond that temperature.
Use the cool setting on your washing machine.

