 Your diet is the component of your lifestyle that might actually have the most impact on your facial skin. Making sure that you eat right is good for you physically and mentally, and it can drastically improve the feel and appearance of your complexion. There are several foods to make sure that you are eating in order to help your skin flourish.Eat your produce. Making sure that you get the suggested five to seven daily servings of fruits and veggies is important for your skin. Fruits and veggies contain a lot of vitamins and antioxidants that your skin needs to thrive. In addition to greens, add some sweet potato and citrus to your diet.
Healthy fats help your skin stay supple and smooth. Try adding in some extra fish and avocado when you are doing your meal planning.
There are also many foods that have negative affects on your skin. Try to avoid eating too much salt or foods that are very greasy., Drinking enough water is important for your overall health, and it is also crucial to keeping your facial skin healthy. You need to drink at least nine 8-oz glasses if you're a woman, and 13 glasses of water per day if you're a man. Aim for more if you workout a lot and lose a lot of water through sweat.Track how much you are drinking. Many people don't realize that they are not drinking enough water. Try making a notation every time you down 8-oz. There are also apps you can put on your phone to track your hydration.
Be aware that fluids consumed through foods, like watermelon, count toward your daily water intake. Even water found in drinks like coffee, tea, milk, and juice count — just make sure you're focusing on consuming mostly water.
 Lack of sleep has some very damaging affects on your skin. If you are not getting enough rest, your face will show it. Lack of sleep can increase the aging problem and also make existing facial skin problems even worse. Try to get between seven and nine hours of sleep per night.If you have trouble sleeping, there are some things to try. Shut down all electronics (including your phone) an hour before you go to bed. Your brain needs time to relax, and the blue light emitted by electronic devices can interfere with the production of the hormones that make you sleepy. Also, avoid eating a large meal less than two hours before you plan to go to bed.
 Good news! Your trips to the gym are also good for your skin. Research shows that not only does exercise slow the aging process, but it can actually reverse its effects on your skin. So to improve your skin, get moving. Just be sure you wash your face after sweating!








If you don't like going to the gym, there are plenty of other ways to add exercise into your life. Grab a friend and go for a long walk. You can also try some online exercise programs or download an app on your phone.
 To help continually improve your skin, it is important to be aware of the factors that cause damage. Skin damage is most typically caused by the sun, other weather (think wind), and air pollution. You may also cause damage to our skin by exposing it to dirty surfaces, such as pillowcases and your phone.Protect your skin by always wearing sunscreen when you are outdoors. You should also avoid tanning beds, as they can cause skin to age and increase your risk of deadly skin cancers.
Smoking (and secondhand smoke) can seriously damage your skin. Avoid being in areas where smoke is prevalent and if you smoke — quit.
 A dermatologist is a doctor who specializes in caring for skin. If you have any serious issues, you should consult one. A dermatologist can provide you with prescription treatments for many common ailments.Checking in with a professional is also a great way to learn how to prevent serious problems such as skin cancer.

