 Are you going through a personal problem? Having your teacher's sympathy can be important here. A teacher can help you manage your stress and may be able to give you some leeway on homework at times.Before approaching a teacher, think about how much you're willing to share. You do not have to share all the details, but a basic overview can help. You can also think about what your teacher could potentially do to help.
A personal problem can sometimes get in the way of school work. A teacher can help you manage your stress and may be able to give you some leeway on homework at times.;
, An academic problem may also require help from a teacher. If you're struggling with a subject, make sure your teacher knows how much you're trying. They will be more sympathetic if they know you want to learn.Think about any particular reasons you may be struggling. Write down all the reasons you don't understand the topic. Make it clear you're willing to learn, but are struggling to do so.
When you approach your teacher, tell them exactly what you don't understand. Ask your teacher if he or she can give you some one-on-one attention.
 Not all teachers will be sympathetic. If you're going through a personal problem, pick a sympathetic teacher to discuss this with.Think about the teachers you feel comfortable around. Is there a teacher who's very friendly and approachable? Are you particularly close to one teacher in your school?
If your math teacher tends to be cold, do not talk to him or her. Instead, talk to your history teacher, who has always been warm and caring.
 Some issues are time sensitive. You want to talk these over before it's too late. If a personal issue is affecting your grades, for example, make sure to talk to your teacher before the marking period ends., Teachers are busy people. They may not have time to talk to you after class or between classes. It's best to make an appointment.Some teachers have office hours. If teachers at your school have office hours, stop by then to talk.
If your teacher does not have office hours, stop your teacher after class. Say something like, "I have something I want to talk over with you. Is there a time we could meet in private?"

, Stay calm going into the situation. Remember, most teachers care about their students and want to see them succeed. If you're struggling with a personal issue, your teacher will want to help you.Introduce the topic. You do not want to waste time making small talk. You should start discussing your problem right away.
For example, say something like, "I'm having a problem at home. I really need someone to listen and I didn't know who else to talk to."
If you do not want other people to know, say something like, "Can this stay between us?" before you begin the talk. Keep in mind, however, your teacher may be legally obligated to report a situation if you are in danger.
 You want to make sure your teacher understands exactly what the issue is. When trying to get your teacher's sympathy, explain using as many specifics as possible. Say what the problem is, and how it's affecting your performance in school.If it's a personal problem, try something like, "My dad has been very sick with cancer lately, and sometimes I can't sleep. That's why I've been running late for class a lot. I'm also worried about the upcoming book report, because it's due the weekend I told him I would go to chemo with him."
If it's an academic problem, talk about what exactly you're struggling with. Don't say this topic is "too hard" or your grade was "unfair." Instead, try something like, "I don't understand what you meant by this comment on my paper. I want to do better next time, but I just feel like I'm missing something. Can you explain more?"

, You do not want to come off as whiny or hostile when talking to your teacher. Make sure to be respectful, even if your teacher is not immediately sympathetic to your issue.Keep your negative emotions in check. If your teacher does not seem immediately sympathetic, he or she may not understand yet. Stay calm, and keep trying to explain.
Do not rush to judgments. For example, your teacher says, "Well, I can't just give you an extension. It wouldn't be fair to other students." Wait before you react. Your teacher may have something else to say. He may continue with something like, "But I understand your dad's sickness must be tough. I can give you time in class to work while students do other activities."

, You want the conversation to be productive. If you do gain your teacher's sympathy, think about why you need it. What do you hope to gain by having your teacher by sympathetic to your situation?You may just want your teacher to understand. If a personal problem is, say, affecting your behavior, you may just want the teacher to know. Say something like, "I just wanted to explain so you don't think I'm not paying attention in class."
You may want or need some special considerations, however. If you've, say, recently been diagnosed with dyslexia, you may need your teacher to be sympathetic to the fact you'll need more time for tests and quizzes. Say something like, "Is there any way I can get an extra 20 minutes to complete tomorrow's quiz?"

, Thank your teacher for his or her time. Make sure you both know the game plan going forward in regards to your classroom responsibilities. Reiterate what plans, if any, were made. Then, say something like, "I just wanted to thank you very much for listening" before leaving the classroom., Teachers tend to be drawn to students who like being taught. If you want your teacher to like you, try to genuinely enjoy school. Paying attention in class, engaging with discussion, and coming in with enthusiasm can all help.Remember the benefits of an education. School prepares you for the real world and can help you get into a good college after graduation. Think of school as a way to help your future and learn new things.
Focus on the classes you like. While you may dread history class each day, see it as a necessary evil to get to math class. Try to develop some interest in history anyway. Think about how interesting it is to learn about the events that shaped the current current world.
 This will help you seem responsible to your teacher. Bring all the materials you need to class. It can help to have a different folder for different classes, that include things like assignments, and assignment sheets. Be sure to never forget your textbook, or things like a calculator.Make sure you study as well. Do your reading carefully and review materials after class. This way, you'll be able to follow class better and come in with great questions.
 Teachers hate students who do not listen in class. In class, avoid distractions. Keep things like books, your phone, and other electronic devices out of reach. Listen to everything your teacher says.Take notes. This will help you follow along better, and it will also make you look like a better student.
 Never be late on assignments. If you need sympathy due to a personal problem, your teacher is vastly more likely to provide it if you've never had issues with late papers before. Always stay turn your homework in on time.