;
, Although you may hold resentment towards more than one person, it’s best to focus on one person at a time. For that matter, if you are harboring resentment towards someone who has hurt you numerous times, focus on each experience individually. This could require many forgiveness meditation sessions, but it will help you let go completely of each negative experience.
 Make sure you won’t be disturbed, and that there are no distractions, such as ringing phones or noisy traffic.
 If possible, set aside an entire afternoon or evening for the entire process. You need to be calm and centered before you begin the meditation, and you will need to rest for a few hours when the meditation is over.


Take a shower.
Put on comfortable clothing. White clothing is preferable because the color is associated with purity.
Do not eat for at least 3 hours before beginning your meditation.
 Darken the room, light candles and play soft, melodic music.
 Keep your spine straight. Close your eyes.
 This will relieve stress and tension and have a calming effect.


Starting with your left foot, contract the muscles and hold for 5 seconds and then release. Continue this process methodically; right foot, left and right calves and thighs, buttocks, stomach, chest, hands, arms, shoulders, face and scalp.
 This “inner smile” is so calming and peaceful; you will be able to feel the physiological changes in your body.
 Breathe in gently and say mentally, “breathe in.” Exhale gently while mentally saying, “breathe out.” Continue gently focusing on your breath for at least 5 minutes.
 You cannot forgive and love others if you don’t first forgive and love yourself. While you are completely relaxed and focused on your breath, begin a series of short statements that affirm your spirituality and loving nature. Mentally say one statement with your in breath and one statement with your out breath. Do this for 10 minutes. You can make any statement you like that feels comfortable to you. Here are some examples of simple affirming statements:


I am a spiritual being (inhale). I am filled with love (exhale).
I am one with spirit (inhale). I give love freely (exhale).
I honor myself (inhale). As I honor others (exhale).
 Form an image in your mind of that person wearing white, flowing robes. Picture him or her as relaxed and smiling. See the person in the most positive light you can imagine.
 You and this person are meeting on a spiritual plane where there is only love.


Walk slowly to the person and quietly say, “I forgive you.”
Continue to talk to the person, using only loving, forgiving statements, such as: “I am sorry we argued,” “I wish you love and happiness,” “I have only love and peace to offer you.”
Keep talking to the person for as long as you feel it is necessary. At some point during this imaginary conversation, you will start to feel a release; your anger and resentment will begin to fade. When you feel at peace with the process, begin saying goodbye to the person.
Extend your hands to them and say, “The highest good in me sees the highest good in you.”
Take their hands in yours and say, “My peace I give to you, my peace I leave with you.”

,, Lie still and quietly for another few minutes while you gently breathe.
, Stretch or do some yoga postures to refresh your body.
 The sleep will be healing and peaceful when you are in this loving frame of mind.