 Ponytails are incredibly versatile. Your ponytail's placement can dramatically affect your look.


High ponytails sit on the crown of your head so that the ponytail is visible from the front. These are very dramatic and fashionable.Tying your hair just a few inches lower gives a more sporty look.
Low ponytails at the nape of your neck can make you look down-to-earth.
Another less common type of ponytail is one tied to the side of the head instead of the back. Side ponytails can make you seem quirky and fun.;
, Take a section of hair from the back of your head where it starts to curve downward. Gently backcomb the bottom part of this section with two or three passes.To backcomb, grip the section of hair and hold it vertically away from your scalp. Run a comb from the middle of the back of your hair towards the roots, stroking downward. Repeat this until the gathered strands have created a cushion on your crown.
If you are doing a side ponytail, tease a small section of hair right above where you plan on placing the hair tie.
If your hair is curly, you can skip this step.
 Use both hands to sweep the majority of your hair backward and hold it in place with one hand. For a sleek and practical ponytail to keep hair out of your face, gather all of your hair, including your bangs. For a more laid-back look, leave your bangs loose.


For a side ponytail, gather your hair to the side instead.
 Take a hair tie and pull it over your ponytail from the back. Once the elastic reaches the base of your ponytail, twist it into a figure 8. Pull your ponytail back through this new opening. Repeat this until the hair tie no longer has slack and your ponytail isn't budging from its desired position.


For extra style, you can use a colorful scrunchy. You could even create your own unique ponytail by adding braids or twists wherever you want. For a simpler look, use a plain elastic.
 One easy secret to creating a longer-looking ponytail is to stack two ponytails on top of each other. Instead of tying all of your hair back at once, separate it into top and bottom halves. Tie each half back as its own ponytail. Comb the ends of the two ponytails together so they blend together as a single, very long ponytail.