 Stick to one point per sentence.;
, Know the structure/style of the format you are writing in.
 Keep them in mind at all times.
 Commas are those little things that imply that there should be a pause taken between words. They may seem insignificant, but they're actually quite important.



After an introductory element: There should always be a comma between an introductory word or phrase and the rest of the sentence. For example, In the novel Twilight, Bella lives in Forks.

In a compound sentence: A compound sentence has two or more parts that could each be a single sentence, joined by a conjunction. Before the conjunction, insert a comma. For example, The recipe sounded simple, but Julie burnt the cookies.

With a non-restrictive element: If there is a part in the sentence that could be removed, and the sentence would still make sense, use commas before and after to separate it from the rest of the sentence. For example: On wikiHow, the world's largest how-to manual, there are over 100,000 how-to articles.

In a series: When making a list, it's best to have a comma after each noun, unless you're a journalist. For example: Jane needed to buy milk, eggs, cheese, and butter.
 Make sure to end all of your verbs properly. For example, She drop the rock on my toe is missing the ending for the verb 'drop'. The correct sentence is, She dropped the rock on my toe.
 I was standing in the middle of the street and I was standing on the middle of the street mean two different things. Remember to use the right preposition at the right time.
 Comma splices occur when you try to connect two clauses that could stand alone as a sentence. I hated the sweaters, my grandma bought them every year is an example of a comma splice. Fix the sentence by adding a semicolon or period, connecting the clauses with a word such as and or because, or re-writing the sentence. For example, I hated the sweaters that my grandma bought every year. We took out the comma, replaced it with the word "that", and removed the word "them"., When writing, it's best to avoid starting a sentence with a conjunction (words like 'and', 'but', etc.). It is permissible, but if you’re going to start a sentence with a conjunction, be sure that you’ve written a complete sentence.
 In the sentence, "The Lifeguard Station posted warnings around the beach regarding jellyfish in the area. However, they were not heeded", they is the vague pronoun reference. The correct sentence would be, "The Lifeguard Station posted warnings around the beach regarding jellyfish in the area. However, those warnings were not heeded".
 While it's considered informal, and some instructors are picky about this, it is really up to you and your style. Or, if you are being tutored, the use of contractions tends to be up to your instructor, so you may want to ask your instructor what his/her preference is., Remember that when something's possessive, you'll need an apostrophe. For example, Candice's book or The Girls' Bathroom.



Verb Tense Shifts: Remember to keep the tense of the verbs in accordance. For example, When Bob died, it affects his whole family should be When Bob died, it affected his whole family.

Pronoun Shifts: Remember not to randomly change pronouns when referring to something or someone. For example, When you taste the chocolate, one's taste buds will rejoice should be When you taste the chocolate, your taste buds will rejoice. It could also be When one tastes the chocolate, one's taste buds will rejoice.
 Make sure to write in complete sentences (with subjects, verbs, etc.). For example, a sentence fragment that is missing its subject would be, Waited for the bus to come, because we don't know who waited for the bus.
 Avoid using a verb that doesn't indicate when an action is, was, or will be completed. For example, By the time Iris arrived, the accident happened should be By the time Iris arrived, the accident had happened. Also avoid confusing irregular verbs. For example, Jim has went home should be Jim has gone home.
 The verb has to agree with the subject in number and in person. If the subject is singular, the verb should be singular. If the subject is plural, the verb should be plural. For example, The girls were happy when they saw the puppy, but The girl was happy when she saw the puppy.
 A run-on sentence is a sentence that is made of 2 sentences that could stand alone. Add words or punctuation to separate run-on sentences. For example, The wind howled he began to cry, could be fixed by adding the word 'as' and a comma: As the wind howled, he began to cry., Use a dictionary to make sure that your words convey the intended meaning. Words that sound the same or are spelled similar do not always mean the same thing, so be sure to check when you're picking out a word. For example, In the short story The Veldt, there is an illusion to Peter Pan. The correct word is allusion, meaning a reference. Illusion means a false appearance/idea.



Than vs. Then: When making any sort of time reference you should use, “then.” ex, I brushed my teeth, then went to bed. “Than” is simply a comparison, ex, James is taller than Danica.

It’s vs. Its: The word “it’s” is actually a contraction of the phrase “it is”, so anytime you would say “it is”, substitute it with the contracted form, “it’s.” “Its” is the possessive form of the word, “it.” So if “It has finished”, the correct usage would be, “Its finished.”

