 While an obituary is short, a eulogy provides enough time for a well-developed narrative about your life. As you write, remember that you can always trim it down during editing if it gets too long., While it’s normal for a eulogy to have a somber tone, how you want to be remembered will shape the tone you choose for your own eulogy. If you’re fun-loving and lived a full life, then it makes sense to choose a light-hearted tone. If you have always been a serious person, then you may feel that keeping your eulogy serious is the best way to reflect who you are.Consider incorporating more than one tone at different points in the eulogy to capture the feeling of what you’re sharing in a particular story or accomplishment.
Think about who will be delivering your eulogy when choosing your tone. Some people may feel uncomfortable with or unable to convey a particular tone.
 Your eulogy should include an introduction, body, and conclusion. Using the lists and notes you created, fill in your outline with what you’ll include in each part of the speech. The bulk of your information should fit in the body of your eulogy., Provide a brief biography of yourself and establish how you want to be remembered, using your defining characteristics, priorities, and roles. Set the tone of your eulogy, but know that you can shift the tone later if that’s your desire.When you provide your biography, remember your audience, which will likely include those closest to you. They likely know a lot about you already, so focus on filling in the gaps about what they don’t know, such as where you spent your childhood or the nickname that your parents called you when you were growing up.
 The body of your eulogy will contain most of your stories and accomplishments.Plan to incorporate at least 3-4 stories that illustrate who you are.
 Remind the audience of how you want them to remember you, and cap off your eulogy with something that you’d like to stick with them, such as a favorite quote, a lesson you exemplified, or a call to action based on your life., After you finish writing your eulogy, set it aside for a day or two. Then reread it, making any changes that you think it needs. Time it to see how long it takes to read aloud, and make sure that it fits into the 5-10 minute window. When you’re satisfied with your eulogy, pass it on to those who you’ll entrust with it.Consider getting someone to read over your eulogy and help you with editing. If you know who you want to read the eulogy, it's a good idea to have them look it over. That way, they can provide some advice on what to change or ask questions if they aren't sure what something means.

