 After difficult events, most people will become defensive and have a hard time trusting people. This is a survival instinct – trusting someone leaves you vulnerable for future pain. Thus, avoiding trust can protect you from harm.Don’t blame yourself for having trust issues. Rather, acknowledge the pain and try to learn from the past.
 There are negative, mean, and untrustworthy people in the world. Most people, however, are kind and trusting, so don’t let one bad experience or person destroy your ability to trust again. Always remind yourself that there are good people around, too.
 Oftentimes, when we're hurt, angry, or upset, we react emotionally and make the situation worse. Before deciding that you no longer trust someone, take a few minutes to ask yourself rational questions:


What facts do I know about the incident?
What am I guessing or assuming about this person?
How did I behave in this situation? Was I trustworthy?

, According to a Cornell University study,our brains are hardwired to remember betrayal faster than good memories, even if the betrayal is small. Remember your positive interactions with someone as you rebuild trust. There are likely more good memories then you immediately remember.
 People make mistakes, even people you thought you could trust. What matters most after an argument or incident is how the person responds. Quick or curt apologies often show that the person is not really apologizing. Usually, they simply want you to stop being angry at them. Truly sincere apologies are ones that you do not demand, when someone looks you in the eyes and asks for forgiveness. A sincere apology is the first step to rebuilding trust.


Offer your own apologies for wrongdoing when applicable.
 Just because someone has lost your trust doesn’t mean they are entirely untrustworthy. Instead of returning back to where you started, try trusting someone with smaller, more manageable things. When a friend tells secrets behind your back, you may not confide in them again. That doesn’t mean, however, that you cannot still hang out, work on projects, or talk with each other., Unfortunately, though you can rebuild a lot of trust with someone, there are times when the wounds are too deep to be forgiven. If someone has proven to you that they are not trustworthy don't feel bad for cutting them out of your life. You cannot open yourself up to be hurt or abused again.
 Major trauma has a lasting impact on the brain, and you should consider seeing a professional if you cannot build trust with people. A symptom of PTSD is an inability to trust. If you do not want to see a therapist, try out a support group in your area first.


Remember that you are not alone with your issues – there are other people like you who are also struggling with trauma.