 Too many of us ignore the soft inner calling of our intuition which loves and adores us. It reminds us to just relax and trust. You see, there is often a much louder voice which booms through our minds and tell us to get to action. It prevents us from trusting ourselves, and instead lures us in to looking to the material and superficial world for all that we seek.


Practice making the distinction between the harsh, critical voice that pushes you, and the soft, nurturing voice which loves and supports you. Then, make a conscious choice about which one you are going to listen to.
 You cannot fully reach your potential unless you know what that is. Oftentimes in life, our goals change, and, occasionally, we may feel lost and have no idea what we're working towards. Knowing what you don't want, however, pushes you into the direction you should be moving and allows you to set clear boundaries., Science reveals that optimistic people tend to live longer and enjoy greater physical and mental health than those who think pessimistically. Seeing the glass as half-full means smiling often, refraining from comparing yourself to others in a competitive way, and finding the silver lining in most situations.One research-backed way to become more optimistic is to do the best possible future self exercise.In this exercise, you will write expressively about your future self for 20 minutes.“Think about your life in the future. Imagine that everything has gone as well as it possibly could. You have worked hard and succeeded at accomplishing all of your life goals. Think of this as the realization of all of your life dreams. Now, write about what you imagined.” Complete the exercise three days in a row.
 Have you been nervous up until now to put yourself out there for fear of failure? Learn to be courageous and take advantage of more opportunities that come your way. Successful people don't get that way by playing it safe all the time. Read situations and people to determine which opportunities are worth your time, then, bunker down to develop a winning strategy. Risk-takers are constantly experimenting with their methods to refine them and develop the most efficient way of getting results. Never stop experimenting.
Expect success, but readily embrace failure. You should always envision yourself accomplishing your goals. However, failure is inevitable. Take mistakes in stride and acknowledge them as teachable moments to refine your skills and come back stronger than before
Constantly living within your comfort zone can lead to boredom and disengagement.Step outside your comfort zone by taking initiative and taking on a project beyond your regular duties. Volunteer, and when you do, work with a population that you have previously been biased towards (i.e. substance abusers, homeless people, etc.). Another way to shake up your routine is to stop taking a backseat in your work. Step into a leadership position where you have more responsibilities and more people counting on you.
 Risk-takers may be classically known to say "yes" more than "no". This inclination is built on not letting fear or doubts cause them to miss incredible opportunities for growth. However, when you are striving to reach you full potential, you must learn to use your voice and say "no" on occasion. Respect yourself and uplift your core values by refusing to participate in activities that do not serve your goals.Of course, there will be times when you are urged to say "yes" to preserve a relationship. In these situations, agreeing to do something might serve your goals, if having that person in your life provides a positive impact.
If you are confident that saying "no" is the best option for you, do so without providing an excuse or an apology.

