 You might be starting a new project and need subcontractors to do everything. Alternately, you might want to hire a subcontractor for a certain type of work. There are many different types of subcontractors:Excavators. They cut, fill, and move the earth so that you can pour a foundation. They also cut trenches for utilities.
Septic system installers. They install the septic and leaching systems.
Plumbers. They install the water heating and plumbing fixtures.
Electricians. They install the wires which are hidden from view. They also install fixtures, devices, and electrical switches.
Masons. They can build anything involving blocks or bricks, such as block foundations, retaining walls, and walkways or patios.
Framers. They build the shell on top of the foundation using lumber, trusses, and other sheet materials.
Roofers. Roofers prepare the roofing surface by preparing the underlay and then installing the roofing material on top.
Siding contractors. They install the siding on the outside of the building and can handle exterior trim.;
, You can find a subcontractor by asking people who have had work done if they would recommend the person who did it. For example, someone in your neighborhood might have had electrical work performed or had a new roof installed. Ask for the name of the person who did the work.


If you see a house being built, you can stop in and talk to the contractor. Ask who he or she has working as subcontractors.You can also ask retailers. To find a plumber, ask the retailer that provides supplies to the plumbers in the area. If you are looking for someone to lay tile (a tiler), then ask the tile supplier in your area.
 Once you have the names of several subcontractors, you can solicit bids from them. Make sure that you give them a written description of the job they are bidding on. Include drawn plans and clear written specifications.Request the bid in writing. If possible, have the subcontractor provide an itemized bid, in which they estimate how much they will charge for supplies and labor.
 Your first instinct might be to pick the person who offered the lowest bid. There is no reason to follow this strategy. In fact, picking the person with the lowest bid could work against you.


If the subcontractor’s bid is too low, then they might not complete the job. When the money runs out, they might abandon the project rather than spend their own money to complete it.Although you can sue the subcontractor for abandoning a project, lawsuits cost time and money.
 You want the sub to provide sufficient information about their volume of work and average job size.You are looking for a “good fit,” i.e., someone who handles projects similar in size and scope as yours.


A subcontractor who typically handles larger projects might not take your project as seriously.
Alternately, a subcontractor who usually works on smaller projects could become overwhelmed and do a bad job.
 For example, you might want to request audited financial statements. You can request this information, particularly if you have a very large job.Ask if the sub has ever declared for bankruptcy or if they have ever worked under any company that has.
 To get a sense of the quality of work, you should search whether the sub has been sued before.You can ask the subs in their bids to disclose this information. However, you might be worried that they won’t reveal every lawsuit.


You can also search on your own. For example, if you know where the subcontractor’s business is located, then you could go to the courthouse in that county and search for court records. Court records are generally public. See Research Court Records for more information.
 You can search the Internet to find if anyone has made complaints. Search Yahoo, Google, or Yelp. Remember that anyone can complain online, so take complaints with a grain of salt. However, the information you find on the Internet can be helpful.Check with more credible sources as well. For example, you can ask the subcontractor for references. Then you can call the references and ask how happy they were with the sub’s work.
You can also ask material suppliers or other contractors if they would recommend the subcontractor.
 You want to hire a safe subcontractor, so you should ask that safety information be provided with the bid. For example, you should request the following information:


Whether OSHA has ever inspected the sub. If so, ask for a copy of the inspection report. You can also search the OSHA website to double-check whether a sub has been inspected.You should ask for the sub’s Worker’s Compensation records and check for the Experience Modification Rate (EMR).The EMR loss ratio is calculated by comparing how much the company paid out in worker’s compensation claims as compared to other businesses of equivalent size in the industry. The higher the rate, the worse the company’s safety record.
Ask for a copy of any formal safety program that the sub runs.
 After reviewing the relative price, experience, and reputation for each bidding subcontractor, you should make a selection. You can notify the subcontractor over the phone that you are interested in hiring them.


Tell the sub that you need to confirm that they are licensed and insured before you can sign a contract.
 The subcontractor should be willing to share with you copies of their applicable licenses. Once you receive a copy, you should confirm with the state that they are licensed.You can confirm that someone is licensed by contacting your state’s licensing or permitting agency.
Some states may have an online tool you can use to verify someone’s license., The sub should also give you proof of insurance. Make sure that the coverage amount is adequate. As a general rule of thumb, a sub should have as much coverage as you do. A subcontractor should maintain the following insurance policies:worker’s compensation insurance
general liability insurance
vehicle insurance (possibly)

, You need to sign an agreement with the subcontractor before the sub begins work. You can have a lawyer draft an agreement for you, or you can use the standard form that was created by three contractor associations (the ASA, AGC, and ASC). You can get a copy of the form by contacting one of the three associations:American Subcontractors Association, Inc., 1004 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314-3588. You can call 703-684-3450.
Associated General Contractors of America, 2300 Wilson Blvd., Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22201. You can call 800-242-1767.Associated Specialty Contractors Association, 3 Bethesda Metro Center, Suite 1100, Bethesda, MD 20814. You can call 301-657-3110.
 You should keep the original and a copy in your records. Give the subcontractor a copy of the contract as well. The client might also want to see copies of your contracts with subcontractors, so make a copy for the client if requested.

