 Place the rice in a fine metal colander. Rinse it under running water until the water draining beneath the colander runs clear.


If you do not have a colander or running water, you can drain it using an alternate method.

Place the rice in a glass dish and cover it with water.
Use your hands to gently squeeze and stir the grains, making the water turn cloudy.
Drain the dirty water and repeat the entire process, once or twice more, or until the water remains clear.
 Place the rinsed rice in a glass bowl and cover it with 3 cups (750 ml) of cool, clean water. Allow the rice to soak for 20 minutes.Soaking the rice should make it softer and less sticky. It should also reduce the overall cooking time.
After you finish soaking the rice, drain and discard the water. Set the rice aside until it's time to add it to the rest of the ingredients.
 Place the ghee in a pressure cooker and warm it over medium-high heat.


Ideally, you should use a pressure cooker with an approximate 3.5-qt (3.5-L) capacity when preparing this much ghee rice.
Allow the ghee to heat for 30 to 60 seconds before continuing. It should be easy to turn the pressure cooker and coat the bottom with the ghee once it becomes adequately warm.
 Add the cinnamon, cloves, cardamom, peppercorns, and bay leaf to the hot ghee. Cook for several seconds, stirring constantly.


The spices should begin to sputter and release stronger scents, but you should not allow them to burn or deepen in color. The edges of the bay leaf may begin turning up, however.
 Add the cashews and raisins to the pressure cooker. Cook, stirring frequently, for another minute.


When ready, the nuts should look toasty brown and the raisins should become somewhat puffy.
 Place the prepared onion, chilli pepper, garlic, and ginger in the pressure cooker. Cook, stirring frequently, for another 1 to 2 minutes.


Allow the ginger and onion to change color. Both should become more golden or lightly browned, but do not allow either one to burn. Frequent stirring should minimize the risk of burning.
 Add the drained rice to the pressure cooker. Reduce the heat to low and saute for about 2 minutes.


Stir the rice to coat the grains with the ghee and other seasonings. Occasional stirring should also prevent the rice from sticking to the pressure cooker, but you should work carefully to avoid breaking any grains.
 Pour 2 cups (500 ml) of water over the rice. Sprinkle the contents with salt.
 Close and seal the pressure cooker. After achieving full pressure, cook the ghee rice for 10 minutes.When you close and seal the pressure cooker, switch the heat to high. As soon as steam pours out from the vent, place the pressure regulator or weight on the nozzle and switch the heat back down to low. Continue cooking for 10 minutes before turning the heat off completely.
 Wait for the pressure cooker to naturally release the built-up pressure. Once this happens, carefully open the lid and fluff the rice with a fork.


Do not open the pressure cooker before the pressure drops. It should usually take 5 to 8 minutes for the device to release the built-up pressure.
 Stir the rice and transfer it to individual serving dishes. Enjoy while it's still hot.

