 But don't get too excited by talking too much or she will think you are a bit weird. If you are at school you can ask to hang out at break. If you're a teenager just kind of take her by the hand or something and just start a conversation.



Get their phone number and call them once in a while, maybe once or twice a week. Like plants don't water them too often. Don't call on the same day every week; try to pick a random day or keep it unpredictable.
Give them gifts, if their birthday or a holiday is coming. It doesn't have to be something big or expensive. Homemade gifts is a good option. But don't make it look like you spent hours on it.
Write a handwritten letter. Sure, It's easier to write emails or write on their facebook wall. But, there is a certain charm to the handwritten letter or a card. Just how you took some time to find a suitable paper, write on it, and mail it instead of the online alternative, shows how much thought went into it. They may keep it for years to come!
Ask if one day they can come over to your house, or do something fun together. Make sure you've known this person for a while first, though. If you know someone for a day or two, then ask them kindly and convincingly to come to your house, they may find this a bit strange.
Some friendships come easily and nurturing them is not hard to do. Others, however, require more thought and action. That's okay. Putting effort into a friendship doesn't mean the friend is not right for you, it simply means that your friendship is different and you need to work to keep it strong.
 Friendship is two-sided. Follow your friend's cues for whether they're also interested in a close friendship with you. If you pursue a one-sided friendship, you'll likely be disappointed with the end result, and may seem needy or desperate to the other person.
 Becoming close with someone often involves mixing social circles, so your friendship will grow from your involvement in their lives. If it doesn't work out with your original friend, you will still be better off than before; with even more friends to try with.

