 Before easing into an exercise routine, you should visit and talk to your doctor.


If you've never exercised before or are returning to exercise after a few weeks or months off, talk to your doctor first. Get a clearance from them that you can be active.
Ask your doctor if there are any exercises you should avoid, how long you can exercise for and at what intensity.
For example, ask: what exercises should I avoid? Is there a time limit on my exercise routine? How many days a week can I exercise?;
, Also consider seeing a personal trainer to make sure you're on the right path with exercise. These fitness professional can give you hands on guidance on how to safely return to an exercise routine.


After meeting with your doctor and getting a clearance for activity, sign up for a few sessions with a personal trainer. Make sure to relay any guidance provided by your doctor so the trainer knows what they can and cannot suggest for you.
You might want to schedule just a few sessions to help get professional guidance as you ease back into a good routine.
A trainer can make sure you're doing exercises correctly, using proper form and doing a variety so you don't overwork your body.
 To help you layout your plan and help you be consistent, create an exercise plan. This can help give you a vision and pathway as you ease into a new exercise routine.To help you figure out how much exercise to do, when your rest days are and how long you're exercising for, make an exercise schedule. This will help you stick to your routine and make sure you have the time to exercise during the week.
Studies have shown that you're more likely to stick with an exercise routine if it's been pre-scheduled into your week.
Write in what exercise you plan on doing, for how long, at what time and where. Use your date book or calendar and do this for at least one week in advance.
 When you're planning out your new exercise routine, try to choose activities or exercises that you'll actually enjoy. This is important so that you can ease into a routine you'll stick to long-term.When you're thinking about easing into an exercise routine, you'll have to think about what types of exercises you want to do.
For example, do you want to run? Do you want to incorporate aerobics classes? Do you want to bike?
If you choose exercises that you don't really like, that are too expensive or are too difficult, you're more likely to stop or give up over time.
Really consider what is realistic for you and what you enjoy. That way, as you ease into an exercise routine, you'll stick with it.
 When you're easing back into an exercise routine, you might be excited for your new plans. However, you need to make sure you take it slow and don't overdo it initially.


Going slowly when you're easing into an exercise routine is important. You'll be able to focus on your form while you exercise and take extra time to listen to your body.
The quality of exercise is much more important than quantity and how much you do.If you exercise too long or too hard to start, you're risking an injury or excessive soreness. This is an essential component of easing into a routine.
For example, choose lower intensity, lower impact exercises (like walking) and only do them for 15 to 20 minutes. Or if you're restarting strength training, use a 5 pound dumbbell instead of the 10 or 15 pound dumbbell you were using previously.
 One essential component to consider when you're easing into an exercise routine is your body's signals. Listen to your body and take care to keep yourself safe as you become more active.


When you're just starting with an exercise routine, it's essential that you really pay attention to how your body feels during and after exercise.
Your body will tell you when you've done too much or are working too hard.
Pay attention to signals like: nausea, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing, sharp pain, excessive soreness or extreme fatigue.If you're noticing any of these symptoms, you've most likely pushed yourself too hard. Lessen the time or intensity of your exercise until you build up more strength.
If you have any chest pain, difficulty breathing, dizziness or pain that doesn't go away, call your doctor immediately and do not restart exercise until cleared.
 When you're easing back into an exercise routine, you may find it difficult to stick to your routine. It takes a while to get into a routine and a friend can help you.


Studies have shown that when you have work outs planned with a friend or family member, you're more likely to go and be consistent long-term.Ask friends, family members or co-workers if they'd be interested in exercising with you a few days a week.
Consider getting together with someone who is also considering easing into an exercise routine. It'll be fun to do this together.
 When you're easing back into an exercise routine, you have to think beyond your activity. Choosing appropriate exercises and being safe is important, but so is getting adequate rest each night.


Exercise is physical work and stressful to your body. Although it's beneficial and healthful work, it's still work and your body needs to get adequate rest after being active.When you're easing back into exercise, your body will be burning more calories, using more energy and engaging muscles more strenuously.
Make sure to get at least 7 to 9 hours of sleep each night. And if there are days where you feel more tired, go to bed early or sleep in occasionally for a rest day.
 If you're just starting back with exercise, one area that you can focus on initially is your lifestyle activity. You can make a lot of changes here without worrying about overdoing it.


Lifestyle activities are those exercises that you do as part of your normal daily routine. They can include things like: walking to and from your car, taking the stairs at your office, doing household chores or lifting the laundry basket.Lifestyle activities are generally not overly strenuous and are not done for long periods of time. This makes them a safe way to increase your activity without worrying about injuring yourself or doing too much too quickly.
Think about your typical day and consider when you can add in more movement. Can you take more steps? Can you use the stairs more often? Are there times when you could be standing instead of sitting?

, When you're working on finding the right combination or right type of exercise to do, don't forget to include a warm-up and a cool-down. These are essential as you ease yourself back into a routine.A warm-up and cool-down are designed to help your body get ready for exercise and recover after performing exercise. Not including them, especially when you're initially restarting exercise, can increase your risk of injury.A warm-up should be done immediately prior to your exercise routine. In general, do something light and slow for about five minutes.
For example, your warm up could be a slow walk or using the elliptical without any resistance.
After you've completed your workout, end with a cool-down. Slowly bring down the level of your exercise and finish with stretching. Again, this should last for about 5-10 minutes.
 Walking is one of the oldest forms of exercise and it's perfect for easing back into an exercise routine. Start walking more regularly to help build up your strength and conditioning.


Walking is a low intensity and low impact exercise. It's perfect for a variety of fitness levels and ages.If you're just starting out with exercise, try going for a 10 minute walk in your neighborhood or on the treadmill.
As this becomes easier, slowly increase your distance or time. Try increasing your time or distance by 10% each week.
 Another great exercise to try is water aerobics or swimming. Again, this is a low impact exercise that can make easing into workouts a little bit easier.Water aerobics and swimming will give you a great cardiovascular workout. However, the buoyancy of the water takes your weight off your joints which can help prevent excessive force and pounding on your body.
This is great if you feel like you might have some joint pain or soreness associated with exercise.
Many water aerobics classes can be 45 to 60 minutes long. If you're just starting out, tell the instructor you're new and are planning to only stay for half the class or until you feel fatigued.
 Another fun aerobic exercise you can add in is biking. It's easy on your joints and you will have full control over the resistance and difficulty of this exercise.Biking is considered a good beginner exercise because there is no pounding on your joints. It's also great if you're easing back into a routine.
You can choose to either bike outdoors or try out a spin class. Biking outdoors allows you to go at a leisurely pace.
Spin classes are typically higher in intensity. However, you can do a spin class and let the instructor know you won't be using a lot of resistance or do higher intensity bouts since you're getting back into your exercise routine.
 Yoga is a well known low impact and low intensity exercise. This is a great form of activity to start with especially if you want to work on improving your strength, balance and flexibility.Like walking, yoga is great for a variety of people. You don't have to be in great shape, you don't have to be strong or overly flexible. It's perfect for varying fitness levels.
To start, take a beginners yoga class or even yoga for arthritis. These easier forms of yoga can get your body moving without increasing your heart rate or having you do poses that may be too advanced.
 When you're easing into your exercise routine, strength training might make you a little nervous. Some people opt for weight machines because they seem easy to use, but using a pair of light hand weights when you are just starting out might be a better option.


While there are benefits to both free weights and weight machines, using free weights offers you more options for exercises, more range of motion, and a more effective strength training workout.Try using a pair of light hand weights to do some basic strength training exercises, such as bicep curls, shoulder presses, and tricep presses. You can do these exercises at home or at a gym.
If you are not sure where to start with free weights, and you feel more comfortable using weight machines instead, then that is also fine. Just keep in mind that it is important to use these machines properly to avoid injury. Ask a gym employee if you are not sure how to use any of the machines.
 Once you've been cleared by your doctor and are slowly getting back into the routine of exercise, work on meeting the recommended amounts of cardio each week.


The CDC recommends that healthy adults include at least 150 minutes of moderate intensity cardiovascular exercises each week.You need to be doing these exercises for at least 10 minutes at a time for them to count towards this goal.
Moderate intensity exercises are those that increase your heart rate and blood pressure slightly. You should be able to talk while you exercise, but only in short sentences before taking a breath.
Remember, you may not be able to meet this goal initially. That's OK. This could be a moderate or even a long-term goal to work towards.
 In addition to cardio, it's also important to include adequate amounts of strength training. These exercises offer additional health benefits and should be included weekly.


Again, the CDC has recommended that healthy adults include one to two days of strength training every week.These exercises should be done for at least 20 minutes total and should work every major muscle group in your body.
In addition, it's not recommended to do strength training of the same muscles or muscle groups two days in a row. Always separate days of strength training of the same muscles or muscle groups by a day of rest or cardio activities only.
This recommendation can also be a long-term goal if you cannot do this level of activity initially.
 Stretching and flexibility exercises are always an important component of your exercise routine. However, they become more important when you're easing into or back into your exercise routine.Don’t worry about stretching before you exercise. It is best to wait to stretch your muscles until after they are warmed up, so focus on stretching after you are finished with your workout.
Stretching helps to improve your flexibility. In addition, you're more likely to be sore and tight when you're starting in with exercise again. Stretching after your workouts can help to alleviate these symptoms.
 In addition to getting in all the right amounts of activity and including regular flexibility training, you also need to give your body a rest.


When you're easing into an exercise routine, it's essential that you take your time and go slowly. This means including adequate rest days.
In fact, you may need to initially include more rest days than you will later down the road.
It's during rest that your body and muscles recover. Your muscles grow in strength and size while performing essential repair functions.Initially include two to three rest days a week. Once you progress and get stronger, you can knock this amount down to one to two rest days a week.

