 Courts will not enforce a contract, which is illegal. If part of your contract contains illegal terms, and part legal terms, the Court may enforce the legal terms, and you may still be bound to keep certain information confidential. Check with your attorney to determine if your agreement is legal.


Non-compete clauses are illegal in some states, and if contained in your contract may render all, or part of, the agreement illegal.;
, There are several things, called elements, which any contract must contain in order to be enforceable by a Court. Elements of a contract include:


Agreement or mutual assent - the parties must agree to the terms of the contract. If a contract is unclear about what the parties have agreed to, it may not be enforceable.
Competence - the parties to a contract must be legally competent to enter into the contract. A party may not be competent to contract if he or she is under the age of majority (generally 18), mentally incapacitated, or intoxicated. A contract made by an incompetent party may be void, unenforceable by either party, or voidable, unenforceable at the discretion of the incompetent party.
Consideration - consideration is anything of value that a party exchanges with the other for purposes of a contract. Consideration can be money, a promise to do some act, the performance of some act, or a promise to refrain from performing an act. For example, consideration may be the $5 you pay to your child for making an A on his or her report card, your child’s act of making an A on his or her report card, or your promise to your spouse to refrain from smoking in exchange for him or her committing to an exercise program.
Legality - a contract must be for a legal purpose. The Court does not enforce contracts for illegal purposes.
Writing requirement - some contracts are required to be in writing pursuant to the statute of frauds. The statute of frauds requires the following contracts to be in writing: those which cannot be performed within one year, contracts in consideration of marriage, contracts for the sale of land, contracts for the sale of goods priced at $500 or more, contracts by an executor to pay estate debt with his or her own money, and contracts where one party becomes the surety for another’s debt.
 When the other party to a contract breaches it in a material way, you may not be required to perform your part of the agreement. A material way means one, which goes to the heart of the contract.


For example, if someone agrees to paint your garage door on the first of the month, and paints it instead on the second, he or she has not materially breached the contract, although they have not strictly complied with its terms. However, if they agree to paint your garage door and instead remove it, they have committed a material breach that may allow you to refuse payment.
 Any contract, including a nondisclosure agreement, may be ended, or modified, by agreement of the parties at any time. If the agreement covers stale information, which your employer no longer needs to protect, he or she may agree to end the contract, or enter into a new one, which does not contain a nondisclosure clause.
 If you have a valid defense to a breach of contract claim, you may wish to violate the agreement and take your chances in Court. Legal defenses to breach of contract include:


Unconscionability - an unconscionable contract is one, which is grossly unjust, unfair, or dishonest.
Mutual Mistake - if the parties to a contract make the same mistake, for example, one party agreed to sell, and the other to buy, an oak dining room table, and as it turns out, the table is maple, the Court will not force the seller to come up with and sell to the buyer an oak table.
Fraud - an intentional misrepresentation of a material fact by a party to a contract. This means, the person has to knowingly lie about something important, that goes to the heart of the contract. For example, if someone hires you to paint their house and tells you the house is 1,000 square feet, but it turns out to be 2,000 square feet, he or she has intentionally lied about something material to the contract, and has committed fraud. To have a defense of fraud, one must have relied upon the false statement of the offending party, and been damaged. For example, if you accept the painting job based on the time it will take you to paint 1,000 square feet, and lose money because it takes you twice as long to paint 2,000 square feet, you relied on the statement, and were damaged.
Undue Influence - a party exercises undue influence over another if he or she uses his or her status in a relationship in order to overcome the other party’s independent judgment. For example, a professional tree trimmer bullying an elderly woman into having her trees trimmed unnecessarily.
Duress - duress occurs when one party to a contract coerces the other into entering the contract, by force or threat of harm. Duress encompasses wrongful conduct and not merely forceful persuasion. For example, if a party signs a contract after being threatened by the other party that his or her spouse or child will be physically harmed, he or she can be said to have been under duress when entering into the contract, and may have the contract declared void. However, if a party signs a contract after being told by the other party that not signing the contract would be a terrible mistake, which they will regret, he or she likely will not be found to have been under duress at the time of signing the contract.

