 Learning how to identify your dog’s body language when they are happy will let you know when they want your attention and to play. Body language will play an important role in your relationship with your dog, and being able to accurately read your dog’s responses will help you to get along with each other. Here are some common body language cues that your dog is happy:Relaxed body position
Enthusiastic tail wagging
Tail thumping the floor
Play bow where their rear end is up in the air with their tail wagging while their front end is down on the ground.;
, An anxious dog indicates that they feel uncomfortable in a given situation and are stressed. When your dog is anxious, you should try to address the cause of their anxiety. Here are some common signs of anxiety in dogs:Suddenly scratching and biting at their paws or another body part
Yawning when they are not tired
Flicking their tongue or quickly licking their lips with just the tip of their tongue
One paw raised
Half moon eye with the whites of their eye showing around the rim or cornersThis is a sign of severe stress. It may indicate your dog is about to bite out of fear.
 When your dog is anxious, it is usually due to their environment or some external cause. Your dog may feel uncomfortable in a situation because they are scared, feel defensive, or just want to be left alone. The best way to ease a dog’s anxiety is to give them space. An anxious dog needs space to calm down and to relieve their stress. You can try speaking to them in a calm and soothing voice, but let them have some alone time.If you are able to, try to take the dog out of the stressful situation into a calmer environment.
 When dogs are defensive, or show avoidance behaviors, they want to remove themselves from a situation and may perceive something as a threat. Your dog may show these behaviors at a dog park and indicate that they are afraid or anxious to be around these other dogs.Teeth-baring
Hair standing up on their back
Deep growls
Stiff legged gait
Prolonged stare

, Dogs need areas where they feel safe, secure and comfortable. This might be their crate, bed, or an old chair where they like to spend their time. It is a place where they can go and relax, sleep, or play with a toy. Let them leave their toys there and treat it as a part of their territory. This gives your dog a space where they can go when they’re feeling stressed, tired, or just want a break from the action.