 Warm up your body by incorporating a brisk walk into the first three to five minutes of your workout. Walk at a speed that is fast enough to require an effort to maintain, but not so fast that you start to alter your breathing pattern.Generally, the recommended speed for a warmup walk is 3.5 to 4 mph (5.5 to 6.5 km/h), but you should adjust the speed for your level of ability and comfort.;
, Work in two and three minute segments for 30 to 60 minutes total and create a plan that alternates running at your natural speed, jogging, sprinting, and brisk walking. Leave every third or fourth interval open for a strength exercise.Try not to set two similar activities next to one another. Don’t, for example, create a session that has jogging followed by walking followed by jogging.
Sprints should not outnumber the walking or jogging intervals in your plan.
Test yourself on a treadmill to find your jogging, natural running, and sprinting speeds.
 In the intervals left open for strength training, determine what body weight strength exercises you want incorporated into your workout. Common exercises include push ups, crunches, planks, squats, burpees, and resistance band exercises such as side steps and rows.You may opt to practice more than one exercise during an interval. For example, you may hold a plank for 60 seconds, then squat for 60 seconds during a two minute interval.
You can also opt to keep a pair of dumbbells next to the treadmill to use for exercises such as squats and rows to add more resistance.
 If you choose to exercise twice a week, for example, focus on whole-body exercises. If you choose to work out five times a week, target different muscle groups each session.


Remember to plan recovery days, as well. Try to not strength train more than three consecutive days without rest.
 Once you have finished your workout, plan three to five minutes to cool down. This may include another brisk walk, or deep stretches such as lunges and bends to help keep your muscles from cramping.If you focused your strength intervals on a particular area of the body, such as the abs, focus your stretches on that area, as well.

