 Even though there’s always work to be found, job-hunting during a recession in going to be more difficult. The economy is shrinking and there is less of a need for labor. If you want to find a job, you’ll probably have to be willing to accept a broader range of options than you would otherwise have to accept. While it’s always hard to make an adjustment, you can acquire new sets of skills and broaden your network of professional colleagues by accepting positions with slightly different skillsets than you already have., When there are fewer jobs to be had, more people are going to be applying for each opening, meaning employers will have their pick of more highly qualified candidates than they would have during stronger economic times. Therefore, make every effort to be the perfect candidate. Do your best to analyze the needs of that particular company and what they need in that position and present your experience, temperament, education and accomplishments in a light consistent with those needs.Forget about the fact that there’s no such thing as a “perfect” applicant. Each time a company has a job opening in a recession, they are swamped with dozens, if not hundreds, of applications. In the first round, resumes are only given very superficial consideration. There’s a good chance that applicants that don’t seem to check all the right boxes won’t be given a second or third look, much less get an interview. It’s better to “fudge” the truth a little bit and explain it in the interview than it is to not get an interview at all.
 When the economy shrinks, businesses are more reliant on temporary hires, contractors, and consultants. One of the advantages these types of employees bring to a company is their ability to perform the work with minimal training. Nonetheless, a long term employee is generally of more value to a company than a temporary worker. They generally have more expertise, produce higher quality work, and are more motivated than temps or contractors. Show the company you can hit the ground running, and you’ll be in a much stronger position relative to a consultant or contractor than you might otherwise have been., It isn’t uncommon for employers to evaluate a new employee more stringently during the first few months of employment—and you should be evaluating them as well. It’s best to keep your options open, even after you’ve started your new position. Most of the time, the defects in a job don’t make themselves apparent until a few weeks into the position. It’s in your best interest to keep interviewing, even after you’ve started your new job.This can have benefits even if you decide to keep your new job, as you may be able to leverage a better paying job offer into higher pay in the position you have.

