 The best place to put the mint is on a flat surface like a table or the ledge of a stall door that the horse can easily access. You could also toss the mint toward the horse if it is in a clean pasture. Finally, you could place the mint in a feeding pan.Offer the pan to the horse by either placing the pan on the ground to the side of the horse or by holding the pan’s handle and bringing the mint up to within about five inches of the horse’s nose.


Since horses cannot see straight ahead, hold items that you want the horse to see off to one side of the horse's head or the other.
 If you want to have a more intimate mint-feeding experience with a horse, stand next to the horse’s shoulder and flatten your hand. Make sure all your fingers are touching each other and your thumb is against the side of your hand. Place the mint in the center of your palm. When the horse’s head is turned just slightly off-center toward the side opposite you, bring the hand holding the mint under the horse’s neck to the front of its nose. Keep your hand splayed and straight about five inches from the horse’s nose.


You will feel the horse's soft, fuzzy lips lapping up the mint into its mouth.
Don't panic when you feel the horse's mouth touch your hand. Be confident that the horse won't bite you. If you make a sudden movement, such as pulling away, you could spook the horse.
Wait until the horse lifts its head from your hand before you pull your hand back.
If your horse becomes pushy or anxious (starts to gallop, pace, whinny, or rear back on its hind legs) when you’re feeding it a mint, walk away and do not give it the mint.Don't reward pushy or aggressive behavior with treats. Try to feed it a mint again later if the horse is calm.
Make sure an experienced handler is either holding the horse with a lead rope when feeding by hand, or close by when you’re in the stall with the horse.
 Dropping a handful of peppermints into a jug of water for eight to ten hours can give the water a tasty, refreshing flavor that your horse will love. This is an especially useful method if you have a horse that doesn’t drink as much as he or she should.


Alternately, commercially available mint-flavored horse snacks provide you with the chance to give your horse a special treat.
 Horses cannot easily overdose on mints, so don’t worry about giving them too many.As long as you limit mints to once or twice each day, your horse will be fine.Don’t let mints replace a meal. Horses need to be fed plenty of hay and graze in the pasture for a healthy diet.

