 A commercial bathroom or tile cleaner is often the easiest way to get rid of soap scum because it is formulated specifically to get rid of the stubborn residue. Apply a generous coat of the cleaner to the dirty tile according to the bottle’s instructions.Tile or bathroom cleanser typically comes in two formulas: a liquid or foam spray. A liquid spray is effective on horizontal tile surfaces where you don’t have to worry about it dripping.The foam is often easier to use on tile walls because it stays in place without dripping off.
Always read the instructions on a commercial tile or bathroom cleaner before using it on any tile.
Before applying the cleaner all over the tile, test it in a small, inconspicuous area to ensure that it won’t damage the tile.;
, Once you apply the tile cleaner to your tiled surfaces, you must allow it to sit for approximately 3 to 5 minutes. That gives the cleaner time to cut through the soap scum and residue so you can easily remove it.Some cleaners may need to be left on longer than 5 minutes. Consult the bottle’s instructions to determine the proper amount of time.
 After the cleaner has sat on the tile for several minutes, run a sponge under warm water. Use it to carefully wipe down the tile and remove the soap scum and cleaner residue.Make sure to use a non-abrasive sponge or you may scratch the tile. You can substitute a damp cloth for the sponge if you prefer.
If there are areas of the tile where the soap scum is particularly stubborn, you may need to use a soft scrub brush to remove the residue. Be careful not to scrub too hard, though, or you may scratch the tile.
 When you’ve wiped away all of the soap scum and cleanser residue with the sponge, fill a spray bottle with warm water. Spray the tile with the water to rinse the surface until it’s clean.If you don’t have a spray bottle, you can wet a cloth with warm water and use it to rinse the tile.
 To keep the tile from developing more soap scum or mildew, it’s important to dry it completely. Use a squeegee or towel to thoroughly dry the entire surface.