 Do not remove the cigar from its plastic wrapper. Because each Black 'n Mild comes individually wrapped, you can use the wrapper to collect the tobacco while you work it out of the cigar.


Since you'll need to pour the tobacco back into the cigar at the end, snipping the plastic tip makes for a nice clean surface to pour back from, rather than tearing it open with your fingers, which leave a raggedy end that'll make a mess.
Some people like to cut the open end of the wrapper to form a "scoop." Cut the tip diagonally, to create a pointed end that will make it easier to pour the tobacco back in when you're finished.;
, Basically, you want to work all the tobacco out of the cigar and into the plastic wrapper. Use your fingers and feel around the Black & Mild to make sure the tobacco is loose inside.


Some of the tobacco will start falling into the bottom of the wrapper as you do this. That's good. As you roll the cigar in your fingers, it should start working its way out of the wrapper, tip-end first.
Make sure to keep the plastic wrapper uncreased and unbent while you do this. Be careful to not tear the cigar paper or the plastic wrapper.
 Continue rolling or tapping the tobacco out of the cigar into the plastic wrapper. Go slowly and make sure you catch all the tobacco in the wrapper. You may need to start pushing the tobacco down in the wrapper a little to make room for more.


Once you've emptied most of the tobacco out of the Black & Mild, start squeezing the base of the plastic tip to break up the tobacco stuck toward the end. Do not remove the plastic tip, unless you want to smoke without it.
 When you've worked all the tobacco out, you should have a plastic wrapper filled with tobacco and an empty Black 'n Mild with the filter paper still inside.
 Take the empty cigar and roll it with your finger tips lightly until the filter paper starts rolling up on itself. Eventually, you'll be able to grab and remove the filter paper with your finger tips or nails. Throw it away.


You can also use the filter paper as a filter without burning it. Cut about an inch of it and roll it into a very tight ball. Insert it into the cigar before packing the tobacco back in. This will prevent the tobacco from getting into your mouth while smoking, and will create a kind of filter without having to burn it.
 Pour the tobacco very slowly back into the empty cigar. As you fill the paper up, every so often tap the plastic tip on a hard object or use a pen bottom to pack the tobacco back into the paper.


Be careful not to overfill the cigar. It's hard to get all the tobacco in, so don't force it and risk ripping the paper. Some people like to leave a bit of room at the tip and fold the paper over until they're ready to smoke, so no tobacco falls out in the meantime.
 When full and packed, you can remove the plastic tip to clear the tobacco if you want to. Shake the tobacco loose or blow through it before pushing it back on.


You can also just try to blow the tobacco out and leave the tip on. Sometimes the tip can be kind of hard to get back on straight, so its best to leave it on if you intend to smoke with the plastic tip on the cigar.
 You're ready to smoke.

