 In the words of Muhammad Ali, one of the greatest boxers of all time, "Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee." For boxers, mobility is key for reacting to an opponent's moves, dodging punches, and setting up combinations. Using this boxing-inspired guard stance, it can be easier to block and dodge an opponent's blows while setting up your roundhouse kick.


To start, rather than using the one-foot-back-one-foot-forward guard stance described above, you'll want to stay mobile, constantly taking short, choppy steps. This makes it easier to dodge your opponent's blows and "dance" out of their reach when you're recovering between blows.
 Bend your elbows and raise your hands so that they are several inches from your chin (ideally with fists clenched, though this isn't necessarily essential). Keep your elbows tucked against your body, but don't tense your upper body — stay loose and relaxed.Your forearms should form a "cage" around the bottom of your head, protecting it from blows from the front. If your opponent tries to punch or kick you in the head, you can bring your arms together for more protection.


This guard stance leaves your torso and midsection relatively unprotected — you can counter this somewhat by staying low and keeping your shoulders forward. You can also block body blows by dropping your guard low with your forearms crossed, though this will leave your head open.
 Once you've gotten the hang of the boxing guard stance, try performing a few kicks (you can use a basic roundhouse kick, a side kick, or a muay thai style kick — whichever you find easiest). Bring your kicking leg out to the side or in front of you with the knee bent all the way. As you do this, pivot on your standing foot and lean your upper body for balance until your leg is sufficiently raised. As you do this, don't forget to keep your guard up near your head — a smart opponent may use your set-up time to get in a free punch.









Though the boxing guard can be more practical for protecting yourself in a fight, staying balanced can be a little trickier with this stance, so be sure to practice plenty before you try performing a roundhouse kick in an actual self-defense scenario.
 Snap your leg out out, extending it as quickly as possible. Make contact with your target, then withdraw your kick as quickly possible for maximum striking force. Follow up with another kick or drop your leg to the floor and start taking quick, light steps with your guard up, ready to react to your opponent.








