


Learn which spells are instant-cast, which are heal-over-time (HoT) spells and which affect more than one target.
Evaluate the mana needed to cast each spell. Those that do the most healing in WoW, or affect more than one target, often require a substantial amount of mana for each cast, making them prohibitive in most situations.
Check to see if you have any damage-mitigating spells. These spells prevent damage from getting through to your target. The priest's Power Word: Shield and the shaman's Earth Shield spells are examples of these.;
,


The tank is the top priority. He should never be the first party member to die.
You are the second priority. The tank will follow shortly if you are removed from combat.
Damage-dealing players who are capable of spot-healing and resurrecting fallen players are next on your priority scale. Paladins, shamans, druids and priests are all capable of switching to a healing role in an emergency.



Make sure you have the "Target of Target" ability enabled in the options menu for main and focus targets. This will allow you to see which player has the monster's attention.
Enable the option that applies visible numbers to the health bars of your party and raid members.



A Hot is far more effective when used just before the pull than when the tank is already at half of his health.
A shield will prevent further incoming damage on a player who has pulled hate from the monster without generating extra hate. This will provide the tank with a window of opportunity to regain the monster's attention.
Save your fast-casting, high-mana-cost heals for emergencies. Use spells with a higher cast and lower mana cost whenever you have plenty of time for the heel to land.



Along with healing spells, you will also have the ability to remove 1 or 2 types of harmful effects from other players.
Coordinate with other players who can remove other harmful effects. Make sure they know what you can do and understand their own support role in a party.



Using your healing spells as you level will give you the experience you need to learn which are most efficient and effective for various situations.

