 Abusive relationships may not start off by being physically abusive. They may seem “perfect” at first, even “too good to be true.” All types of domestic violence become worse over time. This initial “honeymoon phase” often convinces abused partners to stay later, because they believe they can “love” their partner into behaving well again.Physical violence in a relationship usually appears in a cyclical pattern. A period of calm may occur, where the abusive person is nice and even treats the other person well. This is followed by an escalation of tension, which is followed by an abusive incident. After the incident, the abuser may apologize profusely, promise to change, or minimize the seriousness of the incident. Another period of calm may occur, but the violence always happens again.Physical abuse rarely happens on its own. Emotional, verbal, sexual, and other types of abuse are all used to keep the victim under the abuser’s control. The abuser may even be able to convince the victim that the violence is her/his own fault.;
, Injuries from physical abuse often look like they have come from choking, punching, or being thrown around. Common injuries include bruises, black eyes, and marks on the neck.Victims of domestic violence often try to hide their bruises with clothing or makeup. If you are concerned about a loved one, look for differences in his/her movement. Bruises and other injuries often make it difficult to move normally because of the pain.
Victims will usually make excuses about their injuries, such as being "clumsy." Their injuries may be far more severe than what they say caused them.
 Physical violence can be more than just choking, hitting, punching, or kicking. Other types of physical abuse include:Denying or restricting food or sleep
Destroying belongings or property
Restricting or not allowing the person to seek medical attention
Kicking the person out of the house or the car
Leaving the person alone or abandoning the person in strange or dangerous places
Controlling access to birth control and other medications
Controlling decisions about pregnancy or abortion

