 The first step to money accountability is just taking stock of what your expenses are. The list needs to include not just definite expenses like bills, but also extras that you consistently spend money on. If you know that eating fast food for lunch is a frequent practice, write it down. Maybe you have a pet that you spend consistent money on, write it down.
 The point of a budget is to work for you by designating where your money will go. Some people see this as restrictive, but at its best it takes the pressure off you because you have a plan for what money goes where. Rather than being optimistic that you will stop spending on certain things, include them in the budget so you will be prepared for them., To complete a budget to the fullest extent, start out by figuring out your income, which you could do based on weekly, bi-weekly, monthly, and maybe even yearly income. It sort of depends on how often you get paid. Making a precise accounting of your income is essential to making a budget that will work.
 In regards to expenses, don’t go totally overboard, but try to list anything you can think of that you consistently have to spend money on. This would most likely include, but not be limited to: rent/mortgage, car payment, groceries, utilities (water, electric, gas, internet, cable), gas for the car, car/health/home insurance, student loans. Depending on your situation, you may not have some of these, but you could also have many other ones.
 If you have all of your expenses covered in the budget--all of the things you absolutely have to pay for--and you still have money left over, consider whether you want to spend this money, give it to charity, put it into a specific savings account you won’t touch, or perhaps find a way to invest it. Whatever you do with the leftover, find a way to designate the entire income.
 This practice acts as a double check to the budget you have in place. The budget tells you, “this is what you are allowed to spend,” while tracking it completes the cycle and says, “this is what you spent.” In general, making a budget is a one time--or rare occasion--event, but keeping track of what you spend is a day to day habit you have to work at.Figure out what the best method will be for you to keep track. You can go with the simple method of having a notebook that is designated as a spending log. Keep it with you all the time and write down each time you spend money. Or, if you can remember, wait until the end of the day to write the accumulated expenditures of the day. Keeping your receipts for each purchase could be a good idea.
If the notebook method doesn’t work, maybe you are more tech oriented and you can keep a spreadsheet on your computer, or a detailed note on your phone or tablet. This could be a good option for the added benefit of calculation features that spreadsheet software offers.
Consider signing up for a money management service like Mint, Good Budget, or Money Manager.
 Credit cards can be a great convenience, especially if you have an income is that is inconsistent, but they can also lead to serious financial problems. Despite what you might think, as evidenced by many people’s habits, credit cards are meant to be a temporary payment option that you then repay. Racking up expenses on credit cards and paying the minimum each month is only going to increase your debt.If you are already in credit card debt, it is probably best to seek further financial counseling, but if you don’t yet have credit cards, or just recently got one, you can start responsible practices right now.
Think of a credit card in terms of accountability: the credit card company bought something on your behalf with the express agreement that you would pay them back promptly. Paying them back a little at a time, or defaulting on payments completely, is not showing good accountability on your part.
 Don’t buy a $2000 TV on credit if you know your income can’t handle paying that off quickly. Credit cards are not good when they allow you to live beyond your means momentarily, because then you end up in financial trouble with a hard road out of it.
 Before you make a purchase, have a plan for where the money is going to come from to pay the debt. When the bill comes, pay the whole month’s worth of expenses off rather than allowing some of what’s due to roll over. Anything you don’t pay off immediately is going to amount to you paying more than you spent.

