 Beyond practicing your pitching technique you can also add certain exercises to your training plan, yielding even greater results. Building a stronger body and increasing the levels of flexibility will help improve your pitching velocity. Think about adding some of the following basic exercises to your workout routine:Push-ups
Pull ups
Squats
Lunges
Hamstring curls
Crunches
Full body stretching routines

, Although training your upper body and core is important, strengthening your legs is just as important when increasing your pitching velocity. By strength training your legs you can help build a solid pitching stance and generate more power behind your pitches. Try some of these motions to do a proper lunge and strengthen your legs:Stand straight with your feet apart at shoulder width.
Take a long step forward with one leg.
Drop your rear leg to the ground, straightening it out.
Bend your front leg at the knee. Never let your knee go in front of your toes to prevent injury.
Stand up straight again and repeat the motion, leading with the other leg.
You can hold dumbbells in your hands to increase the difficulty.
 Push-ups are a simple maneuver that uses your own body weight to strengthen muscles and build power. The push-up will mainly target your upper body but will also work your core and legs. Use the following push-up technique to stay safe and build pitching power:Go into a plank position, resting on your hands and toes.
Your hands should be even with and just a bit wider than your shoulders.
Keep your body and torso straight.
Lower your body down to the ground by bending at the elbows.
Your entire upper body and arms should be supporting your weight as you lower yourself down.
At the bottom of the motion push yourself back up to the starting position.
 Planks are a static exercise that will target and fully engage your core. The exercise itself is simple but will still require you to use proper form to stay safe and get the most from it. Keep the following tips in mind when you are building core strength with the plank exercise:Get into a push-up position. For a plank however, you will be resting on your elbows instead of your hands.
Keep your back as flat as you can.
Engage your core muscles to keep your torso straight and your hips up.
Hold the position until you are unable to continue doing so.
 Strength training and consistent practice sessions can be beneficial. However, these training methods can also reduce flexibility. Reduced flexibility will result in lower pitching velocity. Always maintain range of motion and flexibility by regularly stretching your muscles before and after practices or training.Maintaining flexibility can also prevent injury.

