 Launch your favorite web browser on your computer, and go to the ASUS Webstorage’s website.;
, Click on the “Sign in” button found at the upper right side of the page. You will be brought to the login page. Enter your WebStorage ID and password, then click on the “Sign in” button to continue., You can navigate through your main folders or directories by clicking on the folders on the left panel. You can also navigate through your files and folders by clicking on the individual folders.
 You can only share one file or folder at a time. Select the file or folder you will be sharing by clicking on the tick box in front of it.


This is not really required, but can help you properly identify which file or folder you’re sharing.
 At the far end of the selected file or folder is a chain or link icon, click on it. A small window will appear for the Sharing Settings.
 The share link directly pointing to your file’s or folder’s location will be displayed in the first field.


If you want to copy the share link, highlight the whole text and copy it to your clipboard.
 This will enable your file or folder to be accessible publicly by anyone who has your share link., Advanced Sharing settings allow you to protect your file or folder with a password and to limit the duration of the file or folder with an expiry date.
 Since Public share will render your file or folder available to anyone, you can set a password to prevent unauthorized access to your file or folder.


Click on the “Password” text to set your password. Enter your password and confirm it in the two fields, then click the “Done” button. Your file or folder is now protected by a password.
 By default, files or folders you share won’t expire. If you want to limit your file’s or folder’s availability, you can set an expiration date for it. Once the expiration date has elapsed, your file or folder won’t be available anymore.


Click on the “Expiration date” text to set the expiration date. Select from the options, then click the Done button. Your file or folder will only be available until the time you’ve set.
 Back on the Sharing Settings window, click on the “Share via email” button.


On the new window, type in the email address of the first recipient who will receive your share link. Click the “Add” button beside the field to add him to your distribution list.
Click the “Send” button to send the share link to your recipients. An email with the share link will be sent to them. They can now access your file or folder using the share link.
 If you’ve copied the share link from Step 2 of Part 3, you can directly use it to share your file or folder through other means. You can paste it on your email client or instant messenger, or post it on Facebook or Twitter. Anyone who has access to this share link can now access your file or folder.

