 A lip scrub will help buff away dead skin cells and make your lips appear smoother and plumper. It will make applying the lip stain a lot easier. If you don't have a lip scrub at home, or don't have time to run out and buy one, you can make your own by combining 1 part honey, 1 part sugar (white or brown), and 1 part oil (almond, coconut, jojoba, or olive) in a small dish., Apply the scrub to your lips using your fingers. Gently massage your lips using soft, circular motions. A few seconds is all you need. If you have very chapped lips, however, you might need to exfoliate them for up to two minutes.
 Soak the corner of a clean, soft towel with warm water. Squeeze out the excess moisture from the towel, then gently wipe the excess lip scrub off your lips.
 Use a clean toothbrush. This is great for circulation and can help make your lips appear more plump and full.









Consider getting a separate toothbrush for lip buffing purposes.
 Take a soft towel, and gently pat your lips dry with it. You are now ready to start applying your lip stain.
 Depending on how your lip stain is packaged, you may also need a lip brush. Lip stain can come in a bottle with an applicator, in a small jar, and in a small tube. If the lip stain comes in a small jar, you will need a lipstick brush.


If you plan on doing some layering and contouring later on, choose a lighter shade.
 Simply start from one corner of your lip, and drag the applicator or brush to the other. Follow the curve of your bottom lip. Once you have your lip outline, fill the center part in with more lip stain.
 Pull your lips inward, so that you can't see them, and then pop them. This will help transfer some of the excess lip stain from the bottom lip to the upper lip.
 Start applying the lip stain at the top of your lip. Drag the applicator or brush downward towards the corner. Be sure to fill in the center part of your lip as well.
 Take a tissue or paper towel, and fold it in half. Place it between your lips. Close your lips and pull them inward. Open your lips and discard the paper towel. This helps get rid of any excess lip stain. It also helps make your lip stain look more natural.
 You will be applying brighter shade to the outline of your lips, to make them "pop." You will be applying the darker shade to the inner part of your lips to add depth. Combined, this will make your lips appear fuller and plumper.
 Keep the lip stain inside your lip line, not outside. The innermost part of your lips should still have the lighter lip stain color.









For a sharper, crisper look, use a lipstick brush to apply the lip stain—even if it comes with an applicator.
 Once you have outlined your lips using the brighter shade, go over your lips with a lipstick brush. Focus on the transition line, right where the two shades meet. This will create a smoother transition, and make your lip stain look more natural.
 Gently dab the lip stain on using a soft, tapping motion. Focus the color on the inner part of your mouth, and work your way to the center of your lips.
 This will help make your lips appear plumper. Choose a light pink, shimmery shade, and tap it onto the middle of your bottom lip. This will help give your lips that finally touch of luscious fullness.
