 Straight dark brown or black hair that reaches your back is best, while slight waves in your hair are still okay. If you have curly hair, it´s best to straighten it or over-thinking your idea of being like Rinoa. If desired, get her light brown highlights. If you want your hair to look a little spikier (for the bangs), use hairspray or hair gel to spike them a little, but just a little. Note that her hair flips inward at her back.;
, And - yes - Rinoa is seen wearing make-up. Line your eyes with a dark brown eyeliner (as black is too heavy), apply mascara, and definitively stay away from cat eyes! Apply a light coral lipstick on your lips and smudge it later, so it seems like you´re wearing no lipstick at all. Stay away from gloss. You might want to apply blush, but keep in mind that Rinoa isn't seeing having any blush. In the opening, she is seen wearing her nails slightly longer than average.
 Rinoa is seen wearing long knitted garments, zippers and buttons, gauntlets, shorts under a cute skirt, and combat boots (chucks will go as well). If you want, get her cosplay: she is seen wearing two outfits in the game. The first one consists out of a blue sweater with white wings painted on the back, blue gauntlets, a spaghetti-strapped black camisole, a black ribbon on her left biceps, black shorts with zippers under a dark blue denim skirt with three metal buttons, dark-grey combat boots with belts, and a silver necklace with a ring. Her second outfit consists of a white knee-length neck holder dress with a satin strap and a chiffon layer at the edge, white high-heels, her silver ring necklace and a small silver cuff bracelet.
 Rinoa always wears her silver necklace with the wedding ring of her mother on it - you have to wear one, too (this is absolutely recommended)! As she is a very angelic character, wearing jewelry with angel wings on them will let you look A LOT more like her!! As her favorite colour is pink (not blue) and she is often seen standing within pink flower petals, you might want to wear pink flower jewelry, too!

, Rinoa is upbeat, cheerful, strong-minded, stubborn and openhearted. It´s very difficult for her to hide her feelings or keep secrets, and her straight-forward attitude often annoys other people. Nevertheless, she´s very sweet and kind, even by acting unconventional and irritating. Rinoa depends very much on her friends, without them, she feels lost.
 Rinoa often creates cute new words from old ones, such as "Oharo" (from "Hello" and "Ohayou"(Japanese greeting)).
 If Rinoa runs, she runs very clumsy. Rinoa often brushes her hair aside, clutches the rings on her necklace, puts her hands on the back, or pulls her knees to the front while sitting at the floor. When talking to Angelo, she crouches onto the floor, and when taking charge of a situation, she puts her hands on her hips. When flirting with Squall, she bends closer to him to look in his eyes. She often jumps up while throwing her arms in the air or puts her hands together when she is happy. Her best-known motion is her index finger pointing in the air, but also shaking in a "no, no" motion.

