 Garlic is a great home remedy for the common wart. Fresh garlic works the best, but you can also use garlic juice. Rub garlic into a small portion of your skin first to see if your skin is sensitive to the garlic. Some people can get a rash from fresh garlic. The rash is not dangerous, but it can be irritating.


If this happens to you, you can still use the remedy, but the rash may persist. If you do, only leave the crushed garlic on for an hour at a time. It may also take longer to get rid of the wart.
A study where children's warts were treated with garlic found that 100% of the warts were cleared with no significant side effects other than complaints of the smell and once instance of mild skin irritation. Another study used a lipid, or fat, extract of garlic on both warts and corns. They studied 42 patients of various ages and found 100% recovery in all the patients with the warts.
It is believed that the main anti-viral component of garlic, a substance known as allicin, is the chemical which is working on warts, but little research to substantiate this claim has been done.;
, Before you apply the garlic, you need to sanitize and dry the area of your skin with the wart. Wash your hands and then wash the area with the wart. Use warm soap and water. Dry the area with a cotton towel.


Wash any cloth material that came into contact with the wart in hot, soapy water. You can also bleach the towels to make sure you kill off any wart virus., Take one clove of garlic and crush it with the flat part of a knife. You can also cut a clove of garlic in half. Rub the area with the crushed garlic or cut edge of the clove to let the juice sink in., Place the crushed garlic directly onto the wart. Cover the garlic and the wart with a bandage or, if you prefer, a piece of duct tape. Avoid placing the garlic on unaffected skin.


Make sure you don't have any open cuts or wounds in the area. The garlic can burn and the wart virus may spread to the area. , The treatment does not work overnight. You need to repeat the process daily. Rewash and dry the wound. Apply fresh crushed or cut garlic to your wart. Cover the wart with the fresh garlic and always wrap the wound in a fresh bandage.


You can also use duct tape to wrap the wound. This helps it stay dry. However, this can irritate other areas of your skin. Repeat the garlic remedy daily for at least 3-4 weeks.
Most people begin to see the wart getting smaller within 6-7 days. It may look pruney and wrinkled after removing the bandage and washing away the garlic. It will also look paler than before.
If you don’t see any improvement, see your physician to see if something else is going on.
 You can use an emery board to help file away the skin of a wart. Hold the area with the wart over the sink. Dampen the wart. Use the rougher side of the board and gently rub the top and sides of the wart. Next, turn the emery board over to the smoother side of the board. Repeat the same path as you did with the rough side. Rinse off the area, wash it, and re-apply the crushed garlic.



Do not rub hard enough to draw blood. Also be careful not to touch any unaffected skin with the emery board.
If you are dealing with a plantar wart, keep your foot over the bathtub or over a small plastic tub.
Make sure and wash away any of the infected skin you have rubbed off. Wash everything in the sink or into the tub. You don't want to get re-infected.
Throw away the used emery board.