 Take out a piece of paper or use a calendar tool on your computer to create slots of every hour of your work day, or the hours of the day that you are awake. This could be from nine to five or ten to seven. Though you do not need to fill up each time period down to the minute, it can be helpful to make sure each hour of your day is accounted for in your schedule.Start to fill each hour of the day with your required tasks for the day. You may start with the most important tasks first and work your way down to the least important tasks. As well, if you consider yourself a morning person, you may decide to put the more complicated tasks earlier in the day, but if you know you usually get a second wind after lunch, you may place complicated tasks later in the day. Try to customize your schedule to fit your needs and work habits, as this will set you up for success when you use the schedule.
You may want to create a template for your schedule on a whiteboard or a calendar tool so you can update it every day according to your schedule for that day.
 It can be difficult to focus on one task or a group of tasks for longer than one to two hours. Make sure you schedule in a ten minute break every hour or every two hours so you do not feel overworked or stressed out. During the mini break, you should get up and walk around the office, or talk to a coworker in the break room. You may go get a coffee or go for a quick walk outside. Try to keep the break to 10 minutes or less so your schedule is not thrown off.You can also take 10 long, slow deep breaths at the top of every hour to clear your mind and pause. This may help you to get some perspective on a task you are doing or going to do and ensure you are checking in with yourself despite your busy work day., Rather than try to rush through your schedule and address every item quickly, take the time to do each task correctly, the first time. Rushing through your emails could lead to prolonged email exchanges, especially if you send cryptic or confusing emails to a client. Slow down and take some time to compose clear emails, or do a thorough read of your school notes. Doing a task right the first time can save you lots of wasted time in the long run.
 Ask a close friend, a parent, a sibling, or a coworker to check in with you every couple of hours to ensure you are sticking to your schedule.


They may bring you a cup of coffee or toss out a friendly word so you can take a moment to laugh or smile and then get back to your daily tasks. Though you may be busy, having a small moment with a friend can lift your spirits and lead to better time management.

