 Snakegrass is a fairly resilient plant that can thrive in a few different environments. For optimal growing, you’ll want to make sure it gets plenty of sun, though it can also grow well in part shade. Make sure the spot you choose is at least mildly wet.

If you want to plant your snakegrass in water, make sure you choose a spot where the water is no higher than 4 inches (10 cm)., Snakegrass roots tend to ball up as they grow outwards, so make sure to choose a container that can accommodate this. As with any planting container, it should have drainage holes. However, growing snakegrass means you’ll need cover up the drainage holes enough that the roots, or rhizomes, can’t snake out of the drainage holes and spread to the rest of your garden. Lay fine mesh at the bottom of the container to protect the drainage holes.

Planting snakegrass in a container will help prevent it from spreading too wildly. If you want your snakegrass to spread, you’ll instead want to plant it directly in the soil. Be prepared for it to spread more efficiently than you might think., You can use any general purpose potting soil for this; snakegrass doesn’t need any specific nutrients or special soil. Add soil until you entirely cover the plant’s rhizomes. Leave a few inches between the top of the soil and the container’s rim.

If planting snakegrass in water, lay a layer of gravel an inch (2.5 cm) high on top of the soil. This will protect it, preventing it from getting flooded or washing out., The hole should be about 2-3 inches (5 - 7.6 cm) wider and an inch (2.5 cm) shallower than the container you used. Place the container in the hole, checking that it sticks out by about an inch. If it’s a bit too high, you can press down on the container and twist; this will help it dig deeper.

This is only needed if you want to partially bury the pot in the ground., Use the freshly dug soil to fill in the hole around your container. Make sure to pack the dirt tightly around the container. Water the soil around the container to help it settle.

Only do this if you’re looking to partially bury your container in the soil.