 The best, most organized, and most secure way to store books is on shelves designed for the purpose. Its clean, accessible, and allows you to easily peruse the books that you have quickly. They're available at most home retailers and are always a good choice.


Natural, pre-treated wood and sheet metal are the best surfaces on which to store books. Storing books on shelves with synthetic paint or other chemicals can leech into the binding and paper, affecting the quality of the items., One more quirky and off-kilter way to store and access your books is to line them up in a series of stacked wooden crates. Old milk crates or other boxes of various sizes can be reclaimed, then stacked in various patterns to fit the space that you have.


Stack book crates on the side, rather than bottom-up, so you can stack your books as if they were in a bookshelf. This makes them easy to access and peruse.
Think of it as a DIY bookshelf. Crates allow you to organize your books into micro genres, keeping your cookbooks in one crate and your novels in another, putting them in adjacent spaces and rooms if necessary. They're also movable.
 One creative idea with your stacks of children books is to purchase or fashion a wooden cut of an animal, dinosaur, or other kids-themed shape, and mount it on the wall. To it, affix small shelves or baskets in which you can store books at a child-appropriate height. This is a great way to lively up your kids' room and organize all their books.
 If you've got a lot of books, one of the most user-friendly ways to organize them is by genre. Keep your novels with your novels, your non-fiction with your non-fiction, and other genres together. Get as specific as you want, for the books that you have.


Within genre, you can specialize even further if you want to. In the history section, store your military history books together, but differentiate them from your natural history books, European history, and other sub-genres.
If you don't have a lot of different genres, just split them into two big categories: Fun books and learning books. Put all novels, stories, and sci-fi in the first section. Put all your old school stuff in the other.
 Want to make sure your books look nice on the shelf? Group them according to their relative size and shape, to keep your shelves, stacks, or crates looking organized. Keep very tall and thin books with other very tall and thin books, and keep very squat and short books with other like books.


Aside from looking nice and organized, books can be supported better if they're stacked next to books of a similar size. This helps to stabilize the covers and the binding.
 If you've got more of a linear mind, it might make more sense to you to categorize your books alphabetically, for easy reference. This may look a little more chaotic on the shelf, and you'll end up with some weird stuff next to one another, but you'll always know where everything is in the alphabet.


Go by title, or go by the last name of the author when you're alphabetizing your books. Generally, titles are easier to remember, but you'll also end up with a lot of titles that start with "The" and "A," which might be confusing.
 If you've got an eye for design, organizing your books according to the color of the binding can be an excellent way to give your room a pop of particular color, and make your book shelves really stand out. Group them according to specific colors and put them on the shelf in subtle gradations, moving from one color to the next.



Consult the color wheel to learn more about how to pick the right colors for interior decorating, books included.

