 These pens, usually holding around 20 to 50 cattle in each, are such that they separate the various grades and even coat color of cattle that have to go through the slaughter facility. This is so that it makes it easier for the personnel in the slaughter plant to grade various carcasses that go through.

The pens are also a way for them to undergo ante-mortem (before death) inspection by licensed veterinarians. This is to detect any evidence of disease or any abnormal condition that would indicate a particular animal is diseased. If any such animal is found, a metal ear-tag is placed so as to give special postmortem scrutiny.

If there is definite and conclusive evidence that, in the antemortem examination, the animal is not fit for human consumption, it is condemned and no postmortem exam is necessary.
 It's important that cattle are herded and kept in a calm state to not affect the quality of the meat. Cattle that are in a state of anxiety or panic will have darker-colored meat (called "dark-cutters"), than cattle that are calm and relatively relaxed., This cradle is specially designed to block the animal's view from what's going on outside of the cradle, restrain it, enable the person above to stun it, drop the side to release the stunned or killed animal to shackle one or both of the hind legs, and complete the rest of the slaughtering and dressing process.

The box is open above and the sides are high enough so that the animal cannot see over even if they try to raise their head. The right side of the box chute is released and let down to free the stunned animal once the killing/stunning process is complete. This allows access to the legs so that they can be shackled. More on this in later steps.
In addition, there is a solid-sided gate at the rear of the box stall so that the cattle behind the one that is being killed do not see what is going on in front of them. This is so that they remain calm and quiet.
 The captive bolt gun (also named cap-bolt, cap-bolt gun, cap-bolt stunner or captive bolt stunner) is the primary tool that is used to stun and kill cattle in a commercial slaughter plant. This device uses a steel rod that is driven instantly into the forehead of the animal. The gun is placed in the middle of the forehead, never between the eyes, to effectively kill the animal instantly.


The steel rod from the captive bolt gun is driven by compressed air or a blank cartridge, and is retracted and reset for the next animal.

The cap-bolt gun will remain effective if maintained properly. Cartridges should be stored in a dry place and the steel rod cleaned regularly. The gun itself must also be cleaned to ensure it induces instantaneous death to the animal it is used on.


Veal calves are often killed with carbon dioxide.
 The side panel of the cradle drops down to allow access to the animal's legs. Chains are shackled to their hind legs and attached to a hook in the conveyor system that hoists the animal up. The stunned bovine then travels to the proceeding areas to be bled out, skinned, gutted and halved.
 A very sharp knife is used in this process: the point of the knife cuts into the animal's throat and cuts through the dewlap, trachea, esophagus and jugular vein immediately below the jaw-line to allow the blood to flow out. The cut can be made perpendicular or parallel to the neck, depending on what the standards are of the slaughter plant. Animals are bled out before being dressed because it prevents blood from coagulating in the tissues and thus making the meat go rancid.
 The hind shanks are skinned and removed at the hocks: beef hooks are inserted between the gam cord (which is the tendon that runs from the tip of the hock (tuber calcaneus) up to the tibia) and the tibia, freeing the chain on one of the hind legs that had been used to hoist up the animal. The hide is opened along the median line of the belly and is removed from the belly and sides. Down-pullers are used for removing the rest of the hide, including skinning the head.


This method greatly increases the efficiency of skinning and the yields of headmeat/cheekmeat.
 The head is not severed from the carcass until the hide is completely removed. Until then the legs, head, breast and aitch (rump) bones are split from the carcass by sawing or by using a mechanical saw similar to a chainsaw, except it's built for cutting cleanly through bone, not wood.
 All internal organs are removed except the kidneys. The anus is cut out, and the offal is dumped out into a cart or barrel to be hauled away.

Most slaughter plants do not find it cost effective to discard the offal, legs, head, blood or hide to the landfill. A large number of facilities sell the waste material to various butcher shops or other factories that use the remains for various users from cosmetics to car seats, home insulation and material for paving roads.
 If the plant is under federal inspection (USDA-FDA in the United States or CFIA in Canada), the carcass and viscera are examined by a federally licensed veterinarian hired by the FDA or CFIA at this stage in the slaughtering process. Since the head is cut from the neck, the brain and brain stem also needs to be examined for signs of BSE (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy).


In the United States and Canada, the brain, spinal column, eyes, and other organs that are most likely to hold prions that cause BSE are discarded as SRMs or Specified Risk Material and never put into the food chain for either livestock or humans.
 The carcass is split through the centre of the backbone and the tail is removed. The spinal cord also needs to be removed during this process and discarded, since, as mentioned above, is designated as Specified Risk Material.
 The split carcasses or halves are washed with cold water using a pressure-washer, and let to dry.
 The halves, after slaughtering is complete, are sent to a cooler room where they are kept at a temperature of around 34 degrees Fahrenheit for a minimum of 24 hours. Often carcasses are left in the cooler for two to three weeks to allow the meat to cure before it is cut up or "ribbed" into various cuts of beef.
 Once the carcasses have cured, butchering will commence. Please the How to Butcher Cattle page for more information.

