 This is a simple thing you can do that most likely won’t be against your school’s rules. Emo people typically have super straight hair. Pull up the top half of your hair and put it in a bun. Then, start on the bottom half of your hair. Simply clamp the flat iron over sections of hair, moving from the bottom to top half, until all of your hair has been straightened.The hair can be completely flat and straight all the way around, or you could tease the top of your hair. Go with whichever style makes you feel the most confident.
Use a heat protectant spray so that you don’t end up with damaged hair.;
, A lot of emo people like to cut their own hair, but it doesn’t make you any less emo if you decide going to a stylist is best for you. If you decide to cut your own hair, use a razor cutter. Make the ends of your hair appear jagged. Start with the tips of your hair so you haven’t made too much of a mistake if you mess up.Start by cutting your ends jaggedly, then move to your bangs (if you have them) and sides of your hair.
Be really careful when using a razor cutter. Either put one mirror in front of you one behind you while you cut, or have someone cut the back of your hair for you.
 It isn’t in the emo rulebook that you have to have black hair. Of course, there isn’t a rule book at all. You can have any color that you like. Black hair is just a popular emo color. You can dye your hair at home, or have it done by a stylist.Keep in mind that it’s pretty difficult to come back from black hair. For example, it would be a very long process to get to blonde from black.
It might be a good idea to ask for your parents’ permission first before dying your hair—especially if they’re pretty strict.
 Bangs are part of the typical emo style. The bangs aren’t the typical blunt bangs though. Instead, they should be side bangs that pretty much cover half of your face. If you can’t see out of one eye, you’re doing it right.


Having trouble seeing through your bangs may be a problem during class. Pin them back with cute, colorful hairclips.
 Get creative with your hair by putting a few streaks through it. Streaks around your bangs are the best place for emo-style hair. Choose to have a few platinum blonde streaks. Or, go with hot pink, blue, or fiery red highlights. Just be sure your school doesn’t have a rule against unnaturally colored hair, or all that work on a cool style could go to waste. 