 This will provide natural fertilizer to your plants, lessening your need for chemical varieties. You can have a compost heap outside, or maintain a compost heap in a container somewhere in your kitchen.You can either gather compost in a small pile, or keep it contained in a bin or pen. You will need nitrogen or carbon rich organic waste, which can come from your own kitchen, as well as water, soil, and air.
Add layers of carbon, which is composed of brown material (such as garden trimmings and leaves) with nitrogen (which is waste that is green in color, such as old leafy greens from the kitchen). After adding a few layers, top off your pile with a 4 to 6 inch layer of soil. In about 2 months, your compost should be ready to use as fertilizer.
 How much you water your plants does depend on the type of plant. As with other practices, consult a Farmer's Almanac or similar publication. However, there are a few general guidelines you can follow when it comes to watering your plants.It's best to water in the morning. It tends to be cooler and less windy in the morning, giving the water the best chance to reach your plants.
Water your plants at the roots. Watering at the greenery can cause damage.
Younger plants may need to be watered a few times a week. Once plants are established, they may only need weekly watering. However, make sure to look into your plant's type before making a decision regarding watering.
 As you will not be relying on chemicals to reduce weeds in your garden, it will take a lot of work on your part to keep weeds at bay. You will have to manually weed your garden regularly to make sure your organic crops thrive.To weed, you will have to go into your garden yourself and pull up any weeds at the roots. You may have to use tools, like a spade, and you should also wear gloves. If you can't bend over yourself, think about hiring neighborhood kids to assist you with the gardening.
Mulch, straw, and wood chips can be scattered around the base of plants to reduce the growth of weeds. Straw is the cheapest option, but does not last long. Wood chips are expensive, but may need replacing less frequently than other options. Avoid using lawn clippings on plants that do not require a lot of nutrients, as they're high in nitrogen. Lettuce and squash would benefit from lawn clippings.
 This is a good way to naturally keep away pests. Growing a variety of plants keeps pests away as it limits the amount of one type of plant offered to pests. If you're able to, grow a great variety of plants in your garden. This will also provide you with greater options for customers when you begin to sell your produce and plants.Remember to choose plants that will thrive given your climate and soil type.
If you need inspiration about what plants to use, visit a local farmer's market again. You can ask local farmers for recommendations on crops you should add to your garden.
 Chemical pesticides are generally not used, or at least not used heavily, on organic farms. Explore natural options to deflect pests as you maintain your organic garden.Leave a small source of water in your garden as this will attract natural predators for pests. A garden that contains frogs, birds, toads, and lizards can help ward off pests.
Consider placing nets and row covers over your plants to keep pests out.
Look into naturally occurring bacteria, horticultural oils, insecticidal soaps, and sprays made from garlic and hot peppers.
Check to make sure your plants are getting enough light, nutrients, and moisture. Healthy plants are more able to fight off pests.

