 Start the curling process by brushing your hair to remove any knots or tangles. Next, divide your hair into sections. Take the top section near the crown of your head first, and leave the hair at the nape of your neck and sides of your head for later.It’s best to use a natural bristle brush when you’re brushing your hair because it will reduce the amount of static and frizz.
It may help to use clips or hair elastics to section off your hair, so you don’t get confused about what you’re working with.
You can divide your hair into more sections if you prefer. The smaller the sections of hair that you use, the tighter your curls will be.;
, When you’re using socks or rags to curl your hair, it’s best not to start with completely wet hair because your locks can become frizzier that way. Instead, just dampen the sections of hair as necessary. Use a spray bottle filled with water to mist the section of hair that you’re working with, so it will hold the curl more easily.








Instead of using plain water to dampen your hair, you may prefer to dampen with a texturizing or curl enhancing spray to help give your curls more texture.
 When your section of hair is damp, take a clean sock or strip of fabric and roll your hair around it, starting approximately 1-inch from the end. Continue rolling the hair and sock all the way up to the crown of your head. At the top, tie the sock or rag into a knot to secure it in place.








Make sure to keep the hair as neat as possible as you roll it toward the top of your head, so you don’t wind up with any kinks or bends in your hair when you’re done.
You shouldn’t tie the knots too tightly when you’re securing the hair in place or you may have trouble removing the socks or rags later.
If you’re using rags to curl your hair, you should cut strips of fabric that are approximately 2-inches wide and 8- to 10-inches in length., Take another clean sock or rag, and repeat the process on your next section of hair. Continue all around your head until all of your hair has been curled and secured in place.








It can take anywhere from four to eight socks to curl all of your hair. If you’re using rags, you’ll probably need between 10 and 20 strips of fabric for your whole head.
 In order for the curls in your hair to take hold, you have to allow the socks or rags to stay in place for a while. It’s best to sleep on with the fabric in your hair, so you’ll usually get the nicest looking curls if you leave them in place overnight.If you don’t have time to wait overnight for curls, leave the socks or rags in place for at least four to five hours. Keep them in as long as you can for the best results.
 When you wake up the next morning, untie the socks or rags in your hair and remove them. Use your fingers to gently comb through the curls to loosen them as desired.








If you use a brush on your curls, you’ll wind up removing most of them and creating a wavy look instead.
You may also want to add an anti-frizz product to your hair too. Use your fingers to smooth it through your hair so you don’t disrupt the curls.
 Now that you’ve got some beautiful curls, you want to make sure that they last as long as possible. Spritz them with a flexible hold hairspray to help lock them in place without making your hair feel too crunchy.If you don’t like the feel of hairspray, you don’t have to use it. Just be aware that your curls may start to fall by the end of the day.

