 If you’re looking for a dog whose breed is known to be loyal, talk with local dog breeders or pet-store owners to find out which breeds they view as being the most loyal. Breeds that are commonly considered among the most loyal include: Collies, Boxers, Brittanys, and Labrador Retrievers.Since dogs have individual personalities, a dog of any breed can be a loyal, loving companion. However, some breeds are genetically more predisposed to be loyal than others.
The loyalty and disposition of the dog will be especially important if you have a family, or if there will be young children around the dog.;
, Breeds that have an even temperament and are known for their affectionate, devoted nature are more likely to grow into loyal adult dogs. Affectionate breeds will require less rigorous training and should easily develop a trusting, loyal bond with their owners. For an affectionate dog, look into breeds including:Newfoundlands. These dogs, although very large, are known to be affectionate, docile, and remarkably loyal to their owners.
Golden Retrievers. This is a common breed for good reason: Golden Retrievers are even-tempered, loyal, and great with small children.Welsh Corgis. These dogs are playful and have sweet personalities, making them a loyal breed.
 Many breeds of dog have been purposefully bred to strengthen their hunting or fighting abilities, or possess a naturally aggressive nature. Other breeds have been inbred or over-bred to the degree that dogs of these breeds often have common behavioral problems. However, this does not necessarily effect loyalty, as dogs with behavioral issues can still be loyal to the individual owners.


Aggressive breeds include: Shar Peis, Chihuahuas, Jack Russell Terriers, Giant Schnauzers, Cocker Spaniels, Chow Chows, and Dachshunds.Aggression aside, several of these breeds are simply temperamental or difficult to control. Pit bulls can respond aggressively to teasing or tormenting, and other breeds (including Chow Chows) often only bond with a single owner.Dog aggression is unrelated to size. Many people are under the misconception that larger dogs are more likely to be aggressive—this is not true. In fact, most of the aggressive breeds are smaller dogs., Even if a breed of dog is not specifically aggressive or violent, these dogs may be challenging to raise for other reasons. Some breeds lack affection, while others are bad around children or require large amounts of training and handling.Unless you are well aware of the challenges of raising a difficult breed, opt for an easier type of dog. Difficult breeds include:


Bullmastiffs are huge dogs that require large amounts of training to control. They also do not get along well with other dogs.German Shepherds are a very energetic, intelligent breed, and will need plenty of care and training. If neglected or mistreated, they can become aggressive.
Akitas are a large breed of dog, who require long walks (at least 30 minutes) daily. The breed also sheds heavily and requires a lot of training, making it a poor choice for inexperienced dog owners.Bulldogs suffer from many health problems as a result of their overbreeding. They also usually cannot swim, easily suffer heat exhaustion, and require many hours of training., Dogs are creatures with individual personalities, who are not completely behaviorally determined by their genetics or breeding. While individuals of a certain breed may tend to act with or without loyalty, there are many factors outside of breeding that influence a dog’s behavior. Many of those factors have to do with you, the owner.


Even dogs from breeds often considered aggressive or difficult can be loyal, if you train the dog properly from the start, meet its breed-specific needs (large amounts of exercise or grooming, etc.), and treat it with respect and affection.

