 You want to do your best to prevent your dog from being bitten by a tick in the first place. Be careful when you take your dog outside in areas with high concentrations of ticks. You can also check online for maps of the areas with the most concentrations of tick-borne diseases.You may want to avoid taking your dog into densely wooded areas or into underbrush if your area has a lot of ticks or tick-borne diseases.
Ticks are most active during the summer, so take caution during warmer months.
 Check your dog every day for ticks, especially after going outside or into wooded areas. To check your dog for ticks, use your fingers to feel along the skin. Ticks may feel like bumps around the size of a pea.If you find one, carefully remove it.


Long-haired dogs can hide ticks better than short-haired dogs. Check your long-haired dogs carefully.
Ticks like to attack to the skin in dark, warm spots. That means check your dog's ears, groin, buttocks, armpits, and between the toes., There are a number products available to help prevent ticks from latching onto your dog’s skin. These include:Once a month topicals. These products are placed directly on the skin and last for up to one month. BioSpot and Frontline are examples of these products.
Tick collars. These can be placed around the dog’s neck to repel ticks and prevent attachment. Preventic is an example of an effective tick collar.
Powders and sprays. These are applied to the entire body to give control of ticks. You must be careful not to get these products in the dog’s eyes, nose, or mouth. You will want to protect your skin, eyes, and mouth as well while applying the product.
Dips, rinses, or shampoos. These products require you to bathe your dog in the product in order to be effective. Dips and rinses are not washed off, but shampoos are after bathing.
Not all dogs bitten by ticks will get a disease even if the tick that bites them transmits the disease to the dog. It is not known why some dogs get the disease while some seem to not be affected by it. Even dogs which test positive for having had the disease at some point without showing any symptoms will not come down with any apparent illness.

