 By figuring out your proportions, you can more easily choose clothes that will really show off your frame. If you're pear-shaped, you carry more weight around your butt, hips, and thighs. Because your top half is smaller, you want to dress to create balance between the two halves. Avoid super baggy clothing on your bottom half, as that can overwhelm this curvaceous section. Wear more form-fitting skirts and pants, and wear fun tops to attract the eye., If you carry most of your weight in your midsection, this is your body type. By drawing the eye to other features, such as your arms, legs, chest, and so on, you can create balance between your midsection and the rest of your body. Try tops that show a bit of skin on the shoulders and chest. Wear tailored skirts or pants to make your body look more sleek and smooth., Cone-shaped girls have larger shoulders and bust, with smaller lower sections. They key to dressing this shape is avoiding a lot of detailing and design on the top half, and have more fun with the lower half to even out your appearance. Try skirts that flare out, pants with big pockets, and other fun bottoms., Women with an hourglass body have a smaller waist, with a curvy bust and wider hips. If this describes you, it’s a great idea to accentuate that waist. Loose, baggy clothing won't do your body justice. Pick clothes that taper in at the waist and hug your shape to show off your curves., If you have a straight body type, meaning no big size difference between your shoulders, bust, hips, and waist, you can get creative with layers and accessories. Don't even think about balance--your profile will balance itself., Flimsy, lightweight fabrics may seem breezy and casual, but they can cling to your body and actually become a bit uncomfortable. Fabrics that are a bit more substantial will make you look svelte and smooth. They offer support while also concealing any lines from undergarments.You don’t need to write off fabrics like silk and cotton forever, but make sure to try different fabrics to find what feels best to you.
 As a heavily obese girl, it may be tempting to stay in a certain fashion comfort zone. For example, loose clothing might feel like a security blanket for some, while form-fitting or even tight clothing can seem much more "out-there." There is nothing wrong with embracing a flowy, boho style, but try on other options too. You may like something you never expected to!You don’t need to buy any of the clothing you try, and you don’t need to show anyone. Just try to be open-minded about other styles of clothing.
Remember, you won’t know how something looks on you unless you give it a try.
 You can dress according to your body type and abide by fashion tips, but at the end of the day, you should show off whatever you want to show off! If you love your shoulders, expose them in a plunging off the shoulder top. If you love your backside, wear a formfitting skirt to boast your behind. You know better than anyone what you’re working with, so highlight your best features.
 If you want to wear stripes, opt for thin, light-colored stripes on a darker background. If you particularly love a part of your body, wear fun, bright patterns on other parts to draw attention to it. Don’t be afraid of bright colors – just make sure that the clothing fits appropriately! For a sleek look, try creating monochromatic outfits with various textures., While it's fun to highlight, accentuate, and maximize certain features, try not to worry about minimizing others. If there's an area of your body that you may not love as much as others, try something radical and show that area off! Dress to make yourself feel happy and confident, not to follow fashion "rules" or to hide your body.
 Soft, shiny hair is a gorgeous accessory. To keep your hair healthy, make sure you’re treating it healthy. Don’t shampoo it too often, as this can strip it of its moisturizing, natural oils. Use hot tools sparingly, and always use a heat protectant. Let your hair air dry whenever you can, but when you can’t, use a medium to cool setting on your hair dryer.A healthy diet promotes healthy hair. Make sure you’re eating a nutrient-dense diet and drinking plenty of water. A daily multi-vitamin can help with any nutrient deficiencies you may have.
 Branching out from your usual, go-to look can make you look and feel more gorgeous than ever. Don’t worry if you aren’t a gifted hairstylist – YouTube offers tutorials for every hairstyle under the sun. When you have a little bit of free time, try out a few new looks that make you feel beautiful.
 The majority of girls have the occasional self-conscious day, when nothing seems to fit right and every outfit seems to hug in all the wrong places. One of the best things about hair accessories is that they always fit!


Add some fun headbands, stylish clips, and trendy hats to your wardrobe to easily add a special touch to any outfit.
 When it comes to applying make-up, the goal is to accentuate your natural, gorgeous features. Whether you’re a complete make-up rookie or an aspiring cosmetologist, developing a make-up routine that you enjoy can boost your confidence and help you look gorgeous. Creating flawless-looking skin is the first step.Even out your skin tone with a liquid foundation. With clean hands, dot the product all over your face and blend it in thoroughly with a thick, rounded make-up brush.
Use a concealer to cover up blemishes or discoloration. Use your fingertips to gently tap the product into your skin.
Set everything with a powder. When it comes to this step, less is more. Gently brush the powder over your foundation and concealer, focusing on areas of your face that tend to get oily.
 Most girls have a personal preference when it comes to this step, so feel free to develop your own routine. If you’re brand new to make-up, however, there are a few basic techniques to make your eyes really pop.Apply eyeliner to your top lash line. This will help make your eyes look big and bright, and also make your lashes appear more luscious and thick. The line should be thicker at the outer corner of your eye, gradually thinning out as it moves toward the inner corner.
Curl your eyelashes with an eyelash curler and apply mascara. By curling your lashes away from your eyes, your eyes will look more open. Adding mascara will add volume and intensity to your lashes.
 This step is extremely important. While smooth, even skin is great, a blush or a bronzer will give you an attractive, cheery glow. It will add some dimension to your skin, and brighten your entire make-up look.Choose a color that looks and feels natural to you. Depending on your skin tone, this might be a bubble gum pink, a peach, or a bronze color.
Use a soft blush brush to apply this to the apples of your cheeks, gently sweeping it upwards towards your ears. Blend the blush into your skin softly.
 If you’re surrounded or bombarded with images of girls who look completely different than you, it can be easy to feel like an outsider. It’s important to find relatable role models who inspire you. It doesn’t matter if it’s a plus-size model in a fashion show, a super confident woman you know in real life, a teacher, a family member, or a body positivity spokesperson – just find someone who helps you love yourself.
 If there are certain things you don’t like about yourself, you’re most likely the only one who notices. If you can forget about your little “flaws,” others will too. If you’re having a great time and embracing what you have to offer, other people will be attracted to that.
 As cliché as it may sound, you only live once. Don’t waste your time worrying about a few extra pounds or trying to conform to a certain expectation. Embrace your body, and remember that it is completely beautiful in all of its uniqueness. When you feel confident, worthy, and gorgeous in your own skin, you will look like it too!

