 Your physician will inform you about whether the results of the basic lab tests were conclusive. He or she may recommend subsequent tests to confirm those results or to assess the level of kidney damage.
 A kidney ultrasound is a noninvasive exam that produces images, which are used to assess the size, shape, and location of the kidneys.You will need to make an appointment for an ultrasound, usually at a special clinic or medical center that does renal ultrasounds.
The technician will explain the procedure and you may need to sign a consent form authorizing the procedure.
Typically, no prior preparation, such as fasting or sedation, is required before an ultrasound.The technician will pass a transducer over your abdomen after applying some gel onto the area about to be imaged. A transducer is a prob-like device that produces sound waves that bounce off the tissues of the body and make echoes. The echoes are then sent to a computer and translated into images of your kidneys.
 This test, called a Computed Tomography (CT), uses contrast dye to picture the kidneys. It may also be used to look for abnormalities and obstructions in the kidneys.You will need to make need to make a special appointment for a CT scan, usually at a special clinic or medical center that does renal CTs.
The technician will explain the procedure to you and you will need to sign a consent form authorizing the procedure if it involves the use of contrast dye.
In preparation, you need to withhold food and drink before the test.During the test, you will lie on a scan table that slides into a large, circular opening of the scanning machine. As the scanner rotates around you, X-rays will pass through the body for short amounts of time.The X-rays absorbed by the body's tissues are detected by the scanner and sent to the computer. The computer then transforms the information into an image., You will have to schedule this procedure in advance and plan to stay in the hospital for at least 12 hours.Most kidney biopsies are percutaneous, meaning through the skin. In most cases, you will not be put to sleep with an anesthetic, but instead given medication to make you drowsy, while the area is numbed.
The doctor will cut the skin and inserts the needle to the surface of the kidney. He or she with then draw the sample. The area may feel sore or tender for a few days and you may see some blood in your urine. Consult your doctor if these symptoms last.