 If you’re traveling with a long-term tour service that takes you through an entire country or region, you might want more unstructured time to yourself than the tour schedule provides. Waking up an hour or so early can help you recover your needed alone time. Use the time to read, write, or reflect on your travels., If you’re feeling lonely or isolated, look for ways to focus your energy and attention in a positive way. For instance, go out of your way to visit weirdly themed restaurants, or try to take pictures of all the statues you can in a given city. These projects can help you put off creeping feelings of isolation that might crop up on the road.You could also make a list of all the restaurants of a given type in the major cities you visit. For instance, maybe you want to visit all the pizza joints in Shanghai, or all the vegan diners in Philadelphia.
Alternately, you could aim to journal for at least 20 minutes every night about your experience that day.
 If you’re staying in a hotel that offers room service, take advantage of it. You’ll have to pay a bit extra, but in return you’ll get to spend your mealtimes in the privacy of your own room. You can use the time to correspond with friends back home, write in your journal, or update your blog., If you’re on a long ride and don’t want to talk to others or look out the window the whole time, a book is a great way to pass the time. Pack a few books and look for places to exchange them for others when you’re done.Most major cities will have at least a few bookstores with English-language books. Check your guidebook for such stores.
You might also have luck looking for books in the common area of the hostel you’re staying at. Many hostels have a community bookshelf where you can trade a book of your own in exchange for another.
You can also, of course, read your book at night before bed and when you’re dining out.
Remember, when you’re reading, you’re never really alone.
 A quality set of noise-canceling headphones is essential for any introvert’s luggage. That way, you won’t have to listen to crying children or the irritating music that sometimes gets piped in on long train rides. Plus, when you have your headphones on, the likelihood that anyone will bother you drops dramatically.If you’re cramped for space in your luggage, a pair of high-end earbuds will do in a pinch.
When used in combination with a book, you’re even less likely to attract people trying to interact with you., Extroverts might see travel as unenjoyable or unsuccessful if they haven’t ended their trip with a bunch of friends that they didn’t have before traveling the world. But introverts can see travel for what it really is – and experience and a set of memories that are bigger than themselves. As an introvert, you should stay in the moment and do what you do best by not putting yourself at the center of the action.