 Teas provide many health benefits when you consume them. Different teas provide different benefits such as lowering cholesterol or helping to ease your stress. Consider why you want to enjoy a cup a tea, and pick a tea that will provide the added benefits you want.Green tea has a high amount of antioxidants and may help to prevent certain types of cancer. It also is said to help burn fat, improve cholesterol levels, and reduce the effects of stress on the body.
Black tea is said to protect lungs from damage. It also may reduce the effects of a stroke.
White tea is said to have a high amount of anticancer properties.;
, True teas from the Camilla Sinensis plant contain caffeine. These are black tea, oolong tea, green tea, white tea, and more. The amount of caffeine varies depending on the tea and brewing process, but it typically ranges from 15-70 milligrams in an 8 ounce cup. There are also decaffeinated teas available which typically contain 98 percent less caffeine than regular teas; an 8 ounce cup of decaffeinated tea usually has around 2 mg or less of caffeine. Herbal teas are typically caffeine free, and a great choice for drinking at night.Many tea brands will list the caffeine amount on their product or website.
 Some teas, like green tea, are quite bitter and hard for some people to drink plain. There are many things you can add to your tea to change the flavor and make it a little sweeter. Try adding some spices to change the flavor of your morning tea, or add a touch of something sweet to enhance the tea.Use a cinnamon stick to stir your tea to add a spicy kick
Milk or cream is a popular additive to tea. This quickly cools off the tea as well as adds a creamy feel to your cup. Milk alternatives like almond, soy, or coconut milk work great too. Milk may curdle if added to teas such as Earl Grey that contain citrus oils.
Lemon is a great addition to any type of black tea.
Sweeten bitter green teas with a small amount of maple syrup, raw sugar, or honey for a yummy treat.
 Add fresh, cold water to a medium sized pot or a tea kettle that can be heated on the stove. Place the pot or tea kettle over high heat to get the water to boil. Remove the pot or kettle from the heat as soon as the water begins to boil. Different teas require different temperatures of water to steep correctly, so make sure you know what type of tea you plan to brew.Black tea can steep in water that is at the boiling point 200-212º F.
Green and white teas are more delicate and will burn if steeped in water that’s too hot. For these teas, take the water off the heat just before the point of boiling, or before steeping, let the water sit for some time to cool down after boiling. Green tea should be steeped in water between 160º-180ºF. White Tea requires cooler water at 175º F.
A meat or cooking thermometer can help you determine the temperature of the water.
 When the water is at the appropriate temperature for the tea you’re brewing, pour the water into the container that you’ll steep the tea in. There are different types of teapots made from different materials like iron, glass, or porcelain.


Some materials like iron keep the heat longer and are great for teas that need higher heat, and some materials like porcelain lose heat quicker and are better for the more delicate teas.Adding boiling water to a cold container will lower the temperature of the water. Make sure your water is at the proper temperature in your teapot. Use caution when adding boiling water to glass or porcelain as the sudden temperature change may crack the glass.
If you are brewing a single cup of tea, you can add the hot water directly to the mug you plan to drink the tea from.
 Once your hot water is in the appropriate container, you can add the leaves to the water. You can add the tea in tea bags or a tea infuser as well. This will make removing the tea easier, however steeping the tea leaves freely in the teapot sometimes gives a stronger, fuller flavor.
 The biggest mistake people make when making hot tea is over steeping the tea. If you steep the tea too long it loses its flavor and becomes very bitter. Different teas need to steep for different amounts of time so be sure to pay attention to the amount of time your tea is steeping.White tea should steep 1 to 3 minutes.
Green tea should steep 3 minutes.
Oolong and black tea should steep 3-5 minutes.
Many tea manufactures put the suggested steep time on the product’s packaging or their website so check to find out your specific tea’s steep time before making the tea.
 Before pouring the tea into the cups, you need to remove the tea. If you used tea bags or a tea infuser to steep your tea, you can simply remove the bags or infuser from the teapot and then pour the tea. If you’ve steeped tea leaves directly in the teapot, you’ll need to strain the tea first. Pour the the tea through a strainer as you add it to the tea cups.
 Stir in your choice of added sweetener or flavor to your tea before drinking. Stir until the sweetener is fully dissolved so that it's evenly distributed in your cup.
 It’s important to let your tea cool down some before drinking to avoid injury. Drinking tea that is too hot can burn your tongue or the inside of your mouth. Constant consumption of extremely hot tea has been linked to an increased risk to esophageal cancer, so it’s extremely important to let your tea cool down a bit before consuming it., When your tea has cooled down, it’s time to enjoy it. Breathe in deep and experience the aroma of the tea before you take your first sip. Sip your tea knowing that you’re doing something healthy for your body giving it some much needed hydration. Relax with your cup of tea as you give your body a rush of antioxidants and boost your health.