 You can try to fit everything you want to do into the time between now and the end of vacation. Make a list of your summer goals, noting which are the most important for you to get done. Prioritize goals that are the most essential to your happiness and health.;
, If you notice anything messy around your house, organize that, too. You will feel more productive and relaxed when your environment is clean. Reduce your stress by eliminating clutter. Store loose items in containers to help with organization.Going through old clothes can help you to reduce clutter. Donate any old clothing that you may have grown out of to help someone in need.
 If you are going on vacation, or celebrating a friend’s birthday, or anything else exciting during the summer, take note of it on a calendar so that you can be prepared for each event., If the weather is blazing, go swimming in your pool or at a local public pool. Another option is to go to the beach or to visit a nearby lake or pond. If those options aren't available to you, simply sit under a sprinkler to cool down.Swimming helps to work your muscles that are often neglected during workouts, such as deltoids, triceps and biceps.
 Make sure that you avoid running during the hottest part of the day, which tends to be from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the summer. Try running either before the sun comes up or after the sun goes down to stay comfortable. Stay hydrated and drink plenty of water after your run., Walk along a trail that has been marked, or blaze your own trail. Be sure to go with another person, and bring a phone or map in case you get lost. Hiking is an excellent form of exercise, but make sure you stretch before and afterward, and bring along a water bottle to stay hydrated., This is a great way to spend a night and have fun. Tell ghost stories outdoors and cook s'mores over a bonfire if the weather is nice. Have a movie marathon and play board games if your sleepover is indoors., Take a trip to the park or the beach with your friends. Lay out a big blanket and share snacks and drinks. Play some music on a radio or iPod to enjoy the afternoon.
 Find a recipe in a cookbook or online, and bake something with friends. Be sure to gather all of the ingredients first. Sometimes, cooking with friends is a recipe for disaster, but it always results in a great memory.


If using the oven or cooking implements that don’t belong to you, be sure to first get permission.
 If you are traveling to another country or city, then go to many different venues and attractions. Don't restrict your visit to malls and restaurants. Ask people who live in the area for advice on what to see and do. If you are staying in your city or town during the summer, try to approach your own neighborhood as if you were a tourist. Try a new restaurant, take a walk, or go somewhere you have never been., Watch your favorite TV series on YouTube or Netflix. Summer is an excellent time to catch up on your favorite shows. Sometimes, the local library will also offer rentals of movies or television shows, so ask a librarian about these free rental options.
 Some people have packets and papers from school that are due by the end of summer. If you're in the mood to brush-up on academics, do schoolwork. If you have a summer reading packet, or a math packet, work on it during course of the summer. You'll be more likely to remember what you learned if you do a little each day instead of waiting until the end.
 Catch up on your reading during the summer. You can check out free books from your local library, and renew them if you need more time to read. Bookstores can offer deals on books during the summer months as well., You can do that by taking courses online or taking a weekly class. Add to your knowledge by becoming fluent in a language, taking a dance class, or mastering a musical instrument. Try yoga or meditation classes if you want to work on aligning your mind, body, and spirit. Try a kickboxing or self-defense course if you’d rather get your adrenaline racing.