 By making your eye makeup more elaborate, people will pay more attention to them and to the width of your face. When putting on your eyeliner, try the wingtip or cat eye style.Try to focus the makeup on the outer corners of the eyes; it will make your eyes appear larger, which in turn will make your face appear more narrow.









Consider plucking or waxing your eyebrows to give them a natural-looking arch. This will give your face a more angled look.
 This will draw attention away from your cheeks and pull it towards yours lips instead. To contour your lips, apply some highlighting powder along the top of your cupid's bow and a dab of bronzer just below your bottom lip. Blend well and apply some bright lipstick.
 These will make your head appear longer than it is wide, giving the illusion of a thinner face. Even a baseball cap that is higher than normal can help make your face look longer.
 When choosing earrings, go for ones that go past your jaw; this will draw attention away from the sides of your face. The more angular the earring is, the more will contrast with your face shape, making it appear thinner.If you are wearing your hair in an up-do, you can frame your face by wearing some long earrings.
 This will draw the eye downward, pulling attention away from the width of your face. Long necklaces will also give the illusion that your neck and face are longer. Necklaces that are too short will pull the eye upward and draw too much attention to the width of your face.


If you do wear short necklaces and chokers, remember to frame your face by wearing your hair down or lettings your long bangs hang by your cheeks.
 Try to find something with a rectangular shape, but that still has rounded corners. Glasses that are wider than your face will make your face appear more narrow., Shirts with a longer neckline will make your neck (and thus your face) appear longer. High-collared shirts, on the other hand, will make your neck appear shorter and pull attention upwards towards your jaw and the width of your face.

