 Tell your punisher that you understand whatever punishment or consequence they dole out, whether it be a week of detention, a month of detention, or a failing grade. Arguing will probably not make them change their mind about a punishment, but will only make you look worse. By accepting your punishment graciously, they will see that you have learned your lesson and understand the seriousness of your offense.Of course, this doesn’t have to be genuine.


Having the ability to accept consequences can make you a stronger, more courageous person in the long run.
 These can be different groups or people, depending on your situation. Often, schools will have “honor councils” that will determine your punishment, almost like a jury in court. Other times, a dean of discipline, the principal, or your teacher will decide your fate. It’s important to prepare for these discussions. Prepare a great explanation, rather than a whiny excuse. Explain what lead you to cheat, and how you will fix this moving forward. If you have a great academic or behavioral record up until this incident, point that out.


It’s important to show everyone that the cheating was out of character and you are deeply sorry.
Enlist the help of an older sibling or an adult you trust to help plan out your words. You may be required to write a statement. If so, edit, edit, edit. Read it to parents, teachers, and friends to get feedback.
 Whatever your punishment is, just do it and move on. The longer you put it off, the longer it will stress you out.You did the crime, so do the time! If you have to tell your parents about what happened, go straight home and tell them. If you have to write a repentance essay, do it that night. If you have to accept a zero on the test, get to work finding extra credit.


Not only will you be able to put this event behind you sooner, you will also show the authority figure that you are serious about fixing the problem.
 This will make you look better to your teachers, but it will also make the punishment easier. Focus on making the best out of a bad situation, and use your punishment as a learning experience.Don’t mouth off or mope. Instead, keep your head up and deal with the consequences with the cheeriest outlook you can manage.


Cheating on one test won’t ruin your life. While the consequences can be intense, as stated earlier, it doesn’t help to continuously beat yourself up or wallow in misery. Stay optimistic, and don’t dwell on the mistake you made.
 While it’s important to accept reasonable punishment, it’s also OK to fight back if you genuinely believe the punishment does not fit the crime, or if you don’t believe the punishment was determined properly. You have a right to due process from authority, and the teacher cannot dole out punishment without letting you share your side of the story.If you are facing expulsion from school, it is important to understand your rights. Laws about school expulsion vary from state to state, and from public to private schools. You have the right to be represented by a lawyer throughout this process.If you decide to appeal a suspension or expulsion that you believe to be unjust, you can learn more about that here.


