 A green business, like any other business, can be created and structured as a corporation, limited liability company (LLC), a partnership, or a nonprofit to name a few structures. The business structure you choose will dictate how your business will operate, how it will be taxed, and how profits will be used.


If you want to raise money through passive investors, you might want to create a corporation. A corporation also protects your assets by legally separating the business's finances from your own.
If you want your business's profits to be fed back into the business, you could consider creating a nonprofit. Becoming a nonprofit requires compliance with a large number of federal and state regulations.
If you want to simplify your taxes, consider creating a partnership or sole proprietorship. However, this structure may also leave you liable for the business's debts.
 Each state will have different rules on creating a business entity. Hire an attorney to make sure you form your business in accordance with these regulations. Work with the attorney to form the following parts of your business organization:


A board of directors. In general, every state will require you to create a board of directors consisting of at least one person. This person does not need to be a resident of the state where you are incorporating and there is usually no age requirement.An appropriate name. Every state will require you to choose a business name that conforms with certain rules and obligations. Your name must be unique, may have to contain a descriptor of your legal structure, and should relate to your operations.
A registered agent and office. A registered agent is a requirement for most business structures in every state. A registered agent is an agent of your business responsible for being served with any process, notice, or demand. In most states, you must obtain the registered agent's consent to use them.A certificate of formation. Your actual business will be created when you prepare and file your certificate of formation with the secretary of state in the state you are incorporating in. Each business structure will have its own certificate of formation forms.File your formation documents. Once you fill out the certificate of formation you need to deliver it to the secretary of state's office. In order to file and create your business, you will need to pay a filing fee, which is usually around $300. Most offices will allow you to mail your certificate or drop it off in person.Bylaws. Soon after your business is formed you will want to create a set of bylaws. Bylaws lay out internal rules and procedures for the corporation. Most states do not require bylaws but every business should have one. This is particularly important for green businesses as you want to make sure every aspect of your business is run in an environmentally friendly manner., You'll need a way to get the startup money you need to get your business off the ground. The easier way to do this is by using your own savings to start your business, as this doesn't leave you in debt to anyone. If this is impossible, you have several other options for financing your business:


Your first option is to take our a small business loan. While some business loans are unsecured (i.e., no collateral is needed), most business loans will be secured (i.e., you will have to pledge assets to secure the loan payment).

Examples of unsecured loans include credit cards, unsecured lines of credit, and family loans. Examples of secured loans include leases and mortgages. Some states, for example California, even offer loans specifically for environmental businesses.
Common forms of collateral include equity in your home, accounts receivable, business inventory, and business equipment.
When you go to a bank for a business loan, they will look through your assets to determine what they can use as collateral and how much they will lend you.Alternately, you can sell equity in your company. If you do not want to take on debt (i.e., loans), another option is to raise money and give investors an ownership interest in your company (i.e., equity). Examples of equity sales include stock sales and the involvement of venture capitalists.When you get money in return for giving up ownership interests, the investors who gave you money will be repaid through business profits.
 The best form of financing is generally a grant. A grant is "free money" that you can put towards your business. While this seems ideal, grants can be incredibly difficult to obtain.




Grants are usually offered through an application process whereby you will have to ask for the money from the provider. During the application process you will have to detail every aspect of your business including how you plan to spend the money.
These applications can be very long and detailed.Some organizations even have employees whose sole job it is to apply for grants.
In addition, a lot of grant money is earmarked, which means your free money is not actually free. When you read grant requests, some of them will limit how the money can be used or what types of organizations can apply.
 If you plan to sell green products as part of all of your business operations, you'll need to acquire the products before you can open. Search online at http://www.greenseal.org/findgreensealproductsandservices.aspx to find green-certified products to buy for your store. The products from this source are already green certified, so much of the work has been done for you. There may be green products available from other sources, but you will have to make sure they are actually green.


For information on how to identify green products, see how to avoid greenwashing.
 If your business plans to offer green services, you will need to specify exactly how it will do so. Create plans for providing the service, including materials used, the sources and costs of those materials, and how the service will be carried out. Hire employees to provide the service and train them in doing so. Create a system for invoicing and charging customers for your service. Make sure that any materials used in the provision of your services are green as well.
 Your business plan should have included a marketing plan that spells out how you plan to reach potential customers. Carry out your plan by implementing any advertising, networking, or local outreach plans you created. Remember to keep your focus on your target market of environmentally-conscious people.

