 This is the signature site of all Bloons games, and you can play the official version here.;
,

, When you start the game, there will be a stream of bloons flowing along the track. The goal is to build towers in order to pop the bloons. If any bloons escape, you will lose one life per bloon that escapes. Depending on what difficulty you choose, you will begin the game with between 50 and 100 lives.
 In the first few levels, you'll only see red bloons. However, a few levels later you'll discover blue bloons, which have red bloons inside them. Therefore, these take two total hits to pop: the blue layer, and the red layer. More types of bloons:


Green: These contain a blue, so they take 3 hits to pop.
Yellow: These contain a green, so they take a total of 4 hits to pop.
Black: These contain 2 yellows, but are immune to bombs - you need something sharp like darts or tacks to pop them.
White: Whites also contain 2 yellows, but are immune to freezing, so Ice Balls cannot slow them down.

For every bloon that escapes, you lose 1 life plus 1 life for every bloon inside it. So, red bloons are worth 1 life, blues are worth 2 lives, greens are worth 3, and so on.
 To the right of the screen, you see five different types of towers:


Dart Monkey: Dart Monkeys shoot a single dart. Darts pop bloons as soon as they touch them. The cost of Dart Monkeys is cheap, and you can easily pass the game using non-upgraded Dart Monkeys.



Upgrades: Bigger Shooting Range and Piercing Darts (can pop 2 bloons at once)




Tack Shooter: Tack Shooters shoot tacks in eight directions, popping any bloons it touches.

Upgrades: Bigger shooting range and faster shooting


Ice Ball: Ice Balls freeze all surrounding bloons, slowing down the bloons, therefore giving all surrounding towers a chance to pop some bloons.

Upgrades: Faster freezing and longer freeze time


Cannon: Shoots bombs at bloons, exploding at target, popping many bloons at once. Despite the price, cannons work well to destroy lots of bloons at once while also adding a cool aspect to the game. Bomb towers work well near ice balls.

Upgrades: Bigger shooting range and bigger bombs.


Super Monkey: Super Monkeys shoot a continuous stream of darts, acting as a solid wall of darts! But the cost of a single Super Monkey is $4,000.

Upgrade: Epic Range: Greatly increases the shooting range of the Super Monkey.
 Although you will probably not need to use every tower type to finish the game, play around with all the different tower types and see what you like best.

