 You will need a clear table or a workbench, a box cutter and possibly some cardboard scissors. Although you can complete the job with box cutters, a good pair of cardboard scissors, such as Fiskars or Canary scissors, may make the job a little easier., An igloo is a traditional type of home that is made from blocks of ice, which are stacked on top of one another. It is traditionally dome shaped, with a circular floor area and one entrance. Instead of blocks of ice, you will be using layers of cardboard. However, the basic dome shape and single entrance will be the same for your cat igloo.To make the dome shape, you will have to vary the size of the layers of cardboard., If you are designing a unique cat igloo, you will need to determine the dimensions for the outer diameter (outside walls), inner diameter (inner walls) and opening or door to the igloo.Design it so that your cat has enough room to crawl and move around in the igloo.


The inner diameter should be at least 37.5 centimeters (15 inches)., The first six layers should gradually increase in size and will form the floor of the igloo. Since these layers form the floor, you will not need to cutout the inside diameter. In other words, there are no inner diameters to consider for the first six layers., You want to make the igloo wide enough so that your cat can easily enter and exit the building. Take the opening into account when designing layers 7-27.From layer 7-16, the size of the opening should gradually expand. At layer 7, the width should be 15.7 centimetres (6.18 inches). The largest width, at layer 16, should be 20 centimetres (7.8 inches).
From layer 17-27, the width of the opening should gradually decrease until it is about 4 centimetres at layer 27.
 The walls of the igloo are comprised of layers 7-39 of cardboard. You want to design the walls so that they slowly expand and then decrease in diameter.


Layers 7-16 should gradually increase in size to create a roomy interior. For these layers, you will need to cut out the interior diameter so that the inside of your igloo is empty. While increasing the diameter of each successive layer, you will need to maintain a consistent wall thickness of approximately 10 cm (3.9 inches).Layers 17-39 should decrease in size to create the dome shape. Once you get to layer 17, start decreasing the diameter of each layer. This will give your igloo a dome shape., The roof of the igloo is comprised of layers 40-45. For these layers, you will not need to cut out the inner diameter. Blocks of cardboard should be stacked on top of one another to form a solid roof.
 Use a large compass to draw these dimensions directly onto the cardboard. After drawing the specific dimensions, write the number of the layer on the sheet so that you know where to place it during the construction phase.For the first six layers and the last five layers, you will just need to draw out the outer diameter.
For layers 7-27, you will need to draw the outer diameter, inner diameter and the entrance dimensions.
For layers 28-39, you will need to draw the outer and inner diameter.
If you do not own a compass, you could make your own compass by attaching two clamps to a small piece of 1’’ by 3’’ wood. Place a screw under one of the clamps for the center of the compass and then a pencil under the other clamp for drawing the circles.If you make a regular size cat igloo, you will need about forty five layers of cardboard.
 Use the cardboard scissors or box cutters to cut each layer of cardboard. If you are using the box cutters, remember to cut away from you, so that you don’t injure yourself. Cut along the lines you have drawn for the outer and inner diameter of the igloo. Depending on the layer, you will also need to cut out the entrance., To determine the accuracy of your work, you should stack the layers of your igloo prior to applying any glue. Following the numbers you have assigned to each layer, stack the cardboard layers in the appropriate order. After stacking each layer, you should have a dome shaped structure with a central entranceway., If everything looks good, you can go ahead and glue each layer together. Cover the top of the first layer with paper glue and then place the second layer on top. Then, cover the top of the second layer with glue and place layer three on top. Repeat this process until you have glued together all of the layers of your cat igloo., To compress the igloo and improve the drying process, you can place a few books or other heavy objects on top of the igloo. This also helps ensure adequate contact between the layers of cardboard., Leave the igloo for a few hours to let it dry. If it is a cold day or there is not a lot of air circulation, you could turn on a fan in the room where you are working.To determine the correct drying time, read the label on the glue you are using, such as tacky glue, school glue or super glue.

