 Many types of nail polish contain toxins that can be dangerous when left on your skin for a period of time. Some nail polishes are labeled as "non-toxic," but it's found that these labels are occasionally inaccurate. There are also nail polishes that are label free, but do not contain any toxins. Before you apply nail polish to your skin, it's best to check the ingredients for harmful toxins.Some ingredients to avoid in nail polish are dibutyl phthalate, toluene, and formaldehyde. However, short term exposure to these products is relatively safe, because these chemicals are often found in cleaning products, so just take caution in the amount of polish you apply to your skin. If you are pregnant, do not apply tattoos with nail polish.
Nail polish brands that contain none of the above toxins are: Color Madnic Luscious nail lacquer, Zoya professional nail lacquer, OPI Birthday Babe nail lacquer, Cali nail polish thinner, Essie Starter Wife 596 nail lacquer, and Out the Door topcoat. These are safe to use on your skin, even for long exposure.;
, Another thing to keep in mind when making tattoos with nail polish is they won't just fade slowly from your skin. Nail polish on your skin is likely going to chip quickly, because you are constantly loosing skin cells. If you are looking for a tattoo that is a little more temporary you may avoid using nail polish.
 There are some fun, alternative methods to nail polish tattoos that may last longer or be better for your skin. Why not try a cute tattoo from your childhood? You can usually find these in toy vending machines, and it could be a fun blast from the past. Henna is also a great option, as it lasts one to three weeks and is all natural. It will also fade from your skin, which may look better than chipped nail polish.Henna is more expensive, especially if you get it done at a fair, carnival, or another outing. You can buy henna kits online, that over time are worth the money spent on them.
You can also purchase tattoo pens, which are specifically created for tattoos and will create a tattoo that lasts longer., Before you begin creating your tattoo, think about the type of tattoo you want and the location you want it. If you are doing your tattoo yourself you may want a simpler tattoo in an easy place to reach, like your wrist. If you have a friend to help you, you can do a more complicated tattoo in an area that is harder for you to reach.
 This picture is going to serve as a stencil, meaning you will cut the middle of it out and use it as your pattern on your arm. Therefore, you should choose a picture or drawing that will look good without any details inside of it.
 After you have printed out or drawn your image on paper, you will want to cut around the edges, but on the inside of the picture. It could be helpful to color in the picture, and then cut out the colored part. This should leave you with a piece of paper with an image cut out from the middle of it.


If you aren't interested in drawing or printing out your tattoo, or don't trust your art skills, you can usually find stencils at a craft or dollar store.
 Once you have chosen the location for your tattoo, place the stencil you have created on your body and tape it down to hold it in place. You'll want to stretch your skin so that your tattoo doesn't stretch out and become distorted once you are done creating it.If you are doing your tattoo on a part of your skin that doesn't stretch, like the inside of your arm, you should be able to get an accurate tattoo by just taping down the stencil to hold it into place.
 Once you have secured your stencil in place, draw a thin edge inside of the stencil to create the border of your tattoo. Then, remove the stencil and trace over the edges to create a thicker, cleaner border. If you are worried about your drawing skills, you can use nail polish pens that will make it easier to create clean lines.
 After you have created the border for your tattoo, it's time to dress it up and make it exactly as you want it. You can use a solid color nail polish for the whole tattoo, or you can change it up by adding different color nail polishes to your tattoo.
 If you are unhappy with your tattoo, the benefit of using nail polish is it is very easy to remove your tattoo and create another. Simply apply nail polish remover to a cotton ball and wipe away your tattoo. Allow the area to dry before you apply another tattoo.
 You can also use the same methods to create a similar type of tattoo, but instead of using nail polish as the main coloring for your tattoo, you can mix any color eyeshadow with a clear nail polish, and then apply as you would the nail polish tattoo. This will likely create a smoother look than nail polish as eyeshadow tends to have a softer look.