 The start of your synopsis should include a "hook," a statement that introduces the concept of your novel in an intriguing enough way to grab or "hook" the reader's attention.


The hook often includes information about the setting, as well.
The goal is to create a strong image in one to three sentences. The agent or editor reading your hook needs to have a clear idea about the conditions responsible for molding your characters.;
, As soon as you introduce the conditions surrounding your characters, you need to introduce the protagonist. Within the first paragraph or two, you should also introduce any other major characters.


When you introduce the main character, include one to two descriptive words capable of defining that character. You should also state how that character fits into his or her surroundings and the role that character will play.
As you introduce other characters, you should introduce them in relation to the main character. For example, if your main character is named Sarah, you might introduce the antagonist as "Tracy, a popular girl at school who bullies Sarah relentlessly."
As a general rule, you should only name three characters: the protagonist, love interest, and antagonist. Any other character you need to mention should only be referred to by his or her role: the father, the teacher, etc.,


Do not be tempted to leave the end off in an attempt to "tease" the editor into wanting to read more.
There are certain plot points you need to hit along the way. You need to describe the inciting incident, or the event that causes your main character to begin his or her journey.
Once the journey begins, you need to explain the conflict that really propels your main character forward.
Mention any turning points along the way, especially any moment at which conflict resolution seems impossible.
Spend at least a full paragraph on the climax.
End with the resolution.
 As you advance the plot, you should also describe any character development your main character goes through. Explain the mental and emotional state of your protagonist with every new plot twist or event.


If it helps to advance the plot, you should also explain the thoughts and feelings of the other characters named in your synopsis. For instance, if the love interest is a bad-guy-turned-good, you need to track his emotional progress and romantic feelings so that his switch to the good side makes sense.
 As often as possible, you should write your synopsis using active voice and third person.


Third person is generally advised even if your novel itself is written in first person. If you write the synopsis in first person, it might be difficult for the editor to distinguish your voice from the voice of your protagonist.
 Usually, a novel synopsis should only be one page long. In an effort to reduce the amount of bulk, there are also a few details you should stop yourself from adding.


Avoid subplots in your synopsis unless they are crucial to the main plot or unless you have extra space at the bottom of your page.
Avoid mentioning too much: too many characters, too many events, too many minor plot twists, or too much description. You need to present the essentials of your plot, but every sentence should be concise.
Resist the urge to editorialize. Avoid introducing scenes with phrasing like, "In one significant scene..."

