 Gray is shown to have black, spiky hair. You don’t have to permanently dye your hair black to achieve this character’s look. Instead, you can use a temporary or spray dye. It is also an option to purchase a black wig if you don’t feel comfortable changing the color of your hair.Hair dye can be purchased at beauty supply stores, like Sally’s Beauty Supply.
Ask for the advice of a professional if you are unsure how to apply the dye or spray to your hair.;
, Along with black hair, Gray is shown to have medium length, spiky hair. He has bangs that fall across his forehead and across his eye. The rest of his hair is formed into chunky spikes. To get this look, use a strong gel. Run the gel through individual pieces of hair until most or all of your hair is spiky.Use hairspray for added hold.
 Wear color contacts to match Gray's eye color. These can be purchased online, or at a costume store. Make sure the contacts don’t hurt your eyes before wearing them out for the day. You do not have to wear contacts if your eyes are naturally dark blue or a similar color., Though Gray is seen in many outfits, he is often seen wearing a long-sleeved white button-up shirt. Unbutton the shirt so that part of your chest is showing. You don’t have to show your chest, but it's better to unbutton it so people will see your Fairy Tail temporary tattoo.Gray’s character is also known to shed his clothes, so he is often seen shirtless. You can choose not to wear a shirt, but make sure that you abide by dress codes.
 It is also an option to wear a long, white coat with your costume. You can wear this as an added layer to your white button-up, or you can wear this as a way to cover up being shirtless underneath the coat. White trench coats can be bought online, at many stores, or you can look for one at a thrift shop.


The coat that Gray wears in the anime has blue stripes down the middle and around the cuffs. You can paint the stripes on with fabric paint, or sew on extra fabric.
Gray Fullbuster jackets can be purchased online.
 Slim fit jeans with front pockets are ideal. Any type of black jeans will do though. Wear a black belt with the jeans.Gray is also seen wearing short, black parachute type pants tucked into boots.
 Most types of black shoes will work for this cosplay. You can wear black sneakers, dress shows, or boots. If you do not own plain, black shoes you can spray paint an old pair that you have, or purchase a pair at a shoe store or thrift shop.
 Gray is shown to have a mark that signifies his place in the Fairy Tail Guild. It is a defining part of his look, so it is important to include this into your cosplay. Purchase a temporary tattoo from a cosplay website, or make one yourself. Place it on the upper right side of your chest.If you can’t find or make a temporary tattoo, you can draw the design on with marker. Make sure anything that you use on your skin does not irritate it.
 Gray is often depicted wearing a silver cross necklace with a sword edge that has a light blue stone in the middle. A necklace like this will be difficult to find in stores, but you can find one on a cosplay apparel website. If you can’t find or purchase the necklace, any silver necklace with a cross will work.The tip of the necklace should end towards the bottom of your sternum.
 In the anime series, Gray’s character is shown with two main weapons. One weapon is a “ice” sword. The other weapon is a “Ice Make” cannon. Choose one prop weapon to carry with you. The cannon is quite large, so the sword may be easier to carry around. If you can’t purchase the props online, it is possible to make them from cardboard, paper mache, and paint.To make the ice sword, cut out a long piece of cardboard with a pointed end. The shape should look like a basic sword. Then, on a separate piece of cardboard or paper draw half of a snowflake and cut it out. Attach it to the sword, about eight inches high onto the cardboard, with glue. Then, paint the sword blue and white.
To make the “Ice Make” cannon, you will need to start with a cardboard tube. Then, cut an octagon with a circle in the middle out of foam. Make one more octagon and put the two together to create a three dimensional shape. Attach this octagon to the end of the tube. Then, cut two circular shapes out of foam and attach them together to make a three dimensional shape. Attach this piece three-quarters of the way at the end of the tube. This is the basic shape of the cannon. Next, use smaller circular tubes to make the “screws.” Once the shape is put together, cover the cannon in papier mache, paint it white and blue, and allow it to dry.

