 Pick up the squash and feel how heavy it is. A fully grown squash should have a decent amount of heft to it. Even smaller types like acorn and spaghetti squashes should feel dense for their size.If the squash seems a bit light, it’s either underripe or rotten.;
, Take a look at the stem to see if the squash is in good condition. Healthy winter squashes will have hard, dry stems with a uniform light brown or grayish hue. Soft, discolored spots are typically a sign that the squash is diseased, or that insects have been feeding on it.Pass up a squash if the stem is not intact. You might get it home only to discover that it’s bad.
Squashes that still have green stems should be given more time to mature, as this means they’re not completely developed., Turn the squash over and appraise its color and surface texture. Every species of squash will be a little different—butternut squashes are a faded tan shade, while kabocha look like unripe pumpkins and acorn squashes have dark green, mottled rinds. It’s important that the color of the squash be consistent all over, and for the skins to have a dull matte appearance.Test the freshness of a squash by rapping it a few times with your knuckle. It should make a dull thumping sound.
Waxy, shiny skin means the squash has been picked too early., Don’t buy a squash if it has any visible signs of damage, such as nicks, cracks or splitting. Mushy spots might be a sign of mold, so stay away from squashes that feel soft to the touch. If it has an unpleasant odor or a sickly color, it’s most likely going bad.Dark, slimy seeds and a rank smell are the most common characteristics of a squash that has gone bad.
If you’re not sure if a squash is still good, dunk it in a container of water. If it floats, it’s past its prime., Though it is sometimes classified separately of other winter squashes, pumpkin originates from the same family, and is close enough in appearance, flavor and versatility to include. Pumpkin is most commonly a brilliant orange and grows to be big and round. It is beloved enough to be the key ingredient in dozens of different treats, from pies and stews to candies and even lattes.Everyone's favorite fall gourd, the pumpkin, is grown in over a dozen varieties of its own.Once you scoop out the pulp and seeds inside the thick shell, just about anything can be done with a pumpkin's sweet, tangy, moist flesh.
 Butternut squash is the quintessential winter squash for many people. It can be identified by its long, bulbous shape and pale color. When cooked, butternut squash takes on a delicate, creamy texture and is extra flavorful when caramelized. It’s especially good when incorporated into sweet desserts.Butternut is arguably the most popular winter squash. It is an essential ingredient in countless seasonal recipes, and when preserved can be used to make decorations, containers and even musical instruments.Butternut squash is usually peeled, seeded and cut into small sections before it is cooked. You can also cut it in half and roast it with the skin on to make preparation easier.
 As their name suggests, acorn squashes are small and plentiful. Since they’re so compact, you can grow or store a lot of them at once. Their skins feature wide ridges of a deep green color. Underneath, the flesh of an acorn squash is firm and has a dry, earthy taste. Due to their complex flavor, acorn squashes are some of the most versatile winter squashes. They can be whipped into a confection or savory side dish with equal success.
This sort of squash has a thick, hard shell under which most of the meat lies. To make things simple, core and cut it into slices the way you would a zucchini or melon.
Try splitting acorn squash in half and baking it like a sweet potato., Kabocha is a somewhat less common winter squash that is becoming better known. Much like a pumpkin, they grow smooth and round with green or dusty orange shells and bright yellow-orange pulpy flesh inside. Kabocha squash can be used as you would a pumpkin or butternut squash to make rich soups, purees and desserts.Also like a pumpkin, you’ll have to scoop out the seeds and pulp before cooking with it.
Since its skin is so tough and dense, kabocha will usually have to be roasted before you can slice it and remove the innards., These moderately-sized squashes are oblong and yellow, and look something like a mango. They take their name from the fact that their flesh can be shredded into strips and cooked like pasta. Spaghetti squashes are soft and fibrous with a mild flavor that makes them perfect a wide variety of dishes.Spaghetti squash can be prepared using a mandoline slicer, or simply cooked and shredded with a fork.Try it with fresh marinara or cream sauce as a healthier alternative to pasta.
 Cut the squash in half lengthwise. Place the halves skin-side down on a baking sheet and drizzle them lightly with canola oil. Bake the squash at around 400 degrees for 45 minutes to an hour, or until the flesh is tender enough to be scooped out with a fork. If you want, top the squash with butter and brown sugar for a sweet finish, or sea salt and cracked pepper for a more savory dish.Sweet, creamy squashes like butternut and kabocha are some of the best for roasting.
Cutting the squash into cubes will help it cook faster.
 Take an acorn or spaghetti squash and cut it into thin slices or inch-sized cubes. Then, throw it on the grill or pop it in the oven or steamer with other hearty vegetables like carrots, onions and bell peppers. The soft texture and subtle earthy notes of the squash will add a little complexity to the crunchy, savory veggies.Season your vegetables of choice to taste, or make a flavorful marinade with soy sauce, garlic and lemon juice., After removing the skin and seeds, place the flesh of a butternut, acorn or kabocha squash in a food processor and pulse it until it’s a thick paste. You can then use this puree to flavor cakes, pies or stews. When combined with other ingredients, it could even be turned into compote or autumn-inspired dip.Be sure to blend the squash until its a smooth, even consistency. The amount of time this will take may vary, depending on the type of squash you’re using and how ripe it is.
Freeze leftover puree and break it out later on.
 If you have no immediate use for the squash, stow it away somewhere cool, dark and dry. The bottom of a cupboard or a shelf in the basement will work just as well as the produce crisper drawer in your refrigerator. When stored correctly, most winter squashes will stay ripe for up to three or four months.Humidity and lack of airflow can cause squash to go bad faster.
Throughout history, winter squashes have been prized for their ability to keep throughout the long, cold winter months.

