 Your goal might be to write a commentary for a newspaper or even a blog. When selecting your subject, there are several things to consider: Have you been assigned a specific article, such as a commentary on the best movies of 2016? This is an example of having your topic chosen for you.
Are you writing to make a point? Choose something that you are passionate about, such as freedom of speech.
Are you interested in writing about culture? Choose a book or movie that really made an impact on you.
 Whichever subject you choose, you’ll need to do some research. Even if you’re just writing a commentary for your own blog, it’s a good idea to make sure all of your information is accurate.

For example, if you are writing a commentary on a movie, make sure that you have all of the relevant names accurate.
If you are writing about politics, read several different sources to help give you a broad perspective on the issue.
 Any good piece of writing begins with a good introduction. In your first paragraph, make your topic and your argument clear. The body of your paper will include several paragraphs that expand on your ideas.Use the body to include specific examples, elaborate on your ideas, and explain your research.
Offer a strong conclusion. Reiterate your thesis, and offer new ways to continue thinking about your subject. For example, if you’re writing about women’s roles in filmmaking, suggest that this is a topic that needs continued analysis.
 If you want to publish your commentary, it is important to consider the best place to submit your writing. For instance, if your article is about the impact of the decreasing bee population, consider submitting it to an academic journal in a scientific field.If you have written a cultural commentary, consider submitting it to a popular blog or website. You might also try the Lifestyle section of a newspaper.
Check the submission guidelines. Each publication will provide guidelines about length, style, and references. Follow them closely.

