 You can do a lot of things to your hair, but the key is your ability to use products. If you have long hair, you’ll need to have it cut to be able to pull off the several hairstyles of the guido. Bring in a picture of the Jersey Shore males’ haircuts to the barber. You’ll need various hair products such as hair gel and hair glue. Here are a few examples of guido hairstyles:


The blowout. The blowout is when all your hair sticks straight up. There are variations, such as the Brooklyn blowout, which involves a meticulous fade on the back.
The spiker. The spiker hairstyle is similar to the blowout, but you additionally spike all your hair. Spiking your hair means gathering small portions of your hair and then spiking it straight up with product.
The fohawk. A fohawk is a mohawk that doesn’t require you to shave off the side portions of your head. Instead, you gather all your hair to the middle of your head using hair glue., If you decide to grow facial hair, you need to take steps to make it look clean. Do not let your facial hair grow for more than three days without styling. The key to the guido facial hair is keeping the hair thin. Here are a few styles you can try out:


Chinstrap. This means that your facial hair extends underneath your jawline.
Soul Patch. The soul patch is a small patch of hair underneath your lip and above your chin.
Goatee. The goatee is facial hair that only surrounds your mouth. It means no facial hair on your cheeks or underneath your jawline., T-shirts are acceptable when they contain a large graphic print on them. Popular clothing companies that make this style of t-shirts are Ed Hardy and Armani. Many popular graphics that are popular on guido shirts are crosses, skulls, and ships.


The key to wearing t-shirts in the guido style is that the shirt is too small. This will make your muscles bulge and make you look like your buff., Another popular top for a guido is the button down shirt. The key to wearing the button down shirt is to undo most of the buttons, revealing your chiseled torso., You should wash your clothes before wearing them. If you don’t have an ironing board and iron, invest in one. You’ll need to iron your clothes before going out to look fresh.
 There are several different accessories that can compliment your outfit in the guido style. These are the types of caps you could wear: flat brimmed baseball hats, fedoras, sweatbands, and bandanas. Another popular accessory is a cross or a dog-tag necklace.


Gold or silver watches that are large will also add to your outfit.