 Remaining motivated can be difficult if you aren't enthused about what you are doing, and experiments, of their very nature, don't always give you the result you want or need. Many clinicians struggle early on in the course of research with the loss of immediate focus and purpose which clinical work provides. Try to focus on what you want to achieve. Enjoy the flexibility that life in research often brings. If things aren't working put them aside and come back to them later. Remember that answers may not be immediately apparent - often patterns in data become a lot clearer when you look at them after a break.;
,


Learning to ask the right question is important. Focus on subjects and topics which interest you. Avoid questions where you are not interested in the answer. Remember to always explain the importance of your question when you present your results.



Be strategic in your choice of research question. Choose supervisors, research centers and areas of study that are likely to complement your long term clinical career goals. Make sure you will have something to show for your trouble. Your plans should be practicable and that you should have a reasonable chance of success within the time period allotted for your project. Try to frame your research question in such a way as to include a 'null hypothesis' (i.e. that you may not observe the difference you might be looking for). Beware of projects where any other outcome than your predicted hypothesis will be a disaster.



Successful research requires the mastery of a range of skills which can either be taught or learnt in action. Formal training in research techniques can be very useful and is increasingly part of research degree programs. Some subjects can be hard to be enthused about in the absence of a clear context - try to have your research question in mind and apply what you learn to your own problem. You can learn research skills as you go along but you will need help. Be systematic - start with a good literature search so you know your subject. Make sure you have any approvals necessary in good time before you need to start - e.g. funding; ethics; licences; safety training. Think about statistics early and as part of the design of every experiment. Most statistical methods are easy at a mathematical level - the trick is to be sure you are using the right test and you will need advice early on to make sure you are correct. Good notes are important but you should also try to start preparing a manuscript as you go along.



Research doesn't well work without an audience. At the very least you need a good mentor to get you started. A good mentor should share your enthusiasm for the question you are asking. They will be able to guide you in the design of your project; help you to identify funding; stop you from going down blind alleys where appropriate; and keep you on time. Choosing a mentor with a successful track record in research can be helpful but does not always guarantee that they will be a good mentor. Make sure your mentor will be able to devote time to your project - you should be able to meet on at least a weekly basis to discuss your progress. If possible talk to other researchers in a potential mentors research group before deciding who to work with.

