 Repeat the trick in many locations both inside and outside your house.This way, your dog will not come to associate standing with a particular location. Instead, your dog will learn to generalize the treat-giving action with the appropriate response.


Start in simple locations and build to harder ones. Simple locations are quiet with few distractions or strange smells. You should start in your own living room or kitchen. Ratchet up the difficulty level for your dog by doing the trick in your house with several friends or family members around. You can graduate up to an outside location like a public park or greenway.
This way, your dog will be able to perform the “stand” command anywhere at any time.
 Once your dog starts to understand the trick, move back to a distance of between two and four feet. Once your dog is successful at accomplishing the trick at this distance, move back further still.


Don’t maintain a constant distance when practicing. For instance, you can direct your dog to stand from a distance of three feet one time, then from a distance of just one foot the next time, then a distance of two feet the next time, and so on.
This will help your doggie understand that it’s not the distance between the two of you that determines what trick it is supposed to perform, but the command and action.
Be sensitive to your dog’s upper concentration limit. Once you move more than 10 feet away, you might not be able to get your dog to see your hand gesture.
 Once your dog has learned to wait three to five seconds, wait six to eight seconds before giving it a treat.


There’s no absolute maximum a dog will be able to wait before getting antsy, but be aware of the limits to your dog’s patience. If your dog is getting antsy, distracted, or sits back down after you’ve stretched the duration of the trick to a certain point, you should accept that your dog has probably reached its personal patience threshold.
 Once your doggie really knows how to stand, start to cut back on the treats. Instead of giving your dog a treat every time it performs the correct behavior, just make the motion of giving the treat by pinching your index, thumb, and middle fingers together in front of the dog’s nose. This will reduce your and your dog’s reliance on treats to stand.


Cut back from giving a treat every time your dog performs the trick to giving a treat just 90% of the time. Use the hand motion without the treat for the other 10% of the time. If your dog continues to obey, use the hand motion without giving a treat 20% of the time. Continue to reduce how often you give a treat as you see fit.
However, you should never entirely eliminate treats from the trick.
If you notice that your dog becomes less compliant with the command over time, increase the frequency with which you administer treats when getting your dog to stand.
 A variation of the simple “stand” command is the “stand up” command. Training your dog to stand up on its hind legs works exactly the same as the regular stand command, but instead of bringing the treat forward relative the dog (and toward you), you simply lift the treat in your hand up and over the dog’s head. Your dog should follow it and rise on its back legs to reach it.Use a different verbal command to differentiate this trick from “Stand.” Try a command like “Jump up” or “Up, up.”
Start slowly. At first, give your dog the treat as soon as its front legs come off the ground. Then, give it the treat when it can stand on its hind legs for about three seconds. Then reward it when it has stood for five seconds.
Don’t let your dog lean against you when doing this trick -- that’s cheating!
Smaller dogs (of less than 40 pounds) are better at standing and balancing on their hind legs than larger dogs.

