 If 'Tommy' eats all of his chicken, but none of the peas and Sarah is the exact opposite, then maybe that isn't the best choice.;
, If you have lots of options for your child(ren) they will eat more of it! Try making chicken with a choice of peas or rice, don't just say "we are eating chicken for dinner" when you could have so much more to 'spice' it up a little.
 Ask them what kind of food they have (had) at school, and whether they liked it or not. Ask them what their favorite food is, or maybe even what they want for dinner. (Make sure to ask them early, so you have plenty of time to prepare/make it!)

, Everyone loves a good change (most of the time)!. Even if you're eating the same foods, try cooking it differently with new recipes. If you had rice and beef yesterday, have beef and broccoli today, or make the beef in a new type of sauce. The possibilities are endless, but try to stay away from the same thing over and over again.
 You don't have to go overboard with this, but finding something the kid(s) like that is healthy is always ideal! Find out what vegetables, fruits, grains, meats, etc they like, and try to mix in one of everything each meal, or every other meal. Say have their favorite fruit one day, and then vegetables the next.
 When you make the food just for you child(ren) and you don't like it that's probably not the right choice and might make a bad example for your child(ren). Make someone the whole family will love! (Like)

, Try offering them something in exchange for trying a new food. Say, "You can have your (favorite snack) if you try this new food I made. You don't have to eat all of it, but just try."

, If you can get one child or someone older to try the food, tell your child(ren) "(Name) is doing it!" Or, use a little bit of hero worship. "(their favorite actor/actress/celebrity) eats his/her food!"

, If they don't like a food, try mixing it up and finding what they don't like about it so you can make it differently, or just abandoning it entirely.
 A lot of times, the difference between whether a child(ren) will try/like a certain food is how it looks. If it's grey, black, gooey looking, or has eyes/scales chances are they won't go near it. Try adding some color and hiding the worst features about it by mixing it with other things!


Have fun with the food. As said above, often the deciding factor in getting your child to eat, is how the food looks. Arrange it on the plate in a fun way, make shapes/animals in the food if you can. Anything simple really might get them to try it.
 If your kid(s) are older (or even younger) let them help you out with cooking! If they had a hand in making it, they might be more interested in trying it.
 It can be rather frustrating, you slaved over a hot stove, and your child won't touch the food, but if you try to play the law by saying "Eat it now!" chances are they'll only resist more.

