 Do you like sweating? Do you like crowds? If not, then do not apply for the Fall, or Fall Advantage program. If you do, then apply for that time. If you like a tamer time of year for either the Walt Disney World Resort or Disneyland Resort, you should apply for Spring or the Spring Advantage session of the program.;
, Even if you've never worked before, you still need something to give the employer to prove your schooling and references.
 Fill out a regular application like you would for any other job application. However, unlike most jobs, the Disney Careers' application is online. (DisneyCareers is the hosting company of the Disney College Program). You can find this page here. DisneyCareers has chosen not to give participants a papered form, therefore do not try to look for one.


Visit the College Program website above. You must meet the criteria the school requires for participation, along with a high school diploma or GED. These requirements include a GPA at grade level and a number of credit hours earned to participate. Schools will be contacted to verify this information at this site.
 Fill out this information (name, address, etc as well as your choice of park (Disneyland (CA) or Walt Disney World (FL). After completing the application, some job applicants will not get past this point in the application process. If you do not get past this step in the application process, then that means that you are either not qualified to work for Disney based on prior work experience or you do not meet the necessary qualifications the Disney College Program requires.
 A link will be sent to you. This link is your personalized web-based interview. You need to finish it within 48 hours.


Answer the questions honestly!
Set up a time when you can take the phone interview. If you meet the Disney standards for the web-based interview, then within a day or so you should get an email about setting up a day and time for a phone interview.
 According to Amber Sewell in the book "Amber Earns Her Ears", she said that the call will come through as a restricted number, so be prepared for it., The questions will most likely be formed like these:


Why do you want to be a part of the Disney College Program? The key to this question is about the College Program. It’s not about working for Disney or being a total fan of Disney
What are the top three roles, and different situations that could happen at work and at the apartment? Roles are the types of jobs that you have the chance of getting. For example, you could work in merchandise, or for attractions in the parks.
 For Disneyland contact here; for Walt Disney World use WDW recruiting address instead. Ask about making an appointment for an in person job interview. If you don't live in California or Florida, you'll need to make travel arrangements (and travel documentation if you live outside of the United States) to get to your specified location. You must be able to speak English.
 Answer the questions you get asked, and ask some questions about the job/program yourself. This is a time for both yourself and the company to get to know a little about your ways you interact with people. Ask as many questions you can, without it seeming like you haven’t done any research about the program.


Let the interviewer know you researched the online program, but that there are still questions about some things you still don't understand. If and when the interviewer asks you why you want to work for Disney Parks, infer through some of the Disney principles that you 'love Disney (include movie references and potential park references if you've ever been to them before to show just how much you love Disney and it's other guests).
 Some applicants get answers the very next day, while some it may take a few weeks. Disney says that you will get an answer between two and three weeks after your phone interview, but people hear things at different times. If you don't get an answer within the three weeks, ask about whether or not you qualify. If you don't get the specific job you applied for, ask Disney why.


Some people find out the very next day, and some in those few weeks. Regardless, the time it takes, certain is worth to wait.
 Don't despair, if they tell you that you haven't; there's always next time! If you do make it, you can rejoice. You made it: You are going to work for the Walt Disney Company! You will be working for one of the most successful companies in the world.

