 Most courts provide a form for divorce decree modifications. Especially in cases involving children, modifications are common as circumstances change.Keep in mind that after the period for appeal has passed, you can't have the division of property modified. However, any ongoing obligations or responsibilities such as child support, spousal support, or child visitation are subject to modification if circumstances change.You may have to use a different form depending on whether you want to modify custody and visitation, child support, or spousal support.Go to the website of the court where your original divorce case was heard and see if there are modification forms available for you to download. You also might find paper forms at the clerk's office.;
, To have a divorce decree modified, you must demonstrate that there has been a significant change in circumstances since the decree was entered.


For example, if your ex-spouse recently got a promotion and should be paying more child support as a result, you can have the divorce decree modified to account for this change. In some states such as Alabama, court rules establish a rebuttable presumption that child support should be modified if the new amount calculated using the child support guidelines varies more than 10 percent from the original amount., If you're making factual statements in your motion, you should sign it in front of a notary public.If you don't know where to find a notary, check and see if your bank provides free notary services to its customers. You also can find notaries at some private businesses such as check-cashing companies, or in the courthouse.
Nearly every aspect of child or spousal support and visitation can be modified. If you're the one filing the motion for modification, it's up to you to prove that the change is great enough to require the decree be changed to accommodate it.For example, suppose your original decree had your kids coming to visit you every other weekend. However, your employer is about to transfer you to a new plant 500 miles away, which would make such frequent travel for such short periods of time unfeasible. In these circumstances, a judge might be willing to enter a modification with a more reasonable visitation schedule.
 Once you've signed your motion, assemble it and all attachments and make enough copies to send one to your ex-spouse and keep at least one for your records.


Include any evidentiary documents as attachments. For example, if you are requesting the amount of child support be modified because you've changed jobs and have a significant change in income, you might attach copies of paycheck stubs.
You also should attach a copy of the original divorce decree.
Make sure you have a certificate of service and notice of hearing. These forms usually are available at the same place where you got the forms for your motion.
 Take your originals and copies to the clerk's office of the court that issued your divorce decree and file your motion to modify.


The clerk will stamp your originals and copies "filed" with the date after you pay the filing fee, usually around $100.The clerk also will schedule a date and time for your hearing and include this on the notice of hearing attached to your motion.
 After your motion has been filed, you must send copies to your spouse to provide notice of your request for modification and the hearing scheduled.


You can contact the sheriff's department or a private process serving company to serve the papers in person, or you can mail them certified mail., A motion to modify can become as lengthy and formal as a divorce trial itself. For this reason, many jurisdictions require you to complete mediation or attend a pre-trial conference before the motion is heard by a judge., If your ex-spouse continues to contest your request for modification, or you are otherwise unable to reach an agreement, a judge will hear your motion and make a final decision on whether to modify the decree.


Arrive at the courthouse early so you have plenty of time to park and go through security. Dress conservatively and professionally, and bring copies of all the documents you've filed along with any witnesses or evidence you wish to present.
In court, rise when your name is called and speak only to the judge. Since you filed the motion, you will have the opportunity to speak first.
After you've presented the reasons you believe the decree should be modified, the judge will give your ex-spouse the opportunity to present her side. Do not speak to her directly or interrupt her; speak only to the judge.
After hearing both sides and any witnesses, the judge will issue her final ruling on your motion. You may receive the final order that day, or it may be mailed to you later.