 You can do this by pulling back the bolt of the gun and checking for a ball and powder, or tilting the gun forward at a 45 degree angle. If you’re using a traditional muzzleloader ball as ammunition, it will roll out the front of the barrel. Never try to look down the barrel to see if there is a ball and powder in the firearm.


Attempting to clean any type of loaded gun could result in serious injury or death.The accidental discharge of a muzzleloader could be especially serious, due to the large caliber of the ball.;
, The bolt assembly is on top of the gun and holds the bolt (which slides back and forth, loading a round into the firing mechanism) in place. Take this apart by pulling the bolt assembly apart from the firing pin assembly (which will be located behind the bolt assembly). You may need to use a screwdriver to pry this open.For help clarifying the bolt assembly from the firing pin assembly, consult your firearm’s manual, which should feature a clear diagram labeling the parts of the gun and firing mechanism.
 There should be a notch on the firing pin assembly that you can pry open using a coin. Using the proper size of screwdriver, unscrew the firing pin assembly. This unit doesn’t need to be taken apart any further; do not attempt to remove the small firing pin itself., For this purpose, you’ll need a clean cotton cloth. Dampen this with a bore cleaner oil, and lightly wipe down all parts. Focus on removing all grime and gunpowder residue from the working mechanisms of the bolt assembly. Clean off all surfaces and mechanisms on the firing pin assembly as well. Once both assemblies are clean, dry them with a separate clean cotton cloth.Then, dampen another clean cloth with a light machinery lubricant oil. Rub this on the bolt and firing pin assemblies to lubricate the moving parts and help them stay clean., You’ll do this by performing the reverse of each of the steps used to disassemble the bolt and firing pin assemblies. Place the firing pin assembly back into the rear end of the bolt assembly, and tighten in place. Cock the bolt, and place it back into the receiver (its place on the stock of the gun). Tighten the bolt assembly, and un-cock the bolt.Do not reassemble the bolt assembly until you have finished cleaning the entire gun. You should set the bolt assembly and firing pin assembly safely to the side while you clean the barrel and trigger assembly. Then, reassemble the entire firearm once you’ve cleaned everything.
 The “breech” of a muzzle loader is in front of the bolt mechanism; think of it as the base end of the barrel. The breech plug is a roughly two-inch metal “plug” located at the back of the breech. You can unscrew this using your firearm’s combo tool or a screwdriver as needed.To find the specific location of the nipple and breech plug on your muzzleloader, consult the diagram or layout of the firearm that came with the gun.
 The ramrod is on the underside of the barrel, and can be slid out by pulling forward on its tip (at the muzzle of the gun). The nipple is a small metal nub (about ¼ inch high) that the firing cap is set on for the firing pin to strike and ignite the charge when firing. The nipple is set on the tip of the breech plug. You should be able to pull this off, but may need to unscrew it with your muzzleloader’s combo tool.Before you begin cleaning the barrel, run the ramrod down once to make sure that the barrel is unloaded and contains no charge.
 These parts can be completely submerged in bore cleaner oil and left there as you finish cleaning the firearm. Pour approximately a quarter cup of bore cleaner oil into a small, clean bowl, and set the nipple and breach plug inside. The bore cleaner oil will loosen any grime or powder residue that has accumulated on these parts.Take a small cleaning brush (a toothbrush in a pinch) and dampen it with bore cleaner oil. Use this to scrub clean the threads inside the breach that you have unscrewed the breech plug from.
When working with cleaning oils, be careful not to spill them, as they will likely stain your clothing and carpet.
 You’ll need to first dampen a cleaning patch with bore cleaner oil. Once the patch is damp, set it on the end of the ramrod. A cleaning patch is a small piece of cloth which is pushed through the barrel in order to clean out any powder residue. Once you’ve balanced the patch on the tip of the ramrod, push this through the barrel from tip to base.For some muzzleloaders, the ramrod must be assembled before being used to clean the barrel. Do this by screwing together the ramrod handle and extensions, and screwing the ramrod jag (1-inch metal bit that the cleaning patch rests on) into the tip of the rod.
 Once you’ve pushed a cleaning patch with bore cleaner through the barrel, repeat the process, this time using the ramrod to push through a dry cleaning patch. Continue cleaning the barrel with alternately damp and dry cleaning patches. This will keep the barrel from getting too wet from the cleaning oil, while still effectively removing all powder residue., Once the barrel is clean, make sure that the breech plug and nipple are fully dry, and then reinstall them in the barrel. To ensure that these parts resist rust and corrosion, use your finger to apply a small amount of lube paste (for black powder) on the screw threads of the breech plug.Do not apply lube paste directly to the nipple.
 In order to do this, the bolt assembly must be out of the firearm as well. Flip the gun upside down and, using your screwdriver, remove the three screws on the underside of the muzzleloader that hold the action and receiver (parts of the firearm which contain the trigger and firing mechanism). Remove the action.Set the screws to the side, preferably on a flat surface or in a bowl, so they don’t roll away.
 You can dampen a clean cotton cloth with bore cleaner oil and use this to wipe any grime and grit off of the trigger assembly. Focus on cleaning parts of the assembly that move and undergo friction, especially the trigger itself and the safety mechanism.Some firearm manufacturers (such as Remington or Browning) make a pressurized spray oil that can be useful in this situation. A spray oil can be applied directly to the points of friction on the muzzleloader trigger and action.
 You can do this by applying a small amount of lube paste to a clean cotton cloth, and wiping a light layer of it along the exterior of the action, receiver, and trigger assembly, as well as the entirety of the barrel. The lube paste will help these parts resist rust and corrosion.Do not put the lube paste on any of the moving parts of the trigger assembly. The lube paste is much thicker than the light cleaning oil, and may cause problems with the trigger’s function.
 Once the trigger mechanism has been cleaned and lubed, place it back in the stock of the muzzleloader. Reinsert the three screws, and tighten the trigger mechanism firmly in place.Store the muzzleloader in a safe and dry environment—such as a locked closet or gun safe—when the firearm is not in use.

