 A good winter tog rating is usually 12 and upwards. For medium warmth, get a 9-11 one. If you sleep with someone else who doesn't feel the cold the way you do, look for a duvet with a warm and a cold side. These clever marriage savers, (well, argument avoiders any way) have a different tog on each side so one person can be warm and toasty and the other is pleasantly cool. An alternative to this is to have the bed made up with two single duvets of a tog that suits either person, in matching single duvets covers. To feel more like you are in bed together, put a double sheet under the duvets.;
, Thin cotton isn't great for winter, try brushed cotton which is warmer, or try jersey knit. Cotton flannel is good for a winter comforter too. Choose warm rich colors like red, plum, maroon, and brown which will give a cozier feeling. White also looks good in winter. Buy some chunky knit blankets for extra warmth at night. Quilted throws, Micro-fleece blankets and faux-fur throws are all good to snuggling up with too.
 Make hot water bottles at night, but only use them before you get into bed - never use a hot water bottle at the same time as using an electric blanket. Make sure you know how to operate your electric blanket safely. Ones with timers and dual controls for either side of the bed are strongly recommended. Switching it on 20 minutes before you go to bed so you hop into bed and it's all warm is lovely.
 Even in winter rooms need airing, so open your window for 10-20 minutes each day. Don't leave it open for as long as is needed in summer, and don't forget to close it. If you don't want to open the window, get a fan and leave it circulating for a while.
 When you get out of bed in the mornings in winter, you get cold quickly so it's good to have something to put on fast to keep the warmth in.
 It'll be nice and warm to step out onto when getting out of bed. Buy one in a warm color, such as red. A faux fur rug would feel cosy to walk on too

, Choose wintery warm scents, like cinnamon, chocolate, berry, and festive spice. It'll make your room feel cosy and it'll smell good too.
 It'll make it seem lighter and it's essential to get sunlight during the winter months to increase happiness.
 Use a fresh fabric conditioner when washing your sheets, as it'll help you sleep better.
 However space heaters can be very heavy on electric so be careful.
 Thick curtains in a warm color will help to keep out drafts, keep the heat in and make the room look warmer. If you like, you can match your curtains and duvet cover for a co-ordinated look.
 On cold winter nights, and dark winter mornings you may be getting dressed or undressed when it's still dark. Make sure the lights in your bedroom are adequate and if possible, adjustable so they don't make you feel too awake at bed too, or to drowsy in the morning. Remote control multi-colored, programmable LED light bulbs are available that you can set to come on when you wake up and fade off when you go to sleep. You could use a bright white/yellow tone in the morning and a warm orange/gold tone at night.
 You can buy some fun animal ones in attractive fabrics, plain ones or, make your own.

