 Review the elements of perjury and find as much proof as you can for each element of the crime.


You must find evidence that the party making the statement knew it was false, and that she intended to mislead others by saying it.The statement also must concern a key fact. If someone has lied about something that turns out to be inconsequential to the matter at hand, she is unlikely to be found guilty of perjury.Generally, the statement must have been made to protect the defendant or to alter the outcome of the case in the person's favor.
Keep in mind that it is extremely difficult to prove that someone intentionally attempted to mislead the judge or jury by lying under oath.Proving intent makes perjury so difficult to prove.If someone is willing to lie under oath, they probably also are willing to lie to defend themselves against felony charges.
 Organize your evidence and information before you contact the district attorney.


Keep in mind that if the DA decides to prosecute, she will have to prove her case beyond a reasonable doubt. If you intend to go to the DA, make sure you have as much information about the perjury as possible.If you have any documents or other individuals that can back up your claim, consider including them in your statement.
 The district attorney's office may have different sections, so you need to find the DA who handles perjury cases.


Depending on the county where you live, you may need to call the police department rather than the prosecutor's or DA's office. If you find a general contact number, the representative should be able to direct you.
 Have your statement ready along with any evidence or information that backs up your claim.


You will need to answer all questions asked of you, including the name and contact information of the person you've accused of perjury, as well as details about the context in which the person committed perjury.
Make sure to provide the DA with your own contact information, so they can reach you if they have any further questions or need more information to prosecute the case.
Understand that the DA has discretion and may not file charges, even if you believe you have an open and shut case., If the DA chooses to file perjury charges, be ready to provide any additional information to assist the DA with her case.


If convicted, federal and most state laws provide for fines or imprisonment up to five years. However, judges have broad discretion in imposing punishment.Being convicted of perjury also can interfere with the person's later ability to obtain other employment, professional licenses, or a security clearance.