 Pads, tampons, and menstrual cups can all be used to collect period blood and keep you from getting stains on your clothes. Most girls start off with pads, but try different products until you find something that you like. Pads and tampons come in different sizes. Products that say "light" or "slim" are for a lighter flow, and products that say "heavy," "super," or "overnight" are made for a heavier blood flow.All menstrual products come with instructions. Read them before you use the products.
It will take practice for you to feel comfortable using the products. Take your time and don't get frustrated.
Do not use scented menstrual products. These products can irritate your skin and vagina.Avoid perfumes and sprays as well.;
, Tampons are plugs of cotton that you insert into your vagina. You can't feel a tampon once it is inside of you. Most women sit on the toilet, squat, or put one leg up when they insert the tampon. Find a position that works best for you. Inserting a tampon should not be painful, but it may feel uncomfortable at first.Wash your hands before inserting the tampon.
Relax when you insert the tampon. It can be painful if you do not relax.
Using a tampon with an applicator will make it easier to insert.
Change your tampon every three to four hours.
You should not wear a tampon for longer than eight hours as this puts you at risk for toxic shock syndrome (TSS). It may be best to wear pads when you are sleeping.
The reason for not wearing tampons at night is they absorb moisture. This makes the tampon become larger. Since you sleep for a long time usually the tampon will be larger and possibly a little more difficult to remove. The tampon will also not hold that much, so it may leak during the night.
Tampons are good for swimming and sports activities.
Use the string on the end of the tampon to remove it. If the string breaks, it is ok. You can gently use your fingers to find the end of the tampon and remove it.
Do not flush tampons or applicators in the toilet.
If you are having problems, ask your mother or someone you trust to help you.
Using a small amount of water based lubricant may make it more comfortable for you to insert the tampon. This is especially useful if this is new to you.
 Pads are placed in your underwear and have an adhesive strip that helps them stay in place. Use pads with wings or flaps to help you feel more secure and to better protect your clothes and underwear.Change your pad every three to four hours.
Pads are safe to wear overnight.
Do not ever flush your pad down the toilet. Wrap them in toilet paper and put them in the trash.
Do not go swimming in a pad. The pad will absorb the water and become bulky.
If you are having problems, ask your mother or someone you trust to help you.
 Menstrual cups are made of of rubber, silicone, or plastic and are inserted into your vagina. They are shaped like small bells and are reusable. The cups can look large and intimidating, but they will fit into your body. Like tampons, you will not be able to feel the cup once it has been inserted properly. Cups are usually more difficult to use than tampons and pads and will take more time to get used to.Read the instructions that come with the cup for the best way to insert the cup. Instructions will tell you how to insert, remove, and properly clean the cup.
Always wash your hands before inserting and taking out the cup.
Menstrual cups can be worn overnight and for up to 12 hours.
To remove a menstrual cup, put your hands inside your vagina and pinch the cup. This will release the cup from your vaginal walls. Once you grip the cup, pull it out and then empty the cup into the toilet. Wash the cup with mild, unscented soap and warm water before reinserting.
If you are having problems, ask your mother or someone you trust to help you.
Water based lubricants can be used with a menstrual cup. This may make it easier to insert and remove the cup, especially when your period is lighter.
 Panty liners are very thin pads that you can use when you wear a tampon or a menstrual cup. The panty liner will protect your clothes and underwear from any leakage. You can also wear a panty liner when your flow is light, and you do not want to wear a pad, tampon, or menstrual cup., Your period kit should contain the menstrual products of your choice (e.g. pads, tampons, menstrual cup, and panty liners) and extra underwear. You can also include an extra set of clothes in your kit. You can keep this in your backpack, purse, or locker.Talk with your mom, sister, aunt, or another woman that you feel comfortable with. They can help you be prepared.
Take your kit with you if you spend the night at friend's house too.

