 Give yourself plenty of time. Get to the airport 90 minutes before a domestic flight, and two hours before an international flight. (Allow even more flexibility if you’re flying from an airport known for its backups, or traveling around a holiday.) You’ll be in less of a rush, which will give you peace of mind. Furthermore, the airline will have lots of time to get your bag to the right spot before your flight., You can often purchase additional luggage coverage by paying the airlines an added fee for a higher value for your luggage when you check in. Just let the check-in person know that you’d like to do this, then follow the steps they lay out. Make sure to have a credit card ready to pay additional fees.
 Some larger airports will pass your bags from flight to flight for you; other airports (especially smaller ones, but some large ones too) will require you to pick up your bag as you get off one flight and transfer it to the next.Make sure you know the particular policies of whatever airports you’re flying into. The people who check in baggage should be able to help if you have any questions.
 If you’re a careful packer, you’ve planned to put your travel documents in a safe place. Stay calm and don’t throw your carry-on belongings all over the place as you move through the security line. Make use of the bins to make sure you don’t lose track of small items like your phone or watch., Since all your most important items are in your carry-on, it makes sense to keep it with you at all times. Make sure it is zipped and secured, and carried close to your body. Leaving a bag by itself may attract thieves. Worse, someone might see it, assume it’s an explosive, and panic., When you are at the tail end of your journey, the flight attendants will probably announce the right claim for those picking up their baggage. If they don’t, there should be a screen that lists it. Go to the correctly numbered carousel and wait, but keep your ears open: sometimes airlines need to switch the claim they use. The airport will make an announcement if this is the case.

