 Studies have found that the curcumin in turmeric, a spice often used in curry, has anti-inflammatory properties. While more research is needed, one study found that patients who consumed foods containing turmeric reduced their symptoms and their need for other medications.


Many curries containing turmeric can be quite spicy; use care to avoid irritating the lining of your colon.
People with gallbladder disease, gastrointestinal reflux, hormone-related cancers, or those on blood-thinning medication should not consume turmeric., The omega-3 fatty acids found in fish oil may reduce UC symptoms and flare-ups. Some studies indicate that fish oil in combination with medications such as sulfasalazine can be effective. Note that study results are mixed, and that sometimes fish oil may actually cause diarrhea.


Refrain from taking fish oil if you are currently on blood-thinning medication., Our intestines contain good bacteria that keep bad bacteria from causing problems. Frequent diarrhea reduces the population of good bacteria. Foods such as yogurt contain “live cultures,” or probiotics – good bacteria – that can repopulate your intestines, reducing UC symptoms., Many people who have UC also have low levels of folic acid in their bodies. Common UC medications can exacerbate this problem. Consuming adequate folic acid helps counter UC patients’ increased risk of developing colon cancer.


Note that folic acid can camouflage a vitamin B12 deficiency. Consult your doctor about a dietary regimen that will allow you to consume adequate quantities of both nutrients., Some research suggests supplements or enemas containing this substance can improve the symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease. More studies are needed to determine whether glucosamine is useful in treating UC.


As with many treatments, N-acetyl glucosamine can negatively interact with blood-thinning medications., UC patients have found relief using a variety of herbal treatments. Consult a trained health care provider to determine which varieties would be best for your system. Note that many of these herbs interact with other medications.


Psyllium seeds may help lengthen periods of remission when taken in combination with other medication. This insoluble fiber may exacerbate symptoms during flare-ups, so be sure to talk with your doctor before taking it. Some UC patients may do better with soluble fiber such as flax seed or oat bran.
Boswellia has anti-inflammatory properties, and some studies indicate it can work about as well as the prescription medication sulfasalazine.
Slippery elm is a demulcent, which means it can protect irritated tissues and promote their healing, but should never be taken by pregnant women.
Marshmallow is also a demulcent. Avoid marshmallow if you are diabetic or take other medications, including lithium.
Chamomile is often brewed as a tea to soothe the digestive tract. Avoid chamomile if you have a ragweed allergy. This herb can also have estrogenic properties, so use caution if you have any history of hormone-related disease., Some studies have shown acupuncture can produce relief from UC symptoms. Acupuncture also works as a stress reliever, magnifying its useful qualities for UC patients.