 You will need a filing system that is big enough to handle the amount of filing you need. If you can’t afford a state of the art file cabinet, check thrift stores or used furniture stores for used models.;
, You will need a standardized procedure that all people filing documents will follow. Type this set of instructions up, so that documents can be accessible to anyone who needs them.
 When it comes through the door, you should write or stamp the date on the top, in the same location on each document. Take the time to write dates on past files for consistency.
 Separate your documents into projects or subsets of projects. Over time, you may need to adjust this system slightly to accommodate projects with large amounts of data.
 If the filing cabinet has multiple levels, you can use the top cabinet for ongoing projects and the bottom cabinets for completed projects.
 Folders are available in a large number of colors. Buy a different color for each type of project you are working on. For example, all financial files might be blue, while all design files might be pink.
 Most file cabinet folders come with plastic tabs and labels. Use them to ensure you can open your filing cabinet and immediately find what you need.
 Keep them in chronological order with the oldest at the back. It will save you time when you need to hunt for a document.
 Put the documents you need to deal with in the day’s system so that you can organize what you need each day.


Move the files that didn’t get dealt with today into tomorrow’s folder if need be.
 Since you have ongoing project folders, you should file important documents in those sections. You will lose fewer files if they are in the correct place.
 Part of a good filing system is throwing or shredding non-essential documents. It will reduce the size of your files and allow you to find other documents more easily.
 This can be a great way to use the job-specific information to file documents more accurately., Some items, such as receipts, are created to fade over time, so they are better for a digital filing system.


Move on to the next method to learn how to transition into digital filing.
 Instead of keeping a separate section for disks, thumb drives, folders or flyers, keep all types of documents together as long as they are part of the same project or subject.