 The classic snap-trap works by releasing a compressed bar at high speed, which snaps the spine of the mouse and kills it instantly.


Place some food, such as peanut butter or a piece of cheese, on the lever that operates it. When the mouse comes to get the food, it will trip the lever and be killed by the bar.;
, Sticky traps trap a mouse in a sticky substance, preventing them from moving further.


These are less useful, because the mouse does not die from the trap, but is merely immobilized. Some mice will gnaw off their own legs to escape, making these rather inhumane to use. You will also most likely have to kill the mice yourself once you have discovered the trap.



Be careful not to touch your skin to the catcher, as mice have very keen senses of smell and will refuse to enter a trap that has been handled by humans. If possible, use latex lab or surgical gloves while handling it.
Understand that this might not be the best option, especially if you have a large infestation. You will need to release the mice far away from your home for the traps to be effective in keeping them out, which could result in a lot of trips out of town for you.
 Cats are natural predators of mice, and are highly effective - and highly motivated - in tracking them down and killing them.


Cats may perform better if they are a little underfed. Obviously, do not starve your cat, but give them the incentive to hunt mice instead of hunt kibble by limiting their meals.
Cats also love to bring their owners dead things. Whatever the reason for this, know that if you depend on your cat to control the mice, you may have find one or more lying at your feet in the future.
Cats are long-term commitments, however, so if you buy one be prepared to keep it for up to 20 years. If you just want a cat for pest control, there are certainly better and shorter-term options to consider, such as borrowing a friend's cat.
 Exterminators companies like Orkin or Terminix are still allowed to use commercial poisons, and are actually trained in their use.


This is a good option for people who do not want to kill the mice, for in addition to killing the animals, they also offer more innovative solutions, such as one-way escape routes that allow intruding animals to leave, but not reenter.
However, it is a bad option because it also may be quite expensive. Really, use this only as a last resort.
 These often come in the form of loose bait or pellets, placed around areas where the mice might hide. Poisons such as brodifacoum, bromadiolone, difethialone and difenacoum work by acting as second-order anti-coagulants, causing the mice to bleed out by preventing the blood from coagulating.


However, these have severe downsides and should almost certainly be avoided. The above-mentioned poisons have been banned by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for homeowners, as their improper use of these poisons has directly caused the deaths of thousands of wild animals. Plus, leaving loose poison around is a terrible idea, especially if you have pets or small children; the poisons are equally effective on humans and pets, as well as mice.
 You've eliminated your mouse infestation, and you need to make sure that things stay that way. Mice don't just spontaneously show up in a home, and there are several factors that come into play as to why one house has a mouse infestation, and another does not.


Holes in the walls, shingles, or insulation allow for mice to enter through the walls, gaps between windows and windowsills allows them to enter through windows, and the space between the door and the doorjamb allow them to get underneath your doors.
Sources of food, whether open containers of dry ingredients or bags of garbage, are rich sources of food for scavengers like mice. If you habitually leave your food and food waste out in the open, you could be providing meals fit for kings for a population of mice.
 There are multiple ways to deal with this, some smarter than others. You could use poisons, call a professional exterminator, lay traps, or try to eliminate the reasons for why mice have entered your home. Only you can know which method will work best for your specific infestation, so take a look below and read each method carefully before you decide on which one you should take.


Consider the environmental implications. Some forms of extermination are more environmentally friendly, or less environmentally damaging. Poisons may not be the best option if you are eco-conscious, but snap traps are generally made out of more sustainable resources like hardwood and steel.
Weigh your options against your moral commitments. Maybe you are uncomfortable with actually killing the mice in your house. Luckily for you, it isn't necessary to actually exterminate your pests. You can also trap them and let them loose, or make it impossible for them to continue living in your home.
Even if you don't plan on employing a professional exterminator or pest controller, talking with one might be helpful. They are professionals at what they do, and will know all the ways - effective or not - for eliminating pests.
None of these methods are mutually exclusive. If you find that one method is only partially effective, you can combine it with others. Boarding up your walls works well in conjunction with laying traps, for example.
 As previously mentioned, mice get into your home because you have, in some way, allowed them in. Find all the holes, gaps, and potential entry points into your home and have them sealed.


For inside walls, depending on the size of the hole or crack, there are multiple useful methods for fixing it. If your wall is made out of drywall, there are more specific ways for fixing that as well.
For outside walls, you might want to fill in the area with concrete, or patch it up with steel.
For kitchen floor, you may have to retile or regrout the floor, depending on the extent of any damage.
If you have an attic, or even if you don't, check your roof for any holes or gaps in the shingles where mice might be able to enter
Find and fix any gaps in your windows or your doors.
 Mice thrive in messy areas, which are often neglected and full of useful material with which to make their nests. Once you've eliminated your mouse infestation, be sure to keep your house as spotless as possible


Keep all inaccessible areas, such as corners, broom closets, or the attic, clean and free of debris.
Don't leave useful items, such as cardboard, old books, garments, or cloth lying around. Mice can use these to make their nests.
 Mice are in your home because it is easier to be there than it is to be outside. Eliminate that consideration and you will go a long way to preventing any future recurrence of mouse infestation.


Place food that is on the ground or low to the ground on higher shelves, or in sealed cabinets
Store food in sealed containers, especially food stored in soft cardboard boxes such as cereal, or in paper bags such as flour.
Make sure garbage is removed outside, with the bin lid tightly closed, as soon as the bag is full.
Ensure your refrigerator door is not opening unbidden, and so is sealed to any potential mouse interlopers.
 Mice are wild animals, after all, and they do have natural diets. A mouse in the wild will eat fruits, nuts, and grains, and so any source of these on your property is a potential attractant for mice.


If you have fruit trees or berry bushes, do yourself a favor and pick the fruit. This will simultaneously eliminate a source of food for mice, as well as give you something delicious to eat at the end. Make sure to pick up and throw away anything that has fallen on the ground as well.
If you have grasses or grains and you do not plan to harvest them, take some time to mow your lawn and to throw away the debris in your yard waste bin. In general, the less places there are to hide, the less mice will be able to live on your property.
 There are many substances known to repel mice, and so it doesn't hurt to place some of them around your house to deter them from entering. Some of these substances include:


Mint leaf
Bay leaf
Strong oils such as tea tree or peppermint
Snake or cat feces.
 Even after you've fixed all the problems with your home and eliminated your mouse infestation, that doesn't prevent you from having the same problem again.
 Mice squeak, scratch, and make all sorts of noises in the walls. This may be your first indication that you have a mouse problem, so if you hear any strange noises or bumps in the night - the time that mice are most active - then start looking around your house for other signs that mischief is afoot.
 Mice eat a lot, and so they eliminate a lot of waste. Look for their droppings along walls, near suspected nests, and around your food and garbage. Mice also urinate a lot, and may develop "urine pillars," piles of grease, dust, and urine, which they leave around the house.
 You will generally find these on sources of food, such as boxes of cereal or bags of flour, as well as around your garbage bin. You may also find them on furniture. You can distinguish new bite marks on wooden furniture by the color of the mark: lighter colors mean newer, darker colors mean older. However, if you have a pet, make sure this isn't their work instead.
 Mice have a lot of oil and other filth in their fur coats, and will leave some of it behind when they squeeze under doors and window frames. Generally, mice leave a smaller amount of residue, but if you find a large amount, you may be dealing with a rat rather than a mouse problem.
 Mice like to sleep in comfort, just like we do. You may find their nests in out-of-the-way areas of the house, such as the corners of walls, in the attic, or in a rarely used broom closet. You may also find them embedded in the walls, if you are able to search there.
 Other animals, especially prey animals, will get your dogs and cats very excited. If you suspect an infestation of mice and you notice Fido is a little more jumpy as of late, investigate and see where he gets excited. He may have done your legwork in finding their nesting areas.
 Mice are a diverse bunch, and when you are dealing with a mouse infestation, it is always best to know which species is to blame. Once you know the species, you have access to information on their feeding, sleeping, and mating habits, which will in turn help you eliminate the problem infestation. Here is some general information that may help you discover which species is at the root of your pest dilemma.


There are hundreds of different species of mice, categorized broadly into Old World and New World subfamilies. The most common species to consider are the deer mouse, house mouse, field mouse, wood mouse, dormouse, spiny mouse and zebra mouse.
Mice range in size, from a low of one inch to a high of seven inches. This measurement does not include tail length, which may be as much as twice the length of the mouse's body.
Mice vary in color, from light brown bodies with lighter-colored underbellies, to dark brown, to grey. Keep a lookout for all different types, especially if you don't know which species you are dealing with.
You can tell a rat from a mouse based on size, speed, and coloring. Rats are larger, darker, and slower than mice, which are generally smaller and nimbler than their cousins.

