 This type of torch requires more tools and specialized equipment than the other types. This is not a minimalistic torch that you can make in an emergency. To make this type of torch, you'll need:Aluminum pole that’s at least an inch (2.5 cm) thick and 2 feet (61 cm) long
Kevlar fabric
Kevlar twine
Scissors
2 quarter-inch (6 mm) self-drilling aluminum screws
Drill or screwdriver
Bucket
Naphtha-based camp fuel
Old towel
Matches or lighter

, Use the scissors to cut a strip of Kevlar fabric that’s about 4 inches (10 cm) wide and 2 feet (61 cm) long. You can buy Kevlar fabric at some home stores, department and hardware stores, fabric stores, or online.


Kevlar is a durable synthetic fabric that’s made from plastic. However, it’s flame-resistant and doesn’t melt, making it ideal for torches.Kevlar is often used by fire jugglers and fire poi performers.
 Place the widthwise end of the fabric strip at the top of the pole. Drill or screw a self-drilling screw through the fabric and into the pole at the top and bottom edges of the fabric. Position the screws a half-inch (13 mm) from the top and bottom edges.Aluminum has a smooth surface, and to prevent the Kevlar wick from sliding down the torch, you have to secure it in place with screws.
It’s important to use aluminum for the pole and screws, because aluminum won’t conduct the heat from the torch.
 Once the fabric is screwed to the pole, wrap the Kevlar wick around the end of the pole. Pull on the fabric as you wrap so it’s nice and snug. When you reach the end of the fabric, tie it in place with lengths of Kevlar twine.Use two pieces of twine to tie the fabric, one near the top and bottom of the wick.
 Fill a bucket with at least 4 inches (10 cm) of camp fuel. Dip the wick into the fuel and let it sit for a couple minutes to soak. Remove the torch from the bucket and let the excess fuel drip onto an old towel.
 With matches or a lighter, hold a flame to the bottom of the wick until it ignites. This Kevlar torch will burn for several hours. You can also put the flame out and reuse the torch later.To put out the flame before it burns out, cover the top with a metal container, such as a soda can with the top cut off. Hold the can there to smother the flame until the torch goes out.

