 When you're looking at one boring length of time, it can seem to stretch on forever. However, when you break your time up into smaller pieces, it may seem to go faster as get through smaller chunks. Of course, you're just doing this in your head, but this little mind game can make it seem like you're getting through school faster.For instance, you could break up periods into "starting class," "getting information," "taking notes," "getting the homework assignment," and "preparing to leave." You could even write these sections in your notebook and cross them off as you get through them. Alternatively, you could do specified chunks of time, such as the first 15 minutes, the second 15 minutes, and so on.
 Write down things that you find annoying or boring about school. Maybe it's certain subjects you don't like. Maybe you just don't like sitting still for so long. Maybe you can't stand not talking for that period of time. Whatever it is, write it down., If you can't sit still for very long, ask your teachers if your class can take short stretch breaks in the middle of class, so you can move more. If you're bored by certain subjects, try to find things that interest you within that subject. For instance, you may hate history, but you may find it more interesting when you read the individual stories of people in that time period, rather than a general overview.You can't change everything you dislike about school. However, you can change some things. Don't be afraid to talk to your teachers about things that would help you. Some teachers may not be willing to change the class up, but others will want to do everything they can to help you.If you do approach your teacher with a request, make sure to do it when you're not in class. Try coming after school. You could say something like, "Hi, Mrs. Jones. I came here to ask you to consider a favor. I know class is already short, but I was wondering if maybe we could take a short stretch break in the middle. Moving around a little can really help me focus better, and I think other students might feel the same. I completely understand if you don't want to do it, but I'd appreciate it if you thought about it."

, Sometimes you may feel a little bored because you're waiting for other students to catch up. If you are bored for that reason, it's fine to ask your teacher for something a little more challenging while you wait. She may be able to give you something that will help you use your brain and keep you entertained at the same time.