 Consider what kind of personality makes up your doll and what colors you want to go with your doll's personality. For example, would you want it be a cute and shy doll? Take a more pale/laid back color that doesn't make your doll's face stand out too much, standing out would be the last thing a shy doll would want! If you have a jumpy and active doll, brighter colors would be good.;
, This is actually pretty logic too, if you love wearing leisure-wear, you probably won't be wearing any expensive make-up. If you are more elegant, show it! It helps to make your doll unique and the face-up more convincing. Always try to start the base with a tone you think is best for the style of clothing your doll wears. For example;


When your doll loves to wear elegant style dresses like beautiful gowns, her face-up could be done with a blush that is a very intense cardinal red.






For a Lolita doll a pale pink for a blush is mostly favorable.






For an Adventurous or historic doll use a peach blush mixed with a hint of any shade of brown. Another good thing to know is that peach can go with almost every girl style.
 Unless your doll truly enjoys cross playing(and there are ones like that)or if you want the mold to be more feminine or masculine, chose to either do a simple blushing session or go all the way with lip-gloss/setting eye-lashes etc.
 With this I mean their background;

Are they of royal background? Are they aristocrats? Were they born at the countryside? With a king or prince you can expect a more fancy face-up, and aristocrats used to wear very white make-up and fake moles in lots of different shapes.






Are they more from the city or the country-side? Think of things like tattoos, informal make-up like heart or star shaped things.






Also you could have a doll coming from environments varying from an enchanted forest to the top of a tree. Just brainstorm on everything that comes up in your mind, it will often help you try to figure out what look you are trying to create.
 How far are their eyes opened, how far are they apart, what is the shape of their eyes/nose/lips? This can be quite tricky sometimes and is really a matter of trying out either on a sheet of paper/photoshop or endlessly practicing face-up's. What you can also do is search the internet for face-up's on the same doll(mold) you have or something looking about the same. Or try to compare human models with the same features and try to look through that caked up make-up to find the basics.(Are the eyes lined out to stand out, are the lips accented or not, has there been a lot of dark or soft shading?)

, All tones and shades look different on each different type of skin tone. With a snow-white skin you will have to be careful not to use too much of darker colors, use really much lighter colors so it will blend in more easily with the skin type. Most of the time it is not pretty if the colors do not blend properly.
 Tiny, MSD, SD: The bigger the doll, the more mature the make-up most of the time. Keep this in mind when thinking of the concept.
 If you have a small budget at first, it is easier to start with a simple face-up(see material list), this means doing only blushing at first and not any eyelashes. This can still look awesome and it is a good way to practice to gain experience. And of course your taste counts; in the end it comes to what looks good on the doll you have, try to make the face-up to look like the image you want your doll to be.

