 To make the French fries, you need three medium Idaho or russet potatoes that have been peeled and cut into ½-inch (13-cm) thick strips. Set the potatoes in a bowl and cover them with cold water.Using three potatoes will give you two servings of the garlic fries. If you want to make a larger batch, you can easily double or triple the ingredients. Keep in mind that you’ll likely have to fry the potatoes in batches, though, because they won’t all fit in the deep fryer at the same time.
If you prefer thicker or thinner fries, you can adjust the size of the strips that you cut the potatoes into. Thicker fries will take longer to fry, while thinner fries will require less time to become golden brown.;
, Once you’ve covered the potatoes with the water, leave them to soak for at least 20 minutes. That will help remove some of the excess starch so the interior of the fries will be fluffier when they’re finished frying.If you have the time, soaking the potatoes for 2 to 3 hours will result in the fluffiest fries. You can even place the bowl with the potatoes in the fridge and soak them overnight.
 When the potatoes are finished soaking, remove them from the bowl. Run them under the cold water from the sink to rinse them off and set them down on a large baking sheet or other platter.Rinsing the fries is an important step because some of the starch may still be present on the potatoes. Running them under the water helps remove any lingering residue.
 With the potatoes in a single, even layer, use a clean kitchen towel or paper towels to dry the fries. Pat gently on both sides to make sure that the potatoes are completely dry.To ensure that they fry up crisply, make sure that the potatoes are completely dry.
 When you’re ready to fry the French fries, it’s important to preheat the deep fryer. Fill the fryer with peanut or canola oil according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Turn the heat to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat.You don’t need a table top deep fryer to make the fries. Heat 3- to 4-inches of the oil in a heavy-bottomed stock pot or Dutch oven, and use a deep-fry or candy thermometer to monitor the temperature until it reaches 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius).
While peanut and canola oils both work for frying the potatoes, peanut oil is usually the best option because it has the highest smoke point.
 While the deep fryer is preheating, add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of extra virgin olive oil to a medium skillet. Turn the burner to medium, and allow the oil to heat for approximately 5 minutes, or until it begins to shimmer., Once the oil is heated, mix 4 cloves of finely chopped garlic into the skillet. Allow the garlic to cook for about a minute, or until it is an even golden brown all over.If you want the fries to have an even stronger garlic flavor, you can increase the amount of cloves to suit your tastes.
Make sure to swirl, shake, or stir the garlic as it’s heating so it cooks evenly.
Garlic can burn very quickly, so it’s very important to keep a close eye on it. If it seems like it’s browning too quickly, lower the heat.
 When the garlic has become golden brown, use a slotted spoon to remove it from the skillet. Set it down on a plate or baking sheet lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil.The oil that’s left in the skillet will be infused with the flavor of the garlic. You may want to save it to use it in another recipe, such as a salad dressing.
 When the deep fryer is preheated, transfer the fries to its basket. Carefully lower the potatoes into the hot oil.Because the oil will be extremely hot, make sure to lower the basket into the fryer very slowly. If you splash the oil on your skin, you will likely get burned.
If you aren’t using a deep fryer, place the French fries directly in the oil in the pot in a single layer.
 Allow the potatoes to cook in the oil until they are golden brown, which should take 7 to 8 minutes. Shake the basket periodically to ensure that they cook evenly.If you are frying the potatoes in a pot, use a metal slotted spoon to move the fries around to ensure that they cook evenly.
You can also bake the fries if you prefer. Toss the potatoes with some olive oil, salt, and pepper, and place them in a single layer on a large greased baking sheet. Cook them in an oven preheated to 450 degrees Fahrenheit (230 degrees Celsius) for about 30 minutes or until browned. Turn the heat up to 500 degrees Fahrenheit (260 degrees Celsius), and bake for another 5 minutes., When the French fries are finished cooking, lift the basket out of the oil and allow them to drain for a minute or so. Next, transfer the fries to a platter or baking sheet lined with paper towel to absorb the excess oil., After the fries are drained but still warm, place them in a large bowl. Add the cooked garlic, kosher salt to taste, and 2 tablespoons (3 g) of finely chopped flat-leaf parsley, and toss together so the fries are fully coated.You can substitute curly parsley for the flat-leaf if you prefer.
If you want to add some cheesy flavor to the fries, you can add ¼ cup (25 g) of grated Parmesan in with the garlic, salt, and parsley.
 Once the fries are coated with the garlic mixture, transfer them to a serving platter. The fries are delicious on their own, but you can serve them with a dipping sauce, such as a Parmesan aioli or your favorite ketchup.