 Drape the cloth pattern over the shoe and use the binding clip to attach it to the top of the shoe. The cloth pattern used should be slightly longer and slightly taller than the shoe.;
,, The seam should run down the middle of the laces. Cut off any excess fabric outside the line, and tape the cloth pattern to the shoe. Run your hands along the fabric to take any bumps out of the pattern and ensure the cloth is tight enough to create a good cover.


Decide how low you want to top of the spat to go from the top of the shoe. In this model, the top of the spat will hang slightly lower than the top of the shoe.
 Remember that the pattern should follow the organic shape of the shoe.
 Draw another line indicating this.


Because the lines drawn on the pattern will likely be shaky and not visible in certain areas, go back through and darken the lines to strengthen the pattern outline.
 Cut off the excess cloth and draw the pattern on the paper. Weights can be helpful in keeping the pattern completely still to ensure a steady hand and correctly dimensional pattern.
 This will create the other side of the spat.


On the parts of the boot where the two segments of leather are sewn together (front and back), a half-inch seam allowance is necessary to create leeway.
,, The triangle represents the excess seam allowance.
,,, You should have three pieces of the patterns now. Weigh the patterns down on the leather and trace them with a ball-point pen. Because you're creating two different spats for two different feet, make sure you flip the pattern before tracing the pattern for the opposite foot.
 You should have three different pieces prepared to sew together. Use a 2.5 to 4 stitch length on your sewing machine.


Do not use pins when sewing, because pins create permanent holes in the leather. Instead, just hold the pieces together and feed it through. Sew The back-seam the same way the front-seam was sewn, with a half-inch seam allowance.
, This way, when the spat is folded over it looks nice from the front side.
 Make a thin layer of rubber cement on both sides of the seam.
,,, Use the roller to press it down and ensure a strong bond. Basic construction is finished and now the buttons are ready to be attached.
 Make two additional marks, one to the left of the center and one to the right, about a quarter of an inch from the edge.
 To make a button hole, a simple one can be made with an Xactoknife, or, for a sturdier one, the button hole attachment on the sewing machine can be used. If you use the machine, you'll want to cut them open with a seam ripper.
 Then sew the buttons on via machine or by hand if you'd prefer.
 Button up the spat, put it on the shoe, then use the pen to mark the place on the spat that you'd like the button to go. Sew either loose end of the buckle onto the inside of the bottom of the spat. You're done!

