 Eating breakfast is an important part of weight loss. Studies have shown that regular consumption of a high protein, high fiber breakfast can help you stay satisfied longer and decrease hunger cravings during the day.Fiber not only adds filling bulk to your meals, but also has been shown to prevent constipation and certain cancers like colon and rectal cancer. Starting out your day with a fiber-rich breakfast can help you reach your daily goal of 25 g for women and 38 g for men.Examples of breakfast meals include: scrambled eggs with sautéed vegetables and 2 ounces of lean sausage, 1 cup of low-fat greek yogurt with fruit and nuts or an omelet with spinach and bacon and a glass of milk or milk substitute.;
, Studies show that one of the best diets for weight loss is a moderate to low-carb diet that emphasizes lean protein, fruits and vegetables.Try to make most of your meals and snacks protein, fruits and vegetables. Focusing on these food groups will help you minimize the amount of carbohydrate-rich foods you consume. Make sure you include healthy fats (monounsaturated and polyunsaturated) as well, as they are an essential part of your diet, too.
Examples of meals include: grilled chicken and vegetable stir fry, lettuce wrap with low-fat cheese and lean deli meat, grilled salmon with steamed vegetables, or a sliced apple with low-fat cheese. Try a big salad with tuna fish, or egg salad, or a chef salad.
Minimize carbohydrate-rich foods when you can. Items like bread, rice, pasta, bagels, crackers, chips and couscous are higher in carbohydrates compared with other food groups. Although these can be part of a healthy diet, limiting your intake may help speed weight loss., Snacking or grazing throughout the day or late at night can sabotage weight loss. While planned, healthy snacking can support weight loss, mindless eating or grazing can counteract it.Mindless eating and snacking is when you're consuming food and not realizing how much you're consuming or what you're consuming. This may happen out of boredom when you're watching TV, driving or doing work at home. When you're not aware of how much you're eating, you're more likely to overeat.If you are mildly dehydrated, your brain may be confuse a need for water with hunger. Avoid this by making sure you drink plenty of fluids throughout the day. Aim for eight 8-ounce glasses (2 liters) every day.
If you feel like you need to snack, make your snack planned and mindful. Sit down, portion out your food, consume it and then move on with your daily activities.
Try to avoid eating from the box, bag or package. It's tough to know how much you've consumed. Also try to minimize other distractions while you're eating — like watching TV, doing work or checking emails. Focus on your snack.
 One common cause of weight gain is the consumption of calorie-filled or sugary beverages.Ditch the sweetened drinks and consume clear, sugar-free, hydrating fluids instead.


One danger of drinking calories is that you don't necessarily feel full or satisfied after consuming that beverage. You're more likely to eat your normal calorie intake in addition to the calories from your sweetened beverages.Aim for adequate fluids from drinks like: water, sugar-free flavored water, decaf black coffee or decaf tea.
 A sweet treat, a glass of wine or sweetened coffee drink are types of treats that should be watched when you're trying to lose weight. Little items like these, over time, can slow or even stop your weight loss.


Limit treats as much as possible. This is important for weight loss when you're not planning on exercising often or strenuously. You will not be burning enough calories through physical activity to cover a lot of indulgences.
If you're really craving a treat, calculate how you can fit that treat in with your desired caloric goals each day. If you can have a smaller lunch or skip a snack (but never skip a meal) and stay within your daily calorie goal, it's appropriate to have the treat.
Indulging on occasion can actually help keep your diet on track. Depriving yourself completely often leads to bingeing later on.

