 Sitting around uses very little of the energy that your body takes in. Just standing alone burns more energy than sitting does. If you can get up and move in more ways than just standing, you'll be even better off.









Switch to using a standing desk if you can. You can also walk around while you study or record audio instead of sitting down at your desk to type.
Long periods of sitting have also been found to be linked to many negative health conditions., Walking may not be as effective as running but it will help you to burn some calories and help maintain your weight. Even if you don't have the time to take a walk on purpose, at least try to sneak in reasons to walk a little bit more in your day. For example, you can:









Park further away when you drive somewhere.
Take the bus instead of driving to get somewhere.
Always take the stairs instead of the elevator or escalator.
Take a walking lunch or meeting, making a few laps around your building while you eat or talk.
 Having something to do for fun that also gets you burning calories can go a long way towards keeping you thin without any extra "work". Try finding a new hobby that you can either do on your own or maybe as part of a club.









You can find many activities through your local college clubs (even for non-students), as well as community centers and community colleges. Scholarships will often be available for those with a low income.
Try hobbies like rock climbing, adventure photography, or dance. Even theater can mean lots of physical activity.
 When you're waiting for something, try to sneak in just a little bit of physical activity. Even a few minutes, while perhaps not enough to get the full health effects, can at least help you burn more calories than if you'd just sat around refreshing Tumblr.









Do squats while you wait for your dinner to cook.
Do planks or jumping jacks while you wait for the commercials to finish during your favorite show.
 If you can make time for it, exercising is definitely one of the most effective ways to keep yourself thin. Just 30 minutes a day of intense physical activity is all that's recommended for adults, and even that can be split into two fifteen minute sections and still give the same benefits.









Make what exercise you do do count by doing efficient, full body exercises. Once good example of a full body exercise is the burpee. This exercise looks complicated but is actually easy to do and requires no extra equipment.

