 Using a plunger is a great way to clear clogged waste pipes – from your bathtub, to your toilet, to your sink. Plungers have existed for ages, and many homes have a standard plunger hidden away in the bathroom or closet. They consist of a long, straight handle with a flexible rubber cup type mechanism attached at the bottom. The rubber section acts as a suction cup to dislodge any blockages and force air and water to flow through the pipes.If standing water isn't already present in your tub / sink, add 2 to 3 inches of water. As you use your plunger, the water will help force whatever is obstructing the pipe out of the way.
If there is a drain catcher or stopper, remove it.
Place the plunger cup over the drain hole, and work the plunger's handle up and down repeatedly. After 15 to 30 seconds, you should see the water beginning to drain. Repeat this process a few times if your pipes are still draining slowly. After you clear the clog, run water to wash away remains of the obstruction., If your plunger does not clear the blockage, try using a drain snake. A drain snake is a long, flexible piece of steel attached to a handle that is used to dislodge the buildup that clogs pipes. A piece called an auger is at the front end of a drain snake, this piece is usually shaped like a spiral. They can be purchased at most hardware shops.


Feed the snake down the drain, auger end first. As you insert the drain snake, twirl it around so that it can easily make it's way through the pipe. Once you've inserted the drain snake, slowly begin to pull it back it out. This technique should be able to break-up the debris that is causing the clogging. You may have to repeat this a couple of times to guarantee that your pipes are free of obstructions., This is a great method to use if you don't have a plumber or drain snake lying around at home. Almost everyone can find a wire hanger somewhere in their closet, and that's all you'll need to make your very own drain snake.


Disassemble a wire coat hanger by unwinding the looped end of the wire from around the hook part of the hanger. If the wire is extremely stiff, use pliers instead of your hands to unwind the wire. Straighten the hanger as much as possible, using the pliers if you need assistance.
Fold 1/4 inch of one end of your hanger onto itself to create a small hook. Use your pliers to fold and squeeze the hook into place.
Slowly push the hook end of the homemade snake into the pipe,twirling the snake as it travels downward. Once you've inserted it all the way, slowly pull out the snake. Repeat this until the clog has been removed.
Run hot water to rinse out remnants from the clog.