 Write down a list of things that trigger your PTSD. This could include events, people, and places that cause a PTSD reaction. Use this list to help you avoid triggering situations when you are looking to rest or recuperate., Try not to get overwhelmed with stress, as this could cause a PTSD reaction. Break up large tasks into small ones, set some priorities, and do what you can as you can. Remind yourself that it is alright to take things on step at a time, and that any accomplishment is worth celebrating.If you know certain people or situations will cause you unnecessary stress, avoid them when you can.
Allow yourself time to relax by reading a book, playing with a pet, or spending time with loved ones after a stressful event.
 Caffeine can drastically disrupt your sleep cycle by keeping you up late at night, especially if you consume it close to your bedtime. Set limits on the amount of caffeine you drink per day and avoid any and all after 12PM. This will allow the caffeine to leave your system so that you can fall asleep faster.Consider non-caffeinated soda or coffee if you still want the taste of the drink but are avoiding the caffeine.
 Though they may seem helpful in the moment, drugs and alcohol will only exacerbate your PTSD symptoms or delay them momentarily. Often times, people find themselves turning to these substances to avoid their issues, but once the high is gone, the issues remain. Avoid alcohol and drugs until you have completely moved past your PTSD., Exercise is a great way to take care of yourself physically and to relieve any or stress. Make sure that you do not exercise within two hours of your bedtime or you may find it hard to fall asleep. Those with PTSD often need a physical outlet and exercise is a great way to achieve that. Consider joining a gym, taking some group fitness classes, or committing to walking around your block for 30 minutes a day.Find a workout buddy to help keep you committed to working out.
Download a fitness app on your phone.
 Research shows that diet is often directly correlated to mental health and that certain foods will keep you awake night. Avoid chocolate, ice cream, and mints before bed. Clean up your diet by choosing to eat vegetables, fruits, lean meat and by drinking water or juice. Avoid binge eating or eating sugary foods often.Microbes in the gut help produce neurotransmitters, so it may also help to eat probiotic foods such as sauerkraut, yogurt, and Kefir., Massages are a great way to feel more restful and relieve tension in your body. Schedule a massage and assess how you feel afterwards. If you slept well following it, consider setting up weekly or biweekly massages. If you are tight on cash, you can ask a partner or a loved one to do it.
 You may find that meditation will help to relax you during your day and that sleep will come more easily at night. Take some time each day, perhaps in the morning or before bed or both, to sit quietly with your eyes closed and meditate. Be mindful of the moment and reflect on your current feelings while repeating some calming phrase to yourself.


You might for instance meditate on the phrase “I am at peace” over and over.
 Another way to ensure that you sleep well is to place limits on the amount of TV you are watching before bed. Television shows or movies often contain images or storylines that are disturbing or exciting, which are not conducive to a restful environment. Cut off all electronics a minimum of one hour before bed.Consider listening to relaxing music instead if you enjoy noise while you sleep.
Avoid cell phone and tablet use before bed, as well.
 Though it can be difficult to unwind after a particularly stressful day, by establishing certain relaxing routines, you can soothe yourself and calm down effectively. Have a nice dinner, take a warm bath, light candles with soothing scents, or read a relaxing book. Identify what helps you calm down and employ those activities., Set up a routine for yourself in regards to sleep so that you can begin winding down each day at a set time and in a set way. This structure can often be helpful in coping with your PTSD. It will also help if you maintain your routine on the weekends so that you don’t have to readjust during the week., Your PTSD might affect your sleep so much that you may have to make certain adaptations to allow you to sleep. If you feel that your home or environment is too noisy, purchase some ear plugs. If possible, you might also consider purchasing a new mattress if yours is old or worn. A fan might also be helpful to soothe you to sleep.Purchase nose strips if you have a partner who snores.
 You will find that it is often easiest to fall asleep in rooms that are dark and cool. Keep your thermostat at a temperature that is cool but comfortable at night and bundle up with blankets. Consider purchasing dark drapes or curtains to keep the sunlight at a minimum while you are sleeping.Consider also purchasing a sleep mask for your eyes to cancel out light.
 One of the most effective ways to cope with and handle your PTSD constructively is through seeking therapy. There are many therapists trained to specifically deal with PTSD who will have various strategies for you to employ and who can also provide a supportive ear to listen. Remember that there is no taboo in seeking help and that PTSD is a serious medical issue akin to any physical injury or illness.Medical illnesses are not physical alone but are mental, too. Take care of your mental health just as you do your body.
 Though therapy can be very effective in addressing your PTSD, you might find that it will not be enough. Consider taking medication for a time to address your trauma. Typical medications that are prescribed for PTSD are Zoloft and Paxil, which are SSRIs, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Consult your doctor to see if these might be a good fit for you., One of the most effective ways to also work through your PTSD is to find support groups of others suffering with the disorder. Though you may feel alone, many others are working through similar trauma and it can be extremely helpful and affirming to hear their perspective and learn about coping mechanisms.Look on your local hospital’s website for information about support groups. If you are in the military, consult with your local VA.
Local therapists might also have information about support groups.
You can often find support groups online if you can’t find any in person.
 Sometimes, your PTSD may cause you to self-isolate. However, you must avoid this as it can cause other problems like depression. Spend time with your family and friends; commit to doing so as much as your schedule allows while still having alone time, too. Remember that being social is critical to a happy and healthy life, and isolation will only make PTSD symptoms worse.Consider setting up weekly movie outings with your mom or dinner dates with friends.
Don’t cancel on your family or friends just to stay home alone.
Commit to spending a certain amount of time per week with others.

