 In most cases, changing who you are means doing things differently. Often, it means learning a new skill. Once you get started, take every opportunity to practice these new skills or ways of doing things.Incorporate changes into your daily communication. Strive to interact with others as the person you are trying to become.
For example, imagine you are trying to become more assertive. You could start by taking note of situations in which you could have stated your opinion more firmly, or didn’t stand up for your own needs. Then you may work on stating your needs in a way that is not aggressive or threatening.
Skills will become easier and more comfortable with practice. It may be scary at first, but making changes will get you closer to who you want to be.
 Any major change or accomplishment requires ongoing and concerted effort. Work on becoming your new self every day.


A good way to create consistent progress is to set aside time in your daily routine for working on your goals.For example, you might set aside an hour every day for reading self-help books or attending assertiveness training.
Keep in mind that to make big changes, you must invest a lot of time and effort. Working hard and consistently over a period of time is how you will become the person you wish to be., Change can be difficult, and when the going gets rough, it can be tempting to fall back into old habits. To help you stay motivated, keep your vision readily at hand.You can do this by recalling your mental image of what life will look like once you made the changes you want. Visualizing success can help bolster your motivation.
You can also use physical reminders to keep your motivation up. You could post written statements or pictures that remind you of why you wanted to make a change. For example, imagine the new you is an assertive business owner. Find some pictures that depict that role. For example, you might clip a picture out of a magazine of someone giving a business presentation. You might also post some pictures of what you hope your office will look like some day.
 People constantly change and evolve. What you like or want now may be different from what you wanted five years ago. It may also be different from what you will want 10 years from now. Be flexible and willing to change your vision if it stops being right for you.Recognize that making personal changes will also change the environment around you. For instance, if you decide to become more assertive, your communication style will change. Those around you will notice, and may change how they react to you.

