


Get to know the director (if you don't know them, just smile and wave when you see them in the halls).
Find out which musical your school will be putting on.
Watch a movie version, read about it online, or ask someone who has seen it recently to find out more.  This step is crucial for you to know what you are doing.
Find out what is expected at the audition.  Are you supposed to sing 16 measures of a song?  Dance for 8 counts?  Do cold readings?  Most likely just yes to the song.  But find out anyway.  Are you supposed to sing a song from another musical?  Or a music movie?  Find out the rules.
Fill out any forms you are required to.  Use your best handwriting and plan out what your are going to write ahead of time.  Spell everything correctly.  Use professional speech.;
,


You should probably pick a song from another musical, even if you are allowed to sing from a music movie.  This is more professional.  Also, try not to sing from the musical itself unless you are specifically instructed to.  This is boring for the directors.
Pick something unique!  You don't want to be the 30th kid singing "Tomorrow" from Annie.  You want to be the kid who stands out!
Pick something that has a similar music style or comes from a similar plot in the musical you are auditioning for, but don't be too obvious.
You should choose a song that you are very familiar with.  You need to have heard it several times, and preferably sung it in front of an audience before.  You will not be as nervous and now what to expect.
Don't pick a song you wrote yourself.  The directors need to know that you are singing it right, and it sounds more professional.
This should be a song that is easy for you.  If you can't always hit that high note, pick something else.  You need to be able to sing it beautifully and clearly without faltering.



Sing the song as much as you can, but not in front of the directors before the audition!
Watch yourself in a full length mirror.  What are you doing with your hands/  Your feet?  Your eyes?  Does it look professional or silly?
Sing the song in front of your parents or a sibling or friend.  Ask for tips and for them to be perfectly honest.
Practice your slate (this is introducing yourself and your song).  Know it well.



About 45 minutes before the audition, put on nicer looking clothes.  Make sure that they fit you well and match!  If you will be doing dancing as well, or suspect you will be doing dancing, don't wear a skirt or something too uncomfortable.
Do your hair.  It should look nice and neat, but not perfect to the dot.
If you are a girl, put on a light layer of makeup that looks good on you.
Brush your teeth!  You don't want bad breath.



Do several singing warm-ups and sing your song several times.
Smile and look confident.
Practice different facial expressions.
Calm yourself.
If you will be dancing (or suspect that you will), warm up your body.

