 Before you begin your faith-based fast, it is important to understand what the dietary and time requirements are. Many religious fasts have specific dietary guidelines and limitations on when you can eat. Know how long the fast will last and investigate its requirements. Depending on the fast, you may be allowed to consume certain foods or eat at specific times of the day.


For example, during Ramadan, Muslims are required to fast from dawn until sunset.During Yom Kippur, Jews fast for nearly twenty-six hours.;
, There are many different types of fasts designed to help you lose weight and get healthy, which is not always true. If the fast sounds too good to be true, it probably is. These include various kinds of juice fasts, cleansing fasts and water fasts. Much like the religious fasts, these different dietary fasts have varying lengths of time and fasting requirements. Be sure to understand what is expected of your before you begin., Once you understand the requirements of your fast, you should visit your doctor to make sure that you are physically healthy enough to participate. A chronic or severe medical condition, such as diabetes or heart disease, may prevent you from fasting. You should also consult your doctor if you are pregnant or nursing and considering a fast.Most faith-based fasts tend to have health related exemptions if you are unable to participate.
 Depending on the length and intensity of your fast, you may need to make special work arrangements. During the fast, you may get fatigued easily and require frequent rest. If the fast is going to last multiple days, you may want to inform your supervisor and coworkers that you are fasting and explain to them that the quality of your work may be impacted.


If you work involves physical labor, you may need to take a leave during your fast.
 If you can consume certain foods or eat at certain times, you might want to consider meal planning for the fast ahead of time. Do any grocery shopping before the fast while you still have plenty of energy. If you run out of something, a trip to the grocery store may be a tortuous exercise while fasting.


If you are participating in a juice fast, consider stocking up on the fruits and vegetables you will need before you begin.
For example, if you are participating in the Ramadan fast, consider purchasing your supplies for Suhoor (the predawn meal) and Iftar (the after sunset meal) ahead of time.