 The Arizona Association of Realtors (AAR) offers an ombudsman program to help resolve disputes. This is an individual, in the role of a mediator or arbitrator, who will listen to your concerns and issue a decision. The process begins by accessing the Ombudsman Request Form from the AAR website. You can locate the form at https://www.aaronline.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/00-Ombudsman-Request-Form.pdf.
 Access the form and fill in all the blanks. The form is designed to be writeable online. If you prefer, you may print the blank form and complete it on paper. Be sure to read the form completely and provide all the information. Specifically, you will be asked for the following:Your name and contact information.
Your role in the transaction, such as buyer, seller, landlord, or tenant.
The agent’s name and contact information.
A brief statement of your concerns.
A statement whether you do or do not grant permission for the ombudsman to contact the agent directly. This is optional and will not change your request.
 If you complete the form on the computer, you should save it as a file on your computer, and then send it via email to OMB@aaronline.com. If you prefer, you may print the form and mail it to the Arizona Association of Realtors, 225 East Osborn Road, Suite 200, Phoenix, AZ 85012.


If you wish to check on the status or receipt of your request form, you may call the AAR at (602)248-7787 or (800)426-7274.
Save a copy of your completed request form before you mail it in.
 After receiving your request, the AAR will screen it to determine whether you have raised an issue that they can help resolve. If so, your case will be assigned to an ombudsman. The ombudsman will call you within 48 hours to discuss your concerns. From that point, the procedure will vary, depending on the outcome you are seeking.


If you just have questions, the ombudsman will try to answer them and help you understand the real estate process.
If you are looking for help with a further complaint, the ombudsman can explain the options available to you, including a formal ethics complaint or potential law suit.
If you give consent, the ombudsman will contact the realtor directly and try to resolve your dispute. After understanding your position, the ombudsman will discuss the matter with the realtor to see if a resolution is possible. Over 75% of all complaints are resolved in this manner, without incurring further legal expense.