 Start by cleaning and sanitizing a space on your counter where you will knead the fondant dough.;
, Stir frequently with a greased spoon. Remove from the heat when the marshmallows are completely melted. Gradually stir in the sugar.
 With a greased knife, cut away a small amount of white fondant and reserve this for the eye. Remove one quarter of the fondant and set it aside in a greased bowl (for the blue fondant).
 Grease your hands and counter space with vegetable shortening. Add several drops of yellow food coloring to the large fondant ball and begin kneading on the greased countertop. Add more food coloring as needed to achieve minion yellow. Knead for about 8 minutes, until you have an elastic ball and the food coloring has been worked through.


Re-grease your hands as needed if they stick to the dough.
Add water by the half tablespoon as necessary if the fondant cracks or tears during kneading.
 Re-grease the countertop and your hands, and repeat the coloring and kneading steps with the quarter ball of fondant using blue food coloring.
 Repeat the greasing and kneading for the smallest ball of fondant, without adding any coloring.
 Cover each fondant ball with a thin layer of shortening, wrap each ball in plastic wrap, and seal them in plastic bags. Refrigerate overnight or longer.


It will keep in the refrigerator for a couple weeks, and can be prepared well in advance.
Fondant can be used immediately if you haven’t prepared it the night before, but it’s best to let it rest.
 Preheat your oven to 350 °F (177 °C). Grease the cake pans. You will need three 8-inch round cakes and one 8-inch half-sphere cake (made in a hemisphere or ball pan).


You can prepare the round cakes one at a time if you only have one 8-inch round cake pan.
 Mix together the milk and vinegar in a medium bowl. Whisk in the canola oil, water, lemon juice, vanilla extract, and almond extract

, In a separate bowl, sift together the flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Then, pour the liquids into the dry mixture and stir until you have a smooth batter.
 Divide the cake batter evenly into the four cake pans. Bake for about 35 minutes.Allow to cool.


You can tell if cakes are ready if you stick a toothpick into the center of the cake and it comes out clean.
 Start by beating together the shortening and margarine until fluffy. Electric beaters work best.


Use a wooden spoon if you don't have beaters.
 Add in the sugar and continue beating until creamy. Add in the milk and vanilla. Beat the mixture for about 5 minutes.Switch to a whisk at this point if you aren't using electric beaters.
 If the tops of the round cakes are slightly rounded, cut off a thin slice so they are flat on top. Place your first round cake on a flat cake plate or base. Layer the three round cakes by placing them on top of each other with a layer of frosting in between each layer. This will help hold the cake layers in place. Spread a layer of frosting on the top cake, and place the half-sphere cake on top (round side up). Spread a thin layer of frosting over the entire cake. Refrigerate for about 15 minutes. Remove the cakes from the fridge, and place on a flat surface. Cover it with another generous layer of frosting, which will act like glue for the fondant., Generously sprinkle corn starch on a clean countertop and grease a rolling pin. Remove the yellow fondant from the plastic bag and wrap. Roll it out on the corn starched countertop to a thickness of 1/16 inch.
 Without stretching it, lay the fondant over the top of the cake. If any tearing occurs, gently repair it with your fingers by pressing the ripped edges back together. You want to cover the top three quarters of the cake with yellow fondant. Smooth the fondant down around the sides of the cake so it’s flat and wrinkle-free. Press any excess toward the bottom. Use scissors to trim off any excess from the bottom.
 Sprinkle your countertop with a fresh coating of corn starch, and re-grease the rolling pin. Remove the blue fondant from the plastic bag and wrap, and roll it into a rectangle that’s about 1/16-inch thick. Cut off two long strips for straps and set aside. With the remaining fondant, wrap the bottom quarter of the cake with blue fondant, making sure to slightly overlap the bottom portion of the yellow fondant. Smooth it out as you press it to the sides of the cake. Carefully trim the excess from around the base. Roll out a two-inch by two-inch square with the excess to place in the center of the jumpsuit like a kangaroo pocket. Set aside.
 Using the excess yellow fondant from the body, roll out two one-inch thick cylinders that are about 10 inches long. Attach one arm on either side of the body, about one third of the way up from the base. Mold the fondant from the top of the arm into the fondant of the body to attach them.
 Bend the minion arms slightly to make an elbow so that they reach around to the front of the body. Trim off any excess if the arms are too long. Make hand shapes by molding balls on the ends of each arm. Position the hands in the front of the body and press them into place. Mold the kangaroo pocket piece around the hands and wrists so that it looks like the minion’s hands are in the pockets.
 Connect the back and the front of the jumpsuit with the straps, going around the top of the arms. Press the straps into place with gentle pressure, and trim if necessary. Use dots of licorice to make buttons where the straps meet the jumpsuit. Frost the dots of licorice and press them into place.
 With the greased rolling pin, roll out the small ball of white fondant to a thickness of 1/16 inch on a corn starched surface. Cut out a circle using a cup or round cookie cutter. Place the round fondant piece in the center of the top quarter of the minion body and press it into place. Frost one side of a chocolate button. Gently (but with enough pressure to make it stick) press a chocolate button into the center of the eye. Trim a small piece of black rope licorice to make a dot for the pupil. Frost one side and press this into the center of the chocolate button.
 Cut two lengths of black rope licorice long enough to encircle the white eye. Cover one side of each with a thin layer of frosting, and wrap the licorice pieces, side by side, around the eye. Cut two lengths of licorice long enough to wrap around the head like a band. Frost one side of each, and wrap them around the circumference of the head in tandem to create the goggle band.
 Cut a length of licorice to your desired length, and frost one side. Position it in the center of the minion, under the eye and between the arms. Press it into place.
 Cut several two-inch pieces of licorice. Poke the same number of holes into the top of the head, and insert the licorice pieces into the holes.

