 Your goal is to break down the stereotypical standards of behavior for inter-sex communication, since you are asking for a “friend date” and not a romantic date.


He might feel peer pressure if his friends are there to treat you like a potential love interest, or to assume that you are hitting on him. The presence of other people might create anxiety for one or both of you. If you are anxious, your request to hang out as friends might unintentionally come off as insincere.
 Instead of approaching the subject of hanging out together from the perspective of having compatible personalities, ask him to join you at a concert for a band you have been talking about, or to go ride all the roller coasters at the nearest amusement park. .Avoid statements like, “I think we should be friends,” or “We have a lot in common and should hang out sometime.” These expressions imply saying yes to a “friend date” means committing to be in your life long-term.
Telling him you like his personality and want to spend time together might put him on the defensive by sounding too much like a romantic interest.
Keep your request casual. Don’t excessively explain why you want to hang out with him or offer too many choices of activities to share.
Instead of saying, “Let’s go to a concert together sometimes,” you can say, “I’m going to see________ play this Friday. Want to come?”

, When people are shown interest by someone of the opposite sex, they tend to consider whether or not they are being hit on.Avoid any inclination to flirt just because he is a guy. Treat him the same as you would a girl you want to befriend.


Watch your tone of voice to ensure you are speaking like you do to your other friends. Girls tend to speak in a higher voice and talk more quickly when flirting with a new person.Avoid touching him or entering his personal space. With the exception of a handshake or high five, don’t initiate physical contact since it is a universal sign of flirting.If you already have a significant other, state that up front to express that you are not available for dating and just want to be friends.#* If you get the impression that he is attracted to you or thinks it’s a date, be direct and tell you are only looking for companionship, not a boyfriend.It is less likely to feel like a “date” if you invite him to join a group of friends., Another advantage to asking him to do something specific, rather than just spending time together, is that it allows him the choice to decline without feeling bad or worrying about offending you.Negative feelings are no way to start a friendship!


Saying no doesn’t mean that he has no interest in hanging out with you. He may have another engagement that day. He might have had a bad experience at the club where your favorite band is playing and not want to go there.
Perhaps he is very hesitant about starting new relationships too quickly due to past experiences with failed friendships. Respect his right to say no, and don’t assume it means he isn’t interested in doing something else at another time.
Don’t push him by inviting him somewhere else immediately. Wait until you have another encounter with him to explore other possible mutual interests.