 Most people are used to "girl things" and "boy things" being segregated, and thus may recoil to see guys enjoying a "girl thing." Ask yourself what is so wrong with boys and men enjoying a more traditionally feminine show. "Girls' shows" are not inherently less good than "boys' shows," and guys who like girlier things are not automatically deserving of ridicule or disgust.


Try reading feminist literature to help you gain a more critical perspective about the gender binary.
Girls watch shows aimed at boys all the time. Many argue that boys should be able to enjoy the same freedom.;
, There are both male and female viewers of all ages who appreciate the show. The term "Brony" is simply a commonly used reference to adult men who watch My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic. This is an understandable misconception, seeing as how many people not familiar with the Brony fandom tend to see this as unusual. However, Bronies are made up of boys, girls, men, and women.


Some female fans prefer to be called "Pegasisters." This varies between individuals.

My Little Pony appeals to people of all ages, backgrounds, and genders. The community is very diverse, and you won't have to look hard to make new friends!

, You do not necessarily have to watch the whole show if you don't feel like it. At least try out more than episode one before forming an opinion. Episodes recommended for newcomers to the show would be the 2-parter pilot episodes of season 1, the season 2 finale, the season 4 finale, or the season 5 premiere, as these feature the height of plot, humor, demonstration of character, and action (though most obviously come with major spoilers).


If you do not want to take the time to watch the episodes, try looking for reviews by MLP analysts, such as The AnY Pony, ILoveKimPossibleAlot, DrWolf001, Silver Quill, and more.
 My Little Pony is surprisingly famous for its music, written by Daniel Ingram. Look for My Little Pony songs on websites such as YouTube. Some of the most recommended songs include Winter Wrap-Up and At The Gala.
 Yes, there are documentaries about the Brony fandom. Try out A Brony Tale, The Brony Chronicles (exclusive to Saberspark's YouTube channel), or Bronies: The Extremely Unexpected Adult Fans of My Little Pony.


These tend to focus on the adult male fans, perhaps because society considers them the most unusual.
 When Bronies talk amongst each other, oftentimes you will hear words such as "somepony", "anypony", "Celestia's sake", or the infamous "brohoof".
 It has been a subject of debate for some time, and to get a proper perspective on it, you need to listen to both the good and the bad about it. This means watching those for it, such as NateTalksToYou, those with neutral stances, such as Rhett and Link, and those who attack it, such as the criticisms found in mainstream media.
 Before you get grossed out at the Brony community, you need to understand one thing: Rule 34 of the Internet applies to absolutely everything. It doesn't start and end with My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic.


The community has been criticized for misogyny, ableism (particularly regarding a disabled grey pony), and rape jokes. Keep a critical eye, apologize if you accidentally hurt someone, and encourage fellow fans to be considerate.
It is possible to enjoy a fandom while still being critical of certain sects and ideas within the fandom.
Encourage other Bronies to tag explicit material appropriately so that younger fans don't stumble upon it.
 Converse with Bronies. Discuss things about the show, why they like it, why it has such a big impact, etc. The best way to understand a group of people is to talk to them.


Remember to read forum rules before posting! This is a good way to avoid getting a bad reputation in the community.
 Some Bronies will make up their own "facts" about the show, such as, "I imagine that Spike sings love songs to Rarity outside her bedroom window." It's best to either join in or leave it be, because it's just a way to have fun. It can be irritating if you don't agree that Big Mac and Fluttershy are perfect for each other, or you can't stand fanfic about Discord and Celestia, but remember: they're just having fun, and you can let it be.


If a headcanon or couple annoys you, it's best to just leave it alone. Behave the same way you'd want others to behave towards your headcanons and favorite couples.
Sometimes disability/LGBTQIA headcanons are really important to the maker (e.g. "I bet Twilight Sparkle is autistic, just like me!"). It can help them feel better about being different. Never tear someone down for trying to feel good about themselves.
If you believe a headcanon, fanfic, or other thing is actively harmful (e.g. rape jokes), then it is absolutely okay to voice concern.
 Brony composers and producers themselves make amazing music and remixes dedicated to the show. There are hundreds of Brony musicians, but for starters, check out popular composers such as BlackGryph0n, PON3, The Living Tombstone, Aviators, Prince Whateverer, etc.
 Bronies are known for making spectacular artwork. There are all kinds, whether it be cute little chibis, realistic interpretations, or various adaptations of the characters.


Many Brony artists enjoy imagining what the ponies would look like as humans.
 This may be a bit of a stretch, but going to a My Little Pony con can greatly expand your knowledge of the Brony community. If you cannot afford it, or simply do not want to, this step is optional.
 If you're not much of a reader, or you just don't like fanfiction in general, then you can skip this step. However, you may be surprised at the enginuity and creativity found in fanfictions. Try starting out with popular hits, such as Fallout Equestria, The Rainbow Factory, or My Little Dashie.

You can search through specific categories on Fimfiction.net.
 As you may or may not have noticed, the community is full of people with broad and expansive talents. Fan videos (particularly animations) are extremely popular with Bronies. If you don't have a clue what to watch, there is a top 10 pony videos list released by LittleshyFiM every month on YouTube (this series has previously been run on different channels by other content creators including Saber Spark and JHaller).
 Brony culture is made up of people of different walks of life—gay black men, giggly teen girls, bearded starving artists, shy disabled women, and all sorts of people around the world. None of these people are inherently better or worse than others. Respect others' differences, use inclusive language, and don't be afraid to make new friends.

