 The solid color of white jeans will provide an excellent anchor for different patterns and prints.Some designs you might try with your white jeans are:


Plaid
Horizontal patterns
Pinstripe lines;
, The white of your jeans can offer nice counterpoint to a stylish, tie-dyed tank top.Match your accessories to the primary color in your tie-dye top, and consider:


Matching heeled sandals
A matching handbag, A men's oxford shirt with rolled up sleeves and the top button left popped is a simple way to complement your white jeans.Some heels that match your main accent color, like black, can add some extra flavor to this look.
 White is very versatile, and depending on your complexion, many colors might go well with your white jeans. Your look might pair well with a similarly light colors, like a light colored denim. Add an accent color with pop, like mustard yellow or lime green. Repeating designs, like stripes and polka dots, can work well too, especially if the pattern has some white in it.Neon colors should not be discounted; a neon color will be as bright and beautiful as your white pants.
A solid colored shirt with an accompanying set of boldly colored beads might be just what you were looking for.
 Compliment your white jeans with the ever trendy colors black and gold. You might consider a black top in lace or chiffon ti give an extra touch of elegance, though a black blouse and lace trim might look smashing as well!Finish your dressy white jeans look off with gold accessories and stylish black heels.
To create better cohesion between the black and white colors of your outfit, consider shoes that have a black and white color scheme.
 The shape of your legs and rear will influence the kind of jeans that are most flattering for your figures. You should also keep in mind that where black has a slimming effect, white tends to give the impression greater fullness.Look at the following list and choose the shape that best matches your body:


Straight figured individuals will have a chest and waist that are roughly the same size, with an only slightly tapered waist.Hourglass figured individuals have an equivalent chest and hips with a well defined, smaller waist.Full hips and large thighed individuals will have fuller, more curvaceous lower body., You can accomplish this by choosing a pair of jeans that make use of pocket decorations, like stitching. Flaps and other stylish embellishments to the back pockets will give your bum a perkier appeal.You should try to distance yourself from bell shaped white jeans or pairs that make use of flared designs. These can throw off the natural symmetry of your figure., A straight cut along the waist of your pants can create a gaping appearance or discomfort for your hourglass figure. A contoured waistband will save you from this fashion faux pas. You might also try on a pair of straight-leg jeans. These can bring balance to hourglass figures.Keep away from jeans too wide-legged in cut. These can give a boyish impression to your figure.
 A pair that has both a contoured waist band and a higher rise to its cut in back than in front will contain your curves in the most flattering way.The better fit of this cut will also prevent the jeans from sliding down.


Legs that are tapered can not only be uncomfortable for this body type, but the slimming effect of a taper will make your thighs appear even larger.
 White jeans that rise in front will prevent the appearance of the dreaded "muffin top." With this cut of jeans, you can still rock the white jean-style!Pants that are stiff and have little give to the fabric can dig into your stomach and feel uncomfortable. These cuts should be avoided.
 Sometimes even the classiest pair of pants are best suited for the rack and not your closet. Take a good look at every aspect of the jeans before you purchase them. Make sure there is no discomfort when sitting, bending, or in various positions.


You may also notice that the fabric of certain pairs of jeans are more transparent than others. Take this into account also. Jeans that reveal underclothes will require nude or white colors worn beneath.
 Adding a top according to your body type will ensure your jeans and your top bring out your best features and will create cohesion between all parts of the outfit. Tops that make use of ruching or a draping style can give the appearance of greater shapeliness. Tops to consider might have:Boat-necks
Nipped or belted waists
V or U-necks
Ruching or flowing fabric around the bust, Anything that hugs your curves should be prioritized when you're choosing a top to pair with your white jeans. These kind of garments will allow the natural femininity of your body to shine through! Some tops you might try:V-neck shirts
Wrap tops
Tops with belts, If you have full legs and thighs, longer tops will reduce focus on this feature and allow for greater appreciation of the entire outfit. True fashion is a balancing act, after all! Try tops with shirttails for a harmonious balance.Longer tops will draw the eye away from the fullness of your legs and thighs by balancing the disproportion between the two.

Some tops for your consideration:
Sweaters (hip length)
Jackets (hip length)
Puffed/ruched sleeved tops
Tops with padded shoulders, A figure that has a little bit of a tummy can benefit from a top that skim the skin of your body. Large and billowy tops can end up accentuating the belly and be less than flattering. Lightweight garments, including Empire-waist tops, might work well with your white jeans. Ideal tops for those with a tummy include:Asymmetrical tops
Tops with front draping
Tops with front ruching
Long Cardigans
Ponchos, Stains and blemishes show up bright as day on white fabric, but you might be able to lessen these by applying a special protectant, like Scotchgard™. Check the tag of your pants before doing this, as you may be inadvisable to Scotchgard™ some pairs of pants.If there are no warnings on the label about pretreatment to prevent stains, apply your protectant according it its directions to your jeans to defend against stains.
 It is especially easy to overlook a purse or handbag, but over the course of an entire day, the ink from these might rub off on your white jeans. Dark indigo, and colors like it, are potent and transfer easily. This is especially true for new clothing.
 Wearing your white jeans too frequently can cause the fabric to become dull and lose some of its original luster. To prevent this from happening, you should only wear your white jeans once or twice before laundering.


You might also add a whitening product or booster, like baking soda, vinegar, or hydrogen peroxide, to the wash while cleaning your white jeans., Some fabrics are treated with products before being sold to protect the quality and color of the fabric. These pretreated clothes may have special washing instructions that you should follow, but generally, you will want to wash your white jeans with similar colors in warm water.


Don’t overload your washing machine. Doing so prevent your garments from rinsing all the way through. and whatever detergent remains can create yellow spots on your jeans over time.
 Especially if you have a favorite pair that have seen better days, if your jeans are beginning to look less bright than you'd like, try a soak in warm water with some color safe bleach added.Set a timer for about 30 minutes, rinse your jeans when time's up, and then go about drying as you normally would.

