 What design to do you want to be on your coin purse? There’s a wide variety of designer duct tapes available featuring bright colors, patterns and even cartoon characters.You can make your coin purse using one roll of duct tape if you find one with the right pattern, or you can make your own pattern using two to several rolls of duct tape.
You can use the classic grey duct tape if you want to give your coin purse a homemade feel.
Make sure the width of your duct tape is two inches.;
, Cut an eleven inch strip of duct tape from your roll. Lay it sticky side up on your flat work surface. Cut another eleven inch strip of duct tape. Lay it sticky side up parallel to your first strip. It should overlap the first strip by a half inch. Repeat this two more times until you have four parallel strips of duct tape overlapping each other by a half inch. Make sure your strips of duct tape are stuck firmly together where they overlap. You now have the first side of your fabric.If you’re using multiple rolls, make sure you are alternating them with every strip to achieve your desired pattern.
 Cut a six inch strip of duct tape. Lay it sticky side down on top of your first side. It should be perpendicular to the strips in the first side of your fabric. Make sure the strip is at the edge of the first side of your fabric. Cut another six inch strip of duct tape. Lay it sticky side down on your first side overlapping the first strip by a half inch. Repeat this until the entire first side of your fabric is covered. It should take you about seven strips. The second side of your fabric is now complete.


Once again, be sure to alternate your duct tape if you’re using different rolls.
 Run your hands over your fabric to smooth out any bubbles so that it lays flat. You may want to use scissors to cut off any visible sticky parts of duct tape hanging off your fabric as they may get in the way later on., Use a sharpie marker to trace half of your salad container lid at the top of a sheet of cardboard. You should have a half circle. Use a ruler to draw straight lines down your cardboard from either end of your half circle. Your straight lines should be eight and a half inches each. Use your ruler to draw a line connecting the straight lines. This line should be four and half inches long. Cut out your drawing from the cardboard.
 Lay your template on top of your fabric. Use your scissors to cut your fabric into the shape of your template.


If you feel confident with your scissors, you can draw your shape directly on your fabric without using a template. You may however end up with sharpie marks on your coin purse., Fold the bottom of your fabric up to the bottom of your the half circle. Fold your half circle down. The half circle of your fabric will be the flap that will open and close on your coin purse.


Go over your folds with your hands to solidify the creases in your fabric.
Make sure you fold your coin purse evenly.
 Cut a strip of duct tape that is about an inch longer than your folded coin purse. Cut the strip in half long-wise so that you have two equal one-inch strips of duct tape. Place half of one of your strips on a side of your purse with the other half of the strip hanging off. Fold the half inch of your strip hanging off onto the back off your coin purse so that it holds the side together. Run your thumb and forefinger over the strip so that it sticks. Repeat this process on the other side of your coin purse with your remaining strip.


After your sides are fastened, cut off the extra duct tape and throw it away.
You may prefer to rip your initial strip of duct tape in half rather than cut it with scissors to get a more equal split.
Using a different color or pattern of duct tape to fasten your sides can add flare to your coin purse.
 Open the flap of your coin purse. Put a small magnet in the center of your open flap. Cut a small piece of duct tape and put it on top of your magnet to keep it in place. Smooth out the small piece of duct tape over the magnet so it sticks securely.


Make sure the piece of duct tape is large enough to hide your magnet completely.
 Lay a small piece of duct tape face up on top the area where your first magnet is. Hold your second magnet above the first. Depending on which way the magnets are facing, they can either repel or attract each other.Drop your second magnet on top of the first to make sure it’s facing the right way. If it lands away from your first magnet, turn it over and drop it again until it connects securely to the first magnet.


Don’t drop your magnet from too high a distance or you could end up losing it. About an inch should be an adequate distance.
 You’ll already have a layer of duct tape on top of your second magnet. Press the duct tape over your second magnet tightly so that it holds it in place. You want to make sure the layer of duct tape is strong enough to hold the second magnet down when you open your coin purse.
 Put some money in your coin purse and enjoy it. Let all your friends know you designed it yourself.

