;
,, You and the children will have to carry anything you bring. And only pack what you need.
 When you are at the park, you might want to walk around and see what rides and attractions there are so everyone will be able to see what interests them.
 Have each child pick a buddy for the day and every so often do "buddy checks". The children must stand with their buddy and if there is a child missing you will always be able to tell. Once everyone is standing with their buddy, count all of the pairs to make sure there isn't a pair missing.
 Such as, have each child take turns to choose which ride they would like to go on, or whatever way you think might work for you. Do this so there isn't any fighting or arguing.
 See which kids would like to go on the ride and which kids don't want to go on the ride. Whoever does not want to go on the ride wait with by the exit gate of the ride and send the other kids on the ride. If there is more than one adult in the group, send one adult on the ride and the other adult waiting with the kids that don't want to go on the ride.


, Extra luggage is not fun!

, If there are any water rides have a set time that you will go on the water rides so you will change into your bathing suits, go on any water rides, and change back into normal clothes so you won't keep having to change in and out of bathing suits.
 Have a meeting place that is easy for the children to see and remember. Walk them to the meeting place. Remind them not to panic. Tell the children to stay in the spot that they are in when they got lost and count to 100. When they get to 100, if they are still lost go to the meeting place. When you are looking for the lost child, retrace your steps for a short amount of time and if you have not found the child go to the meeting place. Also, when you realize one child is missing that is a good time to do a quick buddy check. If the child still can't find anyone at the meeting place after waiting there for a few minutes, tell them to go to a security guard or another mother with children and ask for help.

