 This article includes Jake and Finn in a couple of different styles, so you can go ahead and take your pick!;
, This rendition of Batman is particularly dark, with a firmly set facial expression and his shoulders pushed back.
 Use curved lines for her long ears, which should be tossed playfully into the air, and more round shapes for her face and the rest of her body.
 His trademark pose places his hands on his hips, but you can also sketch him crunching on a carrot or putting a hand on the shoulder of his friend and occasional rival, Daffy.
 This simple but delectable-looking drawing will give you serious hunger pangs if it's done right!

, The image here is of a pterodactyl, but you can also choose to draw a stegosaurus or a T-rex (or all of them, if you want a whole Jurassic scene).
 She's wearing a green dress and a languid smile, as if she's just woken up from her beauty sleep; try to make her look as small and soft as possible.
 Sanrio's brainchild is composed of easily formed shapes and solid colors, so she shouldn't be too hard to draw.
 In the drawing seen here, the mermaid is of a design that's based on mythical descriptions of sea-dwelling, sailor-seducing sirens, so think about the underlying inspiration for your mermaid while you're drawing her.

., You can draw an easily recognizable robot, like R2-D2, or just a neutral mechanical robot like this one.
 Model him as closely as you can after the cartoon Scooby-Doo, as this is one of the few instances where you don't want your drawing to look to realistic.
 He may live in a pineapple under the sea, but he sure doesn't look like one—draw him with wavy edges, porous spots, and big blue eyes!

, Similar in style to Step 2's Batman, this Superman has a look of fierce determination and his arm outstretched, ready to fight crime. Make sure you factor in the perspective here when drawing his fist the same size as his head, or else your drawing will look disproportionate and strange.
 Since Tom is so much larger than Jerry, you might only be able to fit his head into your picture.
 With her powerful lasso and unbreakable bracelets, she should look as though she'd stop at nothing to defend justice.

