 A common reaction to even severe debt is to go into denial about the seriousness of the situation. Debt can be an intensely difficult thing to deal with emotionally, but it’s essential that you acknowledge the situation and the impact it is having on you. There is an increasing amount of evidence that shows the impact of indebtedness on stress and mental health, so this isn’t something you should ignore.Being in denial about your debt can make the situation worse and delay your reaction.
Don’t wait for a major event, such as a foreclosure notice, to acknowledge your debt problems., Indebtedness can have a huge toll on you psychologically, so try and talk to someone about your situation. Talking to friends or family may be difficult, so seek the help of a therapist if your debt stress is really causing you problems. This is an important part of acknowledging the situation. Only once you have acknowledged your financial situation will you be able to take the necessary next steps to deal with it.


Always seek impartial advice from a credit counsellor, but don’t neglect the psychological impact of debt., It’s completely normal to be anxious and stressed about a difficult financial situation, but you can take steps to help you to feel more positive. Of course dealing with the debt and finding a way forward financially is essential, but you can also try to improve your mood. This may even help you to deal with the debt and focus on finding a route forward.


Try to be active. Exercise lots, but also spend time with friends and doing everyday tasks.
Face your fears by getting some debt advice and coming to terms with the problem.
Try not to drink too much. Some people use alcohol to cope with stress and anxiety, but drinking could add to your problems., If your feelings or stress and anxiety don’t alleviate, and these feelings are starting to have an impact on your ability to live your life, you should make an appointment with your doctor. If your negative feelings persist for weeks, you doctor may recommend you see a therapist for more support.


If you feel like you really can’t cope emotionally, or that life is not worth living, get help immediately.
Don’t let the situation deteriorate. Contact your doctor or call a telephone helpline.