 Focusing on why you wanted to do what you started can help you identify reasons to stick with it.


Why did you begin this project? Make sure to think about your true motivation. For example, if you are writing a novel you may want to become published, but why - to express your ideas? To write the story which has been unconsciously building in your head?
Identify why it is important to complete. Perhaps you need to write an essay or speech for school or work. Will there be negative consequences of not completing it such as a lower grade or a negative effect on your work reputation?

, If you are avoiding the work it may mean that you are evaluating it in some way that creates a desire to avoid it. Sometimes we may think thoughts like, “This is too hard,” or, “This is going to take too long.” These thoughts can lead to anxiety and avoidance.


Focus on what you have completed in the past. We often remember or think about our unfinished tasks rather than our finished projects.Control perfectionism. While perfectionism does help you to have higher goals in life, it can also stop you from completing tasks, especially creative tasks like writing a novel. This is because perfectionism can make you feel as if the project is never good enough, and you will just continuously try to improve it.
Forgive your procrastination. Accepting your procrastination and forgiving yourself for it can actually lead to less procrastination.This is because when we accept our mistakes we can then begin to change them. The acts of fighting against them or denying them do not allow us to move forward toward positive change. If we let ourselves be controlled and do not accept ourselves, we give power to the problem. Instead of holding on to the rope in the game of tug-o-war, simply let go. However, this does not mean make excuses for yourself or give up completely on your goals. It means accept and admit that you have a problem with procrastination and then work toward a positive solution.
Celebrate what you've done so far! This may help you to feel better about the project.
 When you are interested and can use a variety of your skills when working on something, procrastination is reduced.Find a way to be interested in what you are working on. For example, if you are writing an essay – make a creative thesis and focus on writing about what interests you. Be creative.
If you get stuck, try brainstorming or free association. Simply write down everything that comes to mind when you think of your project. This can help you come up with new and create ways of looking at your task., You won’t be able to be very productive if you aren’t healthy enough to complete the task. Being healthy can help to increase your motivation because it can give you the physical energy that you need to move forward.


Manage stress appropriately through exercise, relaxation time, and keeping yourself occupied with positive endeavors.
Exercise – try yoga, dance, aerobics, or kickboxing.
Take care of your physical health. Eat healthy by eating enough protein, fruits, and vegetables. Get enough sleep; your brain continues to work on problems while you are sleeping.