 To choose the right red lip color, you need to figure out what your skin tone is. Turn your arm over so you can look at the inside of your wrist, and examine your veins. If they’re greenish in color, you have warm skin. If they’re bluish in color, you have cool skin. If they’re a mix of green and blue, you likely have neutral skin.Another way to determine whether your skin tone leans warm or cold is to consider what type of jewelry is most flattering against your skin. If you look better in gold, you likely have warm skin. If you look better in silver, you likely have cool skin. If both look good against your skin, you likely have neutral undertones.
If you have neutral skin, you’re lucky -- virtually any red shade will look good with your skin tone, so you can have fun trying a variety of shades.;
, If you have warm undertones in your skin, you should choose a red lip color with similar warm tones. That means choosing reds that have orange, coral, copper, gold, or brown undertones in them.Warm red lip color shade names typically include words such as orange, golden, sunset, coral, or fiery.
If your teeth aren’t extremely white, you should avoid reds with orange tones in them. They have a tendency to make to bring out the yellow tones in teeth.
 If you have cool undertones in your skin, you should choose a red lip color with similiar cool undertones. That means choosing reds that have blue, pink, or plum undertones.Cool red lip color shade names typically include words such as cherry, raspberry, burgundy, wine, rose, or crimson.
A red lip color with blue undertones is an especially good option if your teeth are slightly yellow. The blue undertones help your teeth appear whiter.
 In addition to the undertones in the red lip color, it’s also important to match the depth of the shade with the depth of your skin color. If you create too much of a contrast, the red shade will look harsh. If you use a red that isn’t deep enough for your skin tone, it may not show up enough.If you have fair skin, stay away from extremely dark shades of red, which will create too much of a contrast with your complexion. A light or bright red lip color will be more flattering.
If you have medium skin, you can get away with most shades of red, ranging from light and bright to deep and rich.
If you have dark skin, avoid sheer or light reds that may not show up enough against your skin tone. Bright or deep, rich red shades are a better option.
 Matte lipstick has a fairly flat finish without any shine or shimmer. As result, it is very pigmented and tends to last longer on the lips than other lipstick formulas.Matte red lipstick doesn't provide much moisture so you should avoid it if you have dry, chapped lips.
You can apply matte lipstick directly from the bullet or use a lip brush to get more precision. A matte red lipstick also works well if you want to create a stained effect and apply the color with your finger.
 A cream lipstick is fairly pigmented and hydrating so it feels good on the lips. Because of the extra moisture, the red color won't last as long so you'll need to reapply periodically.A cream red lipstick is a good option if you have dry lips because it can help hydrate your lips.
 A sheer lipstick has very little pigment, so it's an ideal option if you're just getting used to wearing a red lip. The formula is also highly moisturizing so it can help hide dry, chapped lips.A sheer lipstick doesn't last very long on the lips at all, so you’ll need to reapply fairly often.
 If you want your red lip color to last as long as possible, it’s best to choose a liquid lipstick. They usually dry down on the lips to a matte finish, which typically stays in place for many hours.A liquid lipstick is likely going to be extremely drying. That means it will emphasize all of the lines in your lips, as well as any flaky, chapped areas. If you have dry lips, you should try another type of red lip color.
 A red lip gloss delivers color, shine, and hydration. While some glosses are highly pigmented, most are fairly sheer so they’re another good option if you’re new to red lip color. Keep in mind that lip gloss wears off the most quickly of any lip product, so you’ll need to reapply it regularly.Lip glosses are usually highly moisturizing, so a red gloss is a good option if you have dry lips.
 Because a red lip color will draw attention to your lips, it’s important to make sure that they’re smooth and flake-free. Rub a small amount of lip scrub on your lips in a circular motion to gently exfoliate them. Wipe your lips off with a damp wash cloth to remove the scrub when you’re finished.While you can purchase lip scrubs at the drugstore and beauty supply store, you can also make one from items in your kitchen. Mix 1 part olive oil with 1 part sugar, and apply it to your lips just as you would a commercial scrub.
You can also use a clean, damp toothbrush to exfoliate your lips. Just rub the brush lightly over your lips to remove any flakes.
 Once your lips are exfoliated, it’s important to lock in the moisture. Apply a hydrating lip balm to your lips, and give it at least 5 minutes to soak in before applying your other lip products.To make sure that there isn’t any excess balm on your lips that might make the red lip color slide off, blot your lips with a tissue after you’ve given the balm time to be absorbed.
 To keep the red lip color from bleeding outside your lip line, it’s important to use a lip liner. The liner also serves as a base for the lip color to stick to so it lasts longer. Trace around the edge of your lips with the liner, and then fill in the inside of your lips.For the richest red color, use a lip liner that matches the red lip color you’re using as closely as possible.
If you want to keep the look of the red lip color soft, line your lips with a nude liner that’s similar to your natural lip color.
 After you’ve lined and filled in your lips, it’s time to apply the red lip color. The best method of application will depend on the type of lip product that you’re using, but take your time so you can smooth the color on as precisely as possible. After you’ve applied the color, use a tissue to blot away any excess.If you’re using a traditional red lipstick, apply it directly from the tube for the most pigmented red color. You can also use a lip brush to apply the lipstick to edges of your lips for more precision. If you want to create a stained effect, rub your finger on the lipstick and then tap the color onto your lips.
If you’re using a red liquid lipstick, it likely comes in a tube with a doe-foot applicator. The tip is usually slightly rounded so you can easily apply the color along the edge of your lips precisely.
If you’re using a red lip gloss, it usually comes in a tube with a doe-foot or brush applicator. You can get a precise line along the edge of your lips with the applicator.
 After you’ve blotted your lips, some of the pigment may be removed. If you want the red lip color to look a more intense, apply a second layer of the product. Lightly blot your lips again, and you’re ready to go.If you’re using a liquid lipstick, make sure that the lip color is completely dry before you add a second coat.

