 If the dog is unable to get up, then she may accidentally soil herself. To keep her as clean and comfortable as possible, make sure she is lying on a well-padded bed. VetBed is ideal, as it wicks moisture away from the dog, so if she has an accident the urine is absorbed away from her body.Another alternative is to lie her on puppy training pads, as these absorb the urine and there is less of it to irritate her skin.
 Try not to leave your dog lying in urine for more than a few minutes. She will also appreciate a blanket bath, where you wash her back end with water to remove urine from her coat and skin. Not only will this keep her smelling sweet but it reduces the chances of infected skin because of urine scald and secondary infections., This may be necessary either to encourage a bed-bound dog to toilet at a convenient time so that you can clean up after, or if she has nerve damage that makes it difficult for her to pee. Never try to express a dog's bladder until you have been shown how to do this by a vet. This is because squeezing in the wrong place or applying too much pressure could cause serious damage such as rupturing an organ or bursting her bladder., The idea behind the technique is to apply gentle pressure to the bladder so that the resistance from the valve that stops the bladder leaking urine is overcome. The first skill to learn is locating the bladder. This is located at the back of her belly lying along the body wall. In small dogs feel for it with one hand, forming a 'C' shape with your thumb and fingers and placing them either side of the belly. With large dogs it takes two hands, one of either side of the body wall. Press gently inwards until you feel something that feels like a grapefruit.Now squeeze evenly across the bladder, Avoid using your fingertips, as this puts a lot of pressure in localized spots. Instead use the flats of your fingers (small dogs) or your palms (large dogs).
Apply ever increasing pressure until you see a stream of urine passing from the dog's vulva.Never apply more than moderate pressure or the level of pressure as demonstrated by the vet. If you have to exert severe pressure the dog either doesn't need to go, you are in the wrong place, or the dog has a problem which renders her unable to pee. Immediately stop, and contact your vet for advice., It is important to express the bladder regularly, typically two to four times a day. Follow your vet's advise about the frequency this should be done.
 A female dog with a back, pelvic or limb injury will be in pain. This pain will discourage her from wanting to move around and may inhibit her from being able to squat to go to the bathroom. No animal should be knowing left in pain, so alongside the mobility issue it is important she has adequate pain relief administered. Your veterinarian should prescribe pain relief. If the level of pain relief is appropriate the female dog will be better able to move around, and either squat to urinate by herself or accept assistance to urinate.


Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are most commonly used, such as Metacam (meloxicam), Rimadyl (carprofen), Onsior (robenacoxib). There drugs have a high safety margin when given with food, but should never be given on an empty stomach, as they can cause gastric ulceration.Always follow the instructions and dose given by your veterinarian closely. If the dog does not eat, or has sickness or diarrhea, then do not give the medication. NSAIDs are most effective against mild to moderate pain.
Broken bones are often extremely painful and so the dog may need a stronger painkiller. If the dog is already on a NSAID then another drug in combination often gives sufficient pain relief to help the dog be more mobile. A common addition is tramadol, as this is safe alongside an NSAID and give opioid strength pain relief.If the dog is in severe pain then she may be prescribed a fentanyl patch. Fentanyl patches are stuck onto the skin for slow release pain relief. They are most commonly used in veterinary hospitals, rather than in private homes. However, some vets will allow a pet home wearing one, under close supervision from clients they know and trust. Vigilance is crucial when using fentanyl patches, as the dog could potentially overdose if they chew and swallow a patch.