 Once you've found your thesis statement and have written that introductory paragraph, much of the hard work of the essay is over. Now, you'll have to jump into the body paragraphs that will develop the main points you've made in your thesis statement, and which will help inform or persuade your readers. You should have 3-5 body paragraphs or more, depending on the length of the essay. Each body paragraph should include the following:A topic sentence that tells the reader what the paragraph will be about.
Supporting details, evidence, facts, or statistics that develop the main point.
A concluding sentence that wraps up the ideas in the paragraph and transitions to the next body paragraph.
 Once you have your introduction and your three body paragraphs, you should write a conclusion that wraps up the ideas you've introduced and explained in your essay. The conclusion should do several things:Restate your thesis
Remind the reader of your main point
Refer back to an anecdote, statistic, or fact in your introduction (optional)
Leave the reader with something to think about beyond the words on the page

, Writing in the third person (unless you're told not to do so) is a very important aspect of writing a successful college essay. You should never say "I think..." or "I believe that..." or your argument will sound too weak or insubstantial. Instead of saying, "I think abortion should remain legal in the United States," you can say, "Abortion should remain legal in the United States," to make your argument sound more forceful.


You should avoid the first and the second person. Don't say "you" -- say "one," "he or she," or use the appropriate pronoun. Instead of saying, "You should spend 3-5 hours a week if you want to succeed in college," say, "College students should spend 3-5 hours a week studying if they want to succeed."

, Once you've written your rough draft, you should go back and revise the essay and check for any lapses in your logic, and unproved points, or any weak arguments. You may also find that not everything in the essay is relevant, that your ideas are repetitive, and that you may need to tweak your thesis a bit -- that's only natural.


Once you feel that the essay is solid, you can revise it for grammar and punctuation.

