 A lot of times when someone dies, others may have a hard time talking about them without getting upset. However, this makes those who do want to share stories feel isolated. If you feel comfortable talking about your friend, use their name in conversation. They lived and they were very important to you. That doesn’t have to change because they died., Holding on to an item that was important to your friendship can help you cope with your grief and feel closer to your friend. Reach out to their family in the weeks after the death. Ask if they will allow you to take a special item as a keepsake of your friendship.For example, you might take the book you lent them that they never returned, or the t-shirt they wore on the day you met. The best keepsakes will have symbolic value for the friendship.
 A great way to remember someone who has died is reliving the good times you shared with them. Spend some time thinking about special occasions you had with the person: birthdays, milestones, and even just days hanging out at home.Find others who were close to your friend, such as a boyfriend/girlfriend, sibling, or other friends. Talk to these people about them when you want to relive the memories.
 Another great way to your friend’s memory alive is by recreating the memories you shared with the person. Just because they are gone doesn’t mean you can’t continue to have lunch at the pizza parlor on Fridays or watch your favorite TV show. It might be hard at first, but you may find that visiting certain places or doing certain activities may help you feel closer to your friend.
 Include photos of your friend at different points in life. Also, include pictures of the two of you together. Write little captions or stories next to the pictures. Look at it when you are feeling down, and share it with other friends., If your friend liked riding their bike, find out when the next MS ride is, and ride in your friend's honor. Or, if they were a lifelong reader, start a book club in their memory. Raise money and start a scholarship fund in your friend's name. Find ways to honor your friend by keeping their legacy alive.