 The Cold War was the ongoing conflict between the 20th century’s two great superpowers, the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. The U.S. was a capitalist democracy, while the U.S.S.R. was a communist dictatorship. The two nations saw each other as mortal enemies. Instead of fighting each other directly, though, they fought a series of indirect proxy wars and conflicts around the world in Vietnam, Nicaragua, Cuba, Angola, and elsewhere.China was the other emerging superpower, and it officially sided with the U.S.S.R., though the two countries often disagreed. China and the U.S.S.R. both aided North Vietnam.
Ask a grandparent (or parent, if they are old enough to remember) what the Cold War was like. Ask questions like, “What did Americans think of the U.S.S.R.?” or “Did you know anyone who fought in Vietnam?”

, Vietnam had a long history of colonization. In the 1800s, France took over Indochina (what is today Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia). During World War II, they were pushed out by Japan, who then instituted an even more brutal colonization regime, resulting in the starvation of around 2 million Vietnamese people.France took over again briefly after World War II ended, but struggled to maintain control, and left in 1954 after their defeat in the Battle of Dien Bien Phu.


When France left, the peace treaty divided the country into two parts (North Vietnam and South Vietnam). Elections and reunification were scheduled, but did not occur.
In 1959, North Vietnam declared war on the South.
Vietnam’s struggle for unity and independence was part of a global struggle against colonial rule. India, Algeria, and Indonesia all fought anti-colonial wars following World War II.
Learning about colonization in Vietnam will help you understand why the Vietnamese were so suspicious and opposed to American intervention in their country.
 In 1964, two American battleships reported they had been fired upon by North Vietnam. Following these alleged attacks, President Lyndon Johnson sought approval to expand American military presence in Vietnam. After this incident, American involvement in Vietnam began to increase.Later reports revealed that there had been a small conflict between U.S. and North Vietnamese forces several days before the incident that President Johnson suggested demanded military response. Later, it was discovered that American ships had not been fired upon during this incident.
 The Gulf of Tonkin incident caused President Johnson to increase the number of U.S. troops in Vietnam. By 1967 there were about half a million U.S. troops in the country.One of the major turning points was the Tet Offensive, a large-scale military against U.S. and South Vietnamese forces. After the attack, Americans increasingly believed that they could not win the war and that new leadership was needed to take America out of Vietnam.
 As the war dragged on, it became less and less popular.President Johnson's high disapproval due to his stance on the war led him to decline seeking re-election in 1968. Richard Nixon was then elected President on a platform that promised to end the war. Finally, in 1973, American forces withdrew. North Vietnam finally prevailed over South Vietnam in 1975, and the country was reunified.

