 A huge, flouncy, complicated wedding gown can be extremely heavy and could even cause heat stroke if the weather is warm enough. A simple gown of a light material is best, and it will be easier to keep it clean and out of the sand.A column dress is a simple sheath that can be worn in many lengths, from full length to above the knee. These can be fitted loosely, to skim the body (best for larger figures), or snugly, to hug the body (best for tall, narrow figures).
An A-line gown is shaped like an inverted V, and is flattering for all figures. A gown with simple, uncluttered lines is best for a beach wedding.
A sleeveless gown with open shoulders is a good choice for beach temperatures. A halter top neckline is very appropriate for a less formal beach wedding.
Beach weddings are the perfect time to try a casual, bohemian dress in a short or maxi length. Try an unstructured babydoll silhouette, or a layered look with a crocheted top layer that shows a glimpse of skin.
 Heavy materials like brocade, jacquard, or velvet will be very uncomfortable at a beach wedding. Choose a lighter fabric that allows air to circulate, which will keep the bride from overheating or perspiring on her big day.If you like structured fabrics, try organza, or its slightly sturdier cousin gazar. Other good formal choices are shantung (a nubby, raw silk) or taffeta (a crisp, elegant material that rustles when it moves).
For a soft look, try chiffon (a transparent fabric usually used for sleeves and outer layers), georgette (a heavier version of chiffon), silk crepe, or lace.
Jersey is a stretch material that travels well because it does not crease easily. It tends to be very form-fitting.
Tulle can give you a lovely “ballerina” look, especially in a lovely tea length that would be convenient to wear on the beach.
 A long veil can be difficult to manage if it is windy on your special day. Unless you really need to wear a veil, try a fascinator or an arrangement of fresh, cut flowers in your hair., For a beach wedding, you will want your hair to cooperate and to look good for as long as possible. If it's very windy out, long hair or complicated styles might not last very long. Ask your stylist to arrange your hair in a tight, stylish updo that won't come undone in the wind. You could leave a few tendrils of hair loose, to soften the overall effect., The easiest way to have a beach wedding is for all parties to go barefoot, and then put your shoes on later, for the reception.If you can't stand the idea of going barefoot, simple, flat sandals are the next best thing.
If you do choose to go barefoot, consider laying out a fabric runner along the aisle to protect your feet from hot sand.
 A tuxedo is simply too hot and uncomfortable to wear at a beach wedding. Arrange for the groom, groomsmen, and ushers to wear light, breathable fabrics and save the tux for the reception.Try a lightweight suit made of seersucker, linen, or cotton.
Skip formal suits or tuxedos – choose an un constructed style that will be comfortable on the beach. A nicely fitting pair of slacks with a coordinating sport jacket would be appropriate for both groom and groomsmen.
Choose colors that match your color scheme, or go with neutral colors such as cream or off-white, almost any shade of blue, or a pale grey.
Ties will be uncomfortable in hot weather. Consider dressing up suit or sport jackets with a crisply folded pocket square.
 Because a beach wedding is an informal occasion, the bridesmaids can choose their own dresses or they can wear dresses to match your chosen color scheme.For design coherence, you have three main choices: have your bridesmaids wear matching dresses; let your bridesmaids wear any dress they like; or ask your bridesmaids to choose a style that flatters them, but in your chosen color.
Choose lightweight, comfortable fabrics such as cotton, linen, organza, or silk crepe.
For a formal beach wedding, select matching dresses in a more traditional silhouette. Sheath dresses are very popular, with a sleeveless or off-the-shoulder neckline. Skirt length can be anything from maxi to mini.
For a casual ceremony, bridesmaids can wear almost any style of dress that flatters them. The bohemian look is very popular currently, so you might try babydoll dresses or short, light dresses with halter tops.
 Wear a strong sunscreen like SPF 50, and reapply frequently. If you are having your makeup professionally applied, be sure to tell your makeup artist that you need to wear sunscreen. She may have some tips for you, or she may want to use different products that will stay put when applied over sunscreen.