 Braxton Hicks contractions are mild contractions that occur before labor begins. It can sometimes hard to differentiate between Braxton Hicks contractions and true labor.


Braxton Hicks contractions are typically short and not painful. They feel like a mild contracting feeling, similar to period cramps.Braxton Hicks contractions are not accompanied by any bleeding or leaking of fluids. They do not last particularly long, and they do not come at regular intervals. Sometimes, moving around or shifting positions can cause the contractions to stop.Braxton Hicks contractions usually show up later in pregnancy, around the 35th week. If you're unsure whether you're having Braxton Hicks contractions or true contractions, contact your OB/GYN., True contractions do not necessarily come after water breaking; they come at the beginning of labor. There are many ways to identify true contractions.


True contractions come in regular intervals. They generally begin 15 to 20 minutes apart and last about 60 to 90 seconds. As time goes on, they come closer together until you reach the active stage of labor where contractions are only two to three minutes apart.True contractions will not stop, even if you switch positions or walk around. They will be quite painful, and the pain will often spread to your lower back and upper stomach.Contractions will make interacting with others challenging. During a genuine contraction, you might not be able to talk or laugh at jokes., During the early stages of labor, contractions will be far apart. Your doctor will probably not advise you to come to the hospital or prepare for birth at home immediately. There are ways to cope with contractions when they're still in the early, mild stage.


Take a warm shower or bath. The water can help ease some of the pain; however, if your water has broken, talk to your healthcare provider before taking a bath.Try to distract yourself with daily activities. Go for a walk, go shopping, or watch a movie.If it's nighttime, try to sleep. You'll need energy later on as labor progresses and you need to work to push the baby out.