 If affording a doctor’s visit is a barrier to getting your child vaccinated, look for affordable options in your community. Many community health centers and public health clinics offer low-cost vaccinations, and groups who campaign for child vaccination might offer free vaccines at times. The Vaccines for Children program provides free or affordable immunizations through a doctor’s office for eligible lower income families.Check with your church, public health clinic, or community center for suggestions on local options for affordable care.
Get health insurance for your baby to make medical care more affordable. Medicaid is a good option for those struggling financially.
 Many parents worry that vaccines can make your baby sick or cause problems like autism; others wonder why their healthy child needs to be immunized. There are many misconceptions about vaccines. If you have any questions or concerns, speak to your doctor to alleviate your worry.

Immunizations can cause minor reactions like soreness, swelling and redness at the site of the injection. Your child may also get a low fever. This is not uncommon or dangerous, and it is not a sign that the vaccine is making your baby sick. It’s your baby’s immune system making the defenses it needs! Ask your doctor about things you can do to make your baby more comfortable after receiving a vaccine.
Other more severe adverse reactions, while rare, include fever-related seizure, encephalitis, anaphylactic reaction, and death. If your baby is having symptoms beyond the typical minor reaction in the hours, days, or weeks after a immunization call your pediatrician immediately., Each vaccine has conditions that may make your baby ineligible to receive it. For example, the flu vaccine contains egg protein. Thus, if your baby has a severe egg allergy, they shouldn't receive it. Your doctor can make alternate suggestions to protect your baby from illnesses if they cannot receive the vaccine., People in different parts of the world need somewhat different vaccines, based on what illnesses are more common there. Use this interactive tool created by The World Health Organization (WHO) to enter your country and get a custom vaccination schedule for anywhere in the world.The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has a similar tool for European countries., You and your infant will potentially need additional vaccines if you travel to another part of the world. This will ensure you are both protected from diseases in other countries that you don’t have at home. Get information from the CDC about what shots you need for travelling.Children under 1 year old may not be able to get certain vaccines. Talk to your doctor and consider this before making travel plans with children aged 0 to 12 months.
 Some parts of the world have less access to immunizations than others. The United Nations are working to improve coverage around the world through health-promoting groups like UNICEF, the WHO, Gavi, the vaccine alliance, other local agencies, and The Reaching Every District (RED) plan.If you live in an underserved area, always take advantage of services provided by these groups.