 Mesomorphs, or athletic, body types have shoulders that are slightly wider than the hips, a firm appearance, and proportionate limbs. People with this body type gain muscles readily and rarely gain fat., Multi-joint workouts work your whole body rather than just one set of muscles or limbs. For instance, instead of simply lifting weights, try playing a sport like tennis in which you must move both arms and legs. Other popular multi-joint workouts include lunges, bench presses, squats, and deadlifts., When training with weights, do a set of eight to 12 repetitions, then rest for 45 seconds. Do one or two more sets. Incorporate weight training into your workout routine two or three times weekly., Vary your intensity each time you do cardio. When you do low-intensity cardio, lengthen the time you spend on it to 45 minutes. When you do high-intensity cardio, reduce the time you spend on it to 30 minutes. Incorporate cardio into your workout three or four times each week., To do a curl, hold a dumbbell in one hand with your palm facing up. Keep your wrist straight. Bend your elbow to bring your hand close to your body. Keep your elbow close to your ribs throughout. Slowly lower the dumbbell by extending your elbow.You can sit or stand when doing curls.
Do three sets of eight to 10 reps.
 Calf raises are good for working the calf muscle. To get started, hold a pair of dumbbells and stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Let your arms hang straight at your sides and lift yourself up on your toes as high as possible. Slowly lower your heels to the ground.Repeat one set of 12 to 15 reps.
 Wide grip pulldowns require sitting at the wide-grip pulldown machine. Tuck your thighs beneath the thigh pads and keep your feet flat on the ground. Adjust the machine to an appropriate weight for you.Grab the bar. Lean back about 30 degrees. Pull straight down on the bar and touch it to your chest.
Do not lean back to bring the bar down. Only use your arms to do so, bending at the elbows with each repetition.

