 If you want to make your own dance routine, spend some time exploring different dance types. One fun type of dance his hip hop. Look into forming a hip-hop dance routine.


Dubstep is a type of music that involves percussion beats and bass patterns. Many hip hop dancers move to the beat of dubstep during their dances. Watch YouTube and other tutorial videos that show you how to "pop" to dubstep. This is important when compiling a hip hop routine.Breakdancing, which involves full use of the body, is also popular in hip hop. There are many online resources that show you basic break dance moves and how to incorporate them into a hip-hop routine.Attitude is important in hip-hop as well. Make sure you commit to each move and have confidence. Even if you don't feel like you've mastered a move yet, if you perform with confidence people might not notice., Modern dance can be another fun type of dance to incorporate into your dance routine. If you're concerned about coordination, modern dance can be fun as it encourages free movement.


You can freestyle to modern dance routines. You can move your body in response to themes like "Peace" or scenes like "the ocean." Move freely and pick positions that seem to reflect the theme.You can also make a modern dance routine with a group. Try to coordinate moves together or freestyle moves one at a time in response to a central theme or idea., There are many different types of dances you can use in a personal dance routine. Depending on your personal interests, look into different types of dance classes.


If you're interested in classic dance routines, the kinds of dancing that requires a partner, consider a ballroom dancing class. You'll learn classic routines like the waltz, tango, cha-cha, rumba, and more. You can manipulate these dances to your liking in your own personal routine.Jazz classes can teach you dances like the Charleston, the swing, and other fun routines. Once you master these types of dance routines, you can manipulate them and make them your own.Latin dances, like the salsa or flamingo, can also be fun. Look for latin dance classes in your area.Dances like ballet and tap dance require a certain level of mastery and come with very specific rules. If you're interested in tap dancing or ballet, taking classes is important if you want to create your own routine.If you want to learn a very specific type of dance and form your own routine, classes are important. You can learn some from watching videos online, but if you want to create your own routine based on a specific dancing tradition that requires a certain level of mastery. Having one-on-one instructions from a professional can really help you form your own routine.

