 There are two types of cough medicines: expectorants and decongestants. Decongestants are used to temporarily dry nasal passages. An expectorant thins out and loosens mucus in your chest, thus helping to induce a productive cough. Look for one with guaifenesin.The FDA advises against giving cough or cold medicine to children under 4 unless directed by a doctor.Additionally, pregnant and nursing mothers, and those over 60 or who have chronic respiratory problems, asthma, heart disease, high blood pressure or an enlarged prostate should take cough medicines with care. Serious side effects can occur., Consider using an antihistamine if your chest congestion is allergy-related. They help to temporarily dry up nasal passages. There are two generations of antihistamines. The older ones, such as chlorpheniramine and diphenhydramine (Benadryl), typically make people sleepy. They can also create concentration problems. Second-generation antihistamines, such as cetirizine and loratadine, have fewer side effects. They can still make you drowsy, though.


Drink extra fluids while taking an antihistamine due to their drying nature., Chest rubs like Vicks VapoRub can help loosen mucus and reduce coughing. Buy one containing camphor or menthol and apply it to your neck and throat. Never take them internally. Homeopathic chest rubs containing eucalyptus and myrrh can also be helpful.You can also make your own by mixing one part mustard powder and two parts all-purpose flour with just enough water to create a paste. Spread the paste on a dish towel, fold it and place it on your chest.
You can substitute an egg white for the water. Either way, never apply the paste directly to your skin as this can cause serious skin irritations., Look for one with menthol, which will help numb the back of your throat and decrease your cough reflex. Remember, however, that you don’t want to suppress a productive cough unless it’s seriously impairing your breathing or sleep.You can also try sucking on horehound candy if you have a productive cough. Horehound acts as a natural expectorant.
Try slippery elm lozenges for a dry cough. It will coat your throat and reduce coughing.Give Cold-EEZE a try. The active ingredient in the lozenges and sprays is zincum gluconium. Clinical studies have shown that Cold-EEZE can reduce the length and even the frequency of the common cold., There is a variety on the market, and you should select one based upon the type of cough you have. You can also make your own. For productive coughs, use herbs that act as natural expectorants, such as horehound, thyme, mullein, fennel and ginger.Simply slice 3 lemons and place them in a pan with honey and one of these herbs. Simmer it until the syrup thickens, strain it and let it cool.You can make another easy expectorant cough syrup by covering a thinly sliced onion with honey, letting it stand for 10-12 hours, and then straining the concoction. Take one tablespoon several times per day., Decongestants containing dextromethorphan or pseudoephedrine, saline nasal sprays, and nasal steroids help to temporarily treat nasal congestion.Antibiotics can be used but only if a viral infection becomes bacterial.


Don’t use decongestant nasal sprays for more than 3-4 days because they can lead to rebound congestion.