 A vital part of studying is repetition. Test yourself on difficult material during each study session. Make flashcards with vocabulary words, dates, and other facts. Use these to test your knowledge. If you have a math exam, do practice tests in your math book. If your teacher or professor provides practice exams, take as many as possible.


Try to make your own practice tests. Review the types of question your teacher asked on quizzes and try to replicate them in your own words. Make a test for yourself, containing 10 to 20 questions, and then complete the test.
If your teacher provides practice tests to help you study, take them home and do them on your own time.
Start well ahead of time and bring in your practice test to show your teacher. Ask her something like, "I've gone through my notes and made this practice exam to help me study for the test next week. Could you tell me if it's on the right track?" Your teacher isn't likely to tell you whether or not specific things will be on the test, but she will probably be happy to tell you whether you're studying the right areas. And your hard work and preparation are sure to impress!

, The most difficult subjects require the most mental energy. Start with this work first. After completing harder materials, studying easier subjects will feel a lot less stressful., Study groups can be a great way to maximize your studying experience. However, keep in mind that you need to use study groups effectively in order for them to have the best effect.


You should structure study groups as you would an individual study session. Choose which materials to focus on and have set timeframes and breaks. It's easy to get distracted if you're working with groups of people. A schedule can help you stay on task.Work with people who you know are hard workers. Even the best planned study groups can fall apart if you choose to work with people who are distracting and procrastinate.
 Remember, there's no shame in asking for help if you need it. If you are continually struggling with a particular subject despite diligent studying, seek out help from another student, a tutor, a teacher, or a parent. If you're a college student, there might be free tutoring centers on campus dedicated to helping students with a particular subject like writing, language, or math., As studying is seen as a chore, allowing yourself breaks and rewards can help motivate you to study harder. Take breaks every hour or so to stretch your legs, watch television, surf the internet, or do some light reading. Provide rewards at the end of study sessions to motivate yourself to work harder. For example, if you study 3 days in a row treat yourself by ordering take out.