 Make sure that you get at least 8 hours of sleep, so you have enough energy to get through the day. Don't spend hours on the computer or phone. If you have late TV shows that you just need to watch, tape it and hit the sack. Not only will you feel better, you'll get rid of those dark circles under your eyes. Keep all your electronics away from your bed, this may help you to get a more peaceful sleep.;
, Yes, even on Saturdays and Sundays, because your body will have a good rhythm and know when to wake up. Your body needs time to naturally adjust to the time so that you will arise; thus if you wake up at the same time everyday, you won't feel tired. That's why you need at least 2 weeks in the summer to get used to waking up early for school.
, An alarm clock is key to waking up at the same time and establishing a healthy regime. Don't get an alarm clock that beeps like crazy and is bound to drive you insane in the morning. If your alarm clock irritates you in the morning, you will have a bad start to the day. Getting a radio alarm clock is usually the best solution. You’ll be awakened by the sound of your favorite station and you can feel free to listen to some tunes before making the decision to get out of bed. However, a regular alarm clock with an ordinary alarm will work just fine if you find yourself falling asleep rather than waking up to your favorite tunes. Place your alarm clock somewhere out of reach so you’ll have to get up to stop the alarm rather than rolling over and pressing the snooze button.


If you don't have a radio alarm clock, keep your iPod and a set of speakers ready for you to turn on and jam out while getting ready. But don't turn up the music too loud! It will damage your ears.
 It wakes you up. Rub your palms against each other and place them on your eyes, back of your neck. This will help you to activate the pressure center and keep you energetic throughout the day. Try doing 10 jumping jacks or 20 sit-ups right after waking up. If you need to click the snooze button only do it twice so make sure you have your alarm set a bit earlier than usual.
 If you walk into the bathroom and find dark circles and tired eyes staring back at you, splash ice cold water on your face to wake yourself up. This is also a good time to wash your face, so you'll look even better during the day.
 A shower wakes you up and maintains good hygiene, so you can go to school looking and feeling great. If you don't have enough time or don't want to take a shower in the morning, it's best to splash your face with ice cold water to wake yourself up. You can also take a shower at night and wash up in the morning for great hygiene.
 Breakfast is the main source of energy for the whole day and the most important meal of the day. Eating a nutritious breakfast is essential for a healthy, balanced diet. Studies show that eating breakfast prepares you for the day ahead both mentally and physically. Eating breakfast first thing in the morning helps to stabilize blood sugar levels, which control appetite and energy. Skipping breakfast can lead to tiredness, fainting spells, lack of concentration and poor performance at school, college, university or work. It also means that you are more likely to snack on unhealthy foods such as chips or cookies before lunch. If you're unable to eat breakfast in the morning make sure you have a nutritious, energy bar on the way to school or prepare it before you go to sleep.
 Brushing your teeth prevents cavities and bad breath. Use a mint toothpaste for a fresh-feeling mouth, and rinse afterwards. Brush your teeth every morning.
 Flossing your teeth can always keep your teeth strong and healthy.