 Keeping busy shouldn’t be a problem for most college students, what with classes, projects, homework, social activities, part-time jobs, etc. However, make a concerted effort to fill your free time when in a long distance relationship, so that you aren’t sitting around pining for your significant other.Keeping busy provides a distraction from the pain of separation, but it also provides opportunities to make friends, get involved in clubs and activities, and embrace the college experience.
Sitting around all the time wishing you were back home with your boyfriend or girlfriend won’t be good for your college experience, and it probably won’t do your relationship any good either.;
, No matter if you are single or romantically attached, time management is a crucial skill for a college student. When you factor in the demands of a long distance relationship, the importance of scheduling and utilizing your precious time wisely only increases.Plan ahead for mutually-beneficial times for regular phone calls and the like. During a call, try to multitask without removing focus from your boyfriend or girlfriend; talk while you walk on a treadmill, for instance.
Plot out your visits home ahead of time so that you can ensure sufficient time to spend with your parents and family, while also sharing as much time as you can with your boyfriend or girlfriend.
 Regular visits give a long distance relationship a revitalizing "shot in the arm." However, excessive pressures or demands regarding visits can be damaging to both the relationship and your college experience.Recognize the time and monetary commitments that are required of a visit by your "sweetheart." Don't demand more of either than what your boyfriend or girlfriend can afford.
If it helps, agree upon "ground rules" for the frequency of and expectations for visits. Work in visits around busy times for either or both of you (midterms, big class presentations, etc.).
 Whether you’re in a relationship or not, college is a big step in your development as an individual. There’s no guarantee that your relationship will make it in the long run, but you can be sure that you will regret not making the most of your time in college.Always wanted to join a band? Do it. Feel like challenging yourself with an elective biochemistry class? Go for it. Want to write for the student newspaper? Give it a try. These kinds of opportunities for “tasting” new and different experiences don’t come around all that often in life.
 Don't miss out on enjoying your time in college. Try new things. Make new friends. Go new places. Sure, it would be great if you could do them with your “sweetheart” by your side, but depriving yourself of happiness out of misguided loyalty to your significant other is likely to only build resentment on your part.You shouldn't feel guilty about trying new things and enjoying yourself while your significant other is far away. If he or she can’t support your efforts to “find yourself” and maximize your experience, then the relationship may not be built to last anyway.
A supportive boyfriend or girlfriend will want you to be happy and have a good time, but even the most secure boyfriend or girlfriend may feel a bit jealous. Make sure you talk about and also carve out actual time for fun activities you can share from a distance or when you get to be together.
 Whether you’re starting college when you’re 18 or 35, you won’t emerge from your time at school as the same exact person. You will grow and change, your partner will grow and change, and so will your relationship. This is what is supposed to happen. In successful relationships, people learn to adapt to each other as they grow. In the relationship, people can also grow together, which can be a challenge for long-term relationships. Making an effort to concentrate on adapting and growing together will help the relationship. People and relationships that do not adapt and grow will not last.

You shouldn’t assume that your relationship is doomed when you head off to college, but you also should accept that it may be for the best if it does end. It might strengthen as the two of you mature and change, or it might weaken. Only time will tell.
 Try to maintain a consistent contact schedule in regards to phone calls, texts, emails, etc. Fill some of the time you would be spending in each other’s presence with alternate forms of contact.Obviously, many things will change in your relationship when you are far apart. Amid all those changes, finding and holding onto familiar habits and activities can provide reassurance that the core elements that support your partnership remain strong.
 It's easy to lose track of what's going on in your partner's life when you're far apart. It's also easy to lose track of how long it's been since you said "I love you" with real passion or gave him or her a surprise gift.


Send flowers or gifts occasionally if that’s something you normally do, or send a weekly text of encouragement before your boyfriend or girlfriend heads off to that terrible weekend part-time job.
 It’s not quite the same as being cuddled up on the couch together, but watching the same favorite show at the same time while talking or texting back and forth can help fill a bit of the separation void. Even the admittedly old-fashioned, lo-tech notion of looking up at the same starry sky at the same time may do the trick.You can also try taking up the same new hobby or activity in your separate locations. It could be anything from karate to stamp collecting. You don’t necessarily have to be doing the new thing at the same time; just commiserate about your experiences each evening or week.
Specifically for the college setting, you may want to take the same elective class during the same semester. You can talk about the similarities and differences, and help each other out to some degree in learning calculus or trying to recall the French you took in high school.
 Make the most of your visits with each other, but don’t make it feel as though every second has to be maximized to its absolute fullest. Just hanging out, watching TV, or doing other things you normally do together is good also.Focus on enjoying each other's company when you get the chance. This is your opportunity to be comfortable, relaxed, and secure together. Don't add unnecessary pressure or awkwardness.
 You may assume that cheating or becoming too busy to keep in touch usually doom long distance relationships that don’t last. Instead, it is usually the lack of connection — not just physically, but the emotional sense that you’re sharing life’s experiences together. Work to strengthen the bonds that are already strong in your relationship, and they can help make up for those that are weakened by the distance.Focus especially on building and maintaining trust, which is almost always challenged by a long distance relationship. Without a trusting foundation to begin with, a long distance relationship is in jeopardy from the start.
 Don't let suspicion, jealousy, or your own busy schedules prevent you from supporting each other fully as you navigate your separate college lives. Especially when you are separated by distance, your partner needs and deserves your encouragement and support.The first step towards support is awareness. Know what’s going on with your significant other (midterms, homecoming, etc.) and take a genuine interest in his or her successes, opportunities, and challenges.
 Being in a long distance relationship can make it easier to forget about your significant other’s faults and foibles and put him or her on a pedestal. But that’s not the person you took an interest in. Keep looking at your partner as the wonderfully imperfect person he or she is.


There is actually some benefit to idealizing your absent partner to a degree, as it helps you to deal with the challenges and stresses of separation by giving you a positive perception to cling to. However, make an effort to idealize by emphasizing your partner’s good qualities and inner beauty, not by transforming him or her into some flawless creature.If you imagine your partner as an unrealistically perfect person during your time apart, you're going to be disappointed every time you do get to spend time together.
 Honesty is the foundation of any healthy relationship, and may be even more important when distance is involved. Don’t pretend that being apart isn’t a challenge, or doesn’t cause you stress or even doubts. Overly idealizing the relationship instead of dealing with it openly as-is will not provide any lasting benefits.If you’re feeling jealous because your significant other seems to be having so much fun without you around, talk about it. Openness about your feelings will either strengthen your bond or expose issues that need to be dealt with.
Distance can make it easier to hide your true feelings, but they will eventually come out anyway. Use the challenge of separation as an opportunity for relationship growth, not as an excuse to conceal things that need to be addressed.
 Before you even begin the long distance portion of your relationship, it is probably best to make sure you are both “on the same page” regarding its status. This can help calm anxieties for both of you, and also nips the “But I thought we both agreed we weren’t 100% exclusive” excuse in the bud.Especially if you are in a relatively new relationship, have a frank discussion about status and expectations. Is it okay to see other people too? Don’t assume that you both see things the same way.
Also, are there expectations about the frequency of calls, visits, and other forms of contact? What would constitute “not trying hard enough” or “giving up” on the relationship?

, No matter how much you care about your absent boyfriend or girlfriend, you’re going to at least occasionally notice that cute guy in the lunchroom or feel an urge to flirt back with the girl in the bookstore checkout line. No one is immune to flashes of temptation, but people in committed relationships tend to be able to brush these aside more quickly — often by unconsciously emphasizing less appealing elements (minor appearance flaws, personality quirks, etc.) of a potential romantic temptation.Don’t lock yourself in your dorm room to avoid temptations. Instead, practice consciously pointing out (to yourself) flaws and less desirable elements in people who trigger a spark of romantic temptation. At the same time, practice envisioning times of close connection and happiness with your partner when such feelings arise.
If you can’t stop feeling romantic temptations everywhere you turn, that may be a sign of a weakening attachment to your partner. Take time to consider whether this is an inevitable decline or something that can (and should) be confronted.
 Like temptation, jealousy is another natural component of even the strongest relationships, and especially long distance ones. Jealousy, grounded in shortcomings in your self-confidence, may make you see many of your absent partner’s new college friends or classmates as potential romantic rivals. Accept this as reality and work to recognize and be as rational as possible about it.


Jealousy can make you unconsciously shift your perception of yourself to match what you believe are the desirable qualities in the person you see as a romantic rival. (That is, you basically change how you view yourself to replicate what you think is enticing your partner.)Instead of letting unfounded jealousy change you, work to recognize and rationally consider whether your worries about a potential romantic rival have any basis in reality. Most of the time they likely will not. In any case, talk to your partner about your feelings; he or she almost certainly feels jealousy from time to time as well.
 Yes, there is a good chance that your long distance relationship won’t last — but only because the same is true for any relationship. College is a time for new opportunities and experiences, and meeting new people, whether your boyfriend or girlfriend is in a dorm room 100 yards or 100 miles away.Some people spend their lives with their college sweethearts, and many don’t make it past Thanksgiving of freshman year.Accept that either is possible and focus on what you can control. Give the relationship the effort it deserves, and if it doesn’t work out, chalk it up as another one of the many learning experiences you’ll have during this time of your life.

