 The size of a first aid kit depends on how it is being used, and how many people will use it. In general, if your fist aid is coming with you on a camping excursion it should be big enough to stock adequate supplies for everyone in attendance but also lightweight and portable.If you're backpacking alone or with one or two other people, keep it on the smaller side as the less items in your backpack the better. Added weight can cause back strain and fatigue that can interfere with your journey.
If you're camping with a big group, family sized first aid kits are available online and at camping and department stores.
If you're using an RV or a car camper, you should consider investing in a car emergency kit, sold online or in camping stores, that includes car essentials like cable ties, bungee cords, and spark plugs in the event of an automobile emergency.;
, First aid kits come in all shapes and sizes, and are built from a variety of materials. While some people use their backpacks/totebags or cardboard boxes as first-aid kits, for camping you will need a waterproof container that seals shut. Go for materials like plastic, metal, and tin. Remember, size matters. Base what you use as a container on the number of fellow travelers and the length of your trip. If you're comfortable crafting a kit yourself, possible containers include:


Lunch boxes, food tins, tackle boxes, and other food storage containers, reusable or disposable. Very helpful are First Aid boxes from Stock of the Army Medical Corps. Newer versions are plastic-made and have a tightening gasket plus the Red Cross badge outside.
A zipper top clear plastic bag.
Clean plastic food containers., If you're not into DIY creations, purchase a first aid kit. Costs vary depending on size, whether the kit is stocked, and its material.


You can find first aid kits as many mass merchandise retailers, such as drug stores, grocery stores, discount stores, and convenience stores.
Speciality retailers, such as outdoor and camping stores, can provide first aid kits that are camping specific. The employees should also be able to answer any questions you have, so this would be a great option if you're new to camping.
First-aid kits are available online. However, you should avoid purchasing a first-aid kit online if you're unfamiliar with camping and do not know exactly what you're looking for., You need to be prepared for accidents while camping, and having supplies ready in the event of a wound or a burn is important. Get these items together for your kit:


Bandages, in assorted sizes and shapes. Make sure to include butterfly bandages, which will hold the edge of a deep cut together, and triangular bandages to create slings or hold dressings.
Blister pads
Gauze pads
Elastic bandages for wrapping sprains
Moleskin
Q-tips
Antiseptic wipes
Antibiotic cream , e.g. PVP Iodine solution and / or ointment.
Burn ointment
Rubbing alcohol, to clean tools such as tweezers in the event they are needed for an injury
Hydrogen Peroxide about 3 % as solution.
Some plastic vials with sterile NaCl 0,9% solution may be very helpful to rinse dirt away from the eyes or for cleaning a dirty wound as 1st step care.
 While on the trail, anything you need for your personal medical care should be packed in a first aid kit.Any prescription medications you or your fellow travelers use.
Over-the-counter pain management medication, like aspirin and ibuprofen.
Gastrointestinal meds, such as antacids and anti-diarrheal medication.
Antihistamines in the event of allergic reactions, e.g. Hydrocortisone Cream as OTC.
Topical antibiotic cream to treat small, shallow wounds.
 While camping, you will need a variety of tools to get through snares and wounds on the trail. In your fist aid kid, you should store:


Tweezers
Scissors
Magnifying glass
Safety pins
Duct tape
Needle with thread, in the event repairs are needed
Medical gloves, which are needed for handling unsanitary materials
Waterproof matches and fire starter
Water purification tablets, in the event you run out of water and need to use stream or lake water
Small-edge razor blade
Fingernail clippers
Flashlight
A variety of batteries
Emergency blanket, which is an aluminum style reflective blanket to have on hand if temperatures drop dangerously low or if you get wet, Depending on weather and other conditions, you may need some of the following creams and sprays on your trip:.


Anti-itch creams or sprays, particularly those that help relieve itching and pain from bug bites and contact with poisonous plants
Burn relief sprays
Petroleum jelly for chafing
Lip balm
Sunscreen

, These additions are optional, and depend whether you need them for your personal care.:


Epi-pen, if you suffer from severe allergic reactions.
Multivitamins, if you have a special diet plan.
Snake-bite kit if you're hiking in an area where snakes are present.
Dog boots, if you're hiking with a dog. These can protect their feet on harsh terrain.
Baby wipes, if you have a small child.
Anti-chafing of ant-friction cream, if you're hiking in humid environments.
 Depending on what the weather will be during your camping trip, special supplies might be needed. Make sure to check the forecast before setting out.


If you're camping in hot or humid conditions, bring waterproof sunscreen and lip balm that is at least SPF 15, coolers for drinks and food, and clothing made from light fabrics like nylon and polyester.If you're camping somewhere cold, bring chapstick and moisturizer as winter can lead to dry, irritated skin., Group items together based on their usability. That is, keep your medical supplies in one section, your burn wound and care supplies in another, and so on. If you bought your first aid kit online or from a retailer, they should have separate sections built in. If not, you can glue in cardboard or plastic as a barrier or keep items in small plastic bags together. Organization is important as, in the event of an emergency, you should be able to locate needed items fast.
 Some times in your first aid kit need to be sealed in plastic bags before being stored. Make sure you know what to bag.


Anything with a strong scent, like lotion and some antifungal creams, should be bagged to mask the smell and deter predators.
If you're camping at a faraway location and taking your first aid kit on a plane, you'll need travel sized versions of liquids, gels, and creams. For carry-on, all liquids must be in containers of 3.4 ounces or less and these bottles must all be placed together in a ziplock plastic bag. This bag can be no more than one quart in size., The night before you leave for your camping trip, make sure all items in the fist aid kit are stores and ready. Make sure medications are not expired, batteries are in working order, tweezers and other tools are sharp and ready.