 Use a vegetable brush to scrub the yams to remove dirt and roots. Rinse the yams under cool running water. Do not peel them yet; you will do that after you cook them. Because of this, it's important that the yams are clean.Take a look at the yams to make sure they are fresh. Use a paring knife to slice off any bruised or black spots.
Leaving the peels on will help the yams cook evenly while keeping the flesh intact. If you'd prefer to peel the yams first, your candied yams will taste delicious but won't have a firm texture.;
, Use a large pot big enough to fit all of the yams. Fill the pot with enough cold water to cover the yams by about an inch. Make sure the water is several inches from the rim of the pot, or it will bubble over as the yams cook.
 Place the pot over high heat and bring the water to a full boil. Boil the yams for about 20 minutes, until you can easily poke into their centers with a fork. The yams should be tender, but not mushy.
 When the yams are ready, remove them from heat and drain the water from the pot. Keep the pot close by; you will be putting the yams back into the pot later one.

If you're in a hurry, transfer the yams to a cooking rack to cool off.
Otherwise, just keep the yams in the pot while you begin making the glaze.
 When the yams are cool enough to handle, remove the peels with your fingers. They should easily come off in strips. Try to keep the flesh of the yams intact as you peel. Keep going until all of the yams are peeled.
 Set the yams on a cutting board. Use a paring knife to slice the yams into ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1.27 centimeters) thick discs. The discs should all be the same thickness. The sizes of the discs will vary according to the shape of the yams which taper at the ends., Keep the pot covered, so that the yams don't dry out or lose color. You will be mixing the glaze into the yams later., Place the sticks of butter together with the sugar in a medium saucepan. Turn the burner on medium or medium low to melt the butter. The butter and sugar will cook together to create a glaze perfect for classic candied yams.Cutting the butter into smaller cubes will help it melt faster.
 Once the butter melts, the glaze will begin to bubble up and change texture. Stir constantly until the sugar completely dissolves, but the glaze is still quite runny. Remove the glaze from heat when it is smooth and pourable.


If you overcook the glaze, it will caramelize and become hard. Remove it from heat before it begins to thicken.
You can keep the glaze from caramelizing by keeping the heat low and stirring constantly.
 Be sure that the yams are coated evenly. Use a spoon to gently mix the yams and the glaze so that all the yam pieces get thoroughly coated.

Sweeten your yams to taste. You will have enough glaze to make very sweet, sticky candied yams. If you'd prefer, use only half of the glaze to keep the dish from being too sweet.
Don't overmix the yams and the glaze. The soft-cooked yams will fall apart if you stir too much.
 Pre-heat your oven to 400°F (205°C). Once the oven reaches the right temperature, put the yams into a casserole dish, and bake them for 20 minutes. The glaze will caramelize on top of the yams, and give them a slightly crispy texture., Pour the candied yams into a large bowl or onto a platter. Serve immediately, while the yams are still hot and steaming. If you'd like, serve the yams with a dish of extra glaze on the side.
 This classic Southern preparation is a hit at holiday parties. Adding marshmallows to candied yams makes them sweet enough to serve as dessert. Here's what to do:

Pour the candied yams into a baking dish.
Top the yams with a layer of mini marshmallows.
Place the baking dish in the oven. Broil until the marshmallows are melted and slightly brown on top, about three minutes.
Remove from the oven and serve.
 Oatmeal crunch provides a nice contrast to the soft sweetness of the yams. You bake the candied yams with a dry oatmeal topping that bakes up into a crispy crust. To make it, follow these steps:Pour the candied yams into a baking dish.
Mix 1/2 cup (50 grams) oatmeal, 1/4 cup (50 grams) firmly packed brown sugar, and 2 tablespoons diced butter. Spread the topping evenly over the candied yams.
Bake the yams at 400°F (205°C) until the topping is crispy and brown, about 20 minutes. Remove the yams from the oven and serve hot.
 If you don't want to mess with the texture of your candied pecans, you might be up for experimenting with the flavor. The sweet, sticky glaze provides a good opportunity to play with your favorite flavors. Try stirring in one of the following flavors after you remove the glaze from heat:


1 tablespoon bourbon
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg or cloves
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper

, Candied yams are great on their own, but you may want to spice them up a bit with some extra mix-ins. These add new textures and crunch to an otherwise soft, sweet dish. Try stirring in 1/2 to 1 cup (50 to 100 grams) of one of these mix-ins:


Dried cranberries
Toasted pecans, walnuts or almonds
Diced pineapple
Diced apple

