 For example, learn where your cheek bones are and where your hairline is. This will help with further steps.;
, You may need a sighted person to assist you with this. An in-depth list of products you might want are listed in the Things You'll Need section.
 This is optional but strongly recommended.
 First, wash your hands. Make sure they are cold, as this helps you feel where your putting your makeup.
 If you use moisturisers, apply them. Wash your face. Do what ever you usually do with your face.
 Ideally, a table. Place any protective items on the table. Also, it may be useful if you place something you don't mind getting messy on your clothing., This may be difficult. First. if you use a liquid foundation, tip the bottle slightly so that a few drops come out. Make sure it's not too much. Gently spread the foundation between your fingers. Then apply in this way:


Circular motions on chin.
Circular motions on cheeks.
Small circle motions on nose.
Circular motions from nose to temples.
Circular motions on forehead.
Small circular motions under nose. Don't apply too much in this area as it tends to lie here. Make sure you rub your foundation in well.
 If you use a powder, either a foundation or for over the top of your foundation; you will need to apply this correctly as well. First, get your powder brush and get some powder on it. Gently spread this on your face. Wait until you believe it has covered your whole face and then rub it in, but not too much.
 Smile big and feel just under your eyes. When you feel the apple of your cheek, your cheek bone, drag your blusher brush from here towards your ear. Blend your blusher slightly by gently rubbing it in but don't let it get too low on your cheek. Ideally no lower than the bottom of your nose.
 This is extremely difficult, but with practice, you will get the hang of it. Get some eye shadow on your applicator. Then place the brush on the inside of your right eye. Gently drag the brush from the inside to the outside of your eye. Do this as many times as you would like and until you think it's covered your whole eyelid. Repeat on your left eye.
 This is only for advanced makeup appliers. Pull the mascara applicator out of the bottle. Do not pump the lid; this gets air in to your mascara and makes it dry out very quickly. Next, place the pad of your finger on the very end of your applicator. Open your eyes. Gently place your finger against the bridge of your nose. Pull the mascara brush up your eyelash until you think that you have enough. Transfer over to the other eye. Note, you don't have to switch fingers; just place your same finger on the far left side of your eye. Remember to wipe off your finger with a makeup remover wipe. Give under your eyes a wipe as well. Try to keep your eyes open

, This one is easy. Just drag witch ever applicator you use across your lip a few times, then rub your lips together.
, Wash your hands again. Wash your table if need be.
