 You may have to buy one. Make sure that it's sturdy, and won't be breaking anytime soon. That will be for the evacuation kit. You will also need a first-aid kit. For this, you can just buy a small tackle box. Or if you already have one, make sure it's sanitary and you can just use that one.;
, You will need:


Food and Water

Food: Two weeks supply; place dry food in airtight containers (rotate every 3 months)
Usual treats (rotate every 3 months)
Water: Two weeks supply of water (store in dark place, rotate every 2 months). Estimate 1-2 pints a day depending upon your pet's size.
Food and water dishes
Spoons and can opener, if necessary


Restraint and Identification

Towels
Thick gloves (in case your pet is injured or very afraid)
Small transport cage, that your pet will not be able to chew out of. Do not attempt to transport your pet in his cage if it has branches, dishes, hide boxes, or other items that could injure your pet if the cage is jarred. Be sure the transport cage is escape-proof, with no sharp edges. Securely attach the following information indelibly printed: your name; phone number; address; a description of your pet (distinguishing marks, age, sex, species, etc.); the name of your pet; nutritional needs (someone rescuing your pet may not be familiar with what he eats); microchip ID or tattoo ID, if any; pet insurance policy number; and the address and phone number where you or a contact person can be reached if you are not at home.
Recent photographs with the same information that is on the pet carrier printed on the back (keep in a waterproof container, e.g., inside several ziplock bags). Include yourself in some of the photos to help you reclaim your pet, should he become lost.
Wire, pliers, and duct tape (to repair pet carrier)


Sanitation

Small litter pan, litter, and scoop (for rabbits)
Newspaper for lining the cage
Additional substrate
Paper towels
Dish soap
Disinfectant
Garbage bags
Plastic bags for holding waste (two weeks supply)


Care and Comfort

Evacuation cage (may be the same as the transport cage). Solid-walled cages such as aquariums will be more insulating.
Blanket and/or sheet to cover cage
Hide box or log
Toys
Hot water bottles to keep cage warm (empty plastic milk containers work well)
Heating pad and extension cord (preferably outdoor-approved)
Styrofoam cooler to help insulate your pet, if he is very small
Flashlight and batteries
Cage thermometer(s)


Records and Medications (store in a waterproof container)

List of phone numbers:
Your veterinarian
List of secondary veterinarians
"Pet-friendly" motels
Boarding facilities (Red Cross shelters do not allow animals)
Emergency clinic(s)
Database centers if your pet is tattooed or has a microchip
Animal poison control center(s)
Animal shelters in your area (in case you get separated from your pet)
Pet insurance policy number
Copies of proof of ownership papers (registration information, adoption papers, proofs of purchase, and microchip/tattoo information to store in the evacuation kit). List each of your animals and their species/breed, age, sex, color, and other distinguishing characteristics.
Medical records and/or list of medical needs, if your pet has a medical condition or is on medication
Two weeks supply of medication and any supplements in waterproof container (rotate every two months); have chemical ice packs and a small, insulated cooler if medication needs refrigeration
First aid kit



, You can put the carrier on top, or beside it if you can't fit it in.
 You will need:


Cotton Swabs
Cotton Balls
Sterile gauze pads
A supply of paper towels
A supply of "zip type" sandwich bags (in case you need to deliver a sample of some kind to a veterinarian.
A pair of small precision scissors
A pair of small precision tweezers
A small precision scalpel and supply of sterile blades. (Warning: Do not use this unless directed to do so by your rabbit's veterinarian! You could do more harm than good!)
Animal Toenail Clippers (You can get a pair of these at any good pet shop)
Syringes without the needle to administer medication, force-feed, or to give warm milk to a baby bunny. Also used to to wash and clean wounds
A supply of skeptic powder to stop nails from bleeding if you should happen to cut your rabbit's nails too close.
A plastic medicine dropper
A supply of Betadine (to clean and disinfect wounds)
A tube of Neosporin to dress wounds.
A tube of Petromalt (to help dissolve hairballs)
A stethoscope to listen to you bunny's digestive system and monitor him/her for GI Stasis
The business card of your primary and secondary veterinarian and emergency 24 pet clinic (if there is one in your neighborhood) taped to the inside cover of the kit or the phone numbers displayed on the lid.
 Then you will have easy access. Place the whole thing somewhere easy to reach and near the door. Now you're done!

