 The signs that a cat has a bladder problem, and possibly bacterial cystitis, include:


Constant squatting to urinate, but only producing small volumes of urine with each attempt.
Blood stains in the cat litter or blood in the urine.
Discomfort when passing urine, often manifested as growling or swishing the tail.
Urinary accidents, such that a well-trained cat starts leaving puddles in inappropriate places.
A strange smell to the urine. Sometimes infected urine loses its recognizable urine smell and becomes "fishy" smelling.;
, There are relatively few ways the bladder can respond to problems and so there is a significant overlap in symptoms between bacterial urinary infection and bladder stones, polyps, cancer, and idiopathic cystitis (a neurologically driven form of cystitis).


Therefore, if a cat shows any signs of urinary discomfort it is important to get her checked out by a veterinarian. The vet can then decide what further action is necessary in order to determine the nature of the problem.
 Investigations to confirm a diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis include:



Urine culture: This can give a definitive answer as to whether infection is present or not.

Urine sediment analysis: A urine sample is centrifuged to concentrate the sediment, which is then examined under a microscope. This helps identify crystals in the urine which could chaff the bladder lining and cause inflammation.

Radiography: This involves taking x-rays of the urinary tract to look for bladder stones and any abnormalities of the bladder shape, size, or position.

Ultrasound: This test is the gold standard test for identifying bladder infections because it is sensitive at detecting bladder stones, and gives a picture of the thickness of the bladder wall, and can provide images of abnormalities such as bladder polyps or cancer.
 Antibiotics belong to a family of drugs which either kill bacteria or inhibit their growth. There are many different types of bacteria and each is sensitive (i.e. their growth is inhibited or the bacteria are killed) by different antibiotics.


When using antibiotics, the gold standard is to culture the urine to find exactly which antibiotic the bacteria are sensitive to.
Targeted use of antibiotics in this way helps decrease the likelihood of bacteria developing antibiotic resistance.
 At first presentation of a cat with no previous history of bacterial cystitis, it is acceptable to use a broad spectrum antibiotic and give treatment for 10-14 days.


The urine will usually be cultured seven days into the treatment, and if the bacteria are resistant to the antibiotic use, the vet will recommend switching antibiotics at that point.
 The broad spectrum antibiotics used in first presentation cases of bacterial cystitis are typically the potentiated penicillins such as amoxicillin–clavulinc acid, the cephalosporins, or potentiated sulphonamides.


Amoxicillins are bactericidal (kill bacteria) and act by inhibiting cell wall synthesis. A cat weighing less than 6 kg commonly takes 50 mg of potentiated penicillin by mouth twice daily.
A course of 10-14 days duration is ideal to ensure all the bacteria are killed off, thus reducing the chance of bacterial resistance developing.
It is particularly helpful to give the evening dose just before bedtime, so that the antibiotic sits in the bladder overnight and has maximum contact with the bacteria.
 If the cat has repeat episodes of cystitis, this is a sign that further investigation is needed.


Tests such as a urine culture, sediment exam, and a bladder ultrasound can rule out underlying weakness that is allowing bacteria to take advantage (such as a bladder stone damaging the bladder wall) and allow the vet to identify the correct antibiotic.
Culture is especially important if the cat has previously received antibiotics. In this case the cat may have a mixed infection where only some bacteria are killed, or the bacteria are resistant to the antibiotic used previously.
 If a bacteria is cultured that is resistant to the previous antibiotic, then the choice of antibiotic should be dictated by the results of the culture and by sensitivity testing.


A minimum of a 2 week course should be given, and 7 days into this course, the urine culture should be repeated. If the infection is still present at this point, a further 2 weeks of antibiotics is usually prescribed, with a repeat culture after 7 days.
The aim is to treat with antibiotics for a full 7 days after a negative culture. Sometimes this may equate to a 4-6 week antibiotic course.
 Bacteria produce toxins and waste products that irritate the bladder lining, resulting in inflammation. Encouraging the cat to drink more water helps to dilute these substances and decreases the amount of time they spend in contact with the bladder (because the cat urinates more often) which helps to reduce soreness and inflammation.


Simple things like changing the cat's diet from dry to wet food can help to increase water intake. Cats also prefer to drink from wide containers where their whiskers don't touch the sides.
Some cats particularly like running water so provide a pet drinking fountain. Chlorine and other chemicals in tap water inhibit some animals from drinking so consider switching to mineral water.
 There are several prescription diets available which optimize urinary health. Examples include Purina UR and Hills CD diets. These act by providing the optimum urinary pH (slightly acid, 6.2-6.4) which bacteria hate.


These diets are also low in minerals, such as magnesium and phosphate, which may chaff the bladder and cause soreness.
 If your cat refuses to eat a prescription diet you can help acidify the urine by the addition of neutraceuticals (food supplements with a pharmaceutical like benefit).


Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) or cranberry capsules are supplements that have such an action. The dose of vitamin C is 250 mg once a day and cranberry capsules are 250 mg twice a day, by mouth.
Do not exceed the recommended dose because making the urine too acidic also irritates the bladder lining.
 The bladder should protect itself from noxious bacterial toxins by producing a mucus-like bandage across the lining. However, in the course of bacterial cystitis this glycosaminoglycan or "GAG" layer gets damaged and less effective.


There is anecdotal evidence that neutraceuticals such as glucosamine help the GAG layer to repair itself and keep the cat more comfortable. Research is inconclusive, but over the counter products, such as "Feliway Cystease" is unlikely to do harm.
Cystease contains both tryptophan and glucosamine. Tryptophan helps to decrease stress in anxious cats, and stress is a factor in causing bladder inflammation. The dose is one capsule twice a day and each capsule contains 125mg N-acetyl glucosamine.
 An injection containing acetylglucosamine is available from your veterinarian for cats that won't take oral meds. The treatment, Cartrophen injection, is a licensed arthritis treatment for dogs - its use for cystitis in cats is off-label.


A typical dose is 0.15 ml by injection once a week for 4 weeks, then a monthly injection to maintain optimal bladder health.
 Homeopathy is subject to much debate as to its efficacy. However, if you are a believer, homeopathic veterinarians recommend infusions of parsley, dandelion, watercress, or bearberry.


Prepare the infusion by adding one teaspoon of the dried herb to one cup of previously boiled water. Let it stand for 20 minutes and then strain.
Give the cat 2 teaspoons twice daily with food for a week. The infusion must be made fresh every 2 days.

