 You can buy new, unlocked cell phones from retailers on the Internet or from retailers in your local area.


Go to any Internet search engine and enter keywords such as "buy new unlocked cell phones" or "unlocked cell phone dealers." The search results will then display venues and online retailers from which you can buy new, unlocked cell phones.
Search for cell phone retailers and dealers in your local area by consulting with the phone book or phone directory for your region.;
, If you plan on using your cell phone internationally, you will need a phone that supports the frequency bands of networks in other countries.


Buy a phone that contains the frequency bands of 900 and 1800 if you plan on using your cell phone outside of North America.
If you plan on using your phone in North America only, you must buy a cell phone that contains the frequency bands of 850 and 1900.
 Since you are not buying the unlocked cell phone directly from your service provider, you will need to verify how the cell phone can be repaired or returned if it does not function properly.


Verify the amount of time in which you can return the unlocked cell phone if you are not satisfied with the device. Some retailers may give you a month in which to return the device completely; whereas other retailers may only give you 14 days.
Verify the length of the warranty. Some warranties can last anywhere from a few months to a year. Some retailers or dealers may offer you an extended warranty on an unlocked cell phone for an additional fee, which can benefit you if you invest in a costly device with multiple features.
 Unlocked cell phones may not contain the software and settings needed to use certain services with your current cell phone provider.


Contact your cell phone provider for directions on how to modify and configure the Internet and picture message settings in your phone. Your cell phone provider may provide you with their network's Access Point Name (APN), which you can then program into your phone to properly utilize the Internet and picture messaging services.
Refer to the manual for your phone or contact the manufacturer directly if you need additional assistance with programming the Internet and messaging settings. If the representatives from your service provider are unfamiliar with the unlocked cell phone you purchased, you may need to seek guidance from other resources.

