 If your child’s allergies do not improve with home care or adjustments in their environment, you should consider getting OTC antihistamines. Antihistamines block the histamines in the air that are causing your child’s allergies. Some can be taken every four to six hours and some can be taken every 12 to 24 hours. Look for antihistamines at your local drugstore.You should talk to your child’s doctor before giving them antihistamines to make sure they are suitable for your child. Most OTC antihistamines are safe for use by children.
Some antihistamines such as Benadryl have common side effects that include drowsiness and dry mouth. However, other antihistamines such as Claritin are not sedating. You can give 10 mg of Claritin to children 6 years of age and older to prevent seasonal allergies.
You can give your child antihistamines such as Benadryl before bed, before allergy season kicks in, or whenever they are having allergy symptoms, while non-sedating antihistamines can be used during the day.
 If your child has allergy symptoms like a stuffy nose or blocked sinuses, you can get over-the-counter decongestants. Decongestants come in pill, liquid, or spray form. Make sure you follow the dosage instructions and do not give your child decongestants for a prolonged period of time. You can try combining a decongestant with antihistamine medication to address your child’s allergies.Keep in mind decongestants can cause your child to become hyper or have difficulty sleeping. If you are concerned about giving your child decongestants, talk to your child’s doctor.
 If your child’s allergies do not get better through over-the-counter medication, you may want to speak to your child’s pediatrician. The pediatrician may recommend taking your child to an allergist to determine the exact cause of their allergies. They may also suggest giving your child an allergy shot to reduce their symptoms.Often, a series of weekly allergy injections over a few months can help to reduce severe allergy symptoms in children.

