 If fuel is stagnated (sitting more than a couple of months) in the tank or storage container, it should not be used. When fuel sits without a stabilizer, it begins to break down and will not burn as readily as "fresh" gasoline. If this is the first running of the snow blower with the same gas since last winter, the gas is stagnated. Siphon fuel from the tank or open the fuel line at any convenient point between the tank and the carburetor to allow the fuel to drain into a container at least as large as the tank. Refill tank with fresh fuel as required by the equipment.;
, If not, add Drygas (or equivalent) fuel additive to keep any moisture (water) in the fuel system from freezing. Fuels consisting of an ethanol blend do not need this additive because the ethanol performs the same function. The ethanol combines with moisture to prevent it from freezing - and allows it to enter the combustion chamber where it is passed with exhaust gasses.
 In the many areas that experience wide variations of seasonal temperatures, retailers sell fuels with modified formulas that help compensate for these variations. Fuels purchased in the spring, summer and fall do not work as well as those formulated and made available for purchase in winter months.
 Replace with new, properly gaped spark plugs if needed. If a replacement spark plug is not available, the old spark plug may be cleaned with an old rag. Once clean and dry, prepare to remove dirt and any deposits left on the electrode surfaces by folding a fine grit sandpaper or emery cloth so both sides are rough. Slide the paper / cloth in the gap (between the electrodes), back and forth several times. Clean any deposits from the white ceramic insulator around the center electrode with a small sharp tool. Remove any left over grit and debris from the spark plug by spraying electrical contact cleaner, blowing off with compressed air or wiping clean with a rag. Reinstall the spark plug. Do not over tighten.
 Replace or vacuum if dirty or clogged. Clogged air filters reduce the air required by the carburetor from reaching the combustion chamber, and results in difficulty starting, rough running and black exhaust smoke. Typically, the air filter on a snow blower will long outlast its summertime counterparts, as there are significantly fewer particles of dirt, grass, leaves, pollen, etc. to be deposited on the filter in the wintertime.
 Spray starting fluid optionally with the air filter removed, directly into the carburetor. Starting fluid is a highly flammable liquid that can ignite easier than gasoline. Use only as directed by the label on the can. An alternative that works well is to place a 100 watt lamp near the air cleaner for a few minutes. This warms the air and fuel and helps it vaporize and is much safer than ether.
 As suggested above, power equipment that is used in sub-freezing temperatures can suffer from moisture in fuel and lines becoming frozen. If unable to start after replacing fuel, the fuel filter may be clogged with ice. Remove the filter to a warm area. Wipe the filter body clean and dry. Inspect for cracks. View while thawing. Look for liquid draining from locations other than where fuel lines connect. Fuel leaking from other places indicates cracks in the filter body. Drain all fluid and discard filter if there is any evidence of cracks; otherwise reinstall. While a cracked filter should be replaced as soon as possible, it may be possible to connect the fuel line to the carburetor directly (if it is long enough and correct diameter). This is a temporary fix only.

