 Type the email address of your recipient into the To field. Use the To field if you want to email contacts while encouraging their response.This field is for people that the message directly affects. If you are expecting someone to do something in reaction to your email, they should be in the To field.
It's a good idea to include all of the people in your To field in the opening line of your email. This way, you engage everyone in the conversation from the start and inform everyone of who else is involved in the conversation.
If you have included more than four people in the To field, address the group as a whole by starting your email with something like, "Hi Team, or "Good Morning All,"
The To field can be used for as many addresses as you'd like. Remember, everyone who is directly involved and needs to take action should be included in the To field.;
, The Cc (or Carbon Copy) field is used as a way to keep others "in the loop" without an obligation or requirement to reply or take action on the matter.Think of the Cc field as an FYI to distribute relevant information or updates to a number of associates who need only look through them. To add addresses to the Cc field, simply click on the Cc field and type as many addresses inside as you'd like.


When Cc-ing multiple associates, each recipient will have access to the list of email Cc's.
 The main purpose of the Bcc field is to send an email to a group of contacts that don't know each other. The Bcc field (Blind Carbon Copy)allows you to send a message to several contacts without them knowing who else got the message. To add addresses to the Bcc field, just click on the field and type in each email you need to include.


Use the Bcc field to send an email to multiple associates who don't know each other. This protects the privacy of each recipient by keeping the list of recipients visible only to the sender and not to each recipient.
Use the Bcc field when sending an e-mail to hundreds of people.
Your contacts will be able to see anyone who the email was sent to in the To or Cc fields but not in the Bcc field., If you are included in a Cc email, you are likely part of a handful of other associates all included in the conversation as well, and the sender may not be looking for or expecting a reply from any of you. If you do need to reply, think about the nature of your response and who it applies to. You can chose to "Reply to Sender" if you just have a note for the original writer of the email, or you can "Reply to All" only if the information is relevant to all involved in the conversation.


Only when your comments are important to the entire group would you use the "Reply to All" field.
Be careful when choosing to reply to all recipients on the email. You should avoid flooding other people's inboxes with irrelevant information whenever possible., If you have been included on an email Bcc you will only have the option to reply to the sender of the email and will be unable to see the list of other recipients who also received a Bcc. Simply click on the Reply button to compose an email to the sender.
 Use as few words as possible to describe the topic or nature of your email. Try things like:


"Leadership Meeting Update"
"Issue Regarding Lunch Breaks"
"Meeting Overview for March 12th"

, When approaching a professional email, it's important to keep it clean, short, and clear. Say want needs to be said and keep it at that. You can develop your own structure that works best for you. Here is a basic structure to consider:


Your greeting
A pleasantry
Your purpose
A call to action
A closing message
Your signature

, Depending on your relationship with the recipient, you can address them as expected, either with their entire name and title, or just their first name.


If your relationship is very casual, you can even say, "Hi Gabe".
If you don't know the name of the recipient, you can use: "To whom it may concern" or "Dear Sir/Madam".
If you are composing an email to a group of recipients who you have included in the To field and require a response from, greet them as a group (if the number of recipients is four or greater) or include each of their names in the greeting.
If you are sending an email with Cc's, simply address the group as a whole if you have a great number of recipients, otherwise include each recipient's name in the greeting.
If you are sending an email with BCC's, address the group as a whole by opening with something like, "Hi all".
If you are emailing someone for the first time, keep introductions brief and let them know who you are in one sentence. For example: "It was great to meet you at ."
If you are not sure if an introduction is necessary and you've contacted the recipient before, but you're not sure if they remember you, you can leave your credentials in your email signature.
 If you are initiating the line of communication, you are responsible for telling your recipients what the email is regarding. It is important to state your purpose early. Business associates will want to be able to read your email quickly and get to the point. Take a minute to ask yourself why you are writing it and why you need your recipient to see it. This will help you avoid idle chitchat and cut right to the chase for a more professional email. This is also a good time to ask yourself: "Is this email really necessary?" Again, only sending emails that are absolutely necessary shows respect for the person you're emailing. Once you are ready to compose your email, try starting with something like:


“I am writing to inquire about …”
“I am writing in reference to …”
"Please take the time to look over these changes and offer me your feedback..."

, If you are replying to a client's inquiry, or if someone has replied to one of your emails, you should begin with a line of thanks.For example:


"Thank you for getting back to me..."
"Thank you for your attention on this matter..."
"Thank you for contacting Ocean Safari Scuba..."
Thanking the reader is a great way to remain polite, professional, and on good terms with your recipient.
 With business emails, the less you include the better. Make each email you send out just about one thing. If you need to communicate about another project, compose another email.


Try communicating everything you need to in just five sentences. Say everything you need to say, and no more. Sometimes it will be impossible to limit your email to just five sentences. Don’t worry if you need to include more information.
In the body of your email, include all relevant information and anything you may require from your recipients.
 If you need your recipient to do something, don't just assume they will know what to do or when. Help them out by clearly outline what you need. Say something like:


"Could you send me those files by Thursday?"
"Could you write that up in the next two weeks?"
"Please write to Thomas about this, and let me know when you've done so."
Structuring your request as a question encourages a reply. You can say, "Let me know when you have done that."

, To keep your emails professional, end your email with another thank you to your reader or a formal goodbye such as:


"Thank you for your patience and cooperation”
“Thank you for your consideration”
“If you have any questions or concerns, don’t hesitate to let me know”
“I look forward to hearing from you”.
End your email with a proper closing before your name, like “Best regards” or “Sincerely”
Avoid casual closings like “Cheers” unless you are good friends with the reader, as these types of closings are less professional.
 In a professional email, your signature should include the following:Your name.
Your job title.
A link to your website.
Links to social media accounts (optional).
Necessary contact information.
 Remember, your recipients are busy and they want to get to the meat of the email quick.Take a step back and evaluate your email. Here are some things to consider:


Use short sentences, words, and paragraphs. This helps make the email quick and easy to read and understand.
If it's possible to cut a word out, cut it out. Trim your sentences down to as short as possible.
 Professional emails require careful proofreading. Read your email aloud to yourself. This can help you catch a lot of spelling and grammar mistakes. Ask yourself:


Is my email clear?
Could my email be misunderstood?
How would it sound if I were the recipient?

, You don't need to show your personality in your professional email. If you'd like, you can let it show subtly through your writing style, but stay away from emoticons, chat abbreviations (such as LOL), or colorful fonts and backgrounds.The only time it is appropriate to use emoticons or chat abbreviations is when you're mirroring the email language of the person you're writing to.
Write like you speak. This can help you keep your email short, friendly, and personable.
Don't say anything in an email that you wouldn't say to your recipient in person.
 Once you have proofread you email and have included all the necessary information and added each recipient to the appropriate field, click the send button.

