 The use of pesticides to treat pets--particularly permethrin, which is toxic to cats and has been known to kill indiscriminately--is somewhat controversial.


Read the ingredients listed on any commercial anti-tick product, and do your research to make sure that they're safe for your dog.
Ask your veterinarian before using any pesticide on your dog.
 If you want to avoid the toxins and pesticides found in most tick repellents, you can use ingredients from your home and garden to protect your dog from tick attacks.


Mix equal quantities of diatomaceous earth (natural diatomaceous earth, made from tiny fossilized water plants--not pool-grade diatomaceous earth); Neem powder (Indian tree containing the pesticide oneliminoid, the powder which can be found in health stores); and yarrow (a skin-soothing herb and natural tick repellent that grows wild across the northern hemisphere).Pour the mixture into a shaker jar. Ruffle your dog's hair to expose the skin, and methodically apply small amounts of the powder from the back of your dog to the front of your dog. Be sure to cover the neck area.
For a medium-sized dog, you should need about a teaspoon's worth of the dust. Apply it to your dog each month, and it may keep away ticks.



Mix two tablespoons of almond oil with Rose Geranium Oil or Palo Santo, and dab a few drops on your dog's neck before you head out into the woods. You can also place the oil directly onto the dog's collar. Re-apply weekly.
To make a citrus repellent: Cut a lemon into quarters and put it into a pint jar. Cover it with boiling water and let it steep overnight. Put the solution in a spray bottle and spray all over the dog, especially behind the ears, around the head, at the base of the tail and in the arm pits.



Mix several drops of Palo Santo into your favorite organic lavender shampoo.
Lather into your dog's fur, and let the suds sit on your dog for twenty minutes before rinsing. This may work to kill any existing ticks and prevent new ones from latching on.
 Add two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to your dog's food or water dish as a preventative measure.Consider spraying your dog with apple cider vinegar instead of pesticidal tick repellent. Fill a spray bottle with the cider vinegar and lightly coat every inch of your dog before you venture into a tick-infested area.
Bear in mind that this is a home remedy, and it may not be as immediately effective as pesticide treatments. However, apple cider vinegar is not as potentially threatening to your dog's health.

