 To do so, you have several options. The easiest is to click and drag the images into Photoshop straight from your Desktop, Finder, or Windows Explorer window. However, you could also:


Click "File" → "Open." This will open two separate tabs above your image. Click and drag a tab to pull it out of the frame. Then click and drag the image to the tab you want both photos in.;
, This powerful feature lets you re-size, rotate, angle, and adjust an image's size. To use it, click on the layer you want and press either Ctrl+T (PC) or Cmd-T (Mac) to start transforming. You'll see a box with little handles that let you adjust things.


Hold Shift when re-sizing to keep the same dimensions.
Hold Ctrl/Cmd when re-sizing to only move the point you're clicking on, creating "perspective."
Hold Alt/Opt when re-sizing to keep all the angles of the image the same (the corners), but change the size.
Click just outside the edges of the image to rotate it., If you know you definitely don't want something, pull up your Eraser (E) and start hacking away. While working, here are some helpful hints:


Hit Ctrl-Alt-Z (PC) or Cmd-Opt-Z (Mac) to undo any accidental erasing. Hit Ctrl-Z or Cmd-Z to redo it if you go back too far.If you create a selection (the moving, dotted line) then you can only erase what is in the selection. This is a good way to protect areas you can't erase, by only selecting areas you need to erase from.
Erasing is permanent, meaning the pixel data is lost. There are steps below that let you make pixels invisible instead, saving them if you need them later.
 Layer masks are you best friend when merging. They allow you to erase parts of a layer without actually deleting the data, meaning you can easily undo it all if you mess up. To make one, highlight the layer you want, then click the small rectangle icon with a black circle in the center at the bottom of the layer's pallet. From here:


Turn on the brush tool. It will automatically be set to black and white.
Make sure your layer mask is selected. It is the second, all white square to the right of your layer.
Color in anything you want to be erased in black on the actual image. It will erase, not add black ink.
Anything colored in gray will partially erase, up until it is fully black or white.
Re-color the mask with white to make the image reappear.
Note that you can use gradients, weird brushes, stamps, and the pen tool as well! Any way you "color" the mask will show up., Instead, use the following tools to select your object, then right-click and choose "New Layer Via Cut."Shaped Selections: The icon looks like a dotted box, and is first up. If you click and hold the icon it exposes more shapes to use.

Lasso Tools: Click create a selection, finishing when you connect the two ends of you line or click again to finish it. There are also options for angular and "magnetic" (following colors) lassos.

Quick Selection Tool: Resembles a paintbrush with a small dotted line around the end of the brush. This is your most powerful tool. Click and drag it on an image and it will attempt to find and select the object automatically. Change the tolerance, shown above, for better results.

Magic Wand: Click and hold to find it behind the Quick Selection tool, or vice versa. The Wand selects all pixels in the same color range as the place you just clicked, which helps remove large swaths of background all at once.

Pen Tool: Icon looks like a regular fountain pen. This is the most powerful tool you've got, but also the most time consuming to use. The pen tool creates "paths" with anchor points that can b be adjusted on the fly, giving you more control than basic selections.

