;
, If the room contains a closet or any tucked-away space, clear those areas away completely too. Clothing should come out of all closet spaces the proposed nursery will hold, and all alley-ways should be free of other un-necessary items.



Although few baby nurseries ever contain wallpaper on the wall at first, some parents enjoy placing a wallpaper border on a wall out of hands reach.

Pick colors that are vibrant and can lighten the room when and where necessary.
 Although nothing comes close to complete vigilance over your child, if your child can hurt themselves on the floor, carpeting (and it's underlayment) gives the floor a little more padding, and a little less possibility of your baby becoming critically hurt. (They can in fact, be seriously hurt, in most cases though, so be prepared!)

, Most important pieces are the crib and changing table, but may include a glider-rocker and glider-rocker ottoman.


Try to assemble the furniture inside the room that the item will later be placed in, to lessen the chance of having to find out that the item won't fit through the door, then having to remove the assembly piece-by-piece, and have to reassemble the item once it's been taken completely into the room.
 This will pick up any dust or dirt that may have accumulated while assembling the pieces.


For an even cleaner room, use a vacuum that a HEPA filter that has been changed recently.
,


Use a diaper-stacker if one is available, for at least the first few months of your child's life. They come in handy when you are in a pinch. You can even hang the pacifier that was originally stated to be on the changing table, from inside this, directly from a cloth diaper-diaper pin attached to the face-guard holder mechanism of the pacifier.
 Assuming the child won't (in time) figure out where you keep these things, and assuming the crib isn't moved around that much, position the monitor directly underneath the crib.


Be sure to hang the "base" unit that will emit the sounds made inside the master bedroom as well as one other location in the house (that is widely used). What would one "recording station" be without it's mate at the receiving area/receiving station?

, Between diaper ointments, disposable diapers, pacifiers, and anything else that can be needed at changing-time, this area should be the most useful area in the room for the parents to-be.
 Whether these be shirts and pants for the child, or, especially at first a onesie or blanket-sleeper, the drawers will need to be filled.
 Whether it's a Diaper-Genie product or a trash can for disposable diapers, or a dirty clothes hamper for cloth diapers that need to be washed, the dirty stuff needs to be deposited someplace safe and tucked-away where little hands can't get ahold of them.

