 5 sessions per week at 30 minutes each session is recommended for keeping dementia at bay. The exercise does not have to be vigorous, but it should at least get your heart rate up and have you breathing fast.;
, Obesity may increase your risk for dementia directly and/or indirectly, as diabetes associated with obesity also appears to be linked to higher rates of dementia. Have your doctor determine your Body Mass Index (BMI). If your BMI is over 30 percent, then you are considered clinically obese, and at a higher risk for dementia.
 Having a consistently raised blood pressure, especially during your midlife years (from age 35 to 65), causes damage to your brain and, in turn, increases your risk of dementia. If you have a family history of high blood pressure or are over 40 years of age, you should have your blood pressure checked regularly and take measures to keep it within the normal range in order to best prevent dementia.
 High cholesterol, much the same as high blood pressure, restricts blood flow to the brain and causes brain damage, which can, as a result, put you at a higher risk of developing dementia. Alzheimer's, specifically, is caused by protein plaque build-up in the brain, which appears to be promoted by high levels of cholesterol.
 Not only does smoking promote vascular disease, a risk factor for dementia, but it also lowers blood oxygen levels, which, in turn, aids plaque production in the brain.
 While chronic alcohol abuse may trigger certain types of dementia, studies show that drinking a moderate amount of alcohol (1 to 3 servings a day) appears to protect the brain against signs of dementia.
 Eating a diet high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, fish and olive oil and low in dairy products and processed foods appears to be beneficial in helping reduce dementia risk.
 Studies suggest that developing relationships and participating in social activities helps in preventing dementia. Likewise, social isolation is considered to be a risk factor for dementia.

