 Lean ground beef has less than 10 grams of fat, 4.5 grams or less of saturated fat, and under 95 milligrams of cholesterol for a cooked three-ounce patty. Extra lean ground beef has less than five grams of fat and less than two of saturated fat.Lean beef is labeled as 90/10 or 10%, and extra lean is labeled as 95/5 or 5%
Beef contains all the essential amino acids needed for growth and maintenance of our bodies. Eating high-quality protein is useful for maintaining muscle mass and recovery after trauma or surgery. Beef contains an abundant amount of vitamins and minerals, including Vitamin B12, Zinc, Selenium, Iron, Niacin, Vitamin B6, and Phosphorus.;
, Choosing grass-fed beef will increase the antioxidant content, Vitamin E levels, a healthier fatty acid profile including more omega-3 fatty acids compared to grain-fed beef.Grass-fed beef means the cattle were, as the name suggests, fed mostly grass and other foods that they would naturally eat in their environment. Grain-fed cattle mostly eat an unnatural, grain-based diet., Serving size is important when you make your hamburger. Some hamburgers can be 6, 8, or even 16 ounces. No one needs a hamburger that large. You can enjoy a hamburger, but on a smaller, healthier scale. This saves you calories, fat, and cholesterol. When you make a hamburger, make your patties 3 to 4 ounces when raw., Grilled hamburgers have a great flavor, and grilling hamburgers can also help make the hamburger healthier. When you grill a burger, some of the fat drips out during the process. The hamburger can end up having less fat than you originally thought.You can also cook burgers on griddle pans and the broiler.
 Since leaner ground beef has less fat content, it can be harder to cook, but you can still cook a delicious burger if you know how to cook these meats. For 90/10 beef, cook over medium heat. Cook on one side until the side is brown, then flip and cook the other side until brown. It usually takes 11 to 15 minutes to cook the burger. Just make sure to cook until the patty is done.Coat the pan with cooking spray. This helps to keep the patties from sticking when you cook them. Heat the pan before you place the patty in the pan.
The USDA has a rating scale of Prime, Choice, and Select for beef. The leanest of these will be Select, which will have less marbling (meaning there is less fat interspersed with lean meat).To help keep them juicy, avoid piercing the patties or pressing down on them in the pan.
 If you find the lean meat lacking in flavor or juiciness, try adding seasonings and extras to the patties to add flavor without adding calories and fat. Season with salt, pepper, seasoning salt, paprika, dried herbs, barbeque sauce, steak sauce, and garlic salt.Try mixing an egg white in with the patty. You can also add a ¼ cup of wheat bread crumbs. Or instead of bread crumbs, try a gluten-free option with almonds, walnuts, or other nuts.Add things you’d traditionally place on top of the burger inside the patty. Mix in onions, tomatoes, spinach, mushrooms, salsas, or any other vegetables to make a tasty burger. Even try adding a small amount of low-fat cheese.
 After you cook the patties, remove them from the pan and place them on a paper towel. Use another paper towel to gently soak up the fat on the patty. This helps reduce the calories and fat.