 You should be able to joke around with each other, have fun, and at times have serious conversations without judging the other. If this foundation isn't there, it's not worth the effort of making a move on him.
;
, If his friends are around, guys typically don't have natural reactions to things of this sort.
 Not your love for him but just love. You can talk about it in any way that you want.
 Try not to act shy, even if you feel it inside which you probably will. Act casually, just a simple "I like you more than a friend." Will be okay and maybe you could even act distressed and explain you've wanted to get it out there for a while now. He'll probably take it better that way. The stressed out behavior is best for if you want to go a step further and enter a relationship with him.
 In the moment, you'll want to, but don't! This can lead to failed relationships! You have to give him time, a few weeks or maybe even a month for it to sink in and for him to be more comfortable with the fact you love him. Then you can ask him.


On the other hand, if you don't want to date him, but you just want to get it out there, then you can continue normally with him, be happy knowing that he knows the secret you've kept from him.
, You can do this easily by looking worried and talking to him less than normal.
 Then you can tell him: "We have to talk".
 I just have to let you know, I can't keep this to myself any longer". Make him think it's worse than it actually is.
 By this point, he could be thinking that you are dying or something, so it is safe to confess your love. He might even laugh or sigh in relief because your crush was probably nothing compared to what he thought!

, If you want to be something more, maybe a few weeks later you could ask him out. Make sure not to freak him out; drop subtle hints a few days before, so when you ask him, he's prepared.
, Most definitely don't go over the top. Gradually (and by gradually, this means over several weeks), lead into more intense flirting.
 So by this point, you and your guy friend have been flirting on a regular basis. And this does mean weeks. Now drop compliments if you haven't already. Then stare at him (let him catch you) and when he looks, turn away quickly and blush if you can.
 Then break it to him that you have a crush on him. By this stage, you don't have to wait any more weeks for it to have sunk in. Just wait about a day or two and ask him if he wants to be more than just friends.
 You can find this out by saying I've been single for a while. He might be single, or open to a relationship (but avoid cheating - see warnings below). A conversation might start up about your ex- boyfriend, etc. Be sure to let him know you're single if he doesn't already know. You don't want him thinking you're already taken.
 That way, if he's your friend, he'll likely tell you how he feels about the notes. Or, he will keep it to himself, in which case, you'll need to work it out from his behavior. For example, try watching him opening the note and see his reaction to it. Reasonable reactions to the note include looking around before he opens it, then reading it for what seems like a longer time than needed then looking to see if he can find who sent it.
 If he tells you he wants to know who it is, tell him that you are the one who sent the notes.


If he told you about the notes and tells you that he thinks whoever is sending him the notes is a freak, he may just be saying it because he doesn't want to admit that he's hopeful that it might be someone he liked. Decide whether you want to tell him. Or be bold and refer to yourself as "that freak" and have it sorted there and then. He may be shocked enough to admit he likes you and will apologize. If not, be a good sport and you will still be good friends and maybe something will happen in the future.
 Once you tell him that it was you, also tell him that he doesn't have to like you back and that you hope that this will not ruin your friendship.


If he doesn't feel the same way, just say that you hope that the moment hadn't ruined the friendship.
Don't worry about it if he's not willing to take things deeper. There are so many more guys in this big world. If it doesn't work out that, you can still stay friends.

