 The music is part of the foundation of this! There is not much point in trying to look like a j-rocker without listening to the bands and artists. There are very many , and even though they're all called Visual Kei/J-rockers most of them are very different from each other. Some popular performers with different sounds are are X Japan, the GazettE, Dir en Grey, Mejibray, BUCK-TICK, An Cafe (although they are also often referred to as Oshare Kei, a brighter and "happier" style of v-kei), Alice Nine, Versailles, PaRADEiS, SuG, LM.C, Gackt, Miyavi, DecoLa Hopping, Screw, Girugämesh, and many, many more.;
, Try finding a little bunch of favorites and let yourself be inspired by their songs and style. (Tip: Visit shattered-tranquility.net for the latest news on Japanese rock, and maybe discover new artists.)

, There are really no rules for this, just try to get a hairstyle that is unique, suits you and, of course, that you feel comfortable in. Bold colours, spikes, and sectioned hair is rather often used by people that want to look like a j-rocker, but there are many artists that have their natural hair colour and a very "normal" haircut and have very mainstream clothing, focusing on music instead of style.
, Just keep in mind that some hairstyles are not appropriate for some hair types, and some haircuts demand a lot of styling.
 Or just don't change your hair, if that's what you feel like. The j-rock style is, after all, about being unique, so you might look unique with you natural hairstyle/colour among other j-rockers.
 Just as with the hair, make it unique, stylish and get inspired by your idols.
, The clothes can be hard to get, but if you are creative, you can make your grandmothers ugliest dress look like a valuable collectible from a concert. Use accessories if you think that your outfit isn't special enough. Once again, get inspired by other j-rockers and add a personal touch to it.
 Not that important, but really impressive, and also fun because this way you can understand the lyrics of your favorite songs better and maybe also make your own songs.
 This is also an option, but shows originality.

