 Static climbing technique emphasizes fluid movements and even weight distribution. Rather than using momentum to propel yourself upwards, you position yourself close to the wall, position your arms and legs, and then shift your body weight to the new position., Dynamic climbing technique emphasizes propelling your body upwards towards a specific point that you could not otherwise reach. You will need to have strong footholds and handholds to start, but then your will use these holds to spring up towards a higher handhold.After using dynamic techniques, you may need to dangle from the new hold for a few moments until you can steady yourself, and then find footholds to maintain your position.
 Lead climbing is a step up in difficulty from top rope climbing, so you may want to give it a try. With lead climbing, you do not have a rope attached to anything when you start. Instead, you clip a rope that is attached to you to different bolts along your route.Many gyms offer classes in lead climbing that can help you to develop skills in this area. Check your local gym for upcoming classes., By watching experienced climbers while they climb, you can see how they handle difficult obstacles and transitions. You may also learn about new climbing techniques that you can try during your next climb.Spend some time before or after your climbs to watch experienced climbers and make mental notes about what they do. Think about how you can incorporate these techniques and strategies into your own climb.
Keep in mind that you may need to modify some of these techniques to suit your skill level. For example, if you want to include a dynamic technique, then you might need to start with a small leap rather than trying to launch yourself to a spot that is a few feet away.
 Climbing on an indoor rock wall is quite different from climbing outside. After you have mastered some basic skills, you'll probably be itching to try climbing outside. The experience may provide you with some new skills that will help you with your indoor climbs.You may very well become addicted to the outdoor vistas and adventure of it all.

