 Find a well-ventilated area to administer the spray. Wear a long-sleeved shirt to prevent the spray from getting on your skin.


If you get the spray on your skin or clothing, take the clothing off and rinse your skin beneath running water for about 15 minutes.
If you get it in your eyes, rinse your eyes under running water for about 15 minutes. Remove contact lenses, if present, after five minutes. Call your doctor for further treatment.
Do not use the spray on cats younger than eight weeks old.
After spraying your cat, keep them away from intense heat or open flame, since the medicated spray is flammable.
 Knowing the dose rate your cat needs will help you decide how many pumps of the Frontline Spray to apply.


Use a low dose rate (six pumps of a 100 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight, or two pumps of a 250 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight) when your cat has short, fine fur, healthy skin, and few or no fleas.
Use a medium dose (nine pumps of a 100 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight, or three pumps of a 250 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight) if your cat has short or medium-thick fur or a moderate flea population.
Use a high dose (12 pumps of a 100 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight, or four pumps of a 250 milliliter spray per kilogram of the cat’s body weight) when the cat has lots of fleas, thick or long fur, hypersensitivity to fleas, or has ticks.
 The number of sprays you’ll use depends on the size of your cat and the size of your Frontline Spray bottle. You can determine the exact number of sprays your cat will need by consulting the chart located beneath the pull-away label on your bottle of Frontline Spray.


Larger cats will need more Frontline Spray.Cats getting sprayed with the larger (250 milliliter) bottle will need fewer sprays than a cat of equal weight getting sprayed with the smaller (100 milliliter) bottle.
The chart is also available online here.
 Hold the cat still by grabbing them by the scruff of their neck.Ruffle the cat’s fur with the hand that is not holding the spray bottle to ensure the spray reaches the cat’s skin. With the nozzle about three inches (five centimeters) from the cat’s body, spray the requisite number of pumps onto the cat by depressing the handle on the squeezable bottle. Spray evenly across their body so as not to apply an excessive amount to just one spot.


Rotate the nozzle clockwise to deliver Frontline in a cone of spray. Rotate the nozzle counterclockwise to deliver the spray in a more concentrated way.
Start at the back of the neck and work your way down the length of the cat’s body. Ensure that the cat's head, body, legs, chest, and tail all receive the spray.
Do not spray the medicine directly in the cat’s face, ears, or eyes. To apply Frontline Spray to a cat’s face, spray a bit on your glove or onto a cloth, then gently apply it to the face, taking care to avoid the eyes and ears.
You might want a friend or family member to restrain the cat while you administer the spray.
Hold the cat still for a few minutes after administering the spray until it dries.
 If your cat has hypersensitivity to fleas or is sporting a high flea population, you should also apply Frontline Spray once every four weeks. If your cat is getting a low or medium dose of spray, you can administer it in slightly longer intervals of six weeks before giving your cat another dose.

