 There are several different companies available. Read reviews about the companies you are interested in, compare plans and pricing, and choose the one that is best for you and your budget.;
, This is the information found with your domain registration. You may host your domain somewhere other than with your Web host, but if you bought the domain and hosting together, you may find it with your hosting account. You will not be allowed to move the domain if it is within 2 months of purchase or expiration. Renew it if it is almost time to expire.
 Make copies of all the data on the Web host because you will need your own copy to upload to the new host when you're ready. The simplest way to do this is to use a FTP program to download all the files and folders associated with your website that you will be moving to a new host.
 The new host will give you access to the hosting account through a temporary IP address and password until the DNS changes have been made. Use this information to access the new account and upload all the files in the same structure as your old site. This will help ensure there are no errors on the new site and that your customers see no downtime during the switch.
 Make sure everything works correctly because no one can see the site yet. At this point, customers are still seeing the site on your old host.
 If you need help with this, your new host can show you the best way to go about setting up the e-mail accounts. You will likely receive 2 copies of the e-mails for a few days because you will get 1 from the old and new host.
 Change the DNS records with your domain (at your old host or with the company you bought your domain from) to point to the new hosting company. If you need help with this step, your new hosting company will likely assist you.
 Once everything has been uploaded to the new host and the DNS has been changed, you no longer need the old account and can safely cancel it.
 Test every page on the site and all the links to and from your website to ensure they are working after the switch. Broken links not only look poor in terms of search engine optimization, but they are quite frustrating for your users.
 If any scripts are needed to run any features or functions on your website, it is important that all of these are functioning correctly after the switch. They may have only worked because they were still directed at your old host.

