 It doesn’t matter whether your distraction is your television or your children – you need to remove them when you’re working. Send your kids to a day care, or encourage them to play outside of your office space. If you find it hard to resist the allure of the TV or games consoles, then you should ensure that these are not present in your home office space.;
, Organisation is key to a clear mind and a productive day. If you want to be able to organise your work flow and daily tasks then you need to be in an organised environment. Ensure that you have shelves for your books and folders for your paperwork and notes. Find space for all of your work related items. As for the rest of your stuff, if it isn’t required for work then it shouldn’t be there – move it to another part of the house or get rid of it altogether.
 It doesn’t matter what sort of work you do in your home office, there are going to be times when you just want to look at something pretty for a little while – and doing so is actually really good for your productivity. Your home office should use bright colours, because these help you to feel more alert and awake during the day, but they shouldn’t be so bright or contrasting that they create a distraction. You should get as much natural light as possible, have a few plants around, and perhaps decorate with artwork or photography to make the space more enjoyable.
 Even if you can choose your own working hours, be sure to set and keep to them as much as possible. This provides you with more structure and helps you stick to your deadlines a little more easily. It also makes it harder for you to over or under work yourself, making you a more reliable employee. Decide on a time to start, perhaps giving yourself time to clean around the house beforehand so that you aren’t thinking about doing it when you’re procrastinating later, and set yourself a time for lunch and a time to end. Though it can be best to leave your breaks a little more flexible, make sure you monitor the amount of time you use for your breaks and keep it reasonable.
 This includes a functional office/desk chair that should provide you with the standard adjustments and be comfortable to sit in for long periods of time. Those that encourage a good posture are particularly good, as they will reduce slouching and encourage further productivity.You'll also want an armchair or other such comfortable chair away from your workstation where you can read and think comfortably. This helps you to feel like you’ve have a good break from work, and can encourage a more creative thought process.
 A good desk that offers you a comfortable and efficient working experience is essential. This should be large enough for all of your equipment and offer drawers for storage of items you need regular and easy access to. Also have storage space for paperwork, reading resources, and various other items that are important, but perhaps not used too frequently. Having filing cabinets, shelves, cupboards, drawers and so on to handle your everyday office storage requirements is essential.

