 The colors you choose for your invitations are often determined by the occasion itself. For example, a birthday party invitation may be done in the honoree's favorite colors or be related to the theme of the event (bright colors for a "Mexican Fiesta" theme, red and blue for a Spiderman theme or black and white for a formal wedding.) If you're sending invitations on behalf of someone else, be sure to consult with them about color preferences.


The number of colors you use may impact the final cost of your invites. Purchasing paper in multiple colors or designs or printing in colored ink vs. black can add a bit to your cost, so keep that in mind.
 You need to include basic information on your invitations so that everyone arrives at the right time, on the right day at the right place. Be sure you've confirmed all your arrangements regarding time, date and place before you sit down to make your invitations.


Think about additional information you may need to include such as a contact or RSVP phone number, instructions about attire or gifts, directions and/or a map and a web address (if you've created one for the occasion.
Some events, such as weddings, often include multiple events--rehearsal dinner, post-wedding day brunch and the like. Be sure all the information about auxiliary events has been decided and confirmed.
 The two biggest considerations when it comes to size are finding envelopes and postage costs. Make a visit to your local stationary or art supply store to look at options and contact or visit the website of the delivery service in your area.


Envelopes. The most common style of envelopes are A-style (also called A-line) They have side seams and square, sometimes deep flaps. They come in a range of sizes and their numeric designation corresponds to set dimensions. For example, A1 envelopes are 5.125' x 3.625' while the larger A-8 are 8.125' x 5.5'.

You can do some research online about envelope sizes. Be sure to make note of the size of the invite that will fit into the envelope you choose.


Mailing costs. Mailing regulations vary from country to country, so you want to check with the service you'll use about the specific regulations that govern cost. For example, the United States Postal Service (USPS) requires that letters not exceed 11 1/2" long x 6 1/8" high or be more than 1/4" thick.Envelopes that are square or another unusual shapes incur an additional mailing cost because their size makes it difficult for them to be processed on mail sorting machines. Before you decide to get clever with addressing your invites, know, too, that envelopes on which the address is written parallel to the shorter edge cost more to mail.