 In order to change your buying practices to protect sharks, you need to have a little bit of information. Understanding what the risks are to sharks can help you to understand how your purchases can promote their death. Causes for the loss of sharks include:Overfishing – commercial fishing practices cause about 50 percent of all shark deaths, as by-catch.
Products – shark fins, jaws, liver, cartilage, skins and teeth all have a vibrant market in some parts of the world.
Fear – ignorance and fear causes the loss of many sharks in waters all around the world.;
, Don't buy fish from companies that don't protect sharks. Many sharks are killed when they are accidentally caught up in fishing nets. The fisheries are not intentionally catching sharks but they are also not putting in protections that could save the lives of sharks.Buying fish from companies that protect sharks is important. This shows companies that shark protections are important to consumers.
To find those companies that do protect sharks, do some research online. You can usually find lists of companies that actively protect sharks on shark protection groups' websites.There are also a wide variety of fish that you can eat that are caught nowhere near sharks. These types of fish, such as lake or stream caught fish, are a good alternative to ocean caught fish if you are concerned with protecting sharks.
 Be aware of the types of shark products that are out there and refuse to consume them. Sharks are used for shark fins, jaws, liver, cartilage, skins and teeth. The purpose of these products varies, from purported medicinal uses to souvenirs. Help others become aware of the problems and encourage them to stop buying such products as well.Outside of Asia not many products, such as shark oil or shark skin wallets, are made. However, some restaurants still serve shark on their menus. Don't go to restaurants that serve shark on the menu and encourage your family and friends to do the same.
To take it a step further, write or call the owners of a restaurant that serves shark and let them know why you're not going to their restaurant. Also ask them to stop using shark products. There are valid replacements for shark in food dishes.

