 In the US, you can claim $3,000 per child, or up to $6,000 per household. To qualify, your child must be under age 13 or have a disability if they are more than 13 years of age. Use IRS form 2441 to claim your child care expenses when you file your federal income tax.Remember that since this is a tax credit, you’ll only get it when you file your tax return and receive your refund.
 The US Department of Health and Human Services manages the Office of Child Care (OCC), which helps low-income families understand and access child care financial aid options.Through their website, you can track down the contact information for regional offices that can offer specific information for your state or territory.
You can also track down information about your state’s health and safety regulations to make sure your care provider is licensed and has a clean safety history., Use the Child Care Aware website to track down state- and territory-specific financial aid options.Their search options include state resources for child care, financial assistance, health and social services, and more: http://www.childcareaware.org/resources/map/.


You can also use their website to search for participating affordable child care centers near your home or work., If you have trouble tracking down or understanding information through the OCC or Child Care Aware, you can dial 2-1-1. This free call will connect you to a community resource specialist in your area who can direct you to your local options and help you understand them.If you don’t want to call or don’t have access to a telephone, you can also visit their website at http://www.211.org/.
 If you live outside of the United States, look for options on the government websites for your nation and state or province. In many countries, state school for children over the age of three is free, and allocated government funding can help cover some or all of childcare costs for children under age three.Search government websites for keywords like "childcare financial assistance" or "childcare funding options."
Look on your government's taxation service website and look for childcare tax credits available for parents.

