 The human brain will remember recent images best. Having a good laugh can help by "overwriting" the memory of your scary thoughts.You could also watch a light-hearted television show.;
, Paint your nails, give yourself a spa day, or just go and hang out with your friends. A large process of unwinding from feelings of fear is by relaxing your mind. Take a relaxing bath. This will soak your mind into a state of meditation. Try setting the mood with candles and bath soaps for better relaxation., Focusing on the lighter subject material in the book, even for a little while, will help distract your thoughts from those that have been scaring you. You could even read a book that is meant for younger audiences.
 If you like coloring then you should draw! Make something you enjoy. Doing art can even help channel your scary thoughts into something expressive. The creative process is known to cause happiness.You could even write a poem if you enjoy writing.
 You can listen to anything that you enjoy. Classic rock or the latest pop song should get you going. For even better results, try dancing for fun to the music.
 Go out and get some take-out food or have a pizza delivered to your house. Satisfying your palate releases serotonin into your brain. This is a chemical process that happens in your brain which causes happy feelings.
 Think about what happened that was funny today. Think about how small you are in this world. Try zoom outside yourself up into space where you are simply a small dot on a series of larger dots. Your fear might feel irrelevant afterwards.
 Clear your mind of unwanted images by filling it with images you do want. Think about the last time you went to Disneyland. If you have access to photographs of one of these times, then look at them and put yourself back into that environment. Remember the sights, sounds, smells, and the warm feeling of being safe.
 Sleep with a parent, brother or sister to help you feel not alone. It helps if there is someone you love and feel comfortable with around.
 Animals can help you forget the scary thoughts. Dogs especially have a therapeutic effect on the human brain.Try playing with them. Their happiness will rub off on you.

