 Using your fingertips and a gentle cleanser, gently rub your fingers over your skin. Use gentle, circular motions for about a minute. This helps the cleanser loosen and absorb dirt and oils.


Use lukewarm water, not hot water, as water that is too hot can damage sensitive skin.
Use your fingertips — not a sponge or washcloth.
Pull any hair off your face by tying it all back before you start to pre-clean your face. This will make sure it doesn’t interfere with the pre-cleaning. Then pre-cleanse your skin.
Non-oil based cleaners can be used, but you can also choose a plant-oil based cleaner. Many dermatologists recommend using glycerin, grapeseed, and sunflower oils, among others. Oils are the best to use to absorb and dissolve other oils.Then rinse your face with lukewarm water thoroughly and pat dry using a clean, cotton towel. Don’t rub, as you want to avoid doing anything that can irritate your skin.;
, A steam bath will help to clean pores and get rid of any dirt that is embedded in the skin.Fill a one quart pot with water. Place the pot on the stove and bring to a rolling boil, which usually takes several minutes.


Having a rolling boil assures that the water is hot enough to produce a lot of steam.
Water that is fully boiling will be approximately 212°F (100°C), depending on your elevation.This is very hot and so you should use caution when dealing with it — you could suffer third degree burns from the steam.
 Before heating up the water pre-test your skin by putting a single drop of the oil on your wrist and waiting for 10 – 15 minutes. Since these herbs are plant-derived, and since people can have allergies and sensitivities to plants, you can have a reaction to any essential oil. Usually, the reaction is a mild rash that may or may not be itchy. Some essential oils you may want to use include:Spearmint, or peppermint: Peppermint or spearmint can be irritating to some, so be sure to pretest your skin. If there is no irritation, you should be able to use the oil. Start with 1 drop/quart of water. Both peppermint and spearmint contain menthol which has both antiseptic and immune-boosting properties.
Calendula: Calendula accelerates healing, is anti-inflammatory and has antimicrobial properties.
Lavender: Lavender is soothing, calming, and can help with anxiety and depression. As a bonus, it also has antibacterial properties.
 You can add one to two drops of any essential oil. These essential oils have either antibacterial or antiseptic properties. Using them can help prevent the formation of pimples, stop them by helping them to reabsorb into the body, and draw them out.You do not have to add essential oils to your steam to make it effective. The steam itself opens the pores, helping to clean them out and, hopefully, allow the pimple to heal before it fully develops.
If you don’t have the essential oils, substitute ½ teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water. Once you have added the herbs, boil for another minute, turn off the heat and move the pot to a comfortable area.
Always remember that you can develop sensitivity to an herbal oil where it didn’t exist before. Thus, you should always be aware of a chance of sensitivity. Try each herb for about a minute, take your face away from the steam for 10 minutes and assess. If you are not sneezing or have any skin reaction, reheat the water and repeat the steaming.
 Make sure the heat is off and the water is no longer at a roiling boil. Cover your head with a large, clean cotton towel and place your face over the steaming pot, keeping your face at least 12 – 15 inches above the the water. This opens up pores, releases deeper debris and removes more face oils. It may be enough to clear out the pore with the forming pimple.


Close your eyes, breathe normally, and relax!
Keep your face over the steam for 10 minutes.
 Rinse your face well with lukewarm water and pat dry with a cotton towel. Don’t rub your skin, just gently pat it dry. Then apply a moisturizer.


Apply a non-comedogenic (meaning it will not block your pores) moisturizer to your face is important. Moisturizing helps prevent damage to your skin and helps keep it soft, flexible, and hydrated. You can check the labels of store-brand moisturizers. You want to look for the term “non-comedogenic” or wording that indicates that it will not clog your pores.