 If your flat feet have some flexibility in them (not rigid) and they are caused primarily by weak or tight tendons / ligaments, then you should consider some form of rehabilitation. A physiotherapist can show you specific and tailored stretches and strengthening exercises for your feet, Achilles tendons and calf muscles that can help to restore your arch and make it more functional.Physiotherapy is usually required 2-3x per week for 4-8 weeks to positively impact chronic foot problems.


A common stretch for tight Achilles tendons involves placing your hands against a wall with one leg at a time outstretched behind you in a lunge-like position. Make sure you keep the outstretched foot flat on the floor to feel a stretch above your heels. Hold for about 30 seconds and repeat five to 10 times daily.
A physiotherapist can tape your foot with sturdy tape that can help relieve symptoms by providing a temporary artificial arch.
A physiotherapist can also treat inflamed and tender arches (called plantar fasciitis and a common complication of flat feet) with therapeutic ultrasound.
 A podiatrist is a foot specialist who is familiar with all conditions and diseases of the feet, including pes planus. A podiatrist will examine your foot and try to determine if your flat feet are congenital (hereditary and from birth) or acquired as an adult.They will also look for any bone trauma (fractures or displacements), possibly with the help of x-rays. Depending on the severity of your symptoms and the cause of your flat feet, the podiatrist may recommend simple palliative care (rest, ice and anti-inflammatories during flare-ups), orthotic therapy, casting or bracing the foot, or some form of surgery.


Adult-acquired flat feet affects women four times as often as men and tends to occur in later years (around 60).X-rays are great for seeing bone problems, but they are not diagnostic for soft tissue issues, such as those of the tendons and ligaments.
Your podiatrist is trained for relatively minor operations of the feet, but more complex surgeries are typically the domain of orthopedic surgeons.
 If your flat feet are causing you lots of problems and not significantly helped by supportive shoes, orthotics, weight loss or intensive physical therapy, then ask your family physician about potential surgical options. Your doctor may use a CT scan, MRI or diagnostic ultrasound to get a better idea of the soft tissues of your foot. For severe cases of highly rigid flat feet, especially if caused by tarsal coalition (an abnormal fusion of two or more bones in the foot), then surgery recommendation is highly likely.Surgery is also recommended for chronically tight Achilles tendons (typically a simple procedure to lengthen the tendon) or overly lax posterior tibial tendons (via tendon reduction or shortening). Your family doctor is not a foot, bone or joint specialist, so you will likely be referred to an orthopedic surgeon if surgery is required.


Surgeons typically operate on one foot at a time so as not to incapacitate the patient and impact their lives too significantly.
Possible complications from surgery include: failure of fused bones to heal, infections, reduced ankle / foot range of motion, chronic pain.Recovery times for surgery vary depending on the procedure (whether bones need to be broken or fused, tendons severed, or ligaments altered), but can last several months.
Diseases that are contributive factors for flat feet include diabetes, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and ligament laxity diseases such as Marfan or Ehlers-Danlos syndromes.