 It's a green app with a white text bubble that's typically found on your home screen.


If the app opens within a conversation, tap the "Back" arrow (<) in the upper-left corner of the screen.;
, It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 The buttons are on the left side of the screen and will turn blue as you select conversations.


Conversations can use a lot of data, especially if they contain multiple messages with media like photos or videos.
 It's in the lower-right corner. All of the selected conversations will be removed from your device.
 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is typically found on your Home screen.
 It's in one of the screens near the top of the menu, next to a gray gear (⚙️) icon.
 It's near the bottom of the screen.
 It's in the "STORAGE" section.


A list of apps will appear on the screen, ordered by the amount of storage they are using. The app at the top of the list is using the most storage.
 It's next to a video monitor icon.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
, It's a red button on the right side of the screen.


Deleted videos can be put back on your device using iTunes on your desktop or, in the case of videos purchased in the iTunes Store, can be redownloaded within the TV app.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's next to a musical note icon.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
, It's a red button on the right side of the screen.


Deleted songs can be put back on your device using iTunes on your desktop or, in the case of songs purchased in the iTunes Store, can be redownloaded within the Music app.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's a white app with a multicolored pinwheel icon that you'll likely find on the Home screen.
 It's a tab in the bottom-right corner of the screen.


If Photos opens to a photo, collection, or memory, first tap the "Back" button in the top left corner of the screen.
 It's the top-left album on this page. This album is where all of your photos are stored.


If your phone has iCloud Photo Library enabled, this album will be called "All Photos" instead.
 It's in the top-right corner of the screen.
 Each photo you tap will be selected; you'll see a white checkmark on a blue background appear in the bottom-right corner of the photo's thumbnail.


If you want to delete every photo on your iPhone, you can quickly select them all rather than tapping each one individually.
 It's in the bottom-right corner of the screen.
 It's a pop-up option at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will remove your selected photos from the "Camera Roll" album (and any other albums they're in) and place them in the "Recently Deleted" album.


If you're only deleting one photo, this button will say "Delete Photo" instead.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen.
 It will be on the right side of the screen. This folder stores all photos and videos that you've deleted in the past 30 days, after which point they are permanently deleted from your iPhone.
 This option is in the top-right corner of the screen.
 It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen.
 It's at the bottom of the screen. Doing so will permanently delete all photos in the "Recently Deleted" folder from your iPhone.


If you're only deleting one photo, this button will say "Delete Photo" instead.
 It's a gray app that contains an image of gears (⚙️) and is typically found on your Home screen.
 It's next to a blue compass icon.
 It's near the bottom of the menu.
 Your stored website history and page data will be deleted from your device.
 It's a blue app with a white, sealed envelope icon.


If it doesn't open on the "Mailboxes" screen, tap Mailboxes in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's next to a blue trash can icon.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 All of the deleted emails from the Mail app, with all of their attachments, have now been deleted from your device.
 It's in the upper-left corner of the screen.
 It's next to a blue dumpster icon that contains an "x."

, It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 All of the junk emails from the Mail app, with all of their attachments, have now been deleted from your device.


If you use an alternative mail client, such as the Gmail app, go through the processes specific to the app to remove deleted and junk emails.
 It's a green app with a white telephone icon that's typically found on your home screen.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 The buttons are on the left side of the screen and will turn blue as you select voicemail messages.
 It's in the lower-right corner. All of the selected voice messages will be removed from your device.
 It's a white app that contains a multicolored aperture icon.


Chrome is Google's browser that you would have had to download from the App Store; it does not ship with your iPhone.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen.
 It's near the bottom of the menu.
 It's in the "Advanced" section of the menu.
 It's at the bottom of the menu.



Tap Browsing History to delete the history of sites you visited.
Tap Cookies, Site Data to delete website information stored on your device.
Tap Cached Images and Files to delete data stored on your device that allows Chrome to open websites more quickly.
Tap Saved Passwords to delete passwords that Chrome has stored on your device.
Tap Autofill Data to delete information such as addresses and phone numbers that Chrome uses to automatically fill in Web forms.
 It's a red button just below the data types you selected.
 The Chrome data you selected will now be deleted from your device.

