 Avoid blowing it up too much or else it may pop. The size of the balloon will be the size of your mask. For smaller children, a smaller balloon will be easier to work with.


;
, It's fine if you just have newspaper, but it's even better if you have newspaper and a solid paper, like printer paper. Grab a whole bunch of sheets and some flour and water for your paste.





Rip the papers into strips or squares, depending on the size of your balloon. You'll need enough for at least three layers and whatever molding you may want to do.
Create a paste with 2 cups (220 g) flour and 1 cup (200 ml) water. If you don't have flour, you can use two parts white glue and 1 part water. Mix it well. The paste will be easiest to use if it's in a shallow tray or wide brimmed bowl.
 Dip a piece of paper into the paste and let the paper soak in the paste. Get the excess off the paper by scraping it along the side, if necessary. You may want to lay down extra newspaper to clean up the mess easily later.





The first layer should be placed vertically, the second horizontally, and so forth. Use the blank paper in between newspaper layers to make it easy to see where you've already gone.
If you'd like to mold on features, do so now. The beauty of papier mâché is that the strips can mold into virtually any shape. You can form eyebrows, cheekbones, or lips rather easily.
Leave it on the side to dry. Make sure that the paper is secured on the balloon or else your mask may come apart. This may take several hours.
 For safety reasons, be sure to pop it away from your face. You've now got the base of your mask!




, Depending on how much of the balloon you covered, you may end up with two separate masks, one large mask, or a mask that you want to shave down to size.





If you want a slightly different shape, by all means! Cut off a lower forehead, cut off the chin to be able to speak, or make any style choices you see fit.
 You'll want two for eyes, at least one for the nose, and possibly one for the mouth. If you're going to wear it, make sure the holes line up! In addition, poke two holes on the side to hold the band that will keep the mask on your face.





Push a rubber band (cut in half) through the holes and make a knot on each side. If you don't have a rubber band, you may use string, ribbon or a long piece of elastic.
 This is where your (or your child's) creativity really gets to shine. It's all up to you. And if paint isn't enough, add hair, googly eyes, glitter, or any other embellishment you have handy.





Let dry overnight. The last thing you want is a perfect mask that is ruined by touch. Come back to it the next day and marvel at your work.

