 It can be comforting to have someone to lean on during an abusive situation. Confide in your loved one and ask them for support. They may offer positive words, validate your feelings or have advice for you.For instance, you might say, "I know this may come as a shock to you, but my home life is pretty bad. My mom talks down to me and tells me I won't be anything when I'm older. It's mainly words, but it makes me feel bad about myself."
Keep in mind that emotional abuse often involves people brainwashing you into believing that no one will care, believe you, or take you seriously. However, you will likely be surprised by how much support you receive when you share with other people.;
, If you’re a kid dealing with any kind of abuse at home, turn to a relative, teacher, church leader, or another adult you trust. Don’t let your abusive parent intimidate you into keeping secrets. An adult can help intervene in a situation where a kid might not have any power.You might feel awkward or embarrassed about telling an adult what’s going on, but it’s very important to let other people know if you’re being abused. Start by saying something like, “I’ve been having some problems at home lately. Can I talk to you about it?”Or, you could write about how you are feeling if that feels more comfortable to you.
If you told a teacher or a coach and they did not help, schedule to meet with your school counselor and alert this person.If you don’t want to tell someone about the abuse in person, you can call a help line at 1-800-4-A-CHILD. This help line is free, confidential, and open 24 hours a day.
 Emotional abuse can do a lot of damage. Without treatment, you are at an increased risk of low self-esteem and you may have difficulty forming healthy relationships. It can be difficult to break the negative beliefs and thought patterns created by emotional abuse, but a counselor or therapist can help make the process easier.Look for a therapist who specializes in children or adults who are suffering abuse. During therapy you will share about your experiences as you become comfortable with the therapist. The therapist will ask questions and offer insights to help guide your sessions.
If you are a kid, consider that most schools offer free, confidential counseling services. Go to your school's counselor and say, "There have been problems at my house. My dad doesn't actually hit me, but he calls me names and puts me down in front of other family members. Can you please help me?"
If you are an adult, check to see what your health insurance will cover.
Many therapists accept out-of-pocket payments on a sliding scale.

