 These are listed below in "Things You'll Need". Lay them out on a flat, clean working surface.;
, Lay it on top of the CD case. Check to see whether it fits in the portion where the CD would normally go. If not, trim it to the appropriate size.
 Remove the CD holding portion (usually made from opaque plastic). Remove the paper artwork as well – see Remove the Back Art from a CD Case.


Take off the lid as well (the part that opens up). Do this carefully, so as not to snap anything.
 When you cut the square, leave a little extra around the edges, so that you fold the foil over the back.


If using brand new foil, you can either leave the tin foil the way it is, or squish it into a ball and re-open it to give it a crinkled effect.
If using the recycled foil, it will already have a "crinkled" appearance.
 Fold the foil around the edges to the back of the CD backing, so that it's secure. Tape if needed.


Smooth out any wrinkles or bumps, including down the edges.
 Double check that it still fits (it should do unless you've bungled the width of the foil when folding). Put 3 or 4 balls of tape on the back of the image; alternately, if the image fits snugly enough, you may not need to use tape - just check it first.


Press the picture into the tin foil portion where it looks best.
 You might need to unwrap a little of your folding work to locate it but it's fine to push right through the foil to reattach the lid. You will notice that there is a gap where the CD paper artwork used to fill.


Fold a rectangular strip the width of the gap, with enough length at each end to fold around the CD case. Don't attach it just yet, as you will need to open the case again for the next step.



Slide each end of the thread through the top slots (holes) of the CD lid. You can use a toothpick to help push through the thread if needed.
Tie knots in each end of the thread. If the thread you are using is very thin, you might need to wrap around tape as well to create enough of a knotted bump. Cut off any excess length under the knot.
Pull the thread up evenly and the knots should keep the thread from slipping through the slots.
 Use tape to attach it at the back for added security.
 It's all done. Now you can put it on your bulletin board or hang from nails on the wall; whatever you wish! It's funky and cool, and gives a nice feel to your room.
