 Sun exposure causes several skin problems like age spots and wrinkles. Try to minimize sun exposure so that your skin looks refreshed in the morning.


Use sunscreen religiously. SPF of 15 or more is recommended. Remember to reapply regularly, especially if you’re exercising.Find shade during the hottest points of the day. Try not to be in the sun during the middle of the day. Seek shelter and keep your skin looking young and healthy.
Be delicate with your skin. Don’t use abrasive soaps or chemicals when cleaning. Be sure to shave with the grain rather than against it. Follow up cleaning by patting dry instead of rubbing harshly., Retinoids are in products like Renova, Retin-A, Tretinoin, and some over-the-counter items. They help fight acne, lines, spots, and freckles, as well as boosting the collagen., There are a variety of ways you can use makeup to either benefit or hurt your skin. Try a few of the tips below to make your skin look better while still using makeup.


Clean your makeup brushes regularly. Some studies have shown a majority of women don’t clean the bacteria-collecting brushes. Clean the brushes once a week with warm water and a bit of facial cleanser.Remove your makeup before you go to sleep. Keeping makeup on overnight can cause yeast growth, rashes, and bumps called milia cysts. Use an oil-free cleanser to wipe your skin clear of makeup.Stay free from oil-based makeup. Most people have some spots of oily skin, and adding an oil-based makeup can lead to multiple problems. Alleviate clogged pores, extra blemishes, and acne by staying away from products with extra oil., Unclean pores can get clogged and appear larger. Clear out the dirt and oil by exfoliating with a light brush and facial cleanser every night., They protect your skin and even it out, hiding blemishes in the process., Try a few of the following solutions: Tea bags, spoons, or cucumbers. Moist, cool tea bags possess tannin, which helps reduce puffiness. To use spoons or cucumbers, place them in the refrigerator for a few hours before using. The temperature difference will work like small ice packs, reducing inflammation and pain. Apply your preferred remedy for a few minutes.

