 Getting the problem down in concrete language helps to clarify and simplify your issue.This can make it seems more manageable and move you forward on dealing with the problem head-on. Additionally, simplification of the language you use can serve to reduce reactions such as being overwhelmed by the complexity of an issue.One example of a possible problem is that you procrastinate (wait until the last minute) on important tasks. Write down what your specific issue is that you need resolved.
Define the problem in the simplest terms possible. If procrastination is the issue, simply write down procrastination instead of, “I always wait until the last minute to complete projects and this is stressful.”;
, Sometimes we can be quick to judge and identify problems when there aren’t any.


For example, if you think procrastination is the issue, are there also ways that it is not a problem? Is it possible that it does not create stress and helps you focus on getting your work done (some people need the pressure to work)? Is it possible that others may not like that you procrastinate, but it doesn’t hurt anyone and doesn’t seem to affect you getting your work done? Thus, if the problem does not seem to have identifiable consequences, it might not be a top priority problem, or may not be a problem at all. In other words, perhaps you think you procrastinate but you don't.
 Identifying the pros and cons of solving a problem can help you identify whether the problem is worth fixing, or if it is a high priority issue. A cost-benefit analysis involves identifying the positives of solving the problem, as well as the negatives of not solving the problem.Write down what will happen if the problem is not resolved. In the example of procrastination, the consequences might be that others may continue to comment on your procrastination, you may have difficulty prioritizing tasks, you may have increases in stress, and your work quality may suffer if you don't give yourself enough time to complete a project.
Write down and recognize the benefits of solving the problem. For example, the benefits of solving procrastination might be: less stress at the last minute, quality of work will increase due to more time, will have more time to complete work, and bosses and coworkers will be less concerned about the procrastination. If you identify that there are many benefits to solving the problem, then it is probably worth solving and may be a high priority issue.
 Learn to be comprehensive. Identify the components of the problem in their entirety. Include the people involved, the content, and the context.


Write down everything you know about the problem and all of the components that you think contribute to the problem. Pertaining to procrastination, this list might look like: distractions such as television/internet, avoidance of tasks that take a long time, scheduling problems (not enough time), and low frustration tolerance. These issues could be associated with organizational skills.
Try creating a problem tree with your main issue on the trunk of the tree, and the associated components on the branches of the tree. This way can you visualize what your problem looks like and how the other issues contribute to the main problem.
 In defining your issue, make sure it is specific.Sometimes one problem can have many components, so it is important to focus on a specific and detailed problem before attempting to solve the big picture issue.


For example, procrastination could be a small part of the bigger problem that your work quality is suffering and your boss wants you to make fewer mistakes. Instead of trying to combat the issue of work quality (which could be very complex), you would identify all of the components that contribute to the issue and work on each component separately as its own issue.
One way to understand this is to make a graphic representation or “problem/solution tree” of the bigger issue versus the smaller issues. You would place the bigger issue in the center (organizational issues with affect work quality), and the components of the issue would branch out from the center.Components contributing to the bigger issue might be things like: getting enough sleep, paying close attention, managing time, and procrastination. Notice that procrastination is just one component of the big picture issue of work quality and/or organizational issues.
 In order to begin to solve a problem you need to understand what final result you want. Ask yourself, “What do I want to accomplish by solving this issue?”Make your goals specific, realistic, and time-limited.In other words, give yourself a specific amount of time that you need to accomplish the goal or solve the problem. Some goals may take 1 week while others will take 6 months.
For example, if your goal is solved your issue of procrastination, this might be a very long-term goal since some habits can be deeply ingrained and difficult to break. However, you can make the goal smaller, more realistic, and time-limited by saying, “I want to get at least 1 project done 1 day before it is due in the next 2 weeks.” This goal is specific (1 project done ahead of time), realistic (1 project instead of every project), and time-limited (in the next two weeks).