 The mandolin has been around for centuries, and during that time, different styles have developed. Choose the right mandolin to match your preferences.


The three main types are Neapolitan, A-style, and F-style.
Neapolitan types are used for classical music.
A-style types are used for bluegrass, Irish, classical, and rock music.
F-style types are used for bluegrass. Since F-style mandolins are expensive and ornate, they are less practical for beginners.;
, The only real way to find the right pick is to experiment with different weight picks until you find one that feels comfortable in your hands.


Generally, light to medium picks are used for mandolin playing, but this is not a strict rule.
 One of the most effective ways to get used to the timing and overall sounds of the mandolin is to play along with audio recordings of professional mandolin music.


Focus on the mandolin styles you're most interested in, but listen to the mandolin play a variety of different songs and genres for more well-rounded knowledge.
Make sure that you mix older mandolin music in with newer mandolin music. Newer techniques and styles are built from older ones, and understanding the older ones will make it easier to learn the newer styles.
When you are learning a new song, embed that song firmly in your mind by listening to it repetitively. There will be room to develop your own personal twist later, but for now, you need to know the basic tune thoroughly enough to know how it is supposed to sound when played correctly.
 You need to hold the mandolin on your lap. The neck of the mandolin should point upward and diagonally toward your non-dominant side.


Do not press the mandolin against your torso too securely since doing so can deaden the sound.
The forearm connected to your dominant hand should be horizontal and the arm should be bent at the elbow.
 Your left hand (or non-dominant hand) will fret individual chords. Your right hand (or dominant hand) will pluck the strings as you play notes.The fingers of your non-dominant hand will press down on the frets along the neck of the mandolin for each chord. Your thumb should be at the top of the neck, and the fingers should come up from the bottom.
You should hold the pick in lightly yet firmly in between your thumb and first finger of your dominant hand. The pick should rest on the first finger along the thumb side, in between the first joint and the tip. The pointed edge of the pick should face out.
 You need to make sure that the strings of the mandolin are properly tuned before you can begin playing it.


The strings of a mandolin are arranged in pairs. Both strings in each pair will be tuned to the same note.
The string pairs are traditionally tuned from low to high, ranging from G-D-A-E. The highest string pair, E, should be closest to the floor.
Use an electric tuner for the best, most accurate results. If you do not have an electric tuner, however, you can use another instrument to help you tune the strings correctly.
 A chord refers to a combination or family of musical tones. A note is a certain musical tone played within a chord.


Chords are controlled by your non-dominant hand.
Notes are controlled by your dominant hand and your non-dominant hand.
Both should be indicated on the musical score or tablature you intend to practice.
 Do not hold the strings down at the frets constantly since doing so will quickly wear you out. Instead, "chop" the frets before strumming the string.Rest your fingers on the chord before you play it.
Immediately before the pick strikes the string, depress the string at the fret.
As soon as the pick leaves, release the strings.
The timing of your press-and-release will vary the way the instrument sounds, so you'll need to practice to find a timing—and by extension, a sound—that works for you.
 This is one of the three major chords you'll need to learn to play most mandolin songs.


Your index finger should be in the top fret on the string second closest to your palm.
Your middle finger should be in the second fret on the string closest to your palm.
Your ring finger should be in the fourth fret on the string second furthest from your palm.
Your pinky finger should be in the sixth fret on the string furthest from your palm.
 This is another of the three major chords you'll need to master.


Your index finger should be in the top fret on the string closest to your palm.
Your middle finger should be in the third fret on the string second furthest from your palm.
Your ring finger should be in the fourth fret on the string second closest to your palm.
Your pinky finger should be in the sixth fret on the string furthest from your palm.
 This is the final of the three major chords you must learn if you want to play the mandolin.


Your index finger should be in the second fret on the string second furthest from your palm.
Your middle finger should be in the third fret on the string second closest to your palm.
Your ring finger should be in the fifth fret on the string furthest from your palm.
Your pinky finger should not be on the mandolin at all.
 The easiest way for most beginners is to read music from a tablature.


If you know how to read music the traditional way (on a stave), you could use that option. It can be difficult to learn initially, however, which is why beginners who don't know it already usually don't rely on the stave.
If you have an exceptionally good ear, you could also learn to play the mandolin simply by ear.



The top line represents the highest note. It does not necessarily represent the top string.
To gain better perspective, turn the mandolin on its side so that the strings are facing up and the back runs parallel to the floor. When you look down and toward the side of the mandolin, you should notice that the highest string is the one which is tuned to the highest note. This highest string is the top line of the tablature.
For standard G-D-A-E tuning, the bottom line is G, the second to bottom is D, the third to bottom is A, and the highest is E. Tablatures written for a different tuning should be marked as such.
Usually, the tablature will look something like this:

E--||----------------
A--||----------------
D--||----------------
G--||----------------



, Notes are designated by numbers. The absence of a number indicates that no string is to be played.


When you see a 0, it signifies an open string.
Any other number will tell you which fret to press the string down in. For instance, a "1" is your top fret, "2" is the second fret, "3" is the third fret, "4" is the fourth fret, "5" is the fifth fret, and "6" is the sixth fret.
 By looking at the fret number and the string line, you can determine how to play the note.


For example, a "2" placed on the third line indicates that you should hold the second fret and play on the third highest pitched string (usually "D").
In tablature form, that would look something like:

E--||--------------------
A--||--------------------
D--||---------2----------
G--||--------------------



, Chords are indicated by placing numbers on top of one another.


For example, C-major would look like:

E--||--0--------------
A--||--3--------------
D--||--2--------------
G--||--0--------------


Tablature will not tell you which finger to use for each fret, however. For that, you must practice the chord positions separately, as indicated previously.
 The duration of each note is indicated by how much horizontal spacing is left in between notes.


Actual notes (whole notes, half notes, quarter notes, eighth notes) are not indicated on the tablature. Rhythm is based entirely on the way notes and their durations are related to each other on the tablature.
Numbers placed closely together indicate shorter notes. Wider spacing indicates longer notes.
Numbers spaced evenly apart should last the same length of time. When there is a wider space, the note indicated by the number before it should last for a relatively longer time (a gap twice as wide means the note is twice as long, etc.). The same can be said for notes followed by smaller spaces (a gap half as wide means the note is half as long, etc.).

