 Length and the flex number (the weight it is made to be used for) of the jumping pole depends on the user's weight and height. Make sure that the pole is made out of a good material that won't break with the first jump. Remember, you're going to be resting all of your weight on this flimsy pole.






;
, Make sure the pit is built to safety standards.
 Right-handed people should hold the pole with their right hand on top, and their left hand should be between one and two feet below it. On a first attempt you should only hold the pole as high as you can reach when the pole is being held completely upright. Extend your right hand above your head. Left-handed people, do this vice versa.
 Make sure your hands are in the same position as before.
 If you're left-handed, stand on your right foot and drive with your left knee. Take three large steps backwards for room.
 To make it easier on the first few attempts simply keep your arms extended above your head. Take three running steps forward. On later attempts you can start the run up with your arms bent and the top part of the pole right above your hand resting on your shoulder ,later you can invert the pole, so that the end is up in the air and the top near the ground. During the three approach steps smoothly bring your right hand from it's initial position on your hip to it's final position above your head (as explained above). Be sure to keep your hand close to your body, bending your elbow instead of swing a stiff arm away from your body and then up. When you have mastered a three step approach and are confident with your vaulting ability the approach can be extended to a 12 to 16 step run-up.
 Jump off your right foot if you are left handed. You should move forward at a fast pace, with the pole providing more and more height. Run tall and jump off the ground,keep your left arm from collapsing into your body and let the pole flex.
 A good way to practice this is a one handed pop-up vault.
 Do this by bringing your top hand (your right hand, if you are right handed) down to your hip. This will give you additional height and keep you close to the pole.
 Up to this point your back has been facing the pit you are vaulting into. Now,pull and turn your hips around the pole. Initiate the turn by turning your right foot to the inside. As you pull your body should naturally turn around the pole so that your belly is now facing the pit.
 Your feet should still be vertical (almost like doing a one-handed handstand push-up off of the top of the pole). One of the most difficult techniques is keeping yourself balanced in a vertical position with your head and shoulders down and your legs extended directly over them. Beginning and most intermediate vaulters will make the mistake of letting their legs fall toward the bar and cheating themselves out of two or more feet of height. Stay vertical as you pull and turn! Be careful! Most devastating injuries in pole vaulting occur when the vaulter lets go of the pole too early and falls headfirst into the box.
 Don't attempt to land on your feet, as this can possibly lead to a sprained ankle. If possible land on your back.








