 During an angiogram, a doctor injects a dye into a catheter that is inserted into one of the arteries leading to your heart, lungs, brain, arms, legs, or kidneys. This procedure helps doctors determine how well the blood is flowing to a certain area and it may also help them to detect potentially life threatening blockages.


Your doctor may use a local or general anesthetic to perform an angiogram
The procedure takes between 30 minutes and two hours.
You may be able to return home soon after the procedure, as long as no blockages are detected.
The procedure is safe and usually painless, but you might have some bruising around the area where the catheter was inserted.;
, After your angiogram is over, you will have to stay in the hospital for several hours or possibly overnight. While you are in the hospital, your will be instructed to rest. Resting is important because too much movement may cause bleeding from where the catheter was inserted. Nurses will monitor your blood pressure and other vital signs while you recover from your angiogram.Limit your movement as much as possible. Stay in bed until you are told you may get up and walk. Do not walk around after an angiogram until your doctor says you may.
You will be monitored for 6 hours after your procedure.Sometimes the catheter will be left in place and removed the following morning. If the catheter is in one of your legs, you will need to keep them elevated., You may not need any medication if no blockage was detected. If a blockage was detected, you may need to take a blood thinner for about a year after your procedure. Make sure to follow your doctor’s instructions and take your medication every day. Do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor first., An angiogram is usually a safe procedure with minimal complications. If you experience any unusual side effects after having an angioplasty, you should tell your doctor or a nurse right away. Some side effects need to be treated right away to avoid a life-threatening situation. Tell your doctor or nurse right away if you notice:


Excessive bleeding from the place that the catheter was inserted. A little bit of blood after an angiogram is normal, but there may be a problem if the blood can’t be stopped with a small bandage.
Pain, swelling, or redness where the catheter was inserted. You may have a bit of pain after an angiogram, but there may be a problem if the catheter site is very painful or if you also have swelling and/or redness., After your angiogram is complete, your doctor will review your results and will share them with you the same day or soon after in a follow-up office visit.Try to relax and remain patient as you wait for your results.
 You are at the highest risk of having complications your first night home after your procedure. If you live with other people, you will not need to worry about asking someone to stay with you. If you live alone, you should ask a friend or family member to stay with you for your first night back home., After you return home from the hospital, you will need to continue resting for about a week. If you also had a heart attack or other serious complication, you will need to rest even longer. Plan to take at least a few days off from work to recover from your procedure.Avoid walking up stairs for the first couple of days after the angiogram if the catheter was inserted into your groin area.Avoid any heavy lifting or other strenuous activities for at least 24 hours. Ask your doctor when it will be okay to resume these activities again.
You may not be allowed to drive for up to a week after your procedure. Professional drivers may need to get medical approval before they can return to work. Wait 24 hours before showering., Since dye is injected into your artery during an angiogram, you will need to drink plenty of water after the procedure in order to flush the dye from your system.Adults should drink between six to eight cups of water per day, but you may need more or less depending on your body weight and health., If your doctor has prescribed you a medication for a condition that was detected and/or treated during your angiogram, you should continue to take this medication after leaving the hospital. Make sure that you understand the dosage instructions and contact your doctor if you have any concerns or questions about the medication. Do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor first., You may have some minor pain and/or swelling for the first few days after your procedure and you can use an ice pack to help relieve the pain and bring the swelling down a bit. Wrap a thin towel around an ice pack or a plastic bag filled with ice and apply the ice pack to your catheter site. Do not use the ice pack for more than 20 minutes at a time.If the pain and/or swelling worsens or does not improve, call your doctor as soon as possible.
Applying pressure with an ice pack may also help to control any light bleeding that you are still having. However, if your bleeding is more than light and does not seem to be slowing down, then call your doctor right away.
 Ice will help with pain, but it may not completely relieve your pain. If you are still having pain at the site of your angiogram even with the use of an ice pack, then you can take an over-the-counter pain reliever, such as acetaminophen. Follow the package instructions for dosage or ask your doctor for a recommendation., Make sure that you understand and follow your doctor’s instructions for care of your wound. You may be advised to avoid showering for the first two days after your procedure. Ask your doctor if you have any concerns about how to care for your wound., In general, you may have cause to worry if the site begins to bleed, looks infected, or shows new bruising. Contact your doctor right away if you experience any of the following symptoms:Increased pain or discomfort around the wound
Signs of infection, such as redness, drainage or fever
Any changes in temperature or color of the leg or arm that was used for the procedure
Bleeding that continues after you have applied 2-3 fingers pressure to the puncture site for 15 minutesA "golf ball" size lump or bruise over the puncture site areaFeeling faint, weak, lightheaded, dizzy or clammyAny chest pain or shortness of breath

, Depending on the reason for your angiogram, you may need to make certain lifestyle changes to get and stay healthy. Talk to your doctor about specific changes that you should make.Often, people have angiograms because of coronary artery disease (CAD). If this is the reason for your angiogram, talk with your doctor about the lifestyle changes you should to make. In general, these lifestyle changes include:Quitting smoking (if you are a smoker)
Getting regular exercise
Losing weight (if you are overweight)
Reducing stress

, Your doctor may prescribe blood thinners or even just recommend that you take a small dose of aspirin every day. Whatever your doctor has prescribed or recommended, make sure that you understand the dosage instructions and contact your doctor if you have any concerns or questions about the medication. Do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor first., These can help you learn how to develop an exercise program, follow a heart healthy diet, reduce stress, and even help you to quit smoking. Your insurance will most likely cover the cost of a cardiac rehab program.Ask your doctor for recommendations on a cardiac rehab program in your area.

