 Let this person know that you genuinely care and are not being judgmental. Your being judgmental may destroy her trust in you. To approach her in an open way, you might say “I've noticed you have some marks on your arms, and I'm concerned you might be cutting," and/or "Would you like to talk with me about it?” Statements like this will allow her to know that you are aware of the situation but are prepared to help rather than judge.Make it clear to this person that she is not alone and that you are there to help if she wants your aid.
Express thanks to her for trusting you with this information that is deeply personal. She'll be more likely to open up if she knows you're coming from a kind and gentle place.
Make the focus of this conversation about the future by asking how you can help and not why she acting this way to begin with.;
, Triggers are things that cause an urge to cut. It is important to identify these so that he can reach out for support when he realizes he is in a situation that may increase his chances of cutting.Triggers are unique to the individual so it really is important to work with him to identify what tends to lead him to cut. Ask him what has prompted him to cut in the past. Where was he? What was he doing? What was he thinking about?

, Teach her new ways of coping with stress, such as getting 30 minutes of exercise at least three days a week, getting out into nature for a nice walk, taking up a hobby, fake "self-injuring" by snapping a rubber band or drawing with a marker, or spending time with friends.Remind her that people tend to cope differently or find some coping methods more effective than others, so she may just have to experiment a bit to figure out what works best for her.
 Recognize your limitations. If this is not someone you can be with for the duration of the problem, then it is better to allow others to do the helping or to be upfront about how you can only be there for him temporarily. Avoid making statements such as “I’ll always be here,” or “I will never leave" — especially if you're not confident that that's true. If you're not sure how much you can give, you might say, "I'll do what I can to help."Cutters already have emotional distress in their lives and it can be detrimental to their progress to have others come in who cannot be supportive for the long term. If everyone leaves them, it may only reinforces their fears. Remember that actions always speak louder and more effectively than words.
 Although it is normal to be shocked when you discover someone you know is inflicting self injury, it's important to stay calm. Your first impulse may be to be horrified, which is not at all helpful for the person. Avoid judgmental statements like “Why are you doing that?”, “You shouldn’t be doing that,” or “I could never do that to myself.” These kinds of negative statements can make the person feel worse or ashamed and can actually lead to more, not fewer, cutting incidents.Before you do anything, take a breath. This is a situation you can handle. Patience and caring are the only ways this will get better.
 You can do your own research and get as much information from her about why she self-harms. She may be self-harming to exert self control or to soothe emotional wounds. By understanding the motivations behind her self-harm, you may become more empathetic towards her. Here are some other common reasons why people cut themselves: Some people self-harm because the psychological pain feels worse than physical pain. By inflicting physical pain, people who cut distract themselves from feelings of anxiety, stress, or depression.Other people cut themselves because they received excessive criticism or abuse and punish themselves for it.
Cutting behavior can focus the cutter's attention and allow her to briefly escape a depressing or distressing reality.
Others self-harm because they learn the behavior from others and view it as an acceptable coping mechanism.
 You may or may not be able to handle the situation by yourself. Be prepared for the likely possibility that you will need to recruit outside, professional help. Also be prepared to be there for the long-haul; being supportive is a long-term commitment.


Be careful, however, not to become too overly involved to the point where you are neglecting yourself and your own needs. Avoid trying to insist that the cutter stop the behavior right away as this is unlikely to happen. Listen to him and let him express himself.
Be empathetic to the cutter by putting yourself in his situation and understanding his difficulties.
 This process takes time and will therefore not happen overnight. Do not expect her to wake up one day and see life as a field of daisies; it won't happen. It especially won't happen if she knows you have these expectations of her that she will inevitably fail to live up to. Instead, without putting any pressure on her, let her know that you're confident that she will succeed in due time.


Validate her feelings on the matter even if you don’t agree with her behavior. Don’t lecture her on how she should be feeling but instead listen to what she is trying to say. Even if it's been weeks or months, you need to stay a rock of support — someone who is there for her no matter what. For example, if she says she is cutting herself because she has really low self-esteem you might say "That must have been really difficult to say out loud, thanks for telling me that. I feel down on myself sometimes too, it can really hurt, I agree."
If you want to encourage her, say something like "I'm really proud of how hard you're working." If she has a relapse, which may happen, don't judge her. Say something like "Everyone has setbacks sometimes. I'm here for you and I love you."

, Cutting can be dangerous physically and emotionally. Physically, the wound can easily get infected.Sometimes, people who cut themselves will have to inflict bigger and deeper wounds to satisfy their urge to feel pain. If cutting is not stopped, this may result in the cutter needing hospitalization for his wounds.


Emotionally, cutting can open up a host of other psychological issues, such as low self-esteem or depression.Cutting can be habit-forming which can compound treatment interventions later on. The longer a sufferer waits before getting help, the harder it tends to be to remove the habit.
 Although many people who cut are resistant to professional help and sometimes are unwilling to even acknowledge that there is a problem, do not ignore the reality that there is a problem. Be persistent. Do not try to force him, but encourage him in a loving way to talk to a professional. Remind him that there's nothing shameful about it, that millions of people see therapists or counselors. Remind him that therapists can offer him coping techniques that have proven to be helpful.It's not about needing help, it's about getting better.


Remind your friend that therapists are specifically trained to help people with really difficult emotions and create a completely nonjudgmental environment so you have a place to feel safe to handle the really tough issues.
Look for professionals and support groups in your area that have expertise in treating self-harm. Offer these as suggestions to the person you are looking out for. A support group or a specialist that understands cutting very well can add on to the recovery efforts you have started in your friend’s or loved one's life.
Support groups can better help people with cutting problems because they feel they are not alone and they know that no one in the group will judge them since they are all in a similar predicament. However, monitor his progress and engagement in group therapy very closely, as group therapy can sometimes make self-harm worse, not better., Although there is not often a single underlying cause for self-injury, it may be helpful to try to identify and target for treatment any possible causes you might discover.Once the stress-inducing factors are identified, addressing them head-on may lead to a decrease in self-injurious behaviors. You can use any of the following methods to address the conflict:


Talk with the person more openly and frequently. Do emphatic listening, identifying and relating to the problem that is underlying the cutting behaviors.
Try to identify the thoughts of the person and analyze the words, like, "I feel satisfied while cutting and it makes me comfortable." Address these thoughts and help the person replace them with more appropriate ones, such as "Self-harm is dangerous, and while it may provide temporary relief from my problem, it is not a healthy or long-term solution."
Think of better coping strategies and help her identify and use them. These, however, depend on the individual and the reason for cutting. Some may benefit from being around more people, some may need to be busier, while some may need to be quiet and alone. What would help this person in your life? Try to think of her personality or ask her directly.
 He needs emotional support and could benefit from someone like you leading him towards healthier activities to vent his feelings. Social support has been found to reduce stress, which may in turn ease his emotional distress.Engage him with hobbies you think he'll enjoy. Schedule a hike in the nearby nature park or go fishing with him. Do whatever you can (within reason) to distract him from cutting himself.


You do not need to be a mental health professional to make someone who cuts feel better. You just need to listen patiently and be considerate and non-judgmental even if you find the habit of cutting baffling and beyond comprehension. These people do not need your opinion. All they need are your ears.
 Problem solving, coping and the enhancement of communication skills are all very important methods that can reduce cutting. Consult your therapist to help the person learn these techniques.Material from trustworthy online resources also proves useful. You can help the person generalize them into real life situations. Once stress coping and problem solving skills are learned and practiced effectively, cutting behaviors usually subside. Try offering this website as a resource.
 Often the main aim of cutting behaviors is distraction from pain or stress and getting pleasure as a result. You can help identify other distraction techniques that may compete with cutting behaviors and then practice them. This can lead to lessening of cutting behaviors. Some techniques that you may use are as follows:Exercising, as it helps maintain mood and lower stress levels.
Diary writing, to jot down stressful thoughts on paper.
Surrounding her with loved ones who hold her accountable for her actions.
Telling her to let it out physically in a way other than cutting herself. She might squeeze an ice cube, hit a pillow, tear up some paper, smash a watermelon to bits, or write words on herself with a marker.
 Social circles, especially for teens, are very important. Often people learn to indulge in cutting behaviors after seeing a friend and then repeating the behavior. She may also be looking at or exposed to website that glamorize or support self-injury, or seeing it depicted on the news, in music, or other media. Make sure you talk with her about thinking critically about these influences and how they might differ from reality.If she has peers who will negatively influence her, try subtly encouraging her to change social circles as this often helps reduce and ultimately end cutting behaviors.

