 You don't necessarily have to tell your parents the theme of your party/sleepover, but you still need to make sure you can have one in the first place.;
, Even if you plan extremely early, when not anyone is even thinking about your birthday coming up, this is good. You'll have more time to think about what you really want to do.
 See if they like the idea of having a Warrior Cats theme.
 Before your guests arrive, decorate your houses with posters, paw prints, or anything else that will compliment the theme. If you have any party games, make sure anything you need for those games is ready.


Instead of decorating the whole room, make a fort and say its the 'den' and fill the blanket draped chairs with items suggested, to make it even more forest like, you could use camouflage blankets and cover them with stick and leaves, if strong enough.
Take out spider webs from Halloween and decorate a few corners with the spider webs.
Cover door ways with green silk or fabric, and cut some of the fabric into slivers making a vine themed door entrance way.



For the kits' room, you could have tons of pillows and small stuffed animals and spider webs scrunched into soft play balls. Place leaves on the pillows and spread dyed or glow in the dark spiderwebs around the room to look like moss.
For the 'warriors' den make small nests of green spider web or three pillows to make a sleeping area.
For the leader's den you could choose the largest, least occupied room. The couch can be your bed, covered with the spider webs or pillows. Cover the floors in colored blankets, or brown to give it that dirt or sand effect.
You will also need an apprentice den, this can be made just like the warriors den, but larger and less comfortable.
Make the Medicine cat's den. Outside, in the kitchen, or by a window would be the best place because there are plants you can use to heal. For the comfort of the person who volunteers to be the medicine cat, place down multiple blankets on top of one another to get that carpet effect just like inside. Use a brown or blue tarp to make a ceiling and add cozy green spider web beds and the best pillows you got. Offer spoons, forks, sticks, and brown like bowls to be able to make the treatments. To insure your medicine cat is comfy and NOT lonely, ask a friend to be the apprentice of the medicine cat.
 Use multiple pillows stacked or use a chair or couch. Let the other cats sit below you on pillows or just on spread out blankets.
 In the middle of 'camp', place a cardboard piece that is cut out like a stump and is decorated as such. For when it comes to hunting the cats can put there 'fresh kill' or stuffed animals on the stump.
 Your outside or 'forest' can be a room decorated with cardboard cut outs of trees, spider webs, and badger holes. Under furniture you can place a skunk or burrowing stuffed animal', green moss, a fake river (use a cardboard cut out colored or painted blue), and stuffed animals scattered about.
 Maybe with a dip of your head or a whisper of. Welcome to the home of the Clans.
 Once everyone has arrived, why not pretend to be warrior cats? Everyone could be one RP character (roleplay) and one real warrior. If you have the time, you could make name badges.
 People can hide stuffed animals while others try to find a stuffed animal with the number they were assigned to written on a card around their neck.
 Have everyone pair up, and give each pair a spoon. Fill white water balloons up with dyed water.
 In this game, each den will be removed of its items and hidden among the 'forest'. Teams assigned to each den must collect the items and amount wanted. Give them a check list to cross of items safely brought back to their 'den'. The first to bring back and arrange the interior like before everything was pulled will get prized with an extra piece of fresh kill and a new piece of bedding from left over pieces not collected. The losing teams will pick up the resources and must hand one piece of bedding to the other team, the team gets to choose which item they get to posses.
 Once you've eaten, maybe you could play some warrior cat games with your friends on the internet.


In the evening, have a mini battle (doesn't have to last long) and then a Gathering if your party is on a full moon, lucky you, otherwise, make an exception just for the party.
 Not all birthday parties need to be sleepovers, but they can be lots of fun! In the morning, depending on what time you wake up, you could play some party games or read books, and have breakfast.
 When it's time for dinner, call it 'fresh kill' instead, and ask everyone what they would like. Obviously, don't really serve mice at the table. Think of something everyone could enjoy, maybe something fresh, like a pizza, you can have delivered to your house.
 Food is 'fresh kill' in warriors so you must get something close to meats, think think think! Have meat skewers, steak, meatballs, pepperoni, salami, and hamburgers, anything with juicy meat will do. If you have a vegetarian then offer veggie patties, cheese, anything that sticks to the theme.
 The best birthday cake can have something printed on it, such as the cover of your favorite book from the warriors series or the map of the territory.

