 Once you've secured your poultice into a nice package, lay it over the afflicted area, with the side with the cling wrap facing up and the other side contacting your skin. Depending on your affliction, it might be important to clean the area thoroughly first with soap and water.


If you're having congestion in your chest or your sinuses, the best place to put the poultice is on your chest, just under your chin.
If you're having skin problems, the best place to place the poultice is directly over the afflicted area. The same goes for inflammation and other internal issues. Secure the poultice as close as possible over the part that needs fixing.
 Different temperatures are traditionally used for different afflictions, to soothe, relieve, or heal, depending. If you've experienced some variety of inflammation, internal or external, it's most common to use hot compresses, as soon as possible after you've mixed up the hot herbs and created the poultice. Make sure it's comfortable to the touch, but as hot as possible.


A good way of remembering this is that hot inflammation needs to be treated with a hot poultice. Things like wisdom teeth flare-ups, inflamed tonsils, hemorrhoids, or other kinds of infection., If you're trying to treat sore joints or muscles with a poultice, it's a good idea to use a heating compress, which combines a room-temperature poultice with a heating layer of bandages.


After placing the poultice, wrap a small hand towel or blanket around the other side, then secure it with bandages to hold it in place. You can cool the area topically with the poultice, then heat the area deeply with warm layers.
 Anything that's irritated on the surface should be treated with cold compresses. After you make your herb mixture and wrap the poultice, toss it into the fridge for a few minutes to cool it down. Anything that's scraped or irritated needs to be treated with a cool compress and poultice., Poultices may be helpful for common conditions and minor aches and pains, but you should check with your doctor if your condition does not improve or if it gets worse. If you’re in serious pain or discomfort, seek medical attention as soon as possible.

