 It is fat soluble meaning you need cooking oils with high fat contents. Canola oil works well. You may also choose olive or coconut oil. However, olive and coconut oils have lower boiling points than canola oil. Choose your base depending on your application.


If your final dish's recipe calls for a particular type of oil, you may consider that or a reliable substitute as an appropriate oil base.;
, You want to start with dry marijuana. You may choose to stick with only the flowers. Some people will use all parts of the plant.Keep in mind that you will want to strain your oil later. Try not to grind your pot so finely that it will go through your strainer. A coffee grinder or food processor will work well. Just don't turn your marijuana into powder.
 The strength of your cannabis cooking oil will vary by your mixture. Pour your oil into a slow cooker, double boiler, or saucepan. Add your ground marijuana and stir. Make sure all your marijuana is covered in oil.


If you don't know what mixture will work, start with a mixture of two parts oil to one part marijuana by volume. For example, mix 2 cups of oil with 1 cup of ground marijuana or 100 millilitres of oil to 50 millilitres of marijuana.
 How much you are cooking will also impact your cooking method. The goal is to get your oil and pot mixture hot without scorching. Stir the mixture frequently. You can add a little water to the mix to avoid scorching.


If using a slow cooker, cook the mixture on low for at least 6 hours. You may extend that to three days for a better infusion.
If using a double boiler, cook on low for 6-8 hours. Eight hours will give you a better infusion. Stir occasionally and keep a close eye on your water level. Don't let your double boiler go dry.
If using a saucepan, cook on low for no less than 3 hours. Stir frequently to avoid scorching. This method will be most susceptible to scorching.
 You can strain the oil using a wire strainer to remove the larger pieces of marijuana. If you still have solids you want to get rid of, strain a second time through a coffee strainer. This will take a lot of time so be careful and patient. You may want to do small batches while you continue to simmer the mixture.


Alternately, you can do your straining through cheesecloth. Use multiple layers for more filtration. Put your cheesecloth over the top of a large mixing bowl. Secure the sides with a rubber band. Pour the mixture into the bowl. If you can get cheesecloth, this method is often preferred because you can filter more at a time than you can with a coffee strainer.
If you only have small coffee filters, try using a rubber band for protection. Find a tall glass and place the coffee strainer on top. Cup the top a little into the glass. Use a rubber band around the top of the glass and over the edges of the filter to hold the filter in place.
If you use a glass container to pour your hot oil into, heat your glass up first. Consider running your glass under warm water and then scalding hot water for a few minutes. This should keep the glass from shattering from the intense heat.
 When your oil has been strained, store your oil in a proper container with an airtight lid. Your oil will lose potency when exposed to oxygen. It will stay good for about two months.You can extend the shelf life longer by refrigerating it.
 Your cooking oil will likely be very potent. You probably do not want to substitute all of your cooking oil with marijuana infused oil. Try substituting only a small portion such as half fluid ounce or more until you know the strength of your oil.

