 Tell them when and where the sleepover will be, and what they need to bring. You might ask them to bring a pillow and sleeping bag, perhaps a snack and maybe something fun to do of their own choosing.;
, You can buy food in or you could make your own. Or, you could even turn making sweets, cookies, cupcakes, candy, etc., into one of the sleepover's fun activities.


Don't forget to plan dinner. Either make dinner or order it in. Easy dinner foods for a sleepover include pizza, fish and chips, burgers, or pasta.
 This can have snacks and help-yourself drinks on it at all times, and have the dinner food on it when the time is right.
 Clear enough space to allow all of the guests to spread out their pillows, sleeping bags and blankets. If your room is too small, choose a room in the house that is large enough and won't disturb other family members.
 Although this isn't essential, it adds a nice touch, especially if the sleepover is for a special occasion such as a birthday, achievement or graduation. Blow up balloons and hang up party lights.
 Get some movies or just rent one from an online or cable source.


If you're planning on having a movie marathon, ensure that the movies are of a theme that all the guests will enjoy.
 For some sleepovers, this is the entire reason of having the sleepover. Choose games that the guests will like and can access. You'll probably need multiple monitors or screens, multiple controls, games with split screen ability and perhaps separate game areas that guests can wander around at different stages. If you don't have the extra monitors, controllers and games, ask guests to bring a few extra with them.
 For instance, when the guests arrive, turn on some music to rock out to. Or, play music for a while to dance to, perhaps in the early evening.
 You could paint each other's faces, do makeovers on each other or do movie transformation effects.


Maybe have a spa night if you're so inclined.
 This is simple to set up and easy to do. Have some extra pillows just in case there are some guests who don't want to use their own pillows.
 Hold a karaoke competition between each other. See who can sing the best––and the worst.
, Look up fun pranks online and play them on one another. However, don't be mean spirited and deliberately set someone up because you're trying to be nasty to them; if you don't like a person, don't invite them.
 Add captions and funny designs to the photos to make them even funnier. Post them to your social media account to share with friends.


If posting online, keep them clean and considerate.
 If you have subscriptions that everyone else enjoys, watch a few of the videos.

