 You have the option of reaching an agreement with the other parent about modifying the current parenting plan. Of course, the judge must still consent to the change. Nevertheless, you should speak with the other parent and explain why you think it should be changed.;
, If you can come to an agreement, then you should fill out a new parenting plan. The Florida Supreme Court’s Self-Help Center has printed plans you can use. They are available for download at the court’s website.Generally, you can use Form 12.995(a).
However, you may use form 12.995(b) if you want a Supervised/Safety-Focused Parenting Plan.
Use form 12.995(c) if you are creating a Long-Distance Parenting Plan because you have moved 50 miles (80.5 km) from the current principal place of residence.
 Each parent must sign the parenting plan in front of a notary public.You can find a notary public at the courthouse or at most large banks.


Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification to show the notary. Generally, a valid passport or state-issued ID is sufficient.
 You can take the parenting plan to the court clerk and ask to file. You will also need to schedule a “final hearing.”At the hearing, the judge will review the plan and determine whether or not to modify the child custody arrangements.
 You might not be able to reach an agreement with the other parent. In this situation, you must file a petition in court. The Florida Courts have a form you can download and fill out. It is Form 12.905(a), Supplemental Petition to Modify Parental Responsibility, Visitation or Parenting Plan.You should download the form and print it off.


You can also download the form as a PDF and type information directly into the form.
 At the top of the form are blank lines that you need to fill in. You can get the required information by looking at any other document filed in your case. For example, you will be asked for the following:name and location of the court
your case number
the division
the names of the parties

, The judge will only change the current custody arrangement or parenting plan if there has been a “substantial” and “unanticipated” change in circumstances.You should identify this change in the space provided on the form.


A “substantial” change is permanent or close to permanent. An example is a geographic move away from where the child has always lived.A change is “unanticipated” when you couldn’t have foreseen it when creating the original parenting plan.A sudden addiction to drugs or alcohol would qualify. Also a change in work schedule qualifies.
 You should tell the judge exactly what you want. For example, you may want majority time-sharing of the children. There is space on the form for you to identify how you want to modify the original parenting plan., A court cannot change a parenting plan unless it is in the best interests of the child. There is space on the petition for you to argue that your proposed change is in the child’s best interests.Generally, you can argue the following:The change will help promote the child’s emotional and physical safety.
A modification will better promote stability. For example, the other parent may be in and out of alcohol or drug treatment. If your child lives with you, then they will have a much more stable home environment.
You want to modify the parenting plan to promote the child’s connection to other family members, such as grandparents.
Your child wants the change. This factor has some weight, although the court does not defer to what a child wants.
 You can modify child support at the same time that you change the parenting plan. There is a space for you to check whether you want to modify child support.If you do, then you should complete a Family Law Financial Affidavit and a Child Support Guidelines Worksheet. Submit these along with your petition.
 You must sign in front of a notary or a court clerk. You can find notaries at the courthouse or at most large banks. Be sure to take sufficient personal identification to show the notary. Generally, a valid passport or state-issued ID (like a driver’s license) is sufficient.
 The form also wants you to identify any non-lawyer who assisted you. It will ask for the following information about this person:name of the individual
name of this person’s company
business address
business phone number

, You also have to fill out a series of other required forms in addition to your petition. You should read the directions to the petition and find out which forms to download and complete. You can download all forms at the Florida Supreme Court Self-Help website. You may need to complete:Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act (UCCJEA) Affidavit
Child Support Guidelines Worksheet
A proposed Parenting Plan
Notice of Social Security Number
Family Law Financial Affidavit
Certificate of Compliance with Mandatory Disclosure

, You need to attach a copy of the original court judgment that approved the original parenting plan.Go through your papers and find this document. If you can’t find it, then contact the court clerk and ask how you can get a copy.
 Make several copies of your completed form. You should take the original and the copies to the court clerk at the courthouse which approved the original parenting plan. Ask the court clerk if you can file the original.You may have to pay a filing fee. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask for a fee waiver form.
 You should serve a copy of the petition and supporting documents on the other parent. The parent needs notice so that he or she can respond to your request to change the parenting plan.


You should have the documents hand delivered to the parent. Generally, you can have someone 18 or older make hand delivery if they are not part of the case. You can’t deliver the papers yourself.
 The other parent has 20 days to file and serve on you their response. It should be personally served. Read the document closely to see if the parent objects to your proposed change and why.


If the other parent doesn’t respond within 20 days, then you should print off Form 12.922(a), Motion for Default. Complete the form and file it with the court clerk., Based on the other parent’s response, you will have to schedule either a hearing or a trial. You can schedule either by calling the appropriate court clerk, judicial assistant, or family law intake staff for your court.If the other parent didn’t respond, then schedule a “final hearing” with the clerk.
If the other parent agrees with your proposed changes, then schedule a final hearing with the clerk.
If the other parent disagrees with your proposed modifications, then you should file a Notice for Trial (Form 12.924) and then schedule a trial with the appropriate staff person.
 After you schedule the hearing or trial, you must inform the other parent of the date. You can complete a form and send it to the other parent. Always remember to keep a copy of the form for your records.
 Some courts require that parents participate in mediation before a final hearing will be scheduled. The purpose of mediation is to help the parents come to an agreement about parenting time. You will meet with a neutral third party, the “mediator,” who is skilled at getting each side talking and listening to each other.If you reach an agreement in mediation, then the mediator should help you draft your parenting plan and help you submit it to the court for approval.
 You can have people testify on your behalf at the hearing. You should identify who has helpful information ahead of time. Potential witnesses include any of the following:school teachers
relatives, such as grandparents, aunts, and uncles
doctors or nurses (who can testify if the other parent has abused the child)
therapists or counselors who have treated your child
anyone with helpful information about your case

, You can also submit documents at the hearing. Make sure the documents help support your argument that a changing the parenting plan is in your child’s best interests. For example, you could use the following documents:Medical records. If your child has been abused, then these records can establish abuse or neglect.
Therapy records. These records help show any emotional trauma your child has suffered.
Photographs. You might argue that the other parent’s home isn’t suitable for a child to live in. You can take photographs as proof.
 If your motion wasn’t contested—that is, the other parent agrees to the changes—then your hearing will not be dramatic. You probably won’t have witnesses testify. Instead, the judge may ask questions which you should answer truthfully.


If the judge agrees that the change is in your child’s best interests, then he or she will sign off on your new parenting plan.
 As the person requesting that the parenting plan be modified, you will present your evidence first. You can call your witnesses by standing and saying, “Your Honor, I’d like to call Megan Jones as my first witness.” Remember the following tips:


Don’t ask leading questions. A leading question suggests its own answer.For example, “You saw Ms. Dennis strike young Jamie, correct?” is a leading question. Instead, ask a series of general questions, such as “Where were you on January 12, 2015?” “Who did you see?”.
Lay a foundation if you want to introduce documents. A witness has to testify as to what a document is. For example, if you want to introduce a therapist record, then the therapist should testify that she knows what the record is because she created it.
 The other side gets to go second. He or she can also call witnesses and introduce documents into evidence. You should have a chance to cross-examine each witness.For tips on how to cross-examine a witness, see Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself.
 After both sides have presented evidence, the judge should issue a ruling from the bench. If the case was complicated, then the judge might take the issue under advisement and issue a ruling at a later date.The judge issues a “judgment” which must then be entered by the court clerk. Be sure to get a copy of this judgment from the clerk, just as you got a copy of your original judgment.
 In some courts, you may have to take a parenting class before the judge will enter final judgment in the case. You should contact your court’s clerk or family law intake staff for more information.