 Noting the way that the person interacts with someone else can also help you to determine if he or she is taken. If this person is with a person or group of people, then pay attention to how he or she interacts with them. Try to glance at the person now and then to see how he or she is behaving.


For example, is the person leaning in towards someone and smiling?Is the person standing closer to someone than is appropriate for friends? Is the person holding hands with anyone or touching someone on the arm or back? These things may indicate that the person is not single.
However, if the person is not displaying any intimate body language with anyone, then there is a good chance that he or she is single.
 If you are close enough to see the person’s hands, then look for a ring on the person’s left hand. People usually wear wedding and/or engagement rings on the ring finger, which is the one next to the pinky finger.


If there is no ring, then there is a chance that this person is single. However, keep in mind that many people have committed relationships without being married.
 If you have reason to believe that the person is single, then you can introduce yourself and start to get to know the person you like. Just keep in mind that taking this approach may reveal that the person is or is not single within your first conversation, or it might take a while.


If the person is alone, try saying something like, “Hi. I’m __. What’s your name?”
If the person you’re interested in is in a large group, then you can introduce yourself to the whole group by saying something like: “Hi, I’m __. How does everybody here know each other?”

, When you first meet someone, it is good to ask questions to get to know the person better. Allowing the person a chance to talk may also reveal whether or not he or she is seeing anyone. Some good getting-to-know-you questions include:Where did you grow up?
Where do you work? Do you like it?
Do you have any pets?
What do you like to do in your spare time?

, If the person is not single, then he or she likely has plans with a significant other over the weekend. You can casually ask about the person’s weekend plans and this may give you an answer to your question and it can also be a good way to ask for a date.Try saying something like, “What do you have planned for this weekend?”
If the person says nothing, then you can try saying something like, “I was thinking of going to see a movie. Would you be into that?”
If the person says that he or she has plans with a significant other, then just play it cool. Try saying something, “Awesome! Have a great time!”

