 When you do two things (or three, or four) at once, you aren't fully focused on any one task. You can't be totally present, because your thoughts are jumping to the next project, or worrying about an email half-written, or planning the meeting that's happening tomorrow. Turning your focus to just one thing at a time is a way of being in the moment. As a bonus, you'll do a much better job at any given task if it's the only thing on your mind.


Try to finish every task you start. Give yourself enough time to do a thorough job, and do it from start to finish before moving on to the next item on your to do list.
Some projects can't be completed all at once. For bigger projects, set manageable goals that can be met in one sitting. For example, if you're writing a book, decide you're going to spend 3 hours focusing fully on the book. Write what you can during this time, then put your materials away before moving to the next item.
 Rushing through tasks is not much better than multitasking when it comes to being in the moment. If all you can think about is getting a chore done as fast as possible, you aren't giving yourself the chance to really experience what you're doing. All your mind and body to act as one, for as long as it takes to get the job done.
 Doing seemingly mundane chores like washing dishes, sweeping, painting, and so on is a good opportunity to practice mindfulness.Do your chores slowly and methodically, giving yourself time to complete them well. Focus on the movements of your body and the way you are changing the space around you for the better - making it cleaner, more inviting, and more positive.
 Packing your day with back to back activities doesn't allow you time to take it all in. Give yourself a break between tasks, and spend the time doing nothing. Don't look at your computer or read your emails on your phone. Just take time to sit, breathe, and appreciate the moment, no matter what it's offering., If you breeze through life without stopping to really see things, you're not being in the moment - instead, you're in the confines of your head. Look around you and observe.


When you walk into work in the morning, look into people's eyes. Notice their faces; what do you read there?
Pay attention to the news. How does do events happening in the
React to the world around you. If you see a can on the sidewalk in front of your house, pick it up. If you feel a burst of salty air blowing off the sea, stop, close your eyes, and let it swirl over your face. If you notice that the day is sunny and warm, open the blinds and the windows.

