 There are many common phrases in Spanish that incorporate the word vida to indicate the importance or gravity of a situation. In Spanish as in English, you may fight for your life (debatía entra la vida y la muerte), lay down your life (dar la vida) or lose your life (perder la vida).If something awful or difficult has happened, but you want to communicate that the troubled times will pass and you will move on, you might say "la vida sigue" ("life goes on"). If the awful thing has never happened to you before, you might say "en mi vida" ("never in my life").
If something is a matter of life and death, it is "cosa de vida o muerte." If a desperate situation requires you to risk life and limb then it requires you jugarse la vida.
Not all phrases about life use the word vida. For example, if you wanted to tell someone in Spanish that they gave you the fright of your life, you would say "¡Qué gusto me diste!"

, You may already know that "¿Como estas?" means "how are you?" in Spanish, and you may know to respond "Bien, gracias" to mean "I'm well, thank you." But Costa Ricans use a different phrase as a greeting that incorporates the word vida.If you are in Costa Rica, you'll hear people use the phrase "pura vida." While the direct translation of this phrase is "pure life," the use of the phrase goes far beyond the direct translation. More accurately, it describes a relaxed lifestyle that values happiness and joy.
You might hear the phrase in other Central American countries as well, but it's most common in Costa Rica. There, the phrase is used as a general greeting, as well as the response to that greeting.
It also is used as a general expression of gratitude or satisfaction. For example, if you say "¡Muchas gracias!" someone might respond "Pura vida!" by which they mean something more like "you're welcome."
In English, you might ask someone "how's life?" instead of saying "how are you?" or a similar greeting – especially if you haven't seen the person in awhile. In Spanish, you would say "¿Qué talk te va?" or "¿Cómo va eso?" Not these phrases do not include the word vida., In English, there are many phrases incorporating the word life to talk about how something seems real, or how a person brought life to a place or event that was dead or dull before they arrived. Spanish has similar phrases, though not all of them use the word vida.Many of these phrases use the verb animarse, which means "to come to life." For example, if you want to say that a particular guest brought the party to life, you would say "animó la fiesta." If that person was the life and soul of the party, you would say "el alma de la fiesta."
Perhaps you're having trouble with the office printer, and you want to say in Spanish that the machine seems to have a life of its own. You would use the phrase "tener vida propia" (which means "to have a life of its own").
 Particularly when you're speaking to someone you haven't seen in awhile, they may ask after your life in general. You can respond in equally generic terms by using common phrases in Spanish.For example, if you want to tell someone that you have a good life, you might say "es una vida agradable" ("it's a good life") or "la vida me ha tratado bien" ("I've had a good life").
In contrast, if you wanted to say that you've been having difficulties, you might say "la vida es muy dura" ("it's a hard life").
If you want to tell your significant other that they are the love of your life, you would say "eres el amor de mi vida" ("you are the love of my life").
 There are many phrases using the word "life" in English, such as "that's life," that can be used to express how you feel about something happening. In Spanish, there are similar phrases that mean the same thing, even though the translation isn't always literal.To say something similar to "that's life!" or "such is life!" in Spanish, you would say "¡así es la vida!"
If you want to tell someone to get a life, you would say ¡espabílate y haz algo!"

Interject "¡Dios mío!" if something has happened that you find shocking or upsetting. A literal translation would be "My God!" but as used, the phrase means something like "my life!"
If someone asks you to do something that you have no intention of doing, you might say "¡ni hablar!" which means "not on your life!"

