 Times of extreme stress can cause your period to get delayed. Stress alters the function of your hypothalamus, the part of your brain that regulates your hormones and causes menstruation to happen.If you think stress could be the reason your period is late, take measures to decrease sources of anxiety in your life.


See if you can take a few days off of work or school. Spend the time relaxing, eating well and exercising.
Cancel social obligations that may be stressing you out. Give yourself some "me" time.
Try meditating or practicing yoga.
If your stress is chronic, talk to someone who can help. Consider making an appointment with a therapist who can help you find a good solution.
 There's not scientific explanation for why taking a hot bath helps bring on a period, but many people find it works. Perhaps it's helpful because the warm water relaxes your body, easing physical and emotional stress at the same time. Give yourself time for a good, long soak in the bath when you want your period to start.


Try adding relaxing essential oils to the tub. Lavender, lemongrass and rose essential oils will help you destress as you bathe.
Focus on letting your body completely relax and let go. Massage your legs, arms, face and scalp to improve your circulation.
 If you are 10 percent or lower below the normal body weight for your height, this can cause a disruption in your menstrual cycle. Many people find that allowing themselves to gain a little weight causes their cycles to become more regular.Find out what's considered a healthy body weight for you by talking with your doctor. You could also use a Body Mass Index (BMI) calculator, but know that experts disagree on whether this calculation is an accurate measure of a person's health.
If you have an eating disorder, such as anorexia or bulimia, seek treatment right away. These disorders are very difficult to correct on your own. In addition to disrupting your menstrual cycle, they can cause other long-term health problems.
 Many athletes who train every day experience irregular or missed periods. Overtraining can lead to decreased levels of estrogen in your body, causing your period to stop. Low estrogen levels can have negative side effects, including causing your bones to become brittle. If you think overtraining might be the problem, you'll need to change your routine right away.Talk with your doctor about your training schedule to determine whether this might be the case. Long-distance runners, weight lifters and other athletes who train heavily on a daily basis are most at risk.
Although there may be pressure to keep training as hard as you are, it's important for your health that you scale back if you're overdoing it., Taking the Pill or another hormonal contraceptive can give you total control over your cycle, and even eradicate it, for months at a time. Hormonal contraceptives are often prescribed as treatment for irregular, long or very painful periods. Talk with your doctor about whether taking a hormonal contraceptive is a good choice for your situation.