 If you believe you are experiencing an allergic reaction to antibiotics, seek medical help immediately, no matter how severe your symptoms are. Many allergic reactions are confined to skin rashes and will not result in any complications, but it's important to talk to your doctor about any reaction. Some rashes can be caused by Stevens-Johnson syndrome, a severe complication that needs hospitalization.Other rashes are a precursor to anaphylaxis, which can be life-threatening if not treated.Seek immediate medical assistance if you experience:Fever
Sore throat/mouth, with our without a cough
Facial swelling
Tongue swelling
Skin pain
Rashes and/or blisters
Hives
Difficulty breathing or tightness in the throat
An abnormally hoarse voice
Hives or swelling
Nausea or vomiting
Abdominal pain
Dizziness or fainting
Rapid heart beat
Feelings of doom;
, If you're experiencing any allergic reactions to an antibiotic, you must discontinue using that medication, and avoid all exposure to it. Exposure can happen accidentally, so it's important to take preventative action.


Tell health care workers about your allergy any time you are receiving medical treatment of any kind.Ensure that this is included in your medical records for future reference, but don't ever assume medical personnel have seen the chart or know of your allergy. It is your responsibility to communicate your allergies when being treated.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. These bracelets can be invaluable, especially if you ever require emergency care while unconscious. It alerts health care workers about your allergy in times when you cannot communicate your allergy.You may want to carry an epinephrine auto-injector (commonly called an "Epipen"). This is typically only needed for people susceptible to anaphylaxis, but your doctor may recommend that you have one if your allergies are severe., In most cases, if you have a known allergy, your doctor will prescribe an alternative drug. In some very isolated cases where benefit outweighs the risk and there are not alternative treatments, that may not be an option. If you must take a particular drug and have a known allergy to that medication, your doctor may work with you through a drug desensitization treatment.During drug desensitization treatments, your doctor will administer a very small dose of the drug you're allergic to, and will monitor your symptoms. Then they will administer an increasingly larger dose every 15 to 30 minutes, over the course of several hours or even days.If you are able to tolerate the desired dosage without any adverse reactions, your doctor may then safely prescribe a regular course of the medication.This is generally done in severe cases and should only be done by a professional with training in emergency treatment.

