 You'll be using iTunes to transfer your ringtone files onto your iPhone. The latest versions of iTunes make this process much easier than it used to be, so make sure you're running the latest version:


Windows - Press Alt and click the "Help" menu. Select "Check for Updates" to download and install any available iTunes updates.
Mac - Click the "iTunes" menu and select "Check for Updates."

, Make sure that you are logged in with the Apple ID that you used to purchase your ringtones. Click the profile button in the upper-right corner and sign in if you aren't already.
 You should see it appear in the top row of buttons in iTunes after a moment.


If you haven't connected your iPhone to your computer before, you'll be taken through a quick setup process.
 This will open details of your iPhone.
 This will allow you to easily add ringtones to your iPhone.


If you had previously synced your iPhone with another library, you'll be forced to erase the synced content when syncing with a new library. You can only sync from one library at a time.
 This will display all of the ringtones on your computer that you can transfer to your iPhone.


If you've purchased a ringtone from iTunes but don't see it listed here, click your profile button and select "Purchased." Select the "Tones" tab in the Purchased screen and find the ringtone you want to retrieve. Click the iCloud button next to the ringtone to download it to your computer.
If you are prompted to authorize the computer, click the "Store" menu (press Alt if you don't see it) and then select "Authorize this Computer." You'll be prompted to log in with your Apple ID. You can have up to five computers authorized at once. Once your computer is authorized, you can download all of your iTunes purchases.
You can create ringtones from any of the music files in your iTunes library. See Set a Song As Your Ringtone on iPhone for instructions on creating a custom ringtone which you can then drag onto your iPhone.
If you download M4R files online, you can drag them into the iTunes window to add them to your Tones library. M4R is the iTunes ringtone format.
 You'll see your iPhone appear in the left frame.
 This will immediately transfer the file to your iPhone.

