 The alcohol and oil used in this lamp are flammable, and must be treated with care when heating them to get the lava moving. Children should show an adult these instructions and ask for help, and not attempt this on their own.


Commercial lava lamps use a proprietary combination of melted waxes. The homemade version doesn't achieve exactly the same look, but after some tweaking your "lava" should bob up and down in similar, gooey glory.
 You can use any clear, glass container that you can seal tightly and shake. Glass can withstand heat much better than plastic, making it a good choice for a lava lamp.
 This will be the "lava" bobbing up and down in your lamp. It doesn't matter how much you use, as you can always pour in more later.









Starting with plain oil for your first attempt is a good idea, but you can mix in artist's oil paint first if you want colored "lava." Be aware that the paint might separate later, gathering on the top or bottom of the jar., Both types of alcohol are sold in drugstores. Once these are mixed in the perfect amount, the liquid will be almost the same density as the mineral oil. Here's how to achieve this:









Mix together 6 parts 90% alcohol and 13 parts 70% alcohol.(You can estimate this by filling a small cup with 90% alcohol once, then 70% alcohol twice, then pouring in an extra dash of 70%.)
Pour this into the jar and wait for the liquid to settle. The oil should end up on the bottom, but bulge upward slightly in the center. If it looks flat, you can pour in slightly more 70% alcohol, but you don't need to get it perfect at this point.
 Screw the lid on the jar tightly before you start moving it around. Place the jar on a stable, heat-safe surface, such as a large, upside-down flower pot. This should have enough space underneath it to cover a small lamp.
 Once the oil and alcohol are very close to the same density, all you need to do is add heat beneath the lamp. Heat causes materials to expand, but causes the oil to expand slightly faster than the alcohol around it. When this happens, the oil floats to the top, cools down and shrinks, then sinks again. Let's get started:









Select an incandescent bulb carefully. For a jar 12 ounces (350 mL) or smaller, use a 15 watt sewing machine bulb. Larger containers can use a 30 watt or 40 watt bulb, but never higher-powered ones, due to the risk of overheating or shattering the glass.
Place this bulb in a small, directional lamp below the jar, pointing upward.
For maximum control over the light and heat, install a dimmer switch on the lamp.
 Some lava lamps take a couple hours to warm up enough to start floating, but this homemade oil version usually starts moving in less time than that. Wrap your hand in a cloth and touch the jar every 15 minutes. It should get quite warm, but not searing hot. If it is too hot, turn off the lamp immediately and replace the bulb with a lower wattage.









Try rotating the lamp gently once in a while as it warms up, using a cloth or oven mitt to touch it.
Don't leave the lamp on when you leave the room, and turn it off to let it cool after a few hours of being on, at most.
 If the oil is still stuck at the bottom after a couple hours, turn it off and let it cool completely before you mess with it. Once it reaches room temperature, carefully unscrew it and try one of the following adjustments:









Stir in a few spoonfuls of salt water to increase the density of the alcohol mixture.Shake the lava lamp gently to separate the oil into smaller blobs. Don't overdo this, or you'll end up with sludge instead of lava.
If the oil has separated into tiny balls, mix in a spoonful of turpentine or other paint solvent. These are dangerous chemicals, so don't try this if the lamp is reachable by children or pets.

