 A no-brainer, huh? Freestyle rapping is not a topic you approach on a Wednesday afternoon after a round of Zelda with your friends. It has to be something you've invested time into. Listen to plenty of hip hop and bust out that rhyming dictionary -- you don't want to get schooled, do you?


Listen for rhythms. You can find them anywhere and everywhere. Take a ticking clock or a cappuccino machine. Hear that downbeat? Now put words to it. The clock is ticking / my mind is on the chicken / that's because it's so freakin' finger lickin' / good. Maybe you can do better.
Start writing. Though freestyle and rehearsed rapping are two very different skills, they share the same core abilities. If you can't rhyme, you can't do either. If you can't handle pressure, you can't do either. If you can't open your mind, you can't do either. Writing will home in on those core skills you need to build into freestyling.;
, The only way you'll improve your skills in the battle arena is if you build up your prowess beforehand. While you're fixing your hair in the mirror, rap battle your reflection. While you're jamming out to your favorite song, think of how you'd add to it. Could you make it better? Constantly stay in the zone.


Start simple. Think Dr. Seuss simple. It may seem unnecessary, but it'll prime your brain for the real deal. Once you master that, start constantly thinking of rhymes. “I’m colder than a Dairy Queen Blizzard.” What's next?

That's right. This is Lord of the Rings; you're the hobbit, I'm the wizard.



Just go with it. Whatever you do, just go with it. I'm sittin' at Panera / man I hate this era / of technology, hypocrisy / but man I dig this smoothie. You're going to make mistakes. You're going to have things come out of your mouth that you really just wish would've stayed in there. Don't let it show. Never let them know you regret what you said.
 Go with the flow. Let it come to you like inspiration in the night. Writing is a great aid in learning how to go on autopilot. Once you stop trying to make sense, you'll start letting the creativity and imagery flow.


Pick a topic. It could be something as simple as brushing your teeth or the table in front of you. Set your mind on something and press the proverbial "go" button. Soon you'll find what topics are easier and what ones are harder -- so when you get into battle, you'll know what to stick to and what to avoid.

