 Aim to drink adequate fluids daily. It's generally recommended to consume around eight 8-oz glasses or 64 oz (2 liters) daily. This is just a general recommendation — you may need slightly more or less. Adequate hydration can help aid in weight loss, but can also help you manage your hunger levels throughout the day. Thirst or low-level dehydration can feel like hunger. If you're not drinking enough each day, that dehydration can cause hunger-like feelings that may be triggering you to eat more or more often than you should.Keep a water bottle close by and monitor how much you're drinking each day.
Also, drinking right before a meal can calm your hungry and decrease your overall intake at your meal.
 Emotional hunger can come on very suddenly. It's also quicker to go away compared to physical hunger.If you remove yourself from the situation for about 10 to 15 minutes, you may find that your craving or desire to eat subsides or is more easily controlled.


Waiting a few minutes might not take your cravings away completely, but they may reduce them enough for your willpower to win.
Try telling yourself that in 10 to 15 minutes, you will revisit your thoughts to eat a certain food or snack. Engage in another activity and come back to your craving if it's still there.
 Having a pantry or refrigerator full of unhealthy, tempting foods can make emotional eating easier to do.If you know you typically reach for a box of crackers or bag of chips when you're bored or stressed, not having those foods around when those emotions hit may help you decrease eating when you're not truly hungry.


Take an hour or two of your free time to survey your kitchen. Look in your pantry, freezer, refrigerator or any cabinet/area in your house where you keep food items. Place all tempting foods and snacks on a table to evaluate which foods should stay and which should go.
Donate unopened foods to a food bank or church if you do not want to throw them in the garbage.
Make a pact with yourself to not buy or purchase tempting snack foods so you can keep your kitchen and home a healthy environment.
 Sometimes, being in the same room with a favorite food or an item you're craving makes it difficult not to consume it.If you're in a spot in your home or office that's adding to your desire to eat, get out of there. Give yourself the time and space to get your mind clear of your cravings.


Take a walk for 15 minutes if you can. Clear your head and refocus your attention on other things besides your craving or desire to eat.
Many times, people crave snacks at night.Instead of staying awake and eating, go to bed. You'll be away from the kitchen and won't be tempted to eat mindlessly in front of the TV. If you're not tired, read a good book or a magazine until you're tired enough to fall asleep.
 Journaling ideas that can help distract you from cravings of the desire to eat can help you manage emotional eating.Jot down a list of activities you enjoy or that are distracting enough that they'll refocus your attention away from food. Ideas can include:


Cleaning out your closets or reorganizing a junk drawer
Going for a walk
Engaging in a favorite hobby like knitting, scrap-booking or drawing
Reading a book or magazine
Playing a game
Doing something that requires a lot of brainpower like hard, long-winded maths calculation

, Sometimes, cravings or the desire to eat is incredibly overwhelming. Even when you try to distract yourself or give your craving time to subside, it's still very intense. Some experts recommend consuming a small, portion controlled serving of the food you're craving.Eating a small portion may help the craving subside while giving you the pleasure of eating something tasty.Ensure that you follow an appropriate portion size. Check the food label and measure out your portion, put the food away and then slowly consume it so you can enjoy and savor it.

