 In Nevada, the local courts for each county are known as 'district courts.' To find your district court, go to the following website and click on your county: The link will take you to your court's website, which will provide information such as the court's address, phone numbers, and operating hours, and might provide additional information you may need to submit the name change paperwork.;
, Since the State of Nevada does not provide specific name change forms online, you will need to locate or create the documents yourself.


Call or visit the court clerk and ask him/her to provide you with name change forms, if they exist. Even if your county district court does not use formal name change forms, the clerk will be able to provide you with a list of necessary information to include in a document you can create yourself, and may also be able to share sample documents with you that you can amend to suit your purposes.
Visit your local legal aid center or online legal aid resource for assistance. For example, if you live in Clark County, you can access free name change forms. Download forms from an online resource. Several websites provide legal forms online and offer services such as allowing you to download the forms, helping you complete the forms, and even filing the forms for you. Note that you will almost certainly have to pay to use these services. If you choose to use one of these services, you should check with the Better Business Bureau or another business evaluation firm to ensure the website is legitimate.
 Application fees may range depending on your circuit court. Call or visit your court clerk to get an approximation of the fees you will need to pay to file your name change paperwork.
 If you are seeking a name change after a marriage, locate your birth and marriage certificates. If you are seeking a name change after a divorce, locate your birth, marriage, and divorce certificates. For a minor, locate the minor's birth certificate. If one or both of the minor's biological parents are deceased or have terminated parental rights, locate that documentation. If you seek a name change for any other reason, make sure you have your birth certificate in hand.

