 Drinking alcohol as a teenager can stunt your brain’s growth and development. Not only that, but studies show your binge drinking now might negatively impact the health and wellbeing of your future children.Stay away from alcohol until you’re 21 – not only to stay out of legal trouble, but so your brain can fully develop!


NEVER drink and drive, or get in the car of someone who has been drinking. If you do drink alcohol, get a ride home with somebody sober, or call a sober friend or parent for a ride. Uber and Lyft are good options, too.
 Drugs negatively affect your body and your thinking. Marijuana impairs memory and concentration. Sedatives like Valium can make you stop breathing. Stimulants like cocaine put a strain on your heart and can make you paranoid. Opioids like heroin and prescription pain-killers are incredibly addicting and can cause you life-long problems with substance abuse.Drugs might seem tempting, but they are not worth the legal, physical, and mental risks.
 Smoking is highly addicting so if you don’t smoke, don’t start.Smoking causes more preventable deaths than any other drug, and if you start now, you might find it extremely hard to quit. Smoking is bad for you even as a healthy teenager – it can increase your risk of asthma and lung infections, decrease your ability to work out, damage your teeth and give you foul breath, and make your clothes smell terrible.You may notice some benefits soon after you quit smoking, such as an improved sense of taste and smell and easier breathing after a few days., Today, everyone and everything is connected on the internet. While this can be great for keeping in touch with friends and learning about the world, it also comes with risks. Cyberbullying affects many young people.Remember also that anything you put on the internet stays there forever for anyone to see.


Never put private information online like your home address, social security number, or personal details. It’s easy for predators to take advantage of you when they know your personal info.
Don’t upload any photos of yourself doing anything illegal, or anything that you wouldn’t want your grandmother or future employer to see.
 Bullying can happen to anyone, and it may occur in person or online. Whether you experience in-person bullying or cyberbullying, it is important to report it right away.Some teens become so depressed over being bullied that they harm themselves, or lash out and harm others. It doesn’t have to be like that. Report it to your parents or a school authority right away if someone:Spreads lies or hurtful rumors about you.
Physically harms you.
Calls you names or often negatively teases you.
Makes negative comments to you about your sex, gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, or disability.
Calls, emails, or approaches you repeatedly after you ask them not to (this is stalking; you can even report this to the police).
 Have open and honest conversation with your parent(s), doctor, or another trusted and knowledgeable adult; you never know if what your friends and peers tell you about sex is true. Before you even think about having sex, get accurate information.


Sex can lead to an unwanted pregnancy and STIs including gonorrhea, chlamydia, hepatitis B, herpes, human papilloma virus (HPV), syphilis, and HIV/AIDS.Some of these are treatable with medicine, whereas others – like herpes, HPV, and HIV – last your entire life. HPV can cause warts and cervical cancer, and HIV/AIDS shortens your life expectancy and makes you very sick.
Consider your own feelings about sex and your personal values. Why do you want to have sex? Why do you want to wait? Think about your religious and cultural views, your self-esteem, and whether or not you’re ready for the responsibility of having sex.
 When you’re “ready” is different for different people. Some people want to wait until they’re adults or until they’re married, while others feel comfortable having sex when they feel their relationship is ready for it. You should never feel pressured, bullied, or manipulated into having sex, and you shouldn’t do it just because other people are. You might know that your relationship is ready if:You and your partner trust each other and can be honest with each other.
You feel comfortable talking about things like feelings, and the risks of sex like STIs.
You are both educated about sex and can prevent pregnancy and STIs by using condoms or other birth control.
You respect each other’s needs about using protection, and not having sex until you’re both ready.
 If someone is pressuring you, try responses like these (these can work for sex, drinking, doing drugs – anything you want to adapt it to):Everybody’s doing it!: “I don’t care. I’m not everybody. And not everybody does it!”

If you loved me, you’d sleep with me.: “If you loved me, you wouldn’t pressure me to do something I don’t want to do.”

If you don’t have sex with me, I’ll break up with you.: “If being your girlfriend means I have to have sex with you, then I don’t want to be your girlfriend.”

, The only way to 100% prevent pregnancy and STIs is with abstinence – not having sex at all. However, if you choose to have sex, minimize your risks by using birth control and barrier methods to protect yourself. There are many options for birth control, from the pill, to an intrauterine device or IUD, to hormonal rings, patches, injections, and implants.The best way to choose a birth control method is to speak with your gynecologist. Be aware that these methods do not prevent STIs.


Use a new condom every time you have sex, and a new condom during the same sex act if you switch between vaginal, anal, and oral sex. Condoms only work if they are used correctly, aren’t expired, don’t break, and are removed properly. Try to use condoms with a reservoir tip.
Even oral sex can put you at risk for STIs, so always use a barrier method when contacting another person's bodily fluids, such as a dental dam, condom, or some non-microwaveable plastic wrap.The withdrawal method, or “pulling out,” isn’t effective in preventing pregnancy. Neither is the “rhythm method,” where you time unprotected sex with when you’re not ovulating. Both of these carry high risk for pregnancy and getting an STI.Get the HPV vaccine! Cervarix, Gardasil, and Gardasil 9 are all approved for girls. You should get two doses of this vaccine between ages 9 and 14, 6 months apart – and definitely before you start having any vaginal, anal, or oral sex.If the condom breaks or you have another emergency, use emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy. “Plan B,” or “the morning-after pill” should NOT be used as your primary birth control method – it’s just for accidents and emergencies when other methods fail. You can get these over-the-counter at most pharmacies. Take it as soon after the accident as possible.