 In almost every state, a four-year bachelor's degree is required to gain admittance into law school. However, in Michigan for example, you can attend law school so long as you have completed a certain number of college credits from a four-year institution, or have obtained an associates degree.In every state where a bachelor's degree is required, go to school and major in anything you are interested in. Law schools do not require you to have any particular focus.


With that said, a lot of law students will have obtained a bachelor's degree in political science, business, or government to help them with their legal studies.;
, While you are in college, meet with the prelaw advisor on your campus. These advisors will help you plan for success in college and help you make the best impressions for law schools as possible. Advisors will keep you up-to-date on law school visits and will help you through the application process.To meet with an advisor, visit your career services department and ask if they have any prelaw personnel that can help you.
When you meet with an advisor, ask them to honestly assess the legal profession. While a law degree can be rewarding, a lot of people end up leaving the profession within ten years of entering the legal field. Law is not for everyone.
The decision to go to law school should not be taken lightly and you should make sure you do your research before making the decision. Your prelaw advisor can help you with this.
 One of the things law schools will look at during the application process is your grades as an undergraduate student. In particular, your undergraduate grade point average (GPA) will play a large role in where you will be accepted into law school. Therefore, it is incredibly important to focus during your undergraduate years and get the best grades you can.


You can do this by going to class, studying for exams, and getting help from professors when you need it.
 Another part of the law school admissions process is getting letters of recommendation. In order to get these letters, you will need to build relationships with professors and other community members while you are in school. The more you know these people, the more likely it is they will write you a letter of recommendation when you need it. Visit your professor during office hours, talk about your goal of going to law school, and let them know you are interested in doing well in their classes.


In addition to building these relationships for the purpose of getting letters of recommendation, you should also do so for the purpose of professional development. Your professors and community members may help you get internships, jobs, and experience both while in school and when you have graduated.
 After obtaining your bachelor's degree, you need to set up an LSAC account, which is the online service you will use for everything from registering for the LSAT to applying to law schools. To create an LSAC account, visit the LSAC website. Click on the "Future JD Students" link and click "Create an Account".From there you will need to provide LSAC with your:Personal information
Permanent address
Citizenship status
Contact information
Bachelor's degree information
Account information (e.g., a username and password)

, The LSAT is standardized test meant to measure your reading and verbal reasoning skills.It is required for admission to almost every accredited law school in the United States. Log-in to your newly created LSAC account and click on the link to register for the LSAT. You will be able to choose from about four annual test dates (usually in February, June, September, and December).Pick the test date that best suits your schedule.


When you register for the test, you will have to pay a fee. As of 2016, the fee for registering is $180. The LSAC website accepts most major credit cards.If you are absolutely unable to pay the fee to take the LSAT, you can ask for a fee waiver from LSAC., To be successful, you need to prepare for what you will encounter on test day. The LSAT consists of five 35-minute multiple choice sections. Different sections will assess different skills, which include your reading comprehension, analytical reasoning, and logical reasoning. There is also an un-scored 35 minute writing sample administered at the end of the test.To study properly, consider taking a commercial preparation class online or in-person. These classes will help you learn the material, deal with the time constraints, and offer test taking tips.
If you cannot afford to pay for a commercial class, at least take a few practice tests under actual time constraints. You can find practice tests on the LSAC website., Your LSAT Admission Ticket, which is sent to you once you successfully register for the test, will have all of the information you need for the day of your test. On that day, arrive at your testing location early. Dress comfortably, in layers, so you are able to take off or add clothing depending on the room's temperature. Make sure you bring your admission ticket, pencils, and photo identification. Use the restroom before you enter the testing room. Plan on being around the testing facility for about seven hours on the day of your test.When you start your test, stay calm and remember all of the preparation you did. Listen to the proctor's directions and answer each question to the best of your ability. There is no deduction for answering questions incorrectly.
 Your test scores will be emailed to you about three weeks after you take the test.When you receive your LSAT results, your score will range from 120 to 180. Your results will also give you a percentile rank, which shows you what percentage of people scored lower than you. A satisfactory test score will depend on what law school you want to go to and what score you think you are capable of getting. For example, a prestigious law school might look for an LSAT score above 170 while a lower tier law school might accept a 150.


Before retaking the test, make sure you understand how law schools assess multiple test scores. Some law schools might only look at your highest test score while others might average your scores. If you want to go to a school that averages your test scores, you need to think carefully about taking the test again., CAS, which is a service offered by LSAC, is the program you will use to apply to every American Bar Association (ABA) accredited law school in the United States. Instead of sending individual law school applications to every law school, CAS allows you to send your application materials to LSAC once, and CAS will distribute the materials to the schools of your choice.


As of 2016, the cost of the CAS service is $175. Once you pay your CAS fee, your account will remain active for five years., Once you pay for CAS, log-in to your LSAC account and check to make sure your LSAT scores are on file. Having a reportable score is generally a prerequisite to applying to any law school., Have every undergraduate and graduate institution send LSAC a separate, official transcript on your behalf. LSAC must receive your transcripts directly. No transcript that was sent to you first will be accepted. You will request transcripts by using your LSAC account. After you log-in, click on the "Add or Submit Institutions" button under the CAS heading. Once you add information about each institution you need a transcript from, click "Continue" and "Confirm". You will then be able to visit the transcripts page of your account and fill out a transcript request form, which will be sent to your school.


Most of your schools will charge you to send a transcript.
LSAC will usually process your transcript within two weeks of receiving them., After all of your transcripts have been processed by LSAC, view your Academic Summary Report and make sure all of the information is complete and accurate. This information will be sent to the law schools you apply to., Use the connections you gained while in college to get professors and work supervisors to write letters of recommendation on your behalf. Ask them early in the process so they have enough time to create an effective letter. Tell the people you are asking that the letters should reflect your academic, personal, or professional achievements and your potential with candor, detail, and objectivity. If possible, your letters should compare you to your peers.


When you ask someone to write you a letter of recommendation, make sure you tell them how to submit it. In general, you will ask them to submit their letters directly to LSAC. You can find the address and other information on your LSAC account., Most law schools will ask you to submit a a short writing sample on a subject of your choosing (most often why you want to go to law school).However, if the law schools you plan on applying to have different requirements, make sure you follow them. For example, if they want you to write on a particular subject, or if they have a word limit, make sure you know about these things.
 Begin your search as broadly as possible and look at any law school you think you might be interested in. At this point, find law schools in different states and different part of the country. Do not limit yourself early on. You can gather information about law schools by:


Visiting their individual websites
Visiting your prelaw advisor
Conducting internet searches
Looking through resources on LSAC's website
Downloading publications (e.g., U.S. News, Princeton Review)

, Most law schools will feed lawyers into the local markets. Therefore, if you attend school in Boston, Massachusetts, chances are you will end up getting a job there as well. This is especially true for public institutions. When you are looking at schools, think about where you want to work.

However, this might not be the case if you end up going to a highly ranked law school (e.g., Harvard or Yale). If you attend some of these schools, you may be able to obtain jobs on a national level based on the school you attended.
 Law school forums, presented by LSAC, allow you to talk with between 150 and 185 law schools, in-person, depending on where your forum is located.When you attend a forum, you can ask questions about finances, admissions standards, and the application process. You might also be able to talk with practicing attorneys about their law school experience.


These events are free to attend and you can register directly with LSAC., By signing up with CRS, you allow LSAC to distribute your credentials to different law schools, agencies, and individuals in the legal community. By using this service, you can have law schools recruit you based on your LSAT scores, GPA, or personal background.


It is free to sign up and you can do so through your LSAC account., Once you have a large list of potential schools, you need to start narrowing that list down. The first step in this process is crossing off all the schools that are not accredited by the ABA. While it is possible to obtain a JD from a non-accredited school, it is very difficult to sit for the bar exam, become licensed to practice, and get a job after graduation. If you want to be a lawyer, you need to go to an ABA accredited school.


You can find a complete list of accredited law schools by visiting the ABA website.Cross-reference the ABA list with your list and cross of any school that is not on the ABA list.
 Due to the decline in law school admissions as of 2016, a lot of law schools are not bringing in the cash they once did. As a result, a lot of schools are running into serious financial problems. You need to do research and make sure the school you are looking at is still viable long-term.

Start by looking at the U.S. Department of Education's Financial Responsibility Composite Scores. These are scores given to private and proprietary schools (i.e., not public schools) that gauge the financial health of the institution.You can also look at the enrollment history of each school over the past 10 or 15 years. If enrollment has dropped drastically over that time, it may be an indication that the school is not in good financial health. If you see this, it may mean that some of the programs you are interested in might be underfunded and could disappear.
 Next, narrow your list by finding the schools with admissions statistics that most closely fit your credentials. You can find these statistics on the LSAC website. You will be able to search each law school to determine what the average undergraduate GPA and LSAT score was for admitted students. Your GPA and LSAT score should be close to that average if you want to apply.


However, you should also apply to a couple of "reach" schools and a couple of "safety" schools. Due to declining enrollments, "reach" schools may currently be easier to get into than they once were. Take this into consideration when applying.
Reach schools are schools you would like to go to but you may not have a high enough LSAT score or GPA to compete. You should apply to a couple of these schools because your GPA and LSAT score are not the only things schools look it. You might surprisingly get accepted if you have an outstanding personal statement or letters of recommendation.
Safety schools are schools you apply to where you have a high chance of being accepted. Look for schools where you exceed the average GPA and LSAT score.
 To further refine your list, look for schools on your list that have highly ranked, national programs and specialty programs you would like to take advantage of. While a lot of law schools will tell you not to focus on rankings, the fact is they are important. Law school rankings are published every year by U.S. News and World Reports. Try to apply to schools that rank in the top 100. Additionally, U.S. News and World Reports ranks school specialties as well. Find schools that have highly ranked programs that you would like to be a part of.


For example, if you are interested in environmental law, look for schools with great environmental programs. If you are interested in legal research and writing, find schools that rank highly there.
 To narrow your list again, look at the schools remaining on your list and determine their graduate bar passage rate and rate of employment. At the end of the day, if you want to be a lawyer, you want to go to a school that prepares you to sit for and pass the bar exam. Additionally, you want to find a school that will help you get employed.


These statistics can be found on the ABA's website.As of late 2016, the legal job market is still a mess. While it seems to be improving, there are still a lot of graduates who are unable to find jobs.Some schools have even created legal clinic programs for recent graduates. Before you choose a school, make sure you look into their ability to place graduates in paid legal positions.
 Some law schools cost more than others and the amount you pay for your education will depend on the school's affiliation (i.e., a public vs. a private institution), the school's reputation, and the school's location. On average, law school graduates take on about $100,000 in debt.In a lot of cases, graduates can have well over $175,000 in student loans. Therefore, you need to consider how much you can afford.

In addition to thinking about the cost of attendance, you also need to consider if that cost justifies the degree. For example, as of 2014, the average law school graduate has a starting salary of less than $62,000 per year (if they can even find a job). If you are making that amount of money, it will be difficult to ever pay off your student debts., Your final list can be as big or small as you want it to be. It is usually recommended that you apply to about ten schools. Once you have your final list, log-in to your LSAC account and send applications to each of the schools you have chosen. When you apply, the law school will request your package from LSAC. You will also have to pay an application fee for each school you apply to. The fee usually ranges from $50 to $100. Some schools will waive this fee if you ask.


When you apply, LSAC will send your LSAST score, transcripts, personal statement, letters of recommendation, and your application., As you continue to apply, keep track of everything you are doing through your LSAC account. There you will be able to see what applications have gone through and whether you need to take any additional action to complete others. Visit your account daily to make sure you are completing all of the necessary steps., As your applications are processed, you will receive decisions from the law schools. Some law schools will accept you, others will put you on a wait list, and others will deny your application. Disregard the schools that deny your application and focus on the schools that have accepted or wait listed you. If you want to attend a school that has wait listed you, contact them and ask about their process for getting accepted. In most cases, you will have to wait until accepted applicants accept or reject the school’s offer.


When the process is done, choose to attend the law school that best fits your needs. You should consider, among other things, the program you want to be a part of, the school’s rankings, and the financial burden you will incur.
 Once you accept a law school’s offer of attendance, you will need to work with the school to determine if you are eligible for financial aid. Tuition can be as much as $60,000 at some schools, and if you are taking out loans, you may have to take out more than that to pay for living expenses. In a lot of cases, you can graduate from law school with as much as $200,000 in debt.


To help lessen your financial burden, ask the school about scholarship and grant opportunities. If available, these opportunities will lessen he amount of money you have to borrow and pay back.
You can also ask about establishing residency if you are going to a public school. In most cases, in-state students receive cheaper tuition than out-of-state students.
 Law school can be a shock for some individuals that are not used to the rigorous routine you will undertake. Make sure you understand the focus and organization you will need to succeed. Work to create a manageable routine and study habit to give yourself the best chance at success.


Even before your first day of class, eat well, exercise, and read daily. Get your mind and body prepared for the task ahead., Unlike some college courses, attendance in law school is extremely important. Professors will expand on ideas in your reading, ask you questions, and interact in order to help you learn. If you miss class, it will be tough to pass exams. To get the most out of class, participate when you can and pay attention. Take complete notes and review them weekly.


Before each class, make sure you complete the required reading. If you do not, you will not know what is going on during class time.
After each class, review your notes and create an outline. These things will help you when it comes time to study for the exams., The law school experience can be daunting, but it can also be enjoyable. Law schools offer a number of things you can get involved in. For example, you might choose to take part in moot court or law review. You might join a law group and get involved in your community. Not only will these things help you after graduation, they will also help you during law school.


It is in these groups that you will meet friends, get help studying, and get away from the stress of school.
 Most law school grades are based solely on one or two exams. These exams are usually three or four hours long and consist of multiple choice and essay questions. To be successful, you need to prepare and study throughout the semester, not just the week before the exam. To prepare for exams, go through your class notes weekly and condense them into an outline. Include information as you go along. In the last month of the semester, spend some time each week reading through your outlines to start getting in the exam mindset.On the day of your exams, get to class early and come prepared. Do not stress out and answer the questions to the best of your ability.
 Most JD programs last three years. However, some law schools offer part-time programs as well as accelerated programs. Once you complete the required number of credits, you will be able to graduate with a law degree.

