 Before you fill out a UDRP complaint, you must have information about the current domain holder and the reason you believe it should be transferred to you.You should download and read the UDRP so you understand what factual and legal grounds are considered acceptable grounds for filing a complaint. You can find a downloadable copy by visiting the website of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN).
You generally don't need an attorney to file a UDRP complaint. However, if you find yourself getting confused or too bogged down with the grounds for your complaint, you might consider consulting an attorney who specializes in domain name disputes and getting an opinion on your case and advice on how to proceed.
Typically a claim to a domain over someone else who's already registered it relies on the ownership of intellectual property in a word or words contained in that domain.
For example, suppose you have invented a board game called "Cupcake World." You manufacture and distribute the game, and also have a trademark in the game's name. However, when you go to register the domain for cupcakeworld.com, you find it is already owned by a bakery.
To file a complaint under the UDRP, you would need information about your trademark as well as information about the bakery and the individual who had registered the domain.
 There are at least four ICANN-approved organizations that can accept UDRP complaints and provide mediation. Each of these organizations charges different fees and has different supplemental rules that apply to its arbitration proceedings.Arbitration providers include the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), the National Arbitration Forum (NAF), the CPR Institute for Dispute Resolution (CPR) and the Disputes.org/eResolutions Consortium (DEC).
Each of these providers has supplemental rules that you should review before you decide which one you want to use. While some have higher fees than others you shouldn't base your decision entirely on fees.
For example, while DEC has the lowest fees, it limits your complaint to 1200 words, or about 1.5 pages. In contrast, WIPO limits a complaint to 5,000 words, while NAF and CPR allows complaints up to 10 pages long.
Fees for arbitration may be as little as $750 (one domain reviewed by a single panelist at DEC) or as much as $6,000 (3-5 domains reviewed by a three-member panel at CPR).
 Once you've chosen an arbitration provider, you typically can fill out a complaint form online at the organization's website and submit it once you've filled it out.

Under the UDRP, you must prove that you own a trademark (either registered or unregistered) which is the same or deceptively similar to the registered domain name, that the current domain holder has no legitimate right or interest in the domain name, and that he or she registered and used the domain name in bad faith.
If you are not able to successfully prove all three points, the panel will not cancel or transfer the domain name.
In addition to completing the online application, you may have to submit hard copies to your chosen provider.
Your application should include your name, email address, mailing address, telephone, and fax numbers, and indicate your preferred means of communication.
You can choose whether to have a single member or three-member panel review your complaint. If you choose a three-member panel, you are allowed to list up to three candidates to serve as one of the panelists. A three-member panel typically is made up of one member you've chosen, one member the respondent has chosen, and one member chosen by the arbitration provider.
If you have a registered trademark, you should attach a copy of it to your complaint. It doesn't need to be a certified copy – a photocopy is sufficient.
After you've established the factual and legal grounds for the complaint, you must specify the remedy you seek. You can either request the domain be cancelled or that the domain be transferred to you. The UDRP does not permit you to seek fines or punitive damages.
Remember to fill out the complaint form completely and pay the required fees. Once you submit it, your chosen provider will review it for completeness. If it is judged incomplete, it will be returned to you and you will have five days to complete it or the complaint will be dismissed.
 After your arbitration provider has determined your complaint form is compliant, it will forward a copy of your complaint to the respondent and the domain's registrar within three days.The current domain holder – now called the "respondent" of your complaint – has 20 days to file a response. If the respondent does not file a response by the deadline, you may be eligible to win your complaint by default.
The response must respond specifically to the statements and allegations you made in your complaint. The respondent also may include any and all reasons he or she should be allowed to retain registration of the disputed domain name.
There are three defenses the respondent can assert that, if proven, will bar cancellation of the domain name or transfer to you: use of the domain name in connection with a bona fide business, legitimate non-commercial or fair use of the domain name, or proof that the respondent is commonly known by or associated with the domain name (even if he or she has no trademark rights in it).
Even if you chose a single-member panel, the respondent can request a three-member panel. In this case, you and the respondent must split the fees for the arbitration evenly. Otherwise, you bear the costs. The UDRP does not provide for recovery of these fees from the respondent, even if you win.
 After your arbitration provider has received the respondent's response, it has five days to appoint a panel to evaluate the dispute and come to a decision.After the panel has been appointed, it has 14 days to reach a decision. Then, the panel has three days to notify all parties of its decision.
If the panel's decision is not in your favor, your only recourse is to file a lawsuit. The registrar must implement the panel's decision after 10 business days, unless a lawsuit has been filed.
Keep in mind that this same right of appeal to federal court exists for the respondent as well. Even if you win your complaint, the respondent may file a lawsuit within 10 days of notice of the panel's decision.

