


Focus on the strengths, but, if you have an issue that might interfere with a relationship, consider adding it to your profile. This will save you time and frustration in the long run.
Note how you spend most of your time. You'll probably want a partner who shares an interest in that activity.;
,


For example, "honesty" may be near the top of your list, while "tall" may not be.
Review your list and take out the superficial qualities that are less important to you.



For example, you should talk about what you have to offer as much as what you are looking for from others.
A dating profile that only discusses your own qualities may appear selfish or narcissistic.
Conversely, a heavy focus on what you expect from a partner can also result in fewer responses.



Do not represent yourself falsely in any respect. You will only attract people looking for the "pretend you" and eliminate those who would have preferred the "real you."
This doesn't mean you should tell everything you know in the dating profile, or even in the first few emails or phone calls.



For instance, you may refuse to date anyone who is a smoker, who has small children or who refuses to maintain a healthy lifestyle.



An overtly flirtatious name may put off more serious candidates.
Choose a user name that reflects your own personality.



Your tag line is a short sentence that will usually appear just below your picture and user name. This is the first thing potential partners will see and should accurately reflect your intentions.
For example, "Girls just wanna have fun," will not send the message of a serious person looking for a long-term relationship.



Begin with a quick description of your personality, such as whether you are shy, serious, adventure-seeking or witty.
Mention the personality types you feel work best in a relationship with you.
Discuss your hobbies, interests and your profession.
Close with your deal-breakers and then a "call to action," or a sentence intended to provoke the reader to contact you.



Type up your dating profile in a word processing program or email draft and use the spell check utility.
Manually proofread your profile to catch words that sound similar, but have different meanings.

