 Cash flow is just that, cash that flows, that is, moves, not what the money is used for. Cash flow is the movement of cash, money, or any negotiable product, into or out of a business, project, or financial product. It is a good way to gauge your overall budget for a home application, as well. Cash flow is usually measured during a specified, finite period of time. Measurement of the statistics of cash flow can be used for calculating the probabilities and other parameters that give information on an entity's value and situation. It's how major corporations predict profit and loss during the future fiscal year.;
, This is your cash flow. Investments, stocks, mutuals, bonds, or any traded negotiables are your assets. The current value of any traded negotiables minus the overall investment plus any savings vehicles equals your assets. Cash flow, assets, and liabilities comprise the profile. This is the big picture.
 Credit cards are of no use when they are maxed out. They are nothing but a money pit.
 A prudent reserve equals enough negotiables to maintain payment of the bills for a pre-set period of time. The average American homeowner is three paydays from foreclosure, and the average family is one payday from homelessness. A prudent reserve covers the bills for a reasonable period of time.
 This will keep your profile in the positive. Maintaining a positive profile is the best way to keep a good credit score. This is the source of things that are not even rooted to cash flow, like getting a good job. Without a good credit score you can't buy a house or a car, get a good job, rent an apartment, rent a car, or in some cases, negotiate a contract.
 Deal with money and money issues before they are a problem.
 Don't think you have a hundred dollars to spend because you checked your bank today and that is what it says. You have to keep up with receipts to keep track of pending transactions. The average worker in the world lives from payday to payday. If you have $100 in the bank, you're broke. You don't have enough to cover even a minor emergency.
 A good spreadsheet is perfect for a cash flow system.
 Cash flow problems don't just happen. Something has to happen to cause the problem. Figure out what is happening now, and what it could be given a certain situation. Plan for the eventuality.

