 The best way to learn about racing sponsorship is to read as much as you can about the subject. Once you understand how the sponsorship process works, you can set out to getting racing sponsors on your own.;
, Things such as logos on uniforms and equipment are the most common and basic things of value offered in sponsorship packages but sponsors are more demanding than ever. The more sponsorship offerings you have, the better your chances of landing a sponsorship deal.


A sponsorship inventory checklist is a great tool for figuring out everything you can offer to a potential sponsor.



Local: Will you be racing locally? If so, you should approach businesses where you live and where you race.
National: Will you be racing nationally? If so, you'll have a much larger pool of businesses to approach but you'll also have a lot more competition from other racers approaching those same businesses. In this scenario, learning how to research and evaluate potential sponsors first will be a huge advantage so make sure to read some books on this topic.
 Once you have decided who you will approach for sponsorship, you'll have to contact the sponsors. When trying to get racing sponsors, phone calls are much better than emails. Emails are very easy to ignore but phone calls are not. Looking for racing sponsorship is a time-consuming process but the more people you reach out to, the better your chances of starting a conversation that might lead to a sponsorship deal.
 Once you have established a conversation with a business that might want to sponsor you, you'll need to provide them with a sponsorship proposal. A sponsorship proposal is basically a sales brochure for your sponsorship program. It outlines the benefits of becoming your sponsor and it includes all the costs of doing so. It can have many pages of information or it could be very short but whatever the length of your proposal, it just needs to answer the questions that will make your potential sponsor say yes!

, When a business decides to sponsor you, you'll need a legally-binding contract that stipulates all the terms and conditions of working together. This is called a sponsorship agreement and you should hire a professional lawyer to handle this aspect of the sponsorship process for you. One of the most rewarding experiences you'll ever have as a racer is signing a sponsorship agreement.
 If you're happy with the terms, go ahead and sign. If not, ask the lawyer to renegotiate the terms, but be realistic; also realize that if you're too pushy, you can lose the deal. When you do go ahead and sign it, congratulations, you now have a racing sponsor!

