 When the two friends you are setting up meet for the first time, make them feel comfortable. Talking about how they’d make a great couple when they’ve only just met could make them both uncomfortable. Additionally, making a quick introduction and then walking away might leave them both feeling awkward with nothing to say to one another. Likewise, avoid putting them in a situation in which they are the only two single people at a gathering. When first introducing them, let them get to know each other a bit before pushing them together as a couple.


When one friend approaches while you’re talking to the other friend, introduce them by name. Then try saying something like, “You know, Mia enjoys gardening and has a green thumb just like you Joe.” Now your two newly introduced friends can strike up a conversation about their shared interest in gardening.
 A great way to get your two friends to spend some time around each other is to invite them to a casual gathering. With you there, you can help focus the conversation on a topic you know is of interest to both of them. Plus, you can keep the conversation going in moments of awkward silence so that neither of them feels overly uncomfortable.


Invite your two friends out for appetizers or drinks.
Organize a weekend cookout or host a small party at your place and invite both friends.
Plan a mutually liked activity, such as hiking or mini golf, and invite both of your friends to join you.
If you are in a relationship, suggest a double date with you and your partner accompanied by the two friends you wish to set up.
 No matter how much you think your two friends would make a great match, if one or both of them are not interested in going on a date, then don’t push it. They might not hit it off immediately, but perhaps they will down the road. Pushing things too much in the beginning could sabotage any possibility of them making a connection in the future.Likewise, pushing your two friends into a dating situation they just aren’t interested in might damage their friendship with you.

