 Although makeup can be great for hiding acne, it can also cause breakouts. Over applying makeups or using particularly oily products can clog your pores and lead to infections. If you are getting breakouts on certain parts of your face, try a different product and see if it clears up.In general, try to use products that are oil-free or noncomedogenic. You should also look for makeups that contain acne-fighting ingredients.
Always remove your makeup before you go to bed. If your skin is particularly oily, you may need to use a special makeup remover instead of simply washing your face.
 If you suffer from breakouts on your forehead, scalp, neck, and back, the culprit may be your hair products. Products like gels, pomades, and sprays tend to block pores and irritate your skin. They can also cause allergic reactions that can result in acne. To avoid acne, experiment with different products to find one that does not irritate your skin.In general, look for products with shorter and more natural ingredient lists. In particular, look for products that are fragrance-free and noncomedogenic (non-pore clogging).
To avoid using too much product, consider washing your hair two or three times a week or rinse it with conditioner daily. You might also want to consider sleeping with your hair up to avoid rolling around in your dirty hair all night.
If you believe that you are having an allergic reaction to a certain product, quit using it and talk to your doctor or a dermatologist. You may want to be tested so you know what to avoid in the future.
 Because your hands come in contact with numerous objects during the day, they can transfer countless bacteria to your face, resulting in breakouts. If you rest your head in your hands, you may get breakouts on your chin or cheeks. To avoid this, wash your hands regularly and try to touch your face as little as possible., If you tend to get breakouts around your nose, your glasses may be the culprit. Your glasses house bacteria that can cause infections. In addition, they rub and put pressure on your skin, which can irritate it and stimulate oil production. If your glasses are causing you acne, consider using a spot treatment or ditching your glasses entirely and wear contacts.Be sure to regularly clean the nose pads of your glasses by washing them with hot soapy water. This remove any bacteria that might cause a breakout.
 Whenever you pull hairs from a follicle, you create an opening that is susceptible to infection. If you have your eyebrows plucked or any facial hair waxed, such as around your mouth and chin, you might see some breakouts. To avoid this, limit how often you pluck or wax any facial hairs.Shaving can have a similar effect, especially if you use a dull razor that pulls the hairs from the follicle instead of cutting them.
Try sugaring or threading as alternatives to plucking or waxing.
 If you must pluck or wax your hair, use some basic precautions to avoid potential breakouts:Gently exfoliate and cleanse your skin before plucking or waxing. Use an anti-microbial pre-wax cleanser.
Carefully clean your hands and nails before plucking and waxing, and wear disposable gloves during waxing and cleanup.
Cleanse again after plucking or waxing, and gently exfoliate the next day. Keep the freshly waxed or plucked areas clean and free from sweat, dirt, or irritating products.
 Because most people take them everywhere (even to the bathroom) and touch them constantly, cellular phones are covered in bacteria. Whenever you talk on your phones, you are rubbing those bacteria all over your face. This can lead to breakouts on your cheeks and chin. To avoid any phone-related breakouts, consider using your phone's speaker function or getting a hands-free Bluetooth headpiece.
You can also minimize phone-related breakouts by regularly cleaning your phone with antibacterial wipes.