 Triangle pose gives you a great side stretch, which can benefit runners who spend most of their time moving in the vertical plane. The pose also improves your flexibility in your hamstrings and inner thighs.Get into triangle pose by standing with your feet a little more than shoulder-width apart. Turn your left toes slightly inward and point your right toes toward the side. On an inhale, extend your arms at shoulder height.
On an exhale, stack your hips and fold sideways toward your right foot. Rest your hand on the floor, or on your right shin or a yoga block if you aren't yet flexible enough to reach the floor.
Take five breaths, then press into your feet to lift your body back to center. Adjust your feet and repeat on the other side.
 Cobbler's pose stretches the insides of your thighs to really open up your groin and hips. Open hips can significantly increase your running speed with consistent practice.Come to a stable seated position. You may want to use a rolled towel or blanket to support your hips. Place the soles of your feet together in front of you.
Place your fingers around your toes or the arches of your feet and roll your shoulders back.
As you breathe in, fold forward until you feel a stretch, allowing your elbows to drop so that your forearms are in line with your shins. Hold this position for about 30 seconds, then raise back up on an inhale.
 After regular cobbler's pose, reclining cobbler's pose allows you to open your hips a little more and relieve any tightness that may be present there.From cobbler's pose, simply recline to lie on your back with your hands out to your sides. If you cannot rest your knees on the floor, you may want to place a folded blanket your yoga block under your knees to support them so you can press down to increase the stretch.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, then rise back into a sitting position.
 If you're a regular runner, you may have noticed some tightness in your shins and the tops of your feet. Hero pose can stretch and strengthen them to give you greater running stability and help prevent injury.Get down on your mat with your knees together, feet just to the outside of your hips, and lower into a seat between your feet. If this doesn't feel comfortable, you may want a yoga block or blanket to sit on so you're supported and can maintain proper alignment in your spine.
Press down with your feet on an inhale, then release on an exhale. Repeat this 10 times.
You can press your palms together in front of your heart, or add eagle arms by wrapping your arms around each other, palms touching, and bending your elbows at right angles in front of you. Eagle arms can help open up your shoulders.
 Reclined wide angle pose can stretch tight hips and hamstrings even further without putting any added stress on your lower back.Lie down on the floor in front of a wall and slide forward so that you can rest your legs on the wall. Your hips should be as close to the wall as possible.
On an exhale, lower your legs as far as is comfortable to either side. Lift your arms over your head and rest them on the floor, holding opposite elbows.
Hold this pose for 5 to 10 breaths, breathing deeply in through your nose and out through your mouth.
 In addition to making it part of a regular yoga practice, a forward fold is a good stretch to perform after a run if you want to loosen up the muscles in your legs.Come to a comfortable seated position and extend your legs in front of you, knees and feet together. On an exhale, hinge at the waist to fold forward over your legs, extending your arms straight overhead and keeping your back as flat as possible.
Bend your knees slightly if you need to so you can bring your forehead to rest on your knees. Hold the fold for 5 to 10 breaths, then slowly raise back up to center on an inhale.

