 Sometimes, it is not possible to escape life by moving away or changing jobs. However, changing your lifestyle may help you feel as though you are getting a fresh start, and it may give you the energy to tackle life's problems.
 Changing your diet can help you feel as though you are starting a new life—especially if that diet is different from your current one. Try to add more fruits and vegetables to your current diet, and eat less junk food/fast food.


Fruits and vegetables are filled with many important vitamins and nutrients. These will give your body the energy it needs to stay healthy. A healthy body is a happy body.
 If you are already getting a full eight hours of sleep but are still feeling tired the next day, try going to sleep at an earlier time. Not getting enough sleep may leave you feeling tired and emotional, and you may start seeing things as worse than they actually are.
 You may find yourself focusing more on the workout and less on your life. You do not have to go to the gym, however; you can also go for a walk or jog. If you do, try going to a park; the new scenery will help refresh your mind.
 If your life feels chaotic because too many things are spiraling out of your control, you can try to set up a routine. This will give you some semblance of control. Try to wake up and go to sleep at the same time each day and night. Eat breakfast, lunch, and dinner at the same time every day. You can even try scheduling a fun activity on the same day each week. This can be something like watching a movie, going jogging, painting, or heading to the gym.
 This may help you feel less stressed and help you view the more positive things in life. It may also improve your physical health by lowering blood pressure and improving blood circulation.Try imagining the repetition of a sound, word or phrase. Be sure to focus on your breathing; it should be slow and natural. Try not to think about anything else while meditating. If something does come up in your mind, acknowledge it, but do not dwell on it.


Try meditating first thing in the morning; this is usually the easiest time to concentrate. Meditation can also be a great, stress-free way to start your day.
Don’t feel discouraged if you don't feel relaxed after your first meditation session. It may take a few tries. Stay passive and calm, and let it happen with time.
Focusing your mind can be difficult. If this is the case for you, try meditating only a few minutes at a time at first, before working your way up to the a 10 to 20 minute session., If you are a religious person, you can ask your church for help or advice. You may even find that praying to your god or goddess can help. If you are not a religious person, but want to be, read up on some religions that interest you, and try to attend a prayer service. If you are not a religious person, and have no intention of joining any organized religion, try to set aside some time each day or week to reflect on your life and what you would like to change about it. It can be as simple as thinking more positively or staying strong emotionally.

