 Dissolve the spices' capsaicin with the casein protein found in milk.If you’re at home, fetch yourself a glass of milk pronto. If you're at a restaurant, flag the server down and order one right away. Or, if a yogurt dish has been served as a side to your meal, treat your mouth to a spoonful, since the dairy in that will work, too.Ice cream works even better, since the “ice” provides some blissful relief, while the “cream” provides something more or less solid to suck on for a while before it melts.;
, Pour yourself an ounce of hard liquor. Knock your shot back without swallowing. Swish the liquid around in your mouth. Unless the liquor has been chilled beforehand, the heat-on-heat sensation may feel unpleasant at first, but rest assured that the alcohol is dissolving the capsaicin and ridding your nerves of the agitating agent.Use hard liquor rather than beer or wine. The alcohol itself is needed to actually get rid of the capsaicin, so pour yourself something with a high content. Most liquors average around 40% alcohol content, while beer is typically less than 10% with wine only reaching 20% at its highest.If you’re not a drinker, don’t worry. Go ahead and spit the liquor out once you’re done rinsing your mouth with it. There is no need to swallow.
 If you’re at home, fetch the sugar bowl. If you’re at a restaurant, rip open a packet. Soak up the spice with the granules by either dumping the sugar right into your mouth,or by mixing a tablespoon with 8 ounces of water for sweet relief.Honey works just as well.
 Suck on milk chocolate if you have it, since this will contain casein, the protein in milk that dissolves capsaicin. If all you have is dark chocolate with no dairy content, fall back on that. It will be less effective, but the fat content will absorb some of the spice., Grab a roll from the bread bowl or a couple slices from your bread box. It won’t break the capsaicin down, so don’t keep it in your mouth for too long. Chew it up as you’d normally eat a hunk of bread. Let it absorb the spice in your mouth, then swallow or spit it out.If you have olive oil on hand, dip the bread in that, since olive oil will dissolve the capsaicin. Peanut butter will as well, so you can also try making a sandwich.
Other starchy foods, like french fries, may also do the trick. Just be sure they’re not spicy, too!

