 When your sister is sleeping, sneak into her room and dot her face with a lipstick or a non-permanent red marker. Then when she wakes up, be sure to be the first one to see her: gasp when you see your face and ask her if she's sick.


She'll run to the mirror and be convinced that she's got chicken pox (or worse)!

, After your sister goes to bed, move all of the clocks ahead five hours (but keep your own alarm at the correct time and hide it from your sister's view). Then, set your alarm for 3am and run into your sister's room to let her know that it's 8am and she's going to be late for school.


Watch her run around frantically trying to get ready until she finally notices that it's still dark out.
If your sister doesn't pay attention to the days of the week or is younger, you may be able to pull off convincing her that she's late for school on a Saturday. You don't even need to set the alarms to get up early for this one!

, Gather together as many alarm clocks as you can (five or six would be great) and set them at different intervals throughout the night (for example, 2am, 2:30am, 3am, etc.). Hide them throughout your sister's room in places where she normally doesn't look before going to bed (for example, in her closet, in her sock drawer, behind her curtains, etc.).


Be sure to set your own alarm to go off a few minutes before the first one so that you can watch the craziness.
Your sister might be a bit cranky in the morning after having lost so much beauty rest, so keep your distance!

, If you tried the fan-girl prank from above and splurged on a cardboard cut-out, you won't want your purchase to go to waste. To get more mileage from your purchase, sneak the cut-out into your sister's room in the middle of the night and place it right next to her bed.


Then, make a banging noise sufficient to get her to wake up, and cover your ears as she screams at the “intruder”.
If you don't want to spend the money to buy a life-sized cardboard cut-out, you can recycle cardboard boxes: find the largest sized boxes you can, and using strong scissors or box-cutters, cut out a human figure.
If you're not great at drawing, place them on the floor and have a friend trace around you.
You may need to make the figure in pieces and tape it together (use a strong tape like duct tape), but you don't need perfection. You just need a rough human shape: your sister will be mostly asleep when she discovers it.
 Buy a package of large safety pins and carefully fold the side seams of her favorite jacket and pin them from the underside (you're trying to make her jacket tighter). You can also fold up the cuffs of her jeans and her shirt sleeves and pin them as well.


Next, put cushion inserts into her shoes. You can usually buy very simple inserts for just a dollar or two at the store: just trim them down to your sister's shoe size.
The inserts should make her shoes feel tighter; if her shoes are fairly roomy, put two inserts in each.
Now, when your sister tries to get dressed in the morning, everything will be too short and too tight!

