 Talk to the client about what they are looking for and how many photos they want for their wedding. The winter season comes with its own set of potential problems, so it's good that you set realistic expectations with your clients in case of a blizzard or dangerous weather conditions. Have contingency plans for bad weather and figure out locations inside that you can take your photos.


Put everything that you talked about in writing before the day of the wedding.
Discuss pricing options and how much everything costs.
Let the couple know when they should be receiving their wedding photos., Having a schedule before the wedding will let you know what time important events like when the reception and first dance are taking place. You'll also have an idea for how much available sunlight you have to shoot photos outside. Because the winter means that the nights come earlier, you may want to plan on taking portrait or group photographs earlier in the day. Connect with the wedding planner to get details about the venue and the ceremony.


Make sure to be on time for important and memorable moments like the best man's speech and the bride and groom walking down the aisle.
 It's best to be transparent about your experience taking wedding photos, specifically during the winter. Because shooting in the winter weather takes a unique set of skills, it's important that you have expertise doing it. This will help your clients manage their expectations of your work. Show off images from other winter weddings.
 If it's cold outside and there is an outside photoshoot, it's important that you stay loose and positive. Use humor to open people up for great photos. Because most people will be cold, it's critical that you make their experience as positive as possible so that the pictures come out well.


Make yourself more relatable by saying things like, "I know it's freezing and uncomfortable right now, but we are almost done. Let's take some really great photos for Sharon's wedding!"
You can say things like "Awesome job. Great photo, thanks!" to encourage people and put them at ease when you're taking their picture.
 A wedding is a significant moment in many people's lives. The couple will probably want someone who is confident in their skills because of it this. Remember to stay honest about your experience, but be confident in your abilities. Having confidence will put people at ease and help you get better photos.When speaking to the to-be-married couple, you can say something like "While I only have three winter weddings under my belt, every client has enjoyed their photos and thanked me afterward. I have examples of my work here for you to look at."

, Talk to the clients after the wedding and have them sign off on the design for things like their albums, cards, and prints. This will ensure that they know exactly what they are getting and can help them give you input on any last changes that they would like to make. Customize their cards and prints to fit the winter theme.

