 The service usually contains these things:

Two or three readings from the Bible: one or two from the Old Testament and/or from the Epistles (letters of Saint Paul the Apostle), and a passage from the Gospels (stories of Jesus' life). A Responsorial Psalm may also be said or sung in between the first and second reading (Sundays and feast days), or the first reading and Gospel (weekdays and Saturdays Masses that are not anticipatory).






Reception of Holy Eucharist






Singing of up to four hymns, if a sung Mass






Sometimes, some parts or hymns will be in Latin.






A sermon, which is sometimes called the Homily





;
, You will feel so much more comfortable if you can park (or better yet, walk) and enter the church five minutes early. Walk in through the main doors, and if you see people picking up a hymnal or leaflet, do the same.
 If you are not Catholic, do not feel awkward about not doing this. Catholics believe God is literally present in the Eucharist, which is kept in the tabernacle, a special cabinet or box that is often placed behind the altar. Genuflecting is simply a sign of deep respect for God and the Eucharist.
 Consider sitting closer to the front, so that you can see what is going on, and also toward one of the sides of the aisles. If you are taking notes (for class for example), you might be more comfortable sitting towards the side.
 These numbers refer to the hymn numbers in your hymnal. Feel free to join in with the singing; chances are, the church needs your voice.
 There are usually two types of books you will find: hymnals and Missals. Hymnals are somewhat self-explanatory: turn to the right number and sing along. Missals, coming from the word “Mass", contain the "Ordinary" or order of the Mass (i.e., what things are said and in what order, for every Mass no matter where you are) and the propers for the day (readings, prayers, etc. that are specific to that day).
 All are welcome to kneel, stand, sit, or bow when the congregation does so, but do not feel pressure to do any of these. It is respectful to kneel at the consecration as God is physically entering the room (you would use the respectful gestures for a king or queen, so do the same for the King of the Universe). It is recommended, however, to stand when the congregation stands and sit when they are either sitting or kneeling, to avoid looking out of place.
 In some countries such as in Asia, a bow or nod is more acceptable form of greeting, as handshaking is not customary during Mass. Handshaking is also discouraged when there is an epidemic.
 Communion can be stressful unless you have a plan. Only regularly practicing Catholics who are free of mortal sin may receive Communion. Feel free to simply stay in the pew, but be sure to let communicants pass. If the pews are very narrow, just go to the aisle (hence the recommendation to sit towards the outside pews in your first couple times) and let people through until everyone is back in the pews after Communion.
 After Mass, feel free to look at any of the beautiful statues, paintings, and other artwork inside. These statues and icons are not idols, and Catholics do not pray directly to these. They are instead there to aid people in focusing their prayers to God, or ask a saint for prayers to God. These images and other symbols, which might appear mysterious or even bizarre to first-time visitors, aid Catholics in understanding their faith better. Some Catholics might touch these icons while praying or as sign of reverence, and then make the Sign of the Cross.
 Most priests are very friendly and will be glad to shake hands and talk.

