 Visit bill.aol.com in your web browser. In order to delete a screen name, you'll need to cancel any paid services that are associated with it first., Enter the username that you created when you made your account and enter the password as well.
 You'll be prompted to answer the security question for your account as well in order to access your account settings.


If you don't remember the answer, click the "Forgot Answer?" link. This will take you through the reset process. You won't be able to do this if you don't have any recovery information associated with your account.
 You'll find this under the "Service Options" heading, as well as in the top navigation menu.
 All of the subscriptions associated with your various screen names will be displayed here. Scroll down to find the services associated with the screen name you want to delete.
 You'll be prompted to confirm that you want to end that particular service, and will be shown which benefits you'll be losing access to.It may take an hour or two for the cancellation to process.
 You'll find this in the top navigation menu and under the "Username Options" heading of the main billing page.
 You can delete any of the usernames you've created except for the Primary Master Username. This is the username you created when you signed up for AOL. If you want to delete the master username, you'll have to delete the whole account (see the next section).
 You'll be asked to confirm that you want to delete the username. Once the username is deleted, you'll no longer be able to use it, but it can be restored up to six months after marking it for deletion.


If you get a message indicating that you are unable to delete a general username, the username likely still has a premium subscription associated with it. You'll need to cancel any subscriptions for the username before deleting it. See the previous section for details.
 Visit bill.aol.com and log in. Make sure to log in with the master username that you want to delete.


Your master screen name is the username you created when you signed up for AOL.
 You'll find this in the top navigation menu and in the "Service Options" section.
 You'll need to convert your account into a free account in order to delete it.
 This will end your AOL subscription. You'll have to select a reason for leaving, but the answer you select will not affect the cancellation process.


If you cancel in the middle of a billing cycle, you'll still have access to your account until the cycle is over.
 When you cancel your paid subscription, your account will be turned into a free AOL account. You'll need to go through the same process in the Manage My Subscriptions page again to cancel your free account.