 In order to organize and carry out the plans for a school dance, you need a fair amount of people. Make sure these students are fairly well regarded in the school because if you are talking to the principal you will need to show you have responsible team to support your idea.


Print out "Help Wanted" flyers and pass them around to students and teachers. DON'T be afraid to to ask people. They most likely want the same thing as you but are too shy to speak up about it.
Ask the leaders of involved extracurricular clubs and teams at your school to talk to the groups. Students who are involved in school-organized clubs and activities are more likely to take interest in a school function like a dance. Try asking if you have one. They're usually the ones who handle school functions. Also, you could talk to a sport or club who needs more publicity in the school. They might be willing to help out.
Get the student council involved. This will help to get the word around, and it may even better your chances at winning the administration's approval.;
, It's crucial that everyone involved gets the memo You can't run a school dance without people knowing important details, such as the theme, considered dates and times, dress codes, etc. School dances are really hard if you're unorganized. Have a good foundation with people who are natural born leaders.


Work together to decide on a theme that is fun, feasible, and school appropriate. Some popular themes include Wild West, "Under the Sea", "A Night in Manhattan", Hollywood, "Sock Hop" and

, Alternatively, depending on the time of year, you could choose to have a holiday or seasonal-themed dance, such as Halloween, Valentine's Day, Christmas, etc.


Construct a dress code. To avoid revealing, risqué dress, come up with a list of Do and Don't

Follow the standard school dress code. The dress code most likely already addresses rules against overly revealing, skimpy clothing, offensive symbols, slogans, and/or images, and colours/symbols that promote violence, sex, drugs, and other subject matter that is not appropriate for school. It's a good idea to clearly state that for the dance dress code, all of the same rules



, It's way easier to handle dress code when you have a theme. choose a theme for the dance and everyone will follow. It's way easier to catch the students who stand out in a crowd of hippies while wearing booty shorts.




Consider the formality of the dance. For formal dances, students may be required to wear nice, formal attire; this means no jeans, tennis shoes, baggy clothes, t-shirts, baseball caps, etc.


Make a list. This includes needed supplies, such as decorations, food, beverages, etc., as well as volunteers to decorate, set up, clean up afterward, etc. Assign different roles and

,


Provide music. You could hire a DJ, but if your school is a little low on cash, maybe you could find a student or parent willing to do it for free. Alternatively, among the student body, there may very well be aspiring musicians, vocalists, or bands looking for gigs. Just make sure that the music played at the dance is relatively clean if somewhat suggestive, and does not promote subject matter that is inappropriate for school.

Decide on the type(s) of music that should be played. Make sure that at the dance, you play music that everybody can enjoy. While you can't please everybody, try to add as much variety



, Compromise! You can check Billboard on the hottest music too.
 You can sell cupcakes, pizza, ice cream and other foods. Be creative!

, Put a portion of the proceeds toward the school football team, art department, air conditioning units, etc. When the proceeds go to a good cause, the dance becomes a fundraiser, which will appeal to the administration. This also goes along with having a club or sports team sponsor you.
 They have the best interest of the students.
 They may suggest a different theme, or a different date. Think of this not as criticism, but as constructive advice. Ask them for advice when you and your planning group have trouble making decisions.
 Type up the ideas and plans that you and your group have decided upon, and have your proposal read over by adults before you submit it. Also try to avoid using low diction. Try to sound like you know what you are talking about and sound very educated. Your principal is going to expect the best out of you, so live up to his/her standards and maybe if you give a good enough proposal, he/she would

,