 Traveling with pets means you may not get to choose the specific destination you want. Instead, you should probably think about the type of getaway you want. Do you want a beach vacation, a city adventure, or a mountain getaway? With this idea in mind, you can start finding a good pet friendly destination.After choosing the type of place, you can start researching dog-friendly areas. For example, if you want a US east coast beach, you can look for pet friendly beaches in the eastern seaboard states.;
, Some destinations are better for dogs than others. Many blogs and dog-lover websites provide information for dog owners who want to take their pet with them. Before settling on a destination, research to see if it is a dog-friendly place.For example, many destinations in Colorado are dog-friendly. Charleston, South Carolina is another dog-friendly destination, with nearby access to beaches that allow dogs, large dog parks, and even dog beaches. Florida has many beaches that are dog friendly, and St. Augustine even has a dog-friendly cruise.
 There are many hotels in destination cities and in between that will allow pets. Before booking a hotel, you should check the hotel’s website or call them to find out their pet policy and how much extra it costs for a pet-friendly room.


You can also find pet-friendly cottages, bed and breakfasts, and RV parks.
You can search the internet for pet-friendly hotels. If you use a discount booking website, you can choose the option for a pet-friendly hotel.
 If your dog loves to ride in the car and does it often, longer road trips are okay. If your dog doesn’t like to ride in the car, choose a vacation spot close by.When you go on a road trip with your dog, make sure to pack plenty of water and food, treats, an extra leash, and poop bags.
Make frequent bathroom breaks. Think about the best places to stop with your pet. Rest stops have pet walking areas that can be great for letting you and your dog stretch your legs.
 If you are going to a destination that requires a flight, you have to make sure to make arrangements for your dog. Contact the airline prior to buying a ticket to discuss pet traveling policies. Also be aware you will have to buy a ticket for your dog.Make sure to get a direct flight when flying with your dog.
You will need a pet carrier when flying with your dog.

