 You've probably heard it many times already--practice makes perfect. Although you can't reach "perfect" in art, practicing drawing everyday will help you improve tons.;
, Look at the face of the person you're talking to. Notice how the light affects where all the shadow goes, and the shape of their features. Observe colors and shadows around you, and take a look at textures or how clothing wrinkles. These things will help you gain a better understanding in how real objects work and are shaped and will come in handy when you're drawing.
 It's easy to forget the oblivious fact that every single blade of grass is not just one specific shade of "grass green".Cadmium Red can vary greatly among different medias brands and screen settings.This can also cause different results when mixing colors. Avoid referencing color terms in the dictionary and look at items' colors in person or in photographs/videos.
 The color concepts are very different than in grade school basic art. The basic white and black to get shade and tone has a tendency to alter the color hue and make it dull and false. Blue and yellow depending on many factors will be brown and not always green.
 At least experiment with various brands of the same media at different price ranges. Many art supply shops sell the open stock which is less expensive than entire sets if you're just sampling them. Don't bash the cheaper ones which can perform as well or better than more costly versions.


Get out of the children's art supply section! Those do not in general have the same properties as the more professional or artist versions.
 There are many great artists on deviantART, so feel free to check out that site or create an account. Pay attention to their style of drawing. Take a look at multiple artists too, so you can expand your viewpoint. And if you want, try copying their style for a day to get a good idea on it (just don't claim it as your own unless it actually becomes your style). Also take trips to museums and art exhibits to gain inspiration.
 There are a lot of great tutorials on deviantART on all sorts of things and you're sure to find one that helps. Also consider art books and taking art courses.


Beware of the "paint or draw by number" format. It's beneficial when learning new techniques but this copycat system can hinder an artist's individual talent and perspective from being seen in the works that person creates. The great artists of the past and present became famous via uniqueness.
 For example, if you're doing traditional art and mainly use pencil or colored pencil, try out pastels or painting for a new experience. Or try it digitally, as in with a pen tablet (like Wacom tablets) and a paint program for your computer.
 Whether it be a picture in a magazine or a bowl of fruit you set up on your counter. It's good practice and it'll help you improve a lot.
 Anime is a more cartoon-ish style than realism, yes, but realism will give you a better grip on proportions and anatomy, and helps a ton when you're drawing anime. Also, body anatomy is important in not just anime, but every style.
 Artists are very opinionated and even on creating one exact effect, will have opposite ways of achieving it. Think about how Monet painted in more abstract rather than follow the art institutions' realistic approach. Some artists feel the color wheel is useless. Learn the rules and as you master them feel free to break them. Draw and paint only subjects you really are inspired by.

