;
, This name will appear in The League Leaderboard.
 Your character will run automatically. Tap to jump and jump off the wall to change direction. Dodge the traps.


After you've completed the tutorial, you can play the game!

, The dungeon is your home! You can upgrade your dungeon's defense and make gems rituals here.Put traps to defend your loot:


Blade: The Blades are always stationary and they kill on contact. Be sure to check about Undersaw Troll jump, Saw Superjump at open areas and corners by reading community forums.
Red Guard: The Red Guards move on a vertical or horizontal path. They kill on contact. Deadlier if combined with other traps. Be sure to check about Red Guard spawn jumps by reading community forums.
Cannon: The Cannon are stationary. They shot cannon bullets on a vertical or horizontal line. Cannon itself ain't dangerous, only their projectiles are lethal. Covers a long range and more effective if you can punish a player who jumped below level to take cover from cannonball shots.
Seeker Bird: The Seeker Birds follow you in a linear path. They will stun and spin when they hit a trap. They kill on contact. Deadly if you can position them right to peek out from a corner as player moves further or force player into sliding down from a wall as they catch up hastily. A Red Guard can be used to push a Seeker out of a wall for it to be a solid non moving trap.
Homing Cannon: The Homing Cannons are stationary. They shot cannon bullets to the player. The Homing Cannons themselves aren't dangerous, only their projectiles are lethal. More effective if you put them behind corners or somewhere high that requires player to wall hop. Look up Double Cannon, Sniper jump and Flash jump techniques.
Spinner: Spinner move in a circular path. The bigger the radius of the path, the faster the speed as their spin frequency always stay the same. They kill on contact. Deadlier if positioned properly to rush player as they enter the dungeon, swipe off corners with greater speed or just block a gap that requires player to jump across.
 You will have to break into the level using lock picks (or keys). After you successfully break into the level, you have to get to the gold chest to complete your mission. Avoid traps as you move further. When you reach the chest, you can collect the amount of coins in the chest.
 Potions have a chance to appear as you break fake locks, buying from in-game shop or activate them by spending 7 orbs each. Alternatively you can be rewarded if you complete a ritual with same color gems. Power up effects are applied constantly and doesn't matter if you die once or more after activating them. You can only use up to 3 potions for a dungeon.


Gang of Thieves: Create clones of your character. All clones move with different frequencies at the map as they enter the base by creating a line. Rewarded from locks, or completing an all blue gem ritual. Costs 7 swirling orbs
Slow Motion: Slows down the time for a critical jump. Rewarded from locks, or completing an all green gem ritual. Costs 7 swirling orbs.
Ghost: Create a shadow of your character. The shadow will show the best optimal way to reach the gold chest. Rewarded from locks, or completing an all purple gem ritual. Costs 7 orbs
Disable Trap: Disable a random trap. If a trap get disabled, it vanishes and becomes ineffective. Rewarded from locks, or completing an all red gem ritual. Costs 7 orbs
Double Gold: Double the amount of gold in the gold chest. Rewarded from locks, or completing an all yellow gem ritual. Costs 7 orbs.
 You can put gems into the totem in your dungeon. After a ritual finishes, you will receive a bigger gem and a power-up if all gems in the totem are the same color. Starting from Dungeon 2, when the ritual finishes, you will receive a magic item along with your reward:


Leaf: The most common magic item. Generally used to upgrade earlier costumes from low levels. You can buy 1 Leaf using 20 orbs.
Dust: The 2nd common magic item. Generally used to upgrade earlier costumes from low levels. You can buy 1 Dust using 70 orbs.
Mushroom: A rare magic item. Used to upgrade a low level costume to a higher level or unlock a high ability costume. You can buy 1 Mushroom using 190 orbs.
Eyeball: The rarest magic item. Used to upgrade latest levels of earlier costumes or unlock highest ability costumes. You can buy 1 Eyeball using 560 orbs.
 You can use the magic item you get from gem rituals to craft and upgrade outfits. Each outfit gives you some special abilities and health. Upgrading them increases your health and improves your ability bonuses

, When you attack a dungeon, you must break in using lock picks. After you break into the dungeon, you have to get to the totem. When you've reached the totem, you will collect the amount of coins in the chest. If there are gems in the totem, you take a spin at wheel's hand to land it on the green zone. Beware, each additional spin will double the orb amount needed; 5, 10, 20, 40, 80, 160.
 You can get prizes in the Leagues! You can get some coins and if you reach 1st, 2nd or 3rd place, you will get a Trophy and lots of orbs and coins!

, You can upgrade your max amount of lock picks, the amount of keyholes in the lock using coins.

