 Perform this motion over and over again until you start to get a feel for how long it takes for the scope to appear on your screen. This is the most important aspect of quick scoping, because it is all about timing. If you pull the trigger too early, you won’t get the accuracy benefits of the scope, and if you pull the trigger too late it’s no longer quick scoping.;
, It is important to know where your scope’s crosshair will appear. When you don’t have the scope up, your crosshairs are very wide apart. When you raise the scope, the crosshairs will appear directly in the middle of your screen. Learn where that is by practicing constantly so that you know exactly where your crosshairs will appear.
 You’ll be most effective quick scoping by knowing where your opponents are going to be. Get to know each map and all of the chokepoints. Know how long it takes for the enemies to get somewhere after they spawn.
 Many pros recommend setting your sensitivity between 9-13. If the sensitivity is too low, you won’t be able to track your targets, while if it too high you will have difficulty keeping your crosshair steady. Play around with the settings to find a sensitivity that suits your playstyle well.
 To be most effective at quick scoping, you will need to set your loadout to give you the maximum advantage. This includes your perks and your weapons. Try the following loadout, and tweak it to your preferences:


Weapon: DSR 50 or Ballista (1-hit kill above waist or chest respectively). These bolt-action sniper rifles are the only weapons that you can really quick scope with. Both are 1-hit kill if you aim correctly. The DSR 50 is the most popular, as it has the largest area it can hit and kill.
Attachment: Ballistics CPU – Lowers the sway of your scope when you zoom in. This will make it much easier to shoot where you are aiming quickly. This is pretty much essential for quick scoping.
Perk 1: Ghost – Can’t be detected by enemy UAVs.
Perk 2: Fast Hands – Quick weapon switch. This will let you pull out your sidearm quickly if you find yourself surrounded.
Perk 3: Dexterity – Aim faster after sprinting. Since you should always be moving, having this perk will let you quickly take shots while on the run.
 Set up a private match with bots as your opponent. These are computer controlled players that will give you lots of practice for aiming against moving targets. Set them on an easy difficulty, but place as many as you can on the opposing team. This will give you plenty of opportunities to try to hit moving targets without them killing you all the time.


Practicing against bots will help keep your stats from taking a negative hit while practicing.
 If your target is moving, start scoping in a little in front of them. This will put them directly in your sights once the scope is completely raised.
 While you should constantly be moving between shots, you need to stop moving for the split second that you take the shot. This will ensure that your accuracy is not penalized for moving while shooting. Start moving again immediately after the shot is fired.
 Since the fire rate for sniper rifles is so low, you will be exposed and vulnerable between shots. Make sure that you are near cover, and duck behind it while you work the bolt action and prepare your next shot.
 Don’t be afraid to abandon your quick scoping when you are faced with multiple immediate threats. Instead, switch to your secondary weapon to scatter your enemies and retreat and regroup to begin quick scoping again.
 Quick scoping is based entirely on feel. It is a skill, and will take time to learn and even more time to master. Keep practicing with bots until you start to get more comfortable, and then take your new skills online against human opponents.

