 Keep in mind that thrush can spread and may become serious if it is not treated properly, so it is best to check with your doctor before you try any home remedies. You should be especially cautious if you have a lowered immune system due to illness, such as HIV or cancer., Taking probiotics (healthy bacteria) may help clear up thrush, as the healthy bacteria crowd out the invading fungus and restore the normal balance in the mucus membranes. Look for a probiotic supplement that contains at least five billion CFUs (colony forming units) per dose, and take it two to three times daily.If the affected person is a baby or a child, you can open the capsules and sprinkle them on the child’s food, or make a paste from the powder in the capsules and spread it inside the baby’s mouth.
 You can also get your probiotics from a fermented foods, such as yogurt. However, the dose you receive will be much lower and may be less effective.


Choose unsweetened yogurt, since sugar will cause the Candida to grow faster.
Eat yogurt once or twice daily making sure to eat slowly and leave a spoonful of yogurt in your mouth as close to the lesions as possible for about 30 seconds before swallowing it.There is conflicting evidence regarding the efficacy on probiotics in yogurt cultures but, in general, this regimen has few negative side effects., There are several different kinds of rinses you can try that will get rid of oral thrush. The instructions are the same for each one: swish the solution in your mouth two to four times a day and then spit it out. The rinses include:


Saltwater: 1/2 tsp of salt in one of cup water.Apple cider vinegar: one tablespoon of vinegar in one cup of water.
Tea tree oil: a few drops of oil in one cup of water. Tea tree oil is toxic if swallowed, so it should only be used as a rinse., An older remedy for thrush is a dye called gentian violet. No prescription is necessary to get gentian violet. Take a small amount on a cotton swab and lightly cover the affected areas. One treatment should be sufficient. Because it is a dye, be careful not to get it on any clothing or other items you don’t want stained; wear gloves while using it and keep it off of the lips, as it will temporarily stain the skin purple.


Use this remedy in consultation with your physician, as it may cause ulcers in the mouth, and has been linked to oropharyngeal cancer in a recent study.Gentian violet should not be swallowed, as it can be be toxic to the body when absorbed systemically.
 Taking vitamin C, as well as other vitamins and minerals, can benefit you by maintaining your immune system and helping to fight off infection while also reducing inflammation. Some suggested dosages are: Vitamin C - 500mg to 1000mg per day
Vitamin E - 200 IU to 400 IU per day
Selenium - 200 mcg per day

, These can help your body to reduce inflammation, while providing additional benefits such as reducing animal fats from your regular diet. For example, omega-6, also known as evening primrose, can be taken alongside omega-3 (fish oil) at a dosing of 2 tablespoons oil per day, or 1000mg to 1500mg twice per day.You can also take caprylic acid. This supplement can be taken in a dosing of 1 gram along with your meals. Caprylic acid is a fatty acid that may confer some antifungal properties., This is a naturally occurring substance obtained from pine resin. It is created by bees and laboratory testing has demonstrated positive antifungal results. Take note, however, if you have allergies to honey or have asthma, you should discuss this as a treatment option prior to starting on any regimen., It is important to evaluate herbal supplements (and the possible medication interactions) with your doctor prior to beginning any treatments. While herbs can confer health benefits, they can also contribute to negative interactions and outcomes to your health. Beneficial herbal supplements that may help oral thrush include:


Garlic - Garlic is known to have antifungal properties. Generally, dosing is one clove of garlic per day (equivalent to 4,000 to 5,000 mcg of allicin). Garlic can interact with medication, increasing the risk of bleeding, and is known to interact with blood thinners, such as clopidogrel (Plavix), warfarin (coumadin), or aspirin. HIV medications can also be affected by garlic.Echinacea- Echinacea derived juice has been demonstrated to confer resistance against vaginal yeast infections that occur frequently. Taking between 2ml to 4ml each day can help to fight against this. Again, echinacea can interact with medications and it is important to discuss potential complications with your doctor prior to beginning a regimen.Tea Tree oil - Tea tree oil has been shown in various studies to have antifungal properties when used as a mouthwash, effectively treating oral thrush. Tea tree oil can be toxic when ingested orally, so be sure to only use this as a mouthwash (after discussing with your physician).
Pomegranate - Yes, pomegranate gel has been demonstrated to help fight oral thrush almost as effectively as miconazole gel in one study that associated with denture stomatitis.