 There’s only so much that can happen over texting or talking over the phone. People in relationships want to see each other and if they can’t, they may forget why they entered the coupledom in the first place. Fortunately, you can use technology to see the face of your significant other, just about whenever you want.


Certain apps and services like Skype and Facebook Messenger allow you to video-conference on your phone or computer. Make use of these as often as you can to feel connected., Engaging in virtual activities together makes it seem like you are in a close-distance relationship and allows you to have fun as a couple. What you choose to do will together will depend on your individual interests. There are playful options to fit any couple's quirks.


For example, go online and play a computer game together, or get matching video game systems and compete together there. You can also play games against each other on your phone.You might also watch movies or TV shows together or learn a skill like computer-coding.
 Couples need some kind of physical interaction and you can’t get that unless you see each other in person. Simply holding hands or sharing a meal together can make a huge difference in your relationship and keep that spark going strong. Stay committed to seeing each other as often as you can.


For instance, make standing “dates” with each other, whether it’s every weekend, every two weeks, or once a month. Your long-distance relationship may not be feasible if you aren’t able to see each other regularly. You may need to reconsider your situation if you can’t meet each other’s needs., Part of being a couple is sharing and engaging in interests together. Doing so gives you something to talk about and helps you learn about each other.


For instance, you can decide to start reading the same book at the same time and have a book club of sorts. You can start the same exercise program or diet together, or you can watch a movie at the same time you are talking on the phone.