 In general, you request a police report from the law enforcement agency for the city where the incident took place.


Find the contact information for the appropriate police department online.Depending on the jurisdiction, you may only be able to request the report if you were directly involved in the incident.
However, some areas allow anyone to file a report, including lawyers, agents, and family members.;
, Some cities ask you to request police reports in person at the police station. However, you might be working with a department that lets you file a request either by mail or on the internet.


Visit the website for department you're working with. Search for an online form or a downloadable pdf that you can mail back to them.
If you can't find what you're looking for, call the department and ask if they allow mailed requests.
 Although some computers come equipped with pdf-reading software, not all do.


Adobe Reader is a free product that will enable you to open, read, and print the form from your home computer.
 Once you have it, read through the form to make sure you can provide all the information it asks for. Although the form may vary from city to city, there's a good chance it will ask for the following information:


The names and address(es) of the parties/victim(s) involved
The date and location of the incident
The report or incident number, if available
An insurance policy number and/or claim number. Note: this is required only if the person requesting the report works for an insurance company
A release form from the victim, if an attorney is filing the request
The type of incident — was it a robbery, assault, automobile accident, etc.
Proof of relationship for parents of minor victims or the spouses/relatives of deceased victims
You can view a pdf of the San Francisco PD's request form to familiarize yourself with what documents of this sort look like., Double check all the information on the form before you submit it to the police department. Any little mistake might make it more difficult for the department to respond to your request. For example, make sure you don't swap two numbers in a report number or misspell the name of one of the involved parties.
 If you are submitting your form by mail, you should include an SASE — self-addressed, stamped envelope. This both puts the cost of the postage on your shoulders, and ensures that the department sends the police report to the right address.

