 Today there are massive numbers of cheaply priced radio control products on the market which lure both adults and children into the world of RC. However, it is definitely buyer beware when it comes to purchasing a RC product that is not a recognised brand name within the particular sector of the hobby you are interested in. But how do you know what is a recognisable brand? What makes a vehicle good and another bad? Hopefully these and more questions will be answered in this article.;
, There are many temptations presented before us by major chain stores, shopping centre kiosks, local markets and online. There is nothing necessarily wrong with these products. They look fantastic in their packaging and there might even be a person operating one. It seems to work well, looks easy to use and best of all the price is right!

, Because of this investment it is in their best interest to continue providing quality Radio Control products and service. New companies are emerging almost daily offering new products some of may have become very successful over time. Unfortunately, most are often nothing more than copies of successful originals. If two items from two different manufacturers look identical and there is a difference in the price, quality has almost certainly been sacrificed.
 Everything we buy as consumers is manufactured for a price. In Radio Control this is no different and as a general rule the cheaper the product is to purchase the more likely it is to be a disposable item rather than a repairable one. Because less expensive RC products are manufactured for a target market, rectifying a design fault and supplying individual spare parts are just not part of a manufacturers overall marketing strategy. Alternatively you may find spare parts are available and reasonably priced. A couple of clicks over the internet and the parts are on their way. The issue is that you may find yourself “clicking” very often and/or replacing the same part over and over. Aside from failures due to poor design, the quality of the plastics and metals can be too flexible or too brittle. Electronic components are often very basic, poorly made and their ability to power and control your RC vehicle are borderline at best (power versus weight versus environment). The three biggest enemies of any electronic component are water, vibration and impact. Experience has shown that more cheaply manufactured components are much more susceptible to failure when exposed to any of these elements. Replacing any type of electronic is never a cheap exercise.
 Make sure you are buying today’s technology, not yesterday's.
 Visit hobby stores, buy a hobby magazine or two, talk to local hobby clubs or enthusiasts and look around on the internet. Go to manufacturers' websites and read forums about the product you are interested in. It is important to ask questions and be sure that you are making the best, most informed decision you can. Most people who are in a hobby are more than willing to share their knowledge and experience.
 Their products typically range from a medium to high-end, t have full spare parts backup, technical support and, if you purchase from within Australia, are backed by an Australian warranty.

