 Mindfulness is the practice of bringing your attention to the present moment, helping you notice your physical and emotional sensations. This is particularly helpful in order to recognize your own and others’ feelings.To be effective, you’ll want to start your practice when you are not overwhelmed by strong emotions. Begin by setting aside just 5 minutes to sit and breathe. Focus completely on your breath. When your attention wanders, don’t pass judgment. Simply re-focus on your breath.
You can enhance your emotional well-being by incorporating mindfulness into your daily life. For example, stopping at a red light, hearing a telephone ring, or even purposely setting an hourly bell or alarm, can help you remember to pause and engage in mindfulness for a few minutes., Mindfulness helps you slow down to become more in tuned with your emotional experience. A body scan meditation helps you dig deeper, to recognize the way you experience these feelings in your physical body.To do a body scan, you’ll start from either the top of your head or the bottom of your feet. Work your way up through each body part, assessing what each part feels like. Is it relaxed, tense, numb, etc.? If you notice tension or discomfort, imagine breathing in relaxation and letting the discomfort melt away. Engage in deep breathing throughout the exercise.
 You need time to decompress from your own emotional experience and release any emotional contagion that you absorb from the world around you. A great way to perform self-care is by carving out time each day to do something you enjoy.During this time, you might listen to music, read a book, go for a run, take a bath, or cook yourself a nourishing meal.
 You may think of yoga as a form of physical exercise, but this ages-old practice can also help with emotional self-regulation. Yoga promotes mind-body awareness and can help you relieve conditions such as anxiety and depression.Sign up for a yoga class in your area. Or, view yoga videos on YouTube to start your practice.
 If you are constantly plugged into the news, social media, and television shows, it can be hard to tell which emotions are yours and which have been absorbed from various media sources. Regular unplugging can offer a release from this ambush of emotional energy.Dedicate 30 minutes or an hour each day to unplugging. Go outdoors, take a nap, or simply sit and enjoy the silence.
 If you are having problems balancing your own feelings with those of others, journaling may help. See it as an outlet for you to pour out any thoughts and emotions that are inside of you. As you develop your practice, you may start to see trends in your entries that explain why you are feeling or behaving a certain way.