 Value how your wife feels about the situation and get an understanding of how if affects her. If she is bothered by the stares, discuss whether or not you should intervene on her behalf.


If you have addressed this issue in the past, then you may already know how your wife feels about the attention that she receives. If this is the case, make a decision in advance on how you will respond so that you do not overreact.
If your wife does not recognize the problem, then maybe there isn't one and you can just enjoy your day and time together.;
, Demonstrate that you are a couple by holding her hand or linking arms to show that she is not just a friend.


Showing affection with a kiss on the lips is a great way to demonstrate that you are in a relationship.
Your wife is probably proud of you and appreciates it when you show affection to let others know that you are together. This can also apply to a situation where someone is staring at you and you want to demonstrate that you are taken. It works both ways., Sometimes when a man finds a woman attractive, he does not take the time to look at her ring finger because he is focused on admiring her beauty. If either you, your wife, or both of you discreetly flash your wedding rings, that will eliminate any question about whether or not you are married.
 Let the other guy know that you see him looking at your wife. If at a restaurant, for example, look at the guy who is looking at your wife to show him that you are uncomfortable with his actions.


Another way to use eye contact is to gaze into your wife’s eyes to demonstrate that you have a connection that the outside world cannot touch. This approach can also be used if you have an admirer staring at you., Politely ask the offender to stop staring at your wife. Tell him that you would appreciate it if he showed you and her a little respect. Most decent people will stop staring at this point.


Encourage your wife to share her opinion with the person staring, but only if she chooses to say something. She can do this without creating a scene by casually saying that she is taken.
If you continue to be concerned about the attention that your wife receives, discuss your insecurities and ask her for reassurance., As with many things in life, it is always good to have a sense of humor. Sometimes you just have to laugh it off and know that it is comical that other men think that your wife would even be remotely interested in them.

