;
, On one page, mention the day, date, and time. It is very important because through this you will understand in how many days you get the results.
 It will make you feel very relaxed and good about yourself.
 Some people are reluctant to do this, but try to be as honest as you can. If you do not know what is bad about yourself, ask someone. Ask your mother, wife, girlfriend, sister or others. Choose people who know you well and even compare their answers to those of people who are less familiar with you - for example, a co-worker.
 Talk to him or her in person, and try to forgive them. You will then feel very relaxed because in this world, you and only you are most important. Being able to forgive people does not mean what they did was alright. It only means that you choose to not feel angry about it anymore, which can be very liberating.
 Try to go out for a morning walk after your breakfast. As well as having many advantages to fitness and digestion, appreciating your surroundings brings peace. Walk somewhere green and full of nature if you can.
 If you have do not a lot of money, you can do some of these things at home or find cheaper alternatives. If you have more money, go out and participate in the world around you. Shop, eat, see a film or hear some new music. Humans have evolved a need in their lives for art and culture. Dance if you have don't have health problems, or arrange a party.
 Talk to yourself and about how you want more confidence, high self-esteem. For example:


I deserve to be happy and successful because I am most important in this world.
I have the power to change my self.
I have the power to forgive others.
I forgive myself for my past.
I can make my own choices and decisions.
I deserve love.
I am a very special and valuable person.
, Avoid junk food. Make a list of what and when you eat in your diary, and make changes where necessary. Also note if these changes give you more energy, or make you feel happier.
 See yourself with love and repeat these words in your mind.


I am very beautiful.
Everyone is kind to me.
I have a great personality.
I deserve respect.
,, Decorate your table with candles or decorate your dishes.
 Learn a language, a skill or a new hobby.
 Take deep breaths because your brain needs fresh air.

