 This helps your braid stay smooth and neat.Use any kind of brush or comb, brushes are better to smooth out your hair.
Brushing your hair before you start braiding will prevent knots from forming in your hair as your braid.
Don't start braiding your hair when it is wet. It will expand as it dries and may break in your braid.
Avoid using lots of hair product when you start this process, but you can try a dry shampoo to help with texture if you need it.
Try using dry shampoo if you are having problems holding on to your hair. Clean, dry hair may be too slick to stay in place while performing the steps. The dry shampoo adds texture that helps you hold on to the strands.;
, Before you can start your braid, you need to decide where you want your braid. The placement of your braid on your head can transform your hairstyle for many outfits and occasions. It can be convenient, casual, or elegant depending on where you place your braid.


Pull your hair to either side to make a side braid. Brush all of your hair to the side you choose to ensure there will be no bumps. This creates a more elegant, put together look that can accent an evening out or day at the office.
Starting with a side braid can be beneficial if you are a beginner. It is easier to see and control what you are doing with a side braid.
You can braid down the back in a low, unsecured ponytail. This gives a more elegant classic braid and is more relaxed and unstructured.
You can also start by making a ponytail in the middle or on top of your head. This will add stability to a back braid but is a more casual look.
 Collect and hold your hair in your hands. 








You will have one section of hair on the left, one in the center and one on the right.
Hold the section of hair on the left between your left thumb and forefinger.
Hold the section of hair on the right between your right thumb and forefinger.
Let the center section hang loose for now.
 Start braiding by crossing the right section of hair over the center section.








Take the right section of hair, once you have crossed it over the center section, between your left forefinger and middle finger to secure it.
Grab the center section of hair with between the thumb and forefinger of your left hand.
Pull on the sections of hair in both hands to tighten the braid. This will ensure that the braid will be even with no gaps.
If you have longer hair, run your fingers down the section of hair to ensure it does not get tangled as you go.
 You should now rotate your left wrist to cross the left section of hair over the new center section of hair. 








Grab the left section of hair between your right forefinger and middle finger after you cross it over the center section.
Secure the center section of hair between your thumb and forefinger of your left hand.
Pull the sections of hair in both hands tightly to ensure that the tension on the braid is even as you go.
 Do this until you reach the bottom of your sections of hair.








Cross of the right section over the center, then the left over the center until the braid moves down the length of your hair.
Make sure to continue pulling your hair snug as you follow the braid.
If your braid gets too long while braiding down your back, pull your hair over your shoulder and continue the steps with the hair in front of you.
Tie with a hair tie at the bottom. Make sure the hair tie is tight. If it is too loose sections of your braid will come out.

