 Vitamin A is a fat soluble vitamin that provides good eyesight, growth, bone development, and healthy skin. Liver, eggs, milk, dark green vegetables, corn, mango, carrots, sweet potatoes,peaches, and cantaloupe are good sources of Vitamin A.;
, Vitamin B1, or thiamin, is a water soluble vitamin that activates enzymes and metabolizes nutrients. Oatmeal, whole grain bread, rice, dairy products, fish, pork, liver, nuts, and beans are good sources of Vitamin B1

, Vitamin B2, or riboflavin, is a water soluble vitamin that promotes growth and metabolizes nutrients. Milk, eggs, organ meats, whole grains, and dark green vegetables are good sources of Vitamin B2

, Vitamin B3, or niacin, is a water soluble vitamin that repairs tissues and metabolizes nutrients. Organ meats, peanuts, brewer's yeast, whole grains, meat, poultry, fish, and nuts are good sources of Vitamin B3

, Vitamin B5, or pantothenic acid, is a water soluble vitamin that breaks down proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. Fish, chicken, tomatoes, peas, and oranges are good sources of Vitamin B5

, Vitamin B6, or pyridoxine, is a water soluble vitamin that metabolizes nutrients. Brewer's yeast, wheat germ, pork, liver, whole grains, potatoes, milk, strawberries, bananas, and broccoli are good sources of Vitamin B6!

, Vitamin B7, or biotin, is a water soluble vitamin that activates enzymes. Liver, milk, meat, eggs, dark green vegetables, cantaloupe, peanuts, and brewer's yeast are good sources of Vitamin B7

, Vitamin B9, or folic acid,is a water soluble vitamin that promotes growth, activates enzymes, and prevents neural tube defects. Liver, lima and kidney beans, dark green vegetables, beef, potatoes, and whole grain bread are good sources of Vitamin B9

, Vitamin B12, or cobalamin, is a water soluble vitamin that metabolizes nutrients and prevents anemia. Liver, kidney, meat, fish, milk, cheese, yogurt, and eggs are good sources of Vitamin B12

, Vitamin C is a water soluble vitamin that holds cells together, keeps teeth and gums healthy, and repairs skin and tissues. Oranges, grapefruits, cantaloupe, mango, cauliflower, broccoli, tomatoes, and strawberries are good sources of Vitamin C

, Vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin that promotes growth and keeps bones and teeth strong and healthy. Liver, margarine, milk, sardines, cheese, and sunlight are good sources of Vitamin D!

, Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin that protects cells, assists in neurological function, and prevents anemia. Oils, nuts, seeds, eggs, and whole grains are good sources of Vitamin E!

, Vitamin K is a fat soluble vitamin that helps blood to clot. Dark green vegetables, liver, wheat germ, tomatoes, cheese, and eggs are good sources of Vitamin K

, Zinc is a mineral that promotes growth and a healthy immune system. Meat, poultry, eggs, and dairy products are good sources of zinc

