 Watch for changes in road conditions, changes in speed, debris on the road, and the behavior or other drivers on the road. These things can be distracting and often cause accidents, or at least erratic driving, which can incite tailgaters to start following you more closely.


Pay attention to the items in your car to reduce distractions while driving. If you are distracted by what’s happening inside your car rather than focusing on the road, you will be a less safe driver to those around you.
Pulling out in front of someone else (especially if they happen to be a habitual tailgater) can be a dangerous mistake. It may upset a tailgater and cause them to act irrationally.
 One way to drive defensively and avoid tailgating is to pay close attention to the posted speed limit. Make sure that you are driving with the flow of traffic, but also that you are not going too fast or too slow for the posted speed zone.Tailgating accidents often happen when people are driving too slow for the situation (significantly under the posted speed limit or going slower than the flow of traffic).
 One way to avoid accidents caused by tailgating is to signal with plenty of advance warning. If you tell a tailgater (by using your blinker) that you intend to change lanes, they will probably avoid zooming around you in the other lane.This will help protect you from tailgaters who may come up behind you very quickly.
 Try to avoid driving during rush hours – typically 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. (morning rush), 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. (lunch rush), and 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 PM (evening rush). Rush hours typically happen during the weekdays. While this may not leave a lot of room to conduct daily business, particularly if you stay at home during the day, these are times when motorists are most often on the roads and in a hurry to get to work (or wherever else they are going) on time.Also consider avoiding using highways, interstates, or other high-speed thoroughfares for short trips. Tailgating often happens on roads with high speed limits.
 Because of the limited visibility, it is important to be extra vigilant when you are driving at nighttime. Speed limits are often lower at night, so pay attention to that as well.


Tailgaters are particularly hazardous at night because of the bright headlights and what a distraction this can be while driving at night. If you have a tailgater following too closely at night, try to get away from them and out of their headlights.
 Tailgating is particularly dangerous during poor weather conditions because the roads may not be in the best shape for sudden stops. Always be mindful of road conditions when you are driving.


If you are driving on icy or slick roads, breaking quickly could cause you to slip and slide and lose control of your vehicle. If a tailgater does this, they probably won’t have enough time to react before hitting you with their car.

