 Keep your breakfasts and snacks between meals consistent and do your best to control portions for lunch and dinner, since those meals tend to be more variable. Healthy snacks can keep you from overindulging during mealtime., Everyone wants to enjoy eating on vacation. You probably want to try local foods, good restaurants, and even better desserts. This is fine. The key is moderation.Think about where you’re going to be spending your calories. Maybe you want to splurge for dinner. If that’s the case, eat a healthy breakfast or lunch. Allow yourself some splurge calories every day and adjust accordingly.
Think about sharing portions. If you get baked goods, share with your family or friends instead of eating one yourself. If you want to try everything on the menu, share the entrees amongst your group.
Order smaller sizes. Instead of a large gelato, order a small one. Eat part of your danish one day and save the rest for the next.
Remember portion control. Allowing yourself to enjoy food but thinking about the amount you are eating can help you refrain from overeating. If you want to try the cake, eat a few bites instead of a whole piece.
 You can enjoy local cuisine and restaurants without giving up your health. Include salads, fruit, or vegetables into each meal, especially if you are going to splurge on an item. Skip fast food places and choose healthier restaurants when possible.Skip the heavy, unhealthy breakfast foods at hotel continental breakfasts. Don’t eat the waffles, the prepackaged pastries, and the sugar-filled cereals and yogurts. Instead, go for healthier options, like non-sugary cereals, multigrain bagels, and fruit.
Go for a light lunch. Dinner is where most people want to enjoy and splurge on vacation, so eat a healthy lunch. Choose salads and sandwiches, and skip the fries and chips in favor of fruit and vegetables.
Modify your menu choices. Go for grilled instead of fried, skip calorie- and fat-heavy dressings, and ask for things without butter. Get vegetables instead of fries or potatoes. Choose marinara sauces over cream sauces.Think about using your calories on what really matters to you. If you really want to eat dessert, go healthier at your meal.
 Instead of eating out for every meal, consider buying your own ingredients and preparing them in your hotel room. Many hotel rooms have a mini fridge or microwave, or you can bring your own cooler. If you don’t have these things, buy non-perishable items to eat. This can save you calories, fat, and money.You can buy breakfast foods like cereal, instant oatmeal, English muffins, or low-sugar yogurt for healthy breakfasts.
Lunch is easy to pack yourself. Buy lunch meat, bread or pita pockets, or peanut butter for sandwiches. Get some carrot sticks, celery sticks, cheese sticks, apples, bananas, pears, or even avocado to go with it.
You might even try healthy microwavable meals. If you know you’re going to be at the hotel for lunch or dinner, heat something up while relaxing in front of the TV instead of going out.
 Don’t wait until you’re starving to grab a snack at the first corner store you find. Plan ahead by bringing your snacks with you. This keeps you from making bad choice due to hunger.Granola bars, protein bars, jerky, nuts, string cheese, carrot sticks, apples, and bananas all make great on-the-go healthy snacks.
You don’t have to pack the snacks with you if you fly. Find a grocery store when you first arrive and buy snacks for your trip to keep with you.
 Odds are, if you’re going to a different region or country, there will be fruits and vegetables you have never eaten before. Visit a local farmer’s market, roadside stand, or grocery store to see what fruits and vegetables the area offers.Some places are known for their region specific produce. Try a local Washington apple, muscadines from Georgia, or Maine blueberries. If you’re going somewhere tropical, buy a fresh local mango, pineapple, or banana.
See if you can go fruit or vegetable picking. Visit apple or peach orchards, vineyards, blueberry, strawberry, or raspberry patches, or local farms. Not only will get local fresh food, but you’ll get exercise, too.
 Staying hydrated is extremely important when traveling. Bring a bottle of water with you and keep it full. You need to stay hydrated if you are doing a lot of outdoor activity or sweating a lot.People often forget to drink water and stay hydrated when stepping outside their normal routine.
Choose water over sugary, calorie-heavy drinks. Not only will it keep you fit and on track, but it will keep you hydrated and safe from sugar spikes.
Buy drinks at the grocery store and keep them in your hotel room. Pack them every day instead of stopping at stores. Not only will this help reduce temptation of bad beverages, and even foods, you may see in the store, but it will also save you money.
 Before you go out to eat, do some research. Look online at which restaurants are available. Look at menus beforehand, including calorie and fat content if this information is available. Make a choice about what you want to have before you even get there to avoid temptation or impulse decisions.Consider looking for healthier restaurants, like local organic places. Read about the restaurants and find local Mexican restaurants that use all locally produced fresh ingredients or an organic, vegan Asian place.
 Sometimes when you go on vacation, you want to indulge in a margarita or another alcoholic beverage. Be aware that fruity alcoholic drinks are loaded with sugar and calories. Take this into consideration when you are thinking about having a drink.There’s nothing wrong with having a drink, but think about what else you are eating that day. If you want to indulge in a piña colada while sitting on the beach, adjust your diet accordingly for the rest of the day. Eat healthier at your meals and skip dessert in favor of your drink.
 Airports can get you off your fitness track more than your vacation. They’re full of junk food for snacks and meals. Instead of giving in, make smart choices to stay on track.Pack your own snacks for the plane ride. Granola bars, fruit, nuts, and jerky make easy snacks for planes.
Eat your meal before you get to the airport. If the scheduling doesn’t permit that, make healthy choices at airport restaurants, like salads, grilled meats, or sandwiches. You may also pack your own sandwiches to eat while you wait.
Bring an empty water bottle into the airport. Airport terminals have water fountains so you can fill it. That keeps you away from sugary drinks and saves you money.
If you have to wait a long time for your flight, get some physical activity in by walking up and down the terminal. A good 15 to 30 minutes of physical activity will keep you moving and fit.

