 Pugs are heavy shedders, despite their short hair. Brushing your Pug on a regular basis will help cut down on its shedding and minimize the amount of hair in your home. You should brush your dog with a rubber brush or one with stainless steel bristles at least once a week. Brush your Pug in the direction its hair grows without applying much extra pressure on the brush.If your Pug is still shedding quite a bit with weekly brushings, try brushing it every day.
Brushing your Pug both before and after you bathe it will also help cut down on shedding. Bathing will loosen up the hairs in your dog’s coat, so brushing it after its bath will help catch many of these loose hairs., Pugs’ nails grow extremely fast. You should trim your dog’s nails every two weeks to make sure they do not get too long. To do so, use a small nail clipper or nail grinder and clip only the curved part of the nail. Watch out for the quick, which is the vein running through your dog’s foot. Be careful not to cut this vein when you are clipping your dog’s nails.


A good time to cut your dog’s nails is when they are in a deep sleep at night. Even if your Pug wakes up while you are trimming its nails, it will probably be too drowsy to put up a struggle.
If you accidentally clip the quick while trimming your dog’s nails, apply some styptic powder to the cut to help stop the bleeding and prevent infection.Depending on the types of surfaces your dog encounters on a regular basis, you may only need to clip its nails every three to six months. Walking on hard outdoor surfaces frequently may help keep the nails filed down. You should still check its nails every few weeks to make sure they’re not getting too long, however., Taking good care of your Pug’s teeth is also important. You should introduce your Pug to tooth brushing early on in its life. Use the following strategy to get your dog used to having its teeth brushed:


Use your finger to rub your dog’s teeth every day for a week. Do your best to touch all of the teeth. Say the words “teeth” or “brush” while you do this so your dog will begin to associate these key words with getting its teeth brushed. Praise your dog when it sits still for this and offer it a small, healthy treat at the end of each session.
For the following week, use a canine finger tooth brush or a small breed toothbrush to go over the teeth. Wet the brush, but don’t apply toothpaste. Remember to say the key word while you are doing this.
At the end of the week you can start using a toothbrush with toothpaste on it., It is recommended you spend three to four minutes brushing your dog’s teeth every day. You want to make sure you cover the front, back, and sides of all teeth. Make sure you’re cleaning all the surfaces of the teeth and invest in a quality canine toothpaste, as human toothpastes can be toxic to dogs if they are swallowed. Keep using the key word when you brush your dog’s teeth.


It might help to set a timer for three or four minutes while you are brushing so you know you are spending enough time on this., Using a damp cotton ball, clean your dog's ears every one to two weeks. Move the cotton ball around the inside of the ear, making sure to get any wax, dirt, or debris that are present. Don’t go too far into the ear, as you do not want to hit your dog’s ear drum.


If you notice any puss, excessive liquid wax, or irritated areas in your dog’s ears, take it to the vet. These symptoms can indicate an infection of some kind., Because of the shape of a Pug’s head, its eyes bulge, and therefore are more susceptible to injury and scratches. Cleaning your dog’s eyes properly can help prevent it from developing eye problems. You should clean your dog’s eyes daily with a baby wipe, moistened cotton ball, or canine eye wipes. Do this several times a day—usually first thing in the morning, after your dog eats, and before bed. Wipe away any crusty build-up with the wipe, being careful not to get any cleaning solution into your dog’s eyes. If you notice debris on your dog’s eyeball, use the following steps to remove it:


Use your fingers to gently push the top and bottom eye lids open.
Squeeze four to five drops of a sterile canine eye cleaning solution into the cup of the lower lid.
Then, let go of your Pug and allow him to blink. This should discharge any debris in the eye.
Wipe your dog’s face with a clean wipe after cleaning out the eye to keep any leftover debris away from its face.