 While the oven is warming up, start making the muffin batter., In a medium bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Mix with a whisk or a large spoon until all the ingredients are well combined, then set the bowl aside., You will need melted butter to make the muffin batter. Before you melt the butter, cut the stick into small cubes about an inch in length to help the butter melt faster and more evenly., Melt the butter either in the microwave or on the stovetop. If you are melting the butter in the microwave, place the butter cubes in a small bowl and microwave on medium-low (30%). Check every 15 seconds or so until the butter is almost melted. Then take out the bowl and stir the butter until it’s all melted.If you’re melting the butter on the stovetop, place the butter cubes in a saucepot over medium-low heat. Heat on the stove until almost all the pieces have melted, then take the pot off the heat and stir until the butter is completely melted.
 Pour the melted butter into a medium sized mixing bowl, then crack the egg into the butter. Whisk the egg until the yolk and egg whites are fully incorporated. Then add the milk and vanilla extract and mix., Pour about one third of the flour mixture into the wet ingredients and stir with a large spoon or whisk until combined. Continue gradually adding the flour, folding it in and incorporating it into the batter., Pour in the chocolate chips while stirring, and mix until they are distributed throughout the batter. Make sure that the batter looks even and consistent., Spray a standard-sized muffin tray with non-stick cooking spray, or rub the inside of each insert with a stick of butter. You can also line each compartment with paper liners if you prefer., After preparing the tray, distribute the muffin batter between each compartment of the muffin tray. Pour the batter until each compartment is about ¾ of the way full, since the muffins will expand during baking. Try to distribute the batter evenly so that each muffin is around the same size., If you wish, sprinkle the tops of each muffin with a pinch of granulated sugar. The granulated sugar will make the muffins slightly sweeter and adds a crunch to the muffin tops.Skip the step if you prefer the muffins without the extra sweetness.
 Place the muffin tray in the oven and bake for 15-20 minutes. By this time, the muffins should have expanded and the tops should look golden brown.
 After 15-20 minutes, stick a toothpick into one of the muffins. If the toothpick comes out clean, the muffins are done and you can remove them. If the toothpick comes out with crumbs, put the muffins back in the oven and check with a toothpick every minute or so until it comes out clean., After you take the tray out of the oven, let it cool for a few minutes on a cooling rack. Placing the pan on the cooling rack helps it to cool down more quickly., After 5-10 minutes, carefully remove the muffins from the tray. If you used paper liners, simply lift up the muffins by the liners. If you put the muffin batter directly in the tray, use a knife to go around between each muffin and the pan. Then lift up the muffins and place them on the cooling rack., Even if you’re eager to eat the muffins while they’re still hot, letting them cool on the rack for about five minutes so that they have a firmer consistency.
 Enjoy the muffins while they are still warm, or wait for them to cool completely before digging in. Enjoy them with a large, refreshing glass of milk!


Store the leftover muffins in a sealed container to prevent them from getting stale. Just make sure that the muffins have cooled completely before sealing the lid or else they may get soggy!

