 Make sure you fully understand the dress code, and ask an administrator for clarification if necessary. You don't want to buy something and then find out you can't wear it to school.;
, It helps to organize your closet by what you are and aren't allowed to wear to school. This way, when you wake up in the morning, you don't have to shuffle through all the clothes you aren't allowed to wear in order to find what you need for school that day.
 For example, you may have to wear shirts that have collars and sleeves. While that certainly limits you, it doesn’t say anything about pockets vs. no pockets or button fronts v.s. polo shirts. Find something you are comfortable in that fits within the dress code. In this example, if you don't like polo shirts, get button fronts. Sleeves can usually be any length as long as they’re there. No matter how restrictive your dress code, you’ll likely have some choices.
 That means, even if you have to wear uniform pants etc, there's nothing that can stop you from pulling a colorful skirt or skort over them. Try wearing multiple layers of shirts, pants and skirts, or jackets over the uniform. If worst comes to worst, you can still pull the extra clothes off.
 Just because your clothes have to be conservative doesn’t mean you can’t still buy the brands you like to wear. In fact, many designers now make clothes specifically to meet the growing dress-code and uniform markets. If you need polos, then buy them at A&F or Urban Outfitters. Have fun with it! But you don't have to shop at expensive clothing stores if you don't want to.
 Shoes are often hard to define in dress codes, so you may be able to get away with some extra creativity on your feet. For example, some dress codes say that shoes have to be closed-toed. This doesn't mean sneakers or loafers only. If your school doesn't have any strict regulations on shoes, get something fashionable that stands out. If your school is strict or brown/black shoes are a must, then slowly add little things. Try a colorful shoelace, or try gluing little rhinestones on and see if you can get away with it.
 Dress code or no dress code, you can use accessories to express your individuality and style. The stricter your dress code, the more important accessories may be.


Belts: Often belts have to be leather and the buckle size is restricted, but there may not be color guidelines or belt buckle type guidelines. Get bright colors or patterns that attract attention. Did your mom already buy you a drab brown belt? Glue glitter on the buckle or otherwise embellish it. Butterfly buttons look really cute too. If you can't add anything or don't want to, you can just use a black belt with a vintage buckle.
Jewelry: If there aren't any jewelry restrictions, wear bracelets, necklaces, earrings, or rings that stand out and make you feel special. Adding funky and bold jewelry will make you stand out without pushing the clothes. Then you can look really original. Be careful, bracelets make a lot of noise on desks.
Hair: Many dress codes provide few restrictions on hair. While you probably can’t dye your hair crazy colours, you can put bows or headbands of different bright colors, as well as pigtails, braids, or anything colorful or unique that the dress code can't restrict.
Scarves: Especially in the winter, a colorful scarf can give your uniform/dress code cute and colorful

, Maybe your dress code has some "grey areas," or maybe parts of it aren’t enforced. See what you can get away with. What’s the worst that could happen? You'll just have to take it off.


Never say never: If you see something you want to wear at school, don't be pessimistic by saying it's not permitted at school. Take it and go with it - at the worst case, you can put it in your bag.
Bags: You can always express yourself by your bag. There is no such thing - usually - as limits for bags. Go wild and buy some crazy and unique bags. If there are limits even for bags - you can always put pins and such onto it.
 Look online for hair tutorials and ideas. Crazy styles can be fun, and there is rarely a rule that says you can't!

