 You should know one thing about popular people. They think that just because they have the coolest fashions, then they rule the school. However, one thing is for sure: many people would rather have intelligence over popularity!;
, Keep a close group of best friends. You'll know that you can always trust each other and discuss things.
 When you are yourself, then you feel comfortable, right? If you're someone you're not, then people are bound to find out that you aren't being yourself. The charade won't fool anyone for more than a little while.
 Good Grades are something you need to have in Middle School. In Elementary, if you got an F, then you still got to go to your next grade. In Middle School, you will get held back if you receive a grade lower than 59 average. If a friend gets a better grade than you, sure, you'll be upset, but don't get competitive. Be happy for them and keep working hard on the assignments.
 Fighting isn't only bad for yourself physically, but also mentally. You'll start to get into fights all the time. This could result in getting into trouble and possibly getting detention back.
 Teachers really hate if you forget something in class. It disturbs both the teachers' teaching and the learning for other kids. You should have all of your supplies in your backpack, not at home or in your locker. You can make a mental checklist of everything you need to have when you leave class so that you don't forget anything.
 If you do all of your homework, even if you don't get it, then it will boost your grade up. It can actually bring you up from a failing grade!

, Read other wikiHow articles on how to stay organized. It is very important in middle school, since you will have 6+ classes to keep track of!

, One of the most exciting things in a 6th graders' first year. Now, some schools only let you go before school, after school, before lunch and after lunch, so be aware. But, otherwise, lockers are great for storing things that you won't need at the moment. Don't let your locker get messy. It'll be a hassle when it's time to clean it out.
 The entire reason that the dress code is there is for you to follow it. In many schools, if you don't follow the dress code, you will get Deans' Detention That is where you miss a whole day of school in order to sit in the Deans' office to do work (including during lunch), and then you'll have to do your missed work later.
 Yum, Cheese Pizza. Nasty, Mystery Meatloaf. Look at your school's lunch menu. If you don't like what they are having, then bring your own lunch. Who doesn't like knowing what you eat, and how it was made? In school, it's all behind scenes, so you have no idea what they do. -Warning: Schools may have extremely long lunch lines. Therefore, if you have a short lunch, then you won't have time to eat. If you don't have lunch money, or you don't have a lunch don't freak out! If you find yourself in this situation ask 5 of your friends for 1 dollar, if they give it to you then try to get a protein filled item from a vending machine (if your school has them)-

, Please go to school and stay in school; it's the best thing you can ever do in life

