 Sometimes out of excitement, you may buy a smartwatch just by looking at its design, but then you realize that it isn’t compatible with your Android device, so it can be rendered practically useless for you.


That’s why before buying a smartwatch, check if it is compatible with your Android. Ask the store where you plan to buy it, about it's features and whether or not it is compatible with your currently existing Android mobile items. If they have no clue, research for this watch's information on the Internet, right inside the store.;
, Smartwatches vary quite widely in design, so choose an Android smartwatch that suits you.


For example, if you’re a tech geek, go for techy Android smartwatches. If you’re a fashion bird, go for fashionably-designed Android smartwatches. If you like to read the entire messages or emails on your smartwatch, then opt for a smartwatch with a larger face.
 The battery is the ultimate powerhouse of your smartwatch, and if you will be constantly using your smartwatch, you will want to make sure that its battery life lasts long.


Normally, the battery for monochrome (black and white) screen smartwatches are made to run for about 4 to 5 days (when fully charged), while batteries for colored-screen smartwatches are made to last for 1 to 2 days between charges.
To be sure, check online reviews of the particular Android smartwatch you are planning on buying. A lot of users usually posts their experience with their devices for other would-be users to know.
 Now this comes as one of the most complex factors of choosing a smartwatch. Some smartwatches are only meant for calls and messages, whereas some also have access to social networking. Most of them have regular organizer functions, like calendar and date, but not all. A few even have voice control features as an additional bonus.


In choosing an Android smartwatch, get those with functions that suit you. If you don’t want to be bombarded with post notifications from your social network accounts, then don’t get the smartwatch that has that feature.
Likewise, if you’re the kind who doesn’t want to miss emails or appointments, get the Android smartwatch which has features access to emails and has organizer functions.
 Being consumer-friendly is one of the most important thing to consider when buying an Android smartwatch. The user must be able to operate the smartwatch with simplicity without having to go back and forth to the user manual, so choose a smartwatch that you feel is easy and convenient to use.


Again, if you’re not sure, you can always read customer reviews online on a particular smartwatch you want to buy.
 Water-resistant Android smartwatches can be handy if you work out a lot or if your work involves dealing with water. This way, you won’t have to worry about your new Android smartwatch when it gets wet.
 The cost of Android smartwatches range from $149 to $455, so find one that fits your budget and keep the features and other functions into consideration.

