 The morning before you go to school, put on a good fake voice, call the office, and call yourself a pass to leave school that day for an appointment of some kind. Pose as your mother or father, and use the specific date and time that you need to be absent from school. In the morning, pick up the hall pass and leave at the time. Scot-free.


Better yet, get someone else to make the call for you. Older siblings, cousins, or friends are all good bets.
Make sure the office workers don't know your parents very well, or they're likely to recognize your voice and figure out that it's not them.
 The next time you get a hall pass for real, take it home and make a Photocopy. Use white out to change the info date, and then re-photocopy the blank one to have a cache of fakes that you can use, and give to other kids.


Be sure to use the same color and style of pen or pencil in the original color that the note was written.
If you have a friend who does not know your teacher then have them use the "bathroom" and deliver it from the "office" at some point to make it extra convincing.
 If you've got to get into serious anti-class warfare, then you can still keep a few serious tricks up your sleeve. Faking a seizure should only be used in the case of serious moments, like if you've totally forgotten to study for a test, or have forgotten a project that's worth a life-time of points, or something. To fake a seizure, try the following, at your own risk:


Subtly complain about feeling "faint" or "weird" just before class. Breathe heavily and go to the bathroom before class starts to wet your head slightly, giving yourself a very sweaty look.
Wait for awhile then give a spaced out look if you're going to pass out. Go gradually limp if you are going to pass out then fall down to the floor, as realistically as possible.
If you are doing a seizure, fall to the ground and start convulsing and doing random uncontrolled movements. Drool on yourself.
Most seizures won't last long, just a minute or two, but it's still important to not over-sell it so you'll start laughing or otherwise give yourself away.
When you're done, grunt and make your eyes go wide as if you're in pain. When everyone looks at you, all freaked out, say, "What happened?" You may end up headed to the doctor, but they'll likely call your parents first and you might be able to end up head home.
 It's commonly thought that pulling fire alarms or making anonymous threats to the office are good ways to get out of school. These methods are not only dangerous at school, likely resulting in expulsion or suspension, they're typically illegal. You might be facing fines, or serious penalties for your actions. Never, under any circumstances, should you take more drastic measures.Talk to a counselor if you're really struggling at school and feel like you need to be absent for a serious reason. Talk about it and get help.

