 A deep, passionate kiss is often the precursor to further passion, but all of the energy will dissipate if you move apart. Keep your bodies touching, reaching an arm around his back or bringing your hand up to cup her face. Staying tightly together keeps the charge alive and makes it easy to keep kissing.
 Maybe he's staying close, keeping up eye contact. Maybe you see her look back down at your lips quickly. Maybe you're both smiling, and it just feels right. By moving slowly after a kiss, keeping yourself close and not rushing into anything else, you get the chance let the situation unfold naturally, often into another kiss.At this point, you should stop reading this article! Let yourself ease into the moment, trusting both yourself and your partner.
 If things are feeling hot and heavy, move down to his neck or ears. Pull him close, directing his head lightly with your fingers if there are areas you want to be kissed. Let your own lips and hands dictate the sort of experience you want -- going lower if you want to increase the heat, or staying up if you're moving slowly and getting to know each other.You have an equal say in what happens after these deep, passionate kisses, so feel free to state your boundaries or slow things down.
 If you want to try things other than kissing, then it is always worth it to take a second and ask if he/she is comfortable. It seems weird, but it will not ruin the mood -- it simply shows respect for your partner.



A kiss is not an invitation to further activities. A kiss is just a kiss -- don't assume it gives you some sort of permission to move forward., In the movies, moments of passionate kissing are often heavy, dramatic, and mostly silent. But real life passion is much more diverse, exciting, funny, and a little goofy. Nothing goes perfectly. But that is half the fun -- knowing that you can laugh if she steps on your toes, or if he needs to turn away to sneeze. Instead of trying to control everything to be "perfect," "passionate," or "sexy," just enjoy each other's company. Let the mood unfold as it may and just have fun.