 When you smile, you immediately appear friendlier, more likable, and more trustworthy to other people. Smiling can also improve your mood and help you stay in a positive frame of mind, both of which will improve your interactions with others.Don’t try to smile all the time – that will look unnatural. Focus on smiling when you greet people and during conversations.
 Sometimes you may need a little extra coaching to help with developing improved interpersonal communication skills. For instance people with mental health concerns such as social anxiety, borderline personality disorder, and others may require the assistance of a professional therapist or coach to help them effectively interact and develop stronger relationships. How you communicate with other people has a significant impact on the quality of your relationships.


Professional support can be in the form of individual counseling or group counseling. The type of therapy usually used in such settings is dialectical behavioral therapy (talk therapy) and mindfulness training. The goal is to teach clients skills that will help with engaging in conversations in a more thoughtful and deliberate way, instead of reacting to their internal stress and emotions in a negative way.
 Be interested in other people, and focus on what they have to say. Take their body language and tone of voice into account as you talk. Ask questions to guide the conversation and find out more about them.When you’re genuinely interested in people, you’ll have more fulfilling conversations, and others will instinctively like you more.
 Follow the standards of etiquette, and always treat other people with courtesy. Don’t forget the basics, such as saying “please” and “thank you” and not interrupting people when they’re talking.If your manners need some polishing, look for an etiquette book at your local library, or search for manners tips online.
 Gossiping about other people makes you seem petty and insecure. It undermines other people’s trust in you, and it could even cost you important relationships. Don’t say anything behind a person’s back unless you would be willing to say it to their face.If other people try to get you to gossip with them, redirect the conversation. Ask a question like, “What are you doing this weekend?”

, Whenever you can, go out of your way to do someone a favor or brighten up their day. You’ll feel good about lending a hand, and other people will see you as a thoughtful, dependable person.For instance, take a friend out for lunch when they’re feeling down, or give your coworker a ride to work when their car is in the shop.

