 Once the meatballs are formed, cook them on the stovetop at high heat just until the edges brown. Meanwhile, heat the oven to 400° F (205° C). Dump the half-cooked balls into a shallow baking dish and smother them with your tomato sauce, then cover everything with cheese, such as mozzarella, Romano, or Parmesan. You can then back the whole pan for 15-20 minutes.This is also a great way to keep the meatballs hot if you still need to cook spaghetti.
 Don't just freeze the raw meat. Instead, cook the meatballs in a skillet until the outsides are brown, then cool and freeze. When ready to eat them, heat them up for 20 minutes or so in 1/2 of sauce to finish cooking them and thaw them up naturally, leading to almost no loss of texture and flavor., White meatballs, those made with white meat, aren't typical in spaghetti and meatballs, but that doesn't mean they aren't delicious. Because they have less fat, they are naturally a little less rich, and will have a harder time bonding together. Add an extra 2 tablespoons (4 ml) of bread crumbs to compensate.


White meatballs, in particular, go well with fresh herbs like rosemary, oregano, and thyme.
 Tomato paste has a strongly concentrated tomato flavor, which will seep into the onions as they cook. Be sure to deglaze the pan quickly afterwards, thinning the paste and preventing burning.


If the sauce is a bit too strong due to the paste, add a tablespoon of sugar to balance it out and give the sauce a light sweetness.
 Both celery and carrots get sweet when cooked, bringing an earthy richness to the sauce closer to a bolognese than a classic marinara sauce. Add them at the same time as the onion, and make sure they're chopped to about the same size, as well.


This is a great way to sneak some vegetables into a kid's sauce, as well. Once they are blended up, they will have no idea it is in there., Simply add the roasted pepper after the onion is almost done cooking up, then blend it up with the rest of the sauce. Roasted peppers are sweet but savory, with a wonderful smokiness that goes well in the sauce. Add some crushed red pepper and cayenne for a spicy arrabbiata sauce, as well.

