 Add 1 cup (175 g) of chopped bitter or semisweet chocolate and ¼ cup (55 g) of butter to a medium heatproof bowl. Place the bowl over a pot of water that’s simmering on the stove on medium. Heat the chocolate and butter until they both melt, which should take 5 to 10 minutes. Set the mixture aside.Mix the chocolate and butter regularly as you heat them to ensure that they melt evenly.
Leave the water simmering on the stove even after the chocolate and butter are fully melted. You’ll need it for another step.
If you prefer, you can melt the chocolate and butter in the microwave. Place them in a microwave safe bowl, and heat them on high in 30 second intervals until they’re melted. Stir the mixture after each interval to ensure that the ingredients heat evenly.
 Add 3 large egg yolks, 3 tablespoons (38 g) of sugar, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the liqueur of your choice, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract to a large bowl. Stir until the ingredients are just combined.Any type of flavored liqueur will work in the mousse, such as cherry, hazelnut, Irish cream, or chocolate.
 After you’ve combined the egg yolk mixture, place the bowl over the simmering pan on the stove. Whisk the mixture over the heat until it’s warmed through and thickens, which should take approximately 5 minutes., After you’ve heated the egg yolk mixture for several minutes, remove the bowl from the heat. Use an electric mixer to beat the mixture on medium speed until it thickens further, which should take 1 to 2 minutes. Set the mixture aside.If you don’t have an electric mixer, you can use a whisk and beat the mixture by hand.
 Add 1 cup (240 ml) of heavy cream to a separate medium bowl. Use the electric mixer to whip the cream on medium high until it forms stiff peaks, which should take approximately 2 minutes. Set the bowl aside. You’ll have an easier time whipping the cream if you chill the bowl that you’re using first.
 Take the melted chocolate mixture and add it to the egg yolk mixture. Use a spatula to fold in the chocolate, working as quickly as possible. Make sure that the chocolate is completely mixed in., When the chocolate and egg yolk mixture are fully combined, add the whipped cream to the bowl. Fold the cream in with a spatula, working until there are no longer any white streaks. Place the bowl in the freezer to chill for 15 to 20 minutes.If you can’t fit the bowl in your freezer, you can chill it in the refrigerator for an hour.
 After the mousse is fully chilled, remove the bowl from the freezer. Use a spatula to put the mousse in a piping bag with a star tip.If you don’t have a piping bag, put the mousse in a plastic zipper bag. Snip off a corner of the bag so you can pipe the mousse directly from it.
 For the stuffed strawberries, you’ll need 2 pounds (907 g) of strawberries that have been cored from the bottom so the stems are still intact. Pipe the mousse into the strawberries, and place them stem side down on a platter to serve.To core the strawberries, use a sharp knife to cut the tip off. Next, use the knife to cut out the center of the berries, stopping before you cut all the way through so they can stand on the stem side.

