 For most civil ceremonies, you would go to city hall. You can also go to a judge's chambers or a lawyers office. If you don't like these locations, you can really have your civil ceremony anywhere. If you'd rather have it outside somewhere, plan to find a venue like a public garden, a nature reserve or a public park.;
, You can find a judge to officiate or hire a pastor or rabbi if you would like a religious figure to officiate. If you hire a pastor or rabbi, they do not always charge a fee, but you can still give them a cash gift to thank them for taking the time to officiate. You will also need to talk to your officiant about the schedule for the ceremony.
 State rules vary, but you will probably need to get this within 30 days of your planned civil ceremony date. It will also cost about 50 dollars, and you may need to take with you a copy of your birth certificate or other form of identification.
 Most civil ceremonies are shorter than traditional church wedding ceremonies, but that doesn't mean you can't play specific music or have friends do a reading. Pick music that you like and choose readings that have a significant meaning to you and your future spouse.
 Your officiant should be able to supply you with some vow examples, or you can completely write your own. Start with traditional vows and edit them into something that is meaningful to the both of you.
 Even if you don't plan on inviting all of your friends and family, you will still need 2 witnesses to be at the civil ceremony to sign the marriage certificate.
 Aside from your 2 witnesses, you may want to invite close friends and family. Decide who you absolutely must have at your civil ceremony and send out invitations 6 to 8 weeks in advance.
 Since you're having a civil ceremony, you won't be required to wear the traditional white dress or tux. You may still want to dress up, however, so don't let the fact that you're having a civil ceremony hold you back. Make sure to tell your guests what the attire is so they know what to wear as well.

