 Most muscle balms have menthol as an active ingredient. Menthol soothes pain and generally gives your skin a cool feeling. But if that coolness would feel uncomfortable to you, pick a different balm.Some balms mix menthol with camphor. Camphor also produces a cooling feeling, but unlike menthol numbs the skin as well.
Menthol-based balms can sometimes give off a strong smell. Avoid using one right before bed.;
, Capsaicin is the active chemical in hot peppers. When used as the active ingredient in muscle balms, capsaicin can improve blood flow to the sore area. That can help relieve soreness. But it can also create a burning sensation on your skin, so only use capsaicin-based balms if you don’t mind some heat.


Other balms use methyl salicylate, which is derived from oil of wintergreen. This chemical produces a similar effect as capsaicin.If you use one of these balms, be careful to follow application directions closely. Methyl salicylate can be toxic in large quantities., Arnica is a European herb that, like capsaicin, can help increase blood flow. It is also useful for bruises. It does not cause the same kind of short-term discomfort that capsaicin- or methyl salicylate-based balms do.While arnica can be toxic if taken orally, it is generally safe when used in balms. Although it does not cause short-term discomfort, using it for too long may cause blistering.Some arnica-based balms also use comfrey, which helps stimulate tissue repair. These balms are especially useful for helping heal bruises.
 Some balms, whether capsaicin, menthol, or arnica-based, also contain oil to help moisturize your skin. While these balms may leave your skin feeling somewhat greasy, the oil can also help the active ingredient in the balm penetrate more deeply., Exercise increases your circulation, so your body could absorb too much of the active ingredient. You should be particularly careful with methyl salicylate-based balms due to that chemical’s potential toxicity. , Before applying the balm to a large area, test a bit on the inside of your wrist. Wait several minutes. If you develop a rash, pick a new balm.
 Use no more than a pea-sized amount. Give extra attention to what feels like the center of the cramp. Try to keep the area relaxed.


Avoid using any kind of balm on areas of broken or irritated skin. The active ingredients in the balm can worsen the irritation or even burn you.Repeat no more than 3-4 times per day. Remember to use small amounts each time. Doing so will decrease the chance of irritation or toxicity., That will decrease the chances of you accidentally rubbing balm into a sensitive area of your body. Be particularly careful to avoid touching your eyes, nose, mouth, or genital region after using muscle balm., Drinking plenty of water before, during, and after your workout will go a long way towards preventing muscle soreness in the first place. Dehydration can make muscle soreness much worse. This is especially the case if you’re working out in a hot and humid environment., Your muscles need time to repair themselves after a workout. They can’t do that if you’re not getting enough sleep. Aim for seven to nine hours of uninterrupted sleep each night.Always prioritize rest and sleep in any exercise program.
 Mild muscle soreness doesn’t always require balm. Light stretching may help to ease the pain. A hot shower can also provide relief. If you become stiff from prolonged periods of sitting at your desk, walking around for 20 minutes can work well.Drinking cherry juice can help reduce exercise-related muscle pain., A handful of ice cubes in a plastic bag or a heating pad available at most drugstores can go a long way towards soothing muscle pain. Alternating between the two can be even more effective. Try applying the ice pack for 15 minutes, then switch to the heating pad for 15 minutes. Repeat as necessary until the soreness subsides.Avoid using a heating pad immediately after applying muscle balm. That combination can lead to prolonged skin irritation or even burns, depending on the balm., Most non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like aspirin or ibuprofen will help to relieve muscle soreness. If you choose to take NSAIDs for muscle soreness, adhere closely to the dosing directions.


If using aspirin, don’t take more than the recommended dose, especially if using a methyl salicylate-based balm., You may have a muscle or ligament tear. That can require medical intervention.


Soreness that persists for longer than several days, or weakness that develops in addition to persistent soreness, may be an indicator of nerve damage or an autoimmune disorder. A tingling sensation is also a sign of nerve damage. These conditions will also require medical attention.