 If you are in immediate danger, start by getting away from the abuser. This may mean getting out of your home and going to a safe place with your cellphone, such as a nearby cafe or a friend’s house. You may need to get out of your workplace or your school if your abuser if there. Find a safe place to go so you can call for help.If you cannot get away from your abuser, try to find a time when the abuser is out or away to then call for help. For example, if your husband is physically abusing you, pick a time when he is at work to call for help.
If you go to a cafe or store instead of a friend or family member's house, contact them right away and let them know where you are as you make arrangements.;
, There are many helplines set up to help those dealing with physical abuse and domestic violence. These helplines are staffed with experienced individuals who will keep your call confidential. They can point you in the direction of a shelter you can go to to get away from the abuser and other services you can access for help. Most helplines are open 24/7, every day of the year.In the U.S. and Canada, call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at 1-800-799-7233. You can also call 1-800-4-A-CHILD for help.
In the UK, call the Women’s Aid UK at 0808 2000 247.
In Australia, call 1800RESPECT (1800 737 732).
You can find a full list of global helplines and crisis centers on the International Directory for Domestic Violence Agencies website.
 You can also get immediate help by dialing 911 to get in touch with the police. When the dispatcher responds to your call, describe your situation and provide your location. Explain that you are experiencing physical abuse and need help.Depending on your situation, the dispatcher may tell you to stay where you are or to go into a safe place in your home. They may also suggest you go to a shelter or another place nearby that is safe until help arrives.
If you can, use this time to recall everything that happened during this incident of abuse. Tell the dispatcher and/or write it down if possible. This may make it easier to report the incident to the police.

