 If you want to rehome your dog because of bad behavior, there are other options you can look into before you get rid of your dog. Before you give away your dog, look into a pet behaviorist. Ask your vet to give you a referral for a trained and qualified behaviorist.


Typically, dogs that behave badly do so because they are anxious, they lack training, or they don't really know what you want them to do. A behaviorist can come into your home and help you figure out the root of your dog's problem and how you can help him change his behavior and make him easier to live with., If you are moving to another house that has a no pets policy, try to talk to landlord to show what a good dog yours is. Consider putting together a portfolio that shows how well behaved and nice your dog is. Put pictures of him with your family to show that he is sociable and well behaved.


Also put together all his vet records that shows he is healthy and up to date on his vaccines and other shots.
You can even have someone who knows your dog to write a canine character reference that may sway your landlord's mind. , If you are thinking of rehoming your dog because of financial problems, there are different charities to help you. They may be able to help you with vet bills or food bills. There are also dog food banks that may be able to give you food for your dog if you can't afford it and your dog is in genuine need.


If you need help with vet bills, try the Pet Fund, which is a charity that helps cover dog costs.
You can also take out a credit card specifically for dog healthcare, such as Care Credit. This could help your dog's treatment be easier to manage over time.
The Humane Society also has an extensive list of organizations that can help you with your dog costs., There may be a medical reason for why your dog is irritated or aggravating to you. Take your dog to the vet to see if he is suffering from a medical problem that might be causing problems.


For example, health problems may cause your dog to urinate more often or soil in the house.
 If you are considering getting rid of your dog because you are emigrating to another country, there are some things that might help you. Many countries have Pet Travel systems that can help your move your dog into their country. This requires you to provide certain documents that prove he is free from disease before he can enter the country.


You can also talk to your vet about exporting your pet and who you can contact in certain embassies of other countries for pet exporting details., If you dog is sick, most rescue organizations and shelters will not take him. In these cases, you will have to look for financial assistance other places or discuss other options with your vet. If your dog is very sick, he is in pain, or his life expectancy is not long, it may be more humane to consider putting him down.


You may also be able to ask your vet for a cheaper treatment option for your dog.