 Places like "Anna House" and "In the Starlight" are wonderful for those on a budget, as well as other indie shops which carry Lolita. Ebay is not recommended; often the stores won't use their own photographs and you will get a low-quality item. Some essential items are:


A white blouse and/or a black blouse (depending on what style of lolita you are)

Blouses vary with style. For sweet, you may want a peter pan collar. For classic, you may want a high collar. Other elements to look for in a blouse are a nice, tailored look, puff or cap sleeves, a bib or yoke, pintucks, ruffles or a decent amount of lace, and a neck bow if desired.


A few full skirts. The skirts should be around knee length and full enough to fit a petticoat underneath. Make sure that the skirt fits on your waist or a little below it, but not at your hips. In order to get the right silhouette, the skirt must sit at the natural waist.
A good lolita petticoat. This is nothing like a square-dancing petticoat. A-Line or Bell-shaped work best. Hoop skirts and light slips won't fill out the skirt correctly.
Bloomers
Knee-high/over-the-knee socks
Mary Jane shoes. Black or white can work depending on your style; pink or white are good for sweet lolita.
Optionally, you can get lolita-specific undergarments.





;
, Parasols are a key part of lolita fashion. Try to get parasols with similar patterns to those of the dresses you plan on wearing.
 After you have the basics, expand into colors other than black and white. Red, pink, light and dark blue, brown, and floral patterns are common.
 Use references to see what hairstyle works for you - wigs are always an option! Bangs (fringe), ringlets, long hair and pigtails are common. Wild, unnatural colors are optional. Your hairstyle depends on your face shape, body shape, height, and personal preference.
 Study the Victorian and 18th Century French lifestyles for inspiration, and combine elements you like into your everyday life. These are good sources if you don't want to mix-match from multiple outfits specifically labelled "lolita".
 Also visit sites on Lolita etiquette and mannerisms.

A good movie is Kamikaze Girls. The main character, Momoko, is a lifestyle lolita. There's a manga version of it, too.
 Think about how you walk, eat, sit, etc. Slouching is very unattractive. Don't sit back. Stick your butt out slightly, though not noticeably, when you sit - this will make it much more comfortable to sit straight and tall. Try walking with your eyes level and not focused on the ground.
 Remember to always be clean: brush your hair, keep your nails dirt-free and neat, brush your teeth, and bathe/shower. When spraying perfume, be sure not to use too much. Excessive use of perfume isn't attractive and does not improve your hygiene. Being clean is important; being grubby isn't pleasing. Never have greasy hair. It is gross and very ita-lolita ("hard to look at").
 This shows politeness. If you talk loudly, it'll seem like you're desperate for attention. Being loud in public isn't just obnoxious, but also inconsiderate to the people around you. Listen to what people have to say and always make eye contact.
 Parents will appreciate a girl who cares more about her education and work ethic than her nails. This will reflect in how you are viewed by those in authority. Who do you think gets the break when her homework isn't turned in? Teachers are harder on a girl who admits to spending two hours doing her nails than the one who is usually consistent.
 Go on trips, swap clothing and do whatever you want to do. Some Lolita-esque activities include:


Tea parties
Art shows
Watching movies like Alice in Wonderland
Karaoke
Visiting a fair or festival
Seeing a movie
Attending a seated concert or performance
Going shopping (for lolita clothes)
Ice skating
Going on a historical tour
Picnicking in a garden
Visiting the aquarium
Bake sales
Having a sleepover

, If you have arranged a meeting place for everyone, carry a small notepad with people’s names (or online aliases) to tick-off as people arrive. This way the chance of losing someone is minimal, especially if you have organized a large meet-up.


Another idea is to give out your mobile phone number before the event. This way, guests can contact you if they get lost.







