 Before you attempt a scorpion or any other cheerleading skill, you should stretch your body to prevent injuries or torn muscles. You should focus on stretching your legs, back, and arms, since those are the parts of your body that will be most useful during this skill. Here are some stretches to try:









Stretch your legs. Stretch both your legs by doing a side split and a regular split. Focus on stretching your standing leg during the split by reaching forward to touch the toes of the lead leg when you're doing the split with that leg in front.
Do a table scorpion. Find a table that is the same height as your hips. Face away from the table and place the leg you will pull up into a scorpion straight on the table behind you, in the split position. Bend the knee of this leg, and pull your foot way up as if you were doing a real scorpion.
Stretch your back. Do a bridge or a backbend to stretch the muscles in your back. Then stand up and lean forward to touch your toes to stretch different parts of your back.
Stretch your arms. Stretch your wrists by pushing one hand away from your body while flexing back the fingers of that hand with your other hand.
Stretch your shoulders and neck. Stretch your shoulders by rolling them forward and backward, and stretch your neck by rolling your head clockwise and then counter-clockwise.;
, Put your arms at your sides and look straight ahead. Bend the knee of the leg that you will use as your back leg. Typically, your standing leg will be your dominant leg, so this leg will not be your dominant leg. Make sure that you're standing on a comfortable surface that isn't too hard.









If you're doing a scorpion for the first time, you should try this move with a spotter, which should ideally be either one of your teammates or your coach.
You can also start by placing the hand that is on the same half of your body as your standing leg on a dresser or a higher surface for stability. If your standing leg is your right leg, then you should hold on to a surface with your right hand.
 If your back leg is your left leg, grab it with your left hand. You can do this by twisting your hand and arm outwards and then behind you so that the back of your hand is facing your thigh.









Your palm should be facing the inside of your foot.
Your back should be slightly flexed backward, with your chest open.
Your standing leg should be firmly locked so you don't buckle.
Your free hand should be at your side or on your hip for balance.
 Push hard with your back foot. Do not use your hands to pull your leg up. Your hands should guide the direction of your leg and should keep it in position. Your leg muscles should push your leg much higher.









Keep your thumb under the sole of the upturned foot. Start pushing your leg up and pull up with your hand.
Your hand should start moving up at least a foot.
 Once your foot is about as high as your ear, turn your elbow outwards, so that it is pointing forward, in front of your head.
 Remember to keep your standing leg locked as you do this, or you will buckle. Push your leg as high as it can go while firmly gripping it with your arm.









Remember to push your leg up, not back. Pushing your leg up will make it easier for you to grab it with your other hand. If you push your leg back too much, it will be hard to reach it with your other hand.
Start lifting your other hand to get ready to grab your back leg.
 Reach as far back behind you as you can with your other hand and grab the raised leg behind you.









If you're having trouble reaching the leg, you can start by grabbing the wrist of the hand that's holding your foot.
Alternately, you can reach your other hand in front of your face to grab your back leg, and then pull it over your head so it goes in the same position as the other hand.
 If you feel comfortable in the scorpion, you can push hard with your back leg into a high scorpion.









Don't bend your head forward or backward. Keep your gaze straight ahead.
Once you're more comfortable with the scorpion, you can tilt your head, neck, and back slightly back, so your face is tilted toward the ceiling, or even so that your face is under your hands and leg and is looking up at the heel or pads of your foot.
 As you master the position, pay close attention all the aspects of your pose, such as where your free hand is, and whether your toes are pointed.









You can learn more about your own pose by practicing a scorpion by looking in the mirror, or having a coach or friend film you doing a scorpion.
You can also improve your pose by asking your coach or teammates for pointers.
 After you finish your scorpion or scorpion practice for the day, you should stretch your back in the opposite direction.









Lie on the ground with your chest facing up. Tuck yourself into a little ball and rock back and forth on your back.
Stand up and bend down to touch your toes.

