 Since your truss will support the roof of your building, it should not violate local building codes and must be designed to meet wind load, snow load, and other structural requirements.;
, You will need to know at least the basic following design elements for your project.
 High density softwoods like southern yellow pine or fir are preferred over lumbers like spruce, lodge pole pine, and white pine. Other things to look at when selecting individual boards include the following:


Size of the lumber. 2X4 inch (5cm x 10cm) nominal boards are suitable for lightweight trusses if the bracing and member connections are well designed and fabricated.
Quality of the lumber. Straight grained, dense boards with few knots are preferred for this project. Try to select lumber with no obvious splitting or barked edges.
Straightness of lumber. Twisted, warped, or crooked boards do not lend themselves well for building trusses. Lumber with a slight curve, or crown may be used, as long as the crown is facing up when it is installed.
Lumber should be kiln dried or seasoned, as green lumber may shrink and/or warp after the truss is assembled and installed.
 If possible, draw out a full size truss on a floor to help you establish the lengths of each member and the angles of the various cuts required. If you cannot do this, use sawhorses and set the bottom chord board on them to begin the process of marking pattern pieces.
 Scribe lines for the cuts at these overlapping places, cutting the bottom chord ends first if required.
 The angle of this cut can be determined with a speed square if you know the roof pitch. Mark a common rafter pitch cut on each top chord, or use a string to make a mark from the center point of the bottom chord perpendicular to that member across the two top chords where they overlap each other.
/images/thumb/3/3d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-6-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-6-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/3/3d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-6-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-6-Version-2.jpg








, For a plumb eave line, you should be able to use the same angle you established to the top cut of the top chord. If you want the fascia board (if you anticipate installing one) to slope inward, use a sharper angle.
 There are specific engineering guidelines and even online resources you can use to determine load bearing and span applications for your project, but this article only applies to simple trusses where the general rule of thumb is one brace from the one third points of the bottom chords to the center of the top chords.
/images/thumb/7/7d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-8-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-8-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/7/7d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-8-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-8-Version-2.jpg









Divide the length of the bottom chord by three, then measure the resulting distance across the chord, marking the two locations where these braces will intersect the chord.
Mark the center point of each top chord, then place a board long enough to overlap each chord so the angles of the intersection can be scribed on each end.
 Be careful to make sure top and bottom chords are placed so their crowns are up when the trusses are built, and take care to be as precise as possible when marking and cutting each piece, as fitting them in the truss will be difficult if the lengths or angles are not correct.
 Likely, you will want to use reinforcing plates, gang-nailers, or gussets for all the connecting points of the frame members. The illustrations included here show 16 gauge galvanized steel plates, cut from salvages scrap metal being used, but if weathering isn't a consideration, 1/2 inch (12.7mm) plywood plates can be used.
 Use clamps to hold the fitted pieces tightly together while fastening them, and to work out any twists that are present in the lumber you're using.
/images/thumb/9/99/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-11-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-11-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/9/99/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-11-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-11-Version-2.jpg









For metal or plywood reinforcing plates, use plenty of nails of a length that will not penetrate through the member you're fastening, or you will have to bend the protruding ends of these nails over before putting the plates on the opposite side of the truss.
 Make sure all the joints are supported by temporary legs if you're working on a sawhorse or a table that is not large enough for the complete truss to set upon.
 Placing the trusses stacked in this manner will also allow you to observe how well the trusses match each other. Keep in mind that unless you have perfectly sized and straight material, you can expect minor variations from one truss to the next.
/images/thumb/4/4d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-13-Version-2.jpg/v4-550px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-13-Version-2.jpg
/images/thumb/4/4d/Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-13-Version-2.jpg/v4-300px-Build-a-Simple-Wood-Truss-Step-13-Version-2.jpg








, Attach them to the top plate securely, and in accordance with applicable building codes.

