;
,


Account creation is required to enroll in the free classes and later schedule flight instruction.
 Click on Create an Account under New to FAASafety.gov?.

On the first screen, you will need to enter a current email address and confirm that you entered the address correctly, then click the appropriate radio button next to Do You Hold a Current Airman Certificate?, then click Continue.






On the second screen, you will enter:


Name and Display Name (the name that will show when you are logged in to the FAAA Safety site)

Zip Code – Click the radio button if you do not have one or are using an APO or FPO zip code.
Additionally, you will select and answer three Security Questions and click Continue.


A third screen will appear, confirming that this part of the process is complete.
You will be emailed a temporary password.
 Use the temporary password the next time you login. At that time, you will need to select a different password and set your preferences for the FAASafety site., Logon with your email address and the temporary password, then click Go. A screen will pop up requesting that you change and confirm the password for this site.
 Once successful, a password changed confirmation screen will pop up.

Remember to use good password protocol whenever you chose any password.
 The screen will contain the following tabs:

General
Email & Password
WINGS Profile
Certificates & Ratings
Airman Registry
Seminar Preferences
Other
Close My Account

, You can always return later to refine your choices.

For each tab, remember to click Save at the bottom of the screen.
You will then have the option to go to the FAASafety home page or to select another Preferences Tab.
Once you are satisfied with the preferences you have selected, you are ready to start a class.
Click here at the bottom of the page and you will go back to the FAA Safety home page.
 Select your choice from the list of available courses accessed from the View Catalog link at the bottom right of the Featured Courses block (left, top block). For the most value, pick the "Wings Credit courses," from the "Wings Courses (Courses for Pilots!) Show Wings Courses" catalog.
 As you finish courses, go to the FAASafety home page and click My WINGS under the PILOTS tab (center). You will be able to see your progress if it has been recorded. If your course did not say "Wings Credit" on it, you will not see it added there.