 Your body loses muscle mass as you age. Including strength training in your workout routine helps you avoid this. You also help prevent your body from sagging by keeping it firm with muscle tone.You should strength train three to four times a week, skipping days in between for muscle recovery. Even just 15 to 20 minutes a day can give you increased health benefits.
Make sure to include free weights into your strength training workout. Don’t just use machines because that doesn’t work as many muscles as you do when using free weights. Alternating, or using just free weights when you are more advanced, can help build more muscle.You may also want to avoid machines that force your arms or legs to move in a fixed path because these machines are more likely to cause an injury.
 As you age, your posture can suffer. Bone health is extremely important to maintain as you get older, and your spine is no different. By incorporating exercises that help your posture, you can help work against osteoporosis or a slouch.Try a single leg extension. Get on your back and bend your knees. Place your hands behind your head. As you exhale, pull your belly button towards your spine as you pull your knee to your chest and extend your other leg until it is at about a 45-degree angle. Make sure your lower back remains touching the floor. Do five to 10 reps with each leg.
Perform these exercises two to three days a week. You can do them more often if you desire.
However, keep in mind that all types of sit-ups place pressure on your back, so you may want to skip the exercise if you have back problems. Sit-ups are also not recommended for older adults., Yoga may help with the aging process. Not only does yoga help reduce stress, but it boosts oxygen, which may make your skin look healthier and younger.You can learn how to do yoga at home through books or videos. You can also take yoga classes at your gym, or you can join a yoga studio. Try adding two to three yoga sessions to your workout routine each week.
Make sure that you listen to your common sense when you take a yoga class. For example, if the instructor suggests a head stand, and you do not feel ready to do one, then don’t. Ask what alternative exercises you can try for your skill level. Remember that building flexibility takes time, so try to be patient and practice yoga in a way that feels safe to you.
 Keeping your body flexible helps you stay fit and mobile as you age. Working on flexibility helps your body and muscles move with more ease. Balance exercises can also keep you agile and mobile while helping you prevent falls.You should schedule 20 minutes two or three times each week for flexibility and balance. You can do a routine like yoga or pilates, or you can work on specific flexibility and balance exercises.