 Look at it as a positive experience, one that allows you to meet new people and see new things.;
, However, if your travel plans are flexible, think about scheduling a layover long enough to give you time to visit and shop in the city itself, perhaps a few hours.
 Find out if there are restaurants, shops, or other activities. Some have theatres, museums, gyms, or play areas for the kids; these usually are found in large cities. Check out the airport website for information. If there's a map, print it and mark what you want to see when you get there.


While you're on the airport website, see if there is any service that allows you to deposit your baggage for the duration of your layover. Many airports offer such a service, and it is helpful not to have to haul around the rest of the baggage for your trip, especially if you are leaving the airport.
 Before leaving, find out how long it will take to see specific attractions. Many airports are connected by direct trains or buses, so you can avoid expensive cab fares.
 Most airlines have VIP clubs at major airports where you can enjoy a relaxing, luxurious environment complete with food and drink. VIP clubs also offer services needed for an "office away from the office." Membership can run as much as several hundred dollars a year, so unless you travel a great deal, this probably will not be worth it. If you are a frequent flyer member, inquire about getting a day pass, usually for a nominal fee.
 If you plan on getting some work done, bring your computer and other necessary supplies. If, however, you plan on working out, bring gym shorts and a t-shirt. Be prepared for whatever activities that interest you. Minimize your carry-on luggage as it will only weigh you down. Aside from that, you might have a problem with security, exiting the airport as well as returning.
 You do not want to miss your flight. Physically locate your next flight’s gate. This way you will be familiar with getting around the airport and will know if you have a long distance to cover. See if a light rail or shuttle is available, as most large airports these days make it very easy to get from one flight's gate to the other.
 You might be able to get an earlier or later flight if there are seats available, at no extra cost.
 Kids get restless and can make the delay almost unbearable. Bring along a coloring book, or video game that will keep them occupied.
 This will ensure that you will not have to pay an overpriced amount for a book or magazine at the airport book store. It also means you're not limited to the selection at the airport.
 Just washing your hands and face can wake you up and make you feel a lot better.
 If you are between one long flight and another, walk around the airport and restore circulation to your legs. Many airports include public exhibits. Otherwise, you can window-shop, read regional billboards, watch airplanes, or simply look around. Get some fresh air if you can. Exercise will help you relax and provide you with an energy boost so you can get through the rest of your trip.
 Most airports have restaurants and snack bars, even inside security. A meal will give you energy, and it will taste better and likely cost less on the ground than it would in the air. It's wise to keep hydrated when you're flying somewhere, too.
 Airports have lots of people to watch. Have a seat in a public area and see what other travelers are doing.



Talk to people, but only if they seem open to it. A good chat will make time fly, and you might even make lasting connections.
 Bring your laptop with you as some airports offer free wireless Internet throughout. This is the time to put the finishing touches on the presentation you have to make when you arrive at your destination.
 This way if there are gate or time changes, you will still be able to make your flight.


Allow additional time upon your return if you must re-enter through airport security.
 Pick up a blank journal from one of the many bookstores and document your journey, jot down some business concepts, design a building, write down your regrets, write a book, explain your philosophy of life. Keeping a journal is very therapeutic and time consuming!

