 A love map is a physical representation of your partner’s emotional and relationship history. Even if you don’t physically draw a map, you should be mindful of your partner’s emotional “landscape” and try to appreciate the (often) long road that led you to be together in the end., The chances are that if you’re in a long term relationship with someone, you admired her in the past. She had qualities that you found desirable and attractive that you may not be taking for granted. Try to take an objective step back and look at your partner through new eyes. Make a list of all of the things you admire about her; you may even decide to share this list with her later. However, the value of creating the list is to renew your admiration.


You might try to encourage your partner to engage in mutual admiration as well. It may be awkward to come out and say “I think you should admire me and remember how great I am,” you could talk about your quest to admire her more completely and how you think it could help your relationship. This could prompt a reciprocation that could solidify both sides of your relationship.
 Approach your relationship with complete trust; if you assume that you trust and are trusted in return and let go of fear, jealousy, and suspicion, your relationship will benefit. While maintaining a healthy relationship may take work, trust shouldn’t.


If you have a reason to distrust your partner, such as a history of cheating, you may want to go to counseling together to reestablish a bond of trust.
 You’ve likely committed to your long-term partner, particularly if you are married, but it may be beneficial to renew that commitment. A renewal of vows or a formal ceremony is not necessary. You can just decide to renew your commitment and tell your partner about it.


For example, you might say, “I know we’ve been married for 17 years, and we’ve been through a lot together. I just want you to know that I’m committing myself to our shared happiness, and I will do the work and the fun necessary to continue making our relationship and our life better every day.”

, Keeping a journal that focuses on the gratitude that you have for all aspects of your life, including your relationship, may help you feel happier and closer to your partner.


Even if the gratitude does not directly benefit your relationship, doing something that makes you feel happier will have an influence on your relationship.
 You may also feel appreciative of your partner for helping you set aside the time for self-care.


Self-care does not look the same for every person. It may mean just spending time alone in quiet reflection or taking the time to participate in a hobby or sport that you enjoy.
Offer your partner opportunities for self-care as well. Give her time to herself and encourage her to pursue things that make her feel fulfilled and refreshed. When you come back to each other, you’ll likely have the energy and emotional space to devote more time to your relationship.

