 Where you live can also affect the price of dental implants. For example, dental practices located in urban areas tend to have higher prices than those in more rural areas. If you live in a city, expand your search to include several of the smaller towns surrounding you., Dental implants may be much cheaper abroad than they are in your home country. For example, the average cost of getting dental implants in the U.S. is approximately $4,000, whereas it can be as little as $1,600 in Mexico and $850 in India.According to Patients Beyond Borders, dental tourism is becoming increasingly popular. For instance, more than 1.2 million Americans traveled abroad for heath or dental treatment in 2014.Some of the most popular destinations for dental implant surgery are Europe, India, and the Philippines, but other options include Argentina, Costa Rica, Africa, Hungary, Poland, and Spain. You can get dental implant work done in a wide variety of countries, but where you choose will depend on many different factors.When researching a clinic abroad, get several different quotes and include the following in your final calculation: How many visits to the country are required? How much will you spend on flights, hotel accommodations, food, transportation to and from the clinic, and time taken off work? Also, if you have insurance, will it cover this procedure if it’s done abroad?There are also risks associated with dental tourism that must be taken into consideration. Keep in mind, you’ll be a long way from home so if you need to return to get anything repaired you’ll incur travel expenses again or may have to pay out-of-pocket to get it fixed back home. In addition, the materials used may be incompatible with equipment in your home country. Also, you may be exposed to diseases that are not common where you live and you could be dealing with an inexperienced dentist if the country holds a lower standard of training and education. In addition, if something goes wrong, you may not be able to take legal action.The cheapest place to get dental implants, on average, is Hungary. The average price for one dental implant is $480. Hungary is well-known for its high quality cosmetic dentistry care and attracts patients from many countries.Also be careful to check credentials on dentists in foreign countries, just as you would on dentists in your home country. It is a good idea to consult an international dental referral service that is informed on dental practices in foreign countries and can guide you to a qualified practice abroad., The type of material used in dental implants can depend on myriad factors—the severity of your situation, how long you want to have the implant before you need to replace it, the placement of your implants, and so on. Ask your doctor for suggestions on lower-cost materials and brands that will still satisfy your needs and leave you with a quality result.


Keep in mind that, while lower-cost materials may be less expensive at the time of surgery, they may need replaced sooner or cause complications, costing you more money in the long-run. Be sure to weigh out the pros and cons of each material in regards to your particular situation., Dentists use either general anesthesia, where an anesthesiologist needs to be present to put you under, or local anesthesia, where the dentist can numb only the part of your mouth they’ll be working on. General anesthesia is going to be significantly more expensive, so ask your doctor if it is safe to use only local anesthesia in your situation., If you need more than one dental implant, dentists are often willing to negotiate a deal to make the second or third implant cheaper. Include this question when you are getting quotes on your implants if you are planning to get more than one dental implant. It can also save money on doctor’s visits and procedure costs, like anesthesia, if you get all of your implants taken care of at the same time.