 If your body is used to doing all sorts of things in the room besides sleep it may not make a smooth transition to sleep when it is time.Your mind should associate your bedroom with sleep and perhaps soothing, relaxing activities.


Avoid: stressful work or homework, using the computer, watching TV, talking on the phone, eating, exercising, and generally anything that is stressful, energizing, very exciting, or keeps you from going to sleep on time.
Probably OK: reading, a relaxing project, cuddling with spouse, writing in journal.
Use your bed ONLY for sleeping.
 The more comfortable your bed and bedroom are, the more conducive they are to a restful sleep.
 Get rid of the cobwebs, dust the shelves, vacuum the floor. Empty the wastepaper basket. Remove dirty plates, cups, and water-bottles. A clean room sets the emotional stage for your room being a safe, healthy place, not a neglected dumping-ground to wallow in. Also, regular cleaning can alleviate allergies which can disrupt sleep. It also keeps pests like mice, rats, and cockroaches from invading your space.


Keep your bed clean. Wash the sheets and pillowcases every week, they smell great and you will feel more comfortable sleeping.
Don't clutter your room with things that can distract you from going to sleep. Tidy up. Throw out any rubbish and let fresh air in.
 An aesthetically pleasing room will make you happier than one that's displeasing. You do not necessarily have to have your room be a page from the Ikea catalog. But simple changes, such as getting rid of an ugly bedspread or repainting your walls can subtly shift your mood.


Make your room darker. Blackout drapes, shades, or blinds can avoid you awakening early.
Make sure your sleep temperature is restful. If you are sweating or freezing, you will not sleep well.
 Replace it after five to seven years of regular use. If you feel springs or ridges beneath the surface when you're lying on the bed, or you and your partner tend to roll over each other a lot at night (unintentionally), it's time to go mattress shopping!


You may also find that the mattress is to blame if you find yourself sleeping better in another bed.
 The newer types of mattresses that allow for adjustment or that mold around you may help you get a better night's sleep.


One type of mattress lets you adjust the firmness of your bed, individually, for both you and your partner. This is ideal if you can never agree on which mattress feels right. You may both have different needs, and trying to find one you will both like generally means finding a mattress that neither of you will get a good night's sleep on.
Another type of mattress uses memory foam, which moulds to the contours of your body as it warms up. This leaves no pressure points to cause numbness, irritation or other physical issues. This is especially useful for those with bad hips or other joints.

