 Spend some time having a look around the site. You'll find:


A fully searchable site.
The Basics – about food groups, tips and resources, etc.
Specific Audiences – great if you're breastfeeding, losing weight, elderly, have kids, etc.
Tip of the Day – changes daily
Supertracker and other tools.;
, As shown in the image here, you can see that the four basic food groups consist of: fruits, vegetables, grains, and proteins. Dairy has been placed to one side in a small bowl.
 MyPlate recommends that you enjoy your food but eat less of it and that you avoid eating oversized portions.
 The new recommendations are:


Make half your plate fruit and vegetables. Vary the types of vegetables for interest and an expanded amount of nutrients.
Make at least half of your grains whole grains.
If you drink or use milk, change to fat-free or low-fat (1%) milk. Ensure that you get calcium-rich foods in your diet (choose high quality low-fat or fat-free dairy]).
Choose lean protein.
 It is recommended that half your plate consist of fruit and vegetables.
 Protein includes meat, poultry, and seafood, and vegetarian choices like beans and peas, eggs, processed soy products, nuts, and seeds. It is recommended that you select a variety, including 8 ounces of seafood a week.
 The recommendations are to take the time to compare the sodium content between brands in foods such as soup, bread, and frozen meals and to favor the lower sodium content food. Replace sugary drinks with water.
 Oils are not a food group but they provide essential nutrients.Avoid any margarine that has trans fats. Realize that you already obtain oils from eating nuts, fish, cooking oil, and salad dressings, so be careful about your daily intake.


See the Daily Allowance chart for details on your oil allowance per day depending on your needs, age, and gender: .
 MyPlate explains that empty calories are abundant in the American diet. They are calories from solid fats and from added sugars. They're in a lot of favorite, comfort, fast foods such as cakes, pies, cookies, pastries, donuts, sodas, energy drinks, sports drinks, fruit drinks, ice cream, pizza, cheese, sausages, hot dogs, bacon and ribs. Soda and candies are all empty calories. It is recommended that a small amount of empty calories is okay but not as a replacement for the nutrients your body needs. Keep these empty calories for occasional treats.
 Physical activity is a key component of the MyPlate approach. Moving your body is important for your good health. MyPlate recommends both moderate exercise and vigorous exercise choices; you can choose either or, or mix them up. Light intensity activities do not count toward your physical activity needs because your heart rate doesn't increase (housework or shopping, for example).

See the list of moderate and vigorous activities here: .

