 New York City and Silicon Valley will always have a high number of tech jobs. Other growing tech hubs include Portland, OR, Denver, CO, Salt Lake City, UT, Minneapolis, MN, Boston, MA, Baltimore, MD, San Diego, CA, Seattle, WA, Cleveland, OH, Chicago, IL, Dallas and Austin, TX and Atlanta, GA.
 Technology recruiters or head hunters are still used widely in the technology sector. In fact, many major companies like Apple and Google almost always use recruiters to find employees, rather than posting listings in the traditional way.


Recruiters do the work of seeking out high-paying jobs for you, and they make money by receiving a fee for finding excellent employees. Market yourself to several recruiting companies based in your area. You never know who will have the best contacts, and they can also help you to improve your resume and interviewing skills.
 Recruiters look for tech professionals on Monster, Career Builder, Craigslist and other websites.


In order to optimize your resume on search results, use the word "resume" in the body of the document. Also, specify all applicable experience, including buzz words like "software," "Android" "data analysis" and other descriptive words.
 One way to ensure you start in technology with a high-paying job, is to aim to work for those companies that report high starting and median salaries. Search for jobs with these companies on their websites, on job boards and by contacting their human resources department and talent acquisitions manager.


Information on these companies is often listed in articles on the Internet. In 2012, the highest-paying tech companies were Nokia, Intel, eBay, Oracle, Google, Adobe, Yahoo, Nvidia, Salesforce and Microsoft. You should assume that any companies listed in these articles will have the largest competition for high-paying jobs.
 Seek and apply for promotions internally. Even as you seek other, more profitable work, it is good to show that you have been found to be a valuable employee who can hold a senior role.
 Achieving this level of education can help you move up to an administrative or architect role more quickly.

