 Purchase a ⅛ inch aircraft cable. Then, use wire cutters to cut the cable so that it is 48 inches (1.2 meters) in length.You can purchase an aircraft cable at your local hardware store.;
, Using a 5/32 inch drill bit, drill two holes in a flat washer. Lay the washer flat and drill one hole at the top and the other hole at the bottom of the washer. For example, the two holes should be located at 12 and 6 o’clock.Position the holes between the pre-existing center hole of the washer and the outer rim.
 Place the washer in a bench vise and pinch the washer. It should bend slightly in half. This will form the lock for the snare., Take one end of the cable and thread it through a ¼ inch nut. Then, thread it back through the nut creating a loop. Continue to pull the cable back through the nut until you have a loop with a ¾ inch (2 cm) diameter.Leave an extra inch of cable at the end.
 Place the nut on an anvil and hammer the nut so that the cable is fastened in place and the loop is secure.
 Then, push the cable through the top hole of the washer, from the outside of the bend to the inside. Pull the cable about a foot through the washer. Then, loop the cable through the bottom hole of the washer from the inside of the bend to the outside.This should create a loop.
 Create a stopper at the end of the cable. Thread the end through a ¼ inch nut. There should be about ½ an inch (1 cm) of cable sticking out through the center of the nut., Place the nut on an anvil and hammer it so that the nut tightens around the cable, locking it in place.The snare is now complete and ready to be set.
 In order to set a snare trap, you want to place it on a trail or path that is frequented by coyotes. Then, attach the small looped end of the snare to a solid object, such as a fence post or small sapling. This will anchor the snare in place. Hang the larger loop from a nearby branch so that the bottom of the loop is approximately 12 inches (30 cm) off the ground.When a coyote walks past it will mistake the hanging wire for a branch and walk into the snare. The loop will tighten, trapping the coyote as it continues walking and the bent washer will prevent the loop from loosening.

