 These are the tools with the dotted lines, like the square selection tool or the lasso, that let you set aside a small area of your image. If you don't select anything, your gradient will simply fill the entire layer you're working on.


You can make gradients any shape, as long as you can create the selection.
If you're just testing things out now, make a small square and work with that.
Gradients fill the area they are in. So, if you just create one without the selection tools first you'll fill the whole layer with gradient.;
, It looks like a small rectangle that fades from black to white. If you can't see it, click and hold on the paint bucket -- they are often stacked on top of one another. Once you click on it, you'll notice the "gradient bar" appears near the top of the screen. This is where you can edit the look of your gradient.
 These are the same squares you use to choose colors for the paintbrush or pencil, and are located at the bottom of your toolbar. Double click each square to change your colors.


The front square will be the color your gradient starts. For example, use red.
The back square is the color your gradient fades too. For example, use white.
The gradient in the top left corner will provide an example of how it will look.
 Up at the top bar, you'll see several little icons. These are for different gradient styles. Note that not all versions of Photoshop have all of these styles -- these are the most recent as of 2015. The best way to learn them? Just test them all!



Linear: The classic gradient, it resembles an evening sky. Just a gradual transition between two colors along a line.

Radial: One color starts in the middle, then blooms out in a sphere, gradually changing into the next color. Like looking into the sun. The first color is the "sun" and the second the "sky."

Angular: More specific, this sweeps the colors in a counter-clockwise arc around your starting points. Often leads to two solid colors with gradation around the edges.

Reflected: Makes a mirror image of a normal linear gradient. Basically, if you draw your "line" to the right, it will repeat the gradient to the left. You will get a reflected gradient. In this case, you would have three "bars:" white, red, then white again.

Diamond: Like the radial gradient, only you have a diamond or square in the middle, not a circle., Think of this as the place where you first color is strongest. This is where you have nothing but red. Remember, the gradient will fill the shape it is in. You don't have to put this right on the edge to make it fit.


You don't even have to click in your selection area or layer. If you want the fade to start "off-screen," click off-screen. This can lead to more subtle fades.Don't release the mouse button until you're ready to set the gradient.
 You'll see a line follow you from your starting point, indicating the direction the colors will fade. Release the mouse to create your gradient.


Longer lines will create more gradual transitions.
Shorter lines will have abrupt changes between the two colors., Gradients are incredibly powerful tools in Photoshop. They are not just ways to create nifty fading colors, they can create any sort of transition or blending effect. You can use them with Transparency layers to slowly fade two layers together. Gradients can layer over text. You can use low-opacity gradients to artfully color images, even transition into black and white. Remember, anything you have selected can have a gradient applied to it.