 You can paint it a single, solid color, or you can paint the inside a different color from the outside. Here are some ideas:


Liven up a plain, wood bookshelf by painting it a bright white.
Add some contrast to a white bookshelf by painting the inside a bright color, such as cyan or pink.
 Sand the entire bookcase, including the shelves, using small, circular motions. You do not need to sand away the previous finish; you are simply creating a surface for the paint and primer to grip on to.
 Be sure to vacuum the floor of your work space to get rid of any dust caused by the sanding. Any dust left in your work space may get onto the finished piece and mar the surface.
 You can purchase magic erasers in the cleaning department of a grocery store. Be sure to get a plain magic eraser, without any special additives, such as bleach.
 Use a light stroke; you can always apply a second or third coat once the paint is dry. Avoid applying too much paint all at once; this will help prevent any visible brush strokes.


Spray paint is not recommended for large projects such as this. It is more likely to cause drips and streaks than the paint that comes in a can., Apply the paint using light, even strokes. This will help prevent any drips, bubbles, and streaks. If you are planning on painting the shelf two different colors, paint the inside first and wait for the paint to dry before painting the outside.
 Refer to the instructions on the paint can for specific drying times. Some paints dry in as little as 15 minutes in between coats while others need 2 hours or more.
 Again, refer to the instructions on the can. Most paints will require 24 hours drying time. If you try to put your shelf together and use it too soon, you will risk denting the paint or causing it to go sticky.
 Choose a stencil that you like and press it against the side of your bookshelf. If the stencil is not already sticky on the back, then tape it to the shelf using painters tape. Paint over the stencil using acrylic paint in a contrasting color and a foam roller. Remove the stencil and move it to the next spot you want to have the design.

