 There may be one or several things wrong with your boyfriend’s teeth or mouth. Noticing these symptoms can help you learn about the potential causes and consequences of the problem. This can help you convince your boyfriend to see a dentist. Some common problems include:


Bad breath
Black or rotting teeth
Dark receding gums
Yellow teeth;
, There are some problems that you will not be able to identify by sight alone. If your boyfriend comments about any of these issues, take notice. When talking to him about going to the dentist, you can remind him that he had complained about these issues. Some issues might be:


Dry mouth
Sore gums
Tooth pain or sensitivityIf you notice your boyfriend wincing while eating or holding his cheek, you might ask, "Is there anything wrong? Are you feeling all right?"

, While some people are afraid of the dentist, there are many techniques that help people relax as they get work done on their mouth. These procedures can reduce pain while making the dentist less of a scary experience. You can let your boyfriend know about these options to encourage him to go.


Some dentists offer various forms of sedation, such as laughing gas, pills, or general anesthesia. These help relax patients with anxiety. In many cases, the patient will not remember much of the actual procedure.Some people have had luck controlling pain, fear, and a gag reflex using hypnotherapy during dental visits.You might introduce this topic by suggesting that someone recommended or told you about this new form of dentistry. For example, you can say, "My friend recently went to this dentist who sedated her during her visit, and she didn't feel a thing. Isn't that amazing?"

, As a way to ease him into the conversation, you can start encouraging good practices around him. Not only will this improve his dental health but it may make the dentist less intimidating. You can try carrying dental floss with you, brushing teeth together at night, or buying him dental supplies such as mouthwash, tongue scrapers, and toothpicks.


Try offering these things to him as you use them yourself. For example, after a meal, you can pull out some dental floss for yourself. As you do so, you might say, "Do you want any?"
When buying him supplies, you might frame it as a suggestion. You can say, "Oh, I love this mouthwash. You should try it. It makes your mouth feel so clean and nice."

