 One way to distract yourself from racing thoughts is to start reading a good book. You can choose something that you have read before and enjoyed or pick up a book that you have heard good things about. Then, start reading and allow yourself to become immersed in the story.


Try to read a paper book rather than reading on an electronic device. The screens on these devices can affect your ability to fall asleep., A mantra is a stress-relieving technique that can help calm your mind and body. It is a word or phrase that you repeat over and over again. You focus your mind on the word or phrase instead of your racing thoughts. If your mind tries to wander away from your mantra, pull it back only to your mantra until that is the only thought in your head.You can use a mantra anywhere at anytime, not just at night.
For example, you may be worried that your partner is mad at you, so you can’t sleep. You can close your eyes or stare at the wall as you repeat, “I am okay” or “This moment is good” or any other word or phrase you choose.
 Another way that you might be able to calm racing thoughts is by writing down those thoughts into a journal. This allows you to express the thoughts, but to let them go until a later time. Writing is an activity that helps you redirect your thoughts to the task instead of the worry.Write for a few minutes. See if your mind feels calmer. If you don’t feel calmer, try writing for five to 10 more minutes.
Try writing your thoughts out by hand. Using a computer or tablet may negatively interfere with your sleeping.
 If your thoughts are too loud and keeping you from sleeping, try turning on some type of media. Make sure the media you are turning on won’t keep you awake. Try something soothing and familiar to help put your mind at ease. Make sure that you listen to it at a quiet volume that’s loud enough to hear but not loud enough to keep you awake.For example, try watching television, listening to music, or playing a podcast.
If the picture from a television is distracting but you want to listen to a movie or tv show, load it up on your phone or tablet and turn the screen face down.
 Exercise is a good anxiety and stress management technique. If your thoughts are racing at night, consider doing some type of light exercise. You don’t want to get your heart rate up or start sweating. You just want to reduce your stress and help distract your thoughts.For example, you may try doing tai chi, yoga, or light stretching. Take a walk around the house or your yard. Anything to get your body moving enough to help calm your mind.
 If you are lying in bed or sitting on the couch and your thoughts won’t stop, get up and do an activity. This helps you focus on something else, which can lessen the intensity of the thoughts. Staying in bed and trying to sleep may make you even more irritated.Consider watching a television program, knitting, reading, washing dishes, or tidying a room. The activity should be light but enough to distract your mind.

