 Any image will do, but clear images with high resolutions will work better. To open the image, simply click on "File" from the top bar, and select "Open" from the drop-down menu.
 You can do this by clicking on the little magnifying glass icon. It is located on the narrow side bar on the left hand side of your screen, towards the bottom. If you can't find it, hit the "Z" button on your keyboard. You can now zoom in on the eyes in two ways:


Click on the eyes with your left mouse button. The image will become larger. Keep doing this until you can see the eyes clearly.
Click on a spot that is above and to the left of the eyes. Drag your pointer down to the bottom right of the eyes. A box will form. If you let go, what ever was in the box will fill your window.
 If you cannot find the lasso tool, you might have one of the other lasso tools selected. Click and hold on the current lasso tool (usually the third icon down), and select the one that looks like a lasso from the drop down menu. Once you have the tool selected, trace around the iris. Don't worry about it being too neat; you will clean it up later.


To select the other eye, press and hold the Shift key. Draw around the other iris just as you did with the first., You can do this by clicking on "Layer" tab from the top menu, and selecting "New Adjustment Layer" from the drop-down menu.


When you hover your pointer over "New Adjustment Layer," you will get an expanding side menu with a list of options. Select "Hue/Saturation" from the list.
 The adjustments window is on the same side as your other windows, including the one with the layers and color swatches. Click on it and make sure that the box next to the word "Colorize" is checked. You will see the irises change color.


The pupil may also change color. Don't worry, you will fix this later.
 The Hue slider will change the actual color. The Saturation slider will make the color brighter or more gray. The Lightness slider can make the color lighter or darker.


The color may look a little unnatural. Don't worry, you can fix this later on.
 Click on the Layers window. You will see two different layers: Background and Hue/Saturation. Make sure that Hue/Saturation is highlighter. You will be making all fixes in this layer. The Background layer is your original image.
 Click on the Eraser tool from the side menu. Adjust the size, if needed. You can do this by going towards the top menu bar and clicking on the little dot and number that appears next to the word "Brush." Once you have the size you want, carefully erase the pupil area. When you are done, erase the area around the iris as well. If you need to, erase any highlights as well.


When you are done, the eye should look very much like the original, except that it is a different color.
 Go to the Layer window again, and click on the drop-down menu. You will see options like: Normal, Dissolve, Darken, and Multiply. Try selecting "Hue" or "Color" from the bottom of the menu. The original texture of the eye will show through much better.
 Right click on the layer that says "Background" and select "Merge Visible" from the menu that pops up.
 You can save your image as any file type you want. Photoshop will want to save it as a Photoshop file by default. Unfortunately, this will make it more difficult to share your file on the internet. Try saving your file as a JPEG file; it is the standard image file used on the internet.

