 Growing your lemongrass from stalks is a quicker, and more cost-effective method, so it’s ideal for those with less gardening experience, those with a smaller budget, or just those who want an easier way to utilize this delicious herb!


Stop by any asian market. Usually they can be found in abundance. If there isn’t an asian market in your neighborhood, a local health food store, organic grocery store, or co-op.
Stop at a garden store. Purchase as many 5 gallon planting pots to accommodate each stalk, potting soil, and a large jar that will comfortably fit your stalks if you don’t already have one at home.
If you want to encourage your lemongrass to grow bigger, purchase organic fertilizer as well.
 With only some sun and a jar of water, roots will grow from the fleshy white base of the plant. It's important to grow these roots before placing your stalks into the pot, as they will help transfer nutrients to the rest of the plants, helping it grow faster and stronger.Find the spot in your house that gets the most sunlight for the longest time during the day. It’s helpful to observe your home at several key hours in order to determine this, including early 8 am, 12 pm, and later as the sun begins to set at 5 pm in the winter, or 7 pm in the summer.
Fill up the jar with an inch or two of water and place it in the sunny spot in your home.
Place the stalks into a large glass jar. Be sure to insert them with the thicker, lighter side down. into a large jar with an inch or two of water at the bottom.
Change the water in the jar daily. If you skip a day or two, it won’t be fatal to your plant, but be sure to change it out at least every 48 hours.
Wait 1-2 weeks. Stalks will be ready to plant when roots at the base grow about 3 inches long, and new leaves appear at the top of the stalks.
 Be gentle with the fragile roots at the bottom of your stalks, and don't bother drying them off, the extra water will be needed as they begin to grow.


Fill each container with four gallons of rich, well draining soil.
If you purchased fertilizer, mix a ½ cup of this with your soil before filling your container.
Place them root first into your 5 gallon pot, to leave plenty of room for growth.
Move each seedling to its own pot, placing it roughly ¼ of an inch down into the soil.
Water your plants at least 2 or 3 times every week, or a few times more if the weather is over 80 degrees and the soil seems to be dry like sand.
 When it looks like the stalks are getting a bit crowded, most likely the roots of your plants are fighting for nutrients. Replanting them into a larger container will help the roots of your lemongrass stretch out and absorb as many nutrients as possible.


Fill a larger pot with soil, and dig a hole roughly the size of your old pot.
Hold the stalks firmly in one hand, and tip the pot over to release the roots. Transfer it to the larger pot filled with soil.
You can also move your plants to the ground outside using the same method. If you do so, be sure to plant them 36-60 inches apart. However, keep in mind that you should only do this if you live in a warm climate, classified Zone 7 or higher. Otherwise, you’ll want to keep your plant in pots so you can move them back inside once the weather becomes too cold, or prepare to harvest them from the ground entirely.

