 An induction hearing loop can be installed in your home or office. A special wire will be installed to run around the room, so that you can pick up on sounds more easily within that space.You might also be able to purchase a portable loop that can sit on a tabletop. For this to work, speakers and listeners must be within 4 feet (1.2 m) of the device., There are many different types of phones that can help you hold conversations over the phone. Some increase the volume of the phone while others use text to help you communicate. These options include:


Text Telephone (TTY) device: These are special phones where messages are typed instead of spoken. TTY devices can only communicate with other TTY devices. If someone does not have a device, they can use a Telecommunication Relay Service (TRS) to have an operator send a message to you.Amplified telephones: These increase the sound of the phone by 50 decibels. Some might also begin shaking when they ring so that you will notice when there is a call.

Voice carry over telephones: These will type out what the other person says on a large screen so that you can understand what they are saying. This is useful if you have trouble understanding voices over the phone.

Bluetooth neck loop: If you have a hearing aid, you can listen to a cellphone over a Bluetooth device that you wear around your neck. This will send the conversation to your hearing aid., If you have difficulty hearing doorbells, ringing telephone, smoke alarms, or alarm clocks, you can get a device that will alert you instead. The most common include:


Amplified smoke alarms or alarm clocks: the sound of the alarm is amplified for those who are hard of hearing.

Bed shakers: these devices go under a bed or cushion. They can be connected to alarm clocks, doorbells, or telephones. They will shake or vibrate to alert you.

Lamp flashers: Like bed shakers, these can be hooked up to a variety of systems. When the alarm is rung, the device will turn lights on and off to inform you., Hearing dogs are trained to alert you if certain sounds are emitted. They can respond to doorbells, oven timers, telephones, crying babies, or other sounds around the house. While not a form of technology, hearing dogs may provide security and companionship for people who live alone.While they are not guard dogs, they can alert you if there is an intruder in the home.

