 In Islam, it's required for you to fast when you reach puberty, which is usually around the time you reach your teens. While it's highly encouraged to start earlier to get used to fasting, you should begin by the time you hit puberty.The Prophet Muhammad (SAW) said: “The pens have been lifted from three: from one who has lost his mind until he comes back to his senses, from one who is sleeping until he wakes up, and from a child until he reaches the age of adolescence.” If you don't know if you're ready to fast yet or think it's still too early, talk to your parents about it. They'll discuss whether you're physically capable to fast yet.;
, Before you begin fasting in Ramadan, be sure to discuss whether you'll be fasting this year. This is especially important if you have health problems. Lack of food and water for several hours can be extremely dangerous for some teens, causing dehydration, severe starvation, and fainting spells.If you're not physically capable of fasting yet, you should not fast for your own well-being.


Your parents will let you know if they think you're healthy enough to fast for the month of Ramadan. If needed, talk to a doctor about fasting before attempting to do so, especially if you've had health problems in the past that involved lack of food and water.
 In the Quran, Islam's holy book, it's been ordered for all Muslims to fast during the month of Ramadan. Allah says, "O you who believe, fasting has been prescribed for you as it has been prescribed to those before you in order that you may attain Taqwa " .Fasting brings us closer to Allah and reminds us of those who are less fortunate than us. It also helps us practice self-restraint.Fasting is also one of the five pillars of Islam. The pillars are known as the foundation for your Islamic life and are a must to follow. The pillars include believing in Allah alone, performing Salah (prayer), fasting in the month of Ramadan, paying Zakat (charity), and performing Hajj., There are some people who are excused from fasting during Ramadan. These include people who are sick, traveling, pregnant or breastfeeding, people who haven’t reached puberty yet, and people who are senile or senior citizens.For those who are sick or traveling: You do not need to fast until you recover or come back from your trip because Allah says, “... But if anyone is ill or on a journey, the same number should be made up from the other days.” . When Ramadan is over, you’ll need to make up the number of days you missed.For those who are pregnant or breastfeeding: Anas ibn Maalik al-Ka’bi narrated that the Messenger of Allah (SAW) said: “Allah has relieved the traveler of fasting and half of prayer, and He has relieved the pregnant and breastfeeding woman of fasting.” For the child's well-being, a person does not have to fast if they are pregnant or breastfeeding.For those who are old in age: Allah says, “And as for those who can fast with difficulty, (e.g. an old man), they have to feed a Miskeen (poor person) everyday ” Senior citizens who are not able to fast can make up their fasting by feeding a poor person everyday they don't fast., To begin fasting, you'd eat a light meal called Suhoor before dawn. This meal is not essential, but it's highly encouraged to do so in order to gain the blessing of fasting for the day. After eating Suhoor, have the Niyyah (intention) to fast the entire day by telling yourself, "I intend to observe my fast for today." When the sun sets, you can break your fast and eat Iftar, the meal that is eaten to end the fast., Eating and drinking intentionally, taking medicine, smoking, taking an injection for nutritional reasons, engaging in sexual intercourse, and beginning your menstrual cycle are all actions that break your fast. If you happen to do one of these actions, you should make up your fast(s) after Ramadan., There are some actions that do not break your fast. This includes brushing your teeth, swallowing things that aren't possible to avoid (e.g. your own saliva), unintentional vomiting, bathing, getting an injection or IV for medical reasons, and eating or drinking by mistake (forgetting you're fasting).It was narrated from Abu Hurayrah that the Prophet (SAW) said: “Whoever forgets he is fasting and eats or drinks, let him complete his fast, for it is Allah Who has fed him and given him to drink.", Before Ramadan, keep yourself hydrated by drinking plenty of water. Your body will deal with deprivation better if you start off well-hydrated. You also don't want to be unhealthy and dehydrated when you start fasting, so be sure you're drinking eight glasses of water each day., Cut down on some foods, such as snacks and desserts, and stick to eating three meals each day. You may want to wean yourself off of foods containing sugar and white flour a week or two before you start fasting, so that your body won't be suffering from major cravings on top of hunger pangs.Slowly lessen your meals and keep them light so you can train your body to eat little, making it easier when it's time to fast.
 Strive to wake up a few minutes or hours earlier than you normally do. When Ramadan starts, you'll have to wake up early in order to make and eat Suhoor. By training your body to get used to waking up earlier, you can prepare yourself for the early pre-dawn meals., Your body will be tired the first few days of fasting, especially with your sleep schedule changing. Train yourself ahead of time by taking a few cat naps throughout the day that last no more than thirty minutes.A good napping time is usually during the afternoon. It's the best time to recharge your body for the evening.Avoid taking naps longer than thirty minutes. Sleep inertia leads to disorientation and grogginess, which can last for half an hour. In order to function properly, keep naps thirty minutes or less., Ramadan means a new change of routine for both you and your meals. Make a schedule to indicate the timings of when Suhoor is, when it's time to break your fast, and so forth. You can create one yourself, but many mosque communities create them, too, so you can print one out to follow your community's timing., During Ramadan, having Suhoor and Iftar with the family is a common tradition, and eating as a group brings more blessing to the meal. You may want to start grocery shopping for some foods to prepare big meals for the family.Be sure to buy dates, too. In order to break your fast, you must eat a date or drink water. It's highly encouraged to break your fast with dates, though, so be sure to buy some when grocery shopping.Create a grocery shopping list to keep track of what foods you need to buy for Ramadan. Ask a parent or family member to help you shop and buy the food.
 Before fasting, try to train yourself to eat healthier. Eat a wide variety of vegetables and fruits, such as salads. Be sure to also eat plenty of protein, grains, and dairy. Having nutritional meals before fasting will help make it easier for you to avoid junk food cravings., Create a list of Ramadan goals you want to accomplish during this special month. You might want to make a goal of fasting the whole month of Ramadan, or trying to at least fast for part of it. Having it as a goal will motivate you to fast and encourage you to attempt fasting.


Have the intention (Niyyah) to fast before starting to do so. This is to ensure that you're serious about fasting and will try your best to do it. Have the intention to fast by telling yourself, "I am going to fast the month of Ramadan with the help of Allah.", Suhoor is a meal eaten before Fajr (the morning prayer), before dawn comes. Eating Suhoor is Sunnah, meaning it's highly encouraged to do so in order to follow the Prophet Muhammad's actions, but there is no sin on you if you skip it. It was narrated that Anas ibn Maalik said: The Prophet (SAW) said: “Eat Suhoor, for in Suhoor there is blessing.” Suhoor has been known to give you strength throughout the day when fasting. It can minimize thirst, prevent headaches, and avoid making you feel sick when you fast. It's highly encouraged not to miss out this meal before fasting.Try to stick to simple, nutritious meals that have plenty of proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. Rice, bread, pasta, salads, dates, fruits, crackers, and soup are all good options.Avoid salty, greasy foods and extremely sweet desserts. This increases thirst and could cause you to feel dehydrated.Drink plenty of water during Suhoor to keep yourself hydrated when fasting.
 After eating Suhoor, have the Niyyah (intention) to fast the entire day by telling yourself, "I intend to observe my fast for today." You can also make Dua to Allah so He can help make the fast easy for you, and so that He can accept your worship to Him.The most common Dua said for Suhoor is "Wa bi-sawmi ghadin nawaytu min shahri Ramadan" (وَبِصَوْمِ غَدٍ نَوَيْتُ مِنْ شَهْرِ رَمَضَانَ) which means in English "I intend to keep the fast for tomorrow in the month of Ramadan.", Throughout the day, try to participate in different acts of worship. Ramadan is the month known for mercy and forgiveness, so doing acts of worship is an important part of this month. Read the Quran, attend Islamic halaqas (gatherings) for teenagers, listen to Islamic lectures, do Tasbeeh, make Dua, help out around the house, give charity, and pray any extra Salahs.
 When you're asleep, you won't feel hungry, and your body won't be burning as many calories. Try taking a few cat naps throughout the day to help ease off hunger. It's recommended to take naps that are less than thirty minutes to avoid sleep inertia. Taking naps longer can cause you to feel groggy when you wake up.Try taking a nap in the afternoon. It's the best time to recharge your body for the evening.
 When you fast, you don't have as much as energy due to the lack of food and water. Avoid over-working yourself and stay away from hot climates to keep from being dehydrated. Light exercise is okay, but try your best not to use too much energy. You don't want to harm yourself by exercising on an empty stomach.


If you do have to go outside when it's hot, keep yourself safe. Stay under shades whenever possible and keep a fan with you to stay cool.
 Keeping yourself preoccupied will help you from thinking about hunger. Do a hobby, talk to a friend, watch a video, clean up, draw, or do some type of easy-going and relaxing activity that will keep you from thinking about food.


Try to have a busy schedule with plenty of activities to do. Being bored a lot will cause you think about food and make you hungry.
 There are plenty of temptations and triggers that make us think about food. Try to stay away from areas where people eat food and where food is available. You should also try to avoid looking at pictures of food, hearing or watching people eat, and smelling food cooking.


For example, you might go to the library instead of the cafeteria so you won't be tempted to eat.
 Once the sun sets and the Magrib Salah (evening prayer) is announced, it's time to break your fast. Before breaking your fast, make Dua to Allah to accept your fast and pray for other things you desire. During this period of time, all Duas are accepted.When you're ready to break your fast, eat a date or drink water. The Prophet Muhammad (SAW) said: “When one of you is fasting, he should break his fast with dates; but if he cannot get any, then (he should break his fast) with water, for water is purifying.“Once you've broken your fast, you can eat a bit and take more sips of water. You can choose to eat Iftar right away or pray Magrib first. Praying first is encouraged, however, because after eating Iftar you're usually full and feel too tired to pray.There are many different Duas you can say when breaking your fast, but the most common one is "Dhahaba al-zama' wa abtalat al-'urooqu wa thabata al-ajr in sha Allah" (ذَهَبَ الظَّمَأُ وَ ابْتَلَّتِ الْعُرُوقُ، وَ ثَبَتَ الأجْرُ إنْ شَاءَ اللَّهُ), which means in English "The thirst is gone, the veins are moistened, and the reward is confirmed, if Allah Wills".
 Try to eat with your family if you can, as it's known to bring Baraka (blessing) while eating. Follow the same rulings you would do when normally eating food. Don't eat too much or too fast, as that could harm your body. This is especially important since you've fasted all day. Giving your stomach too much food to digest after it hasn't been used all day is very unsafe.When eating, eat slowly and use proper table manners, as though you were a guest in someone's house. This will help you avoid eating too quickly, which can cause nausea., Once you've finished eating Iftar, help clean up by clearing the table and/or washing the dishes. Try to help your parents prepare food for Suhoor the next day. Once you've fasted your first day in Ramadan, you'll realize the benefits and blessings of fasting and the beautify of Ramadan as a Muslim teen.


Drink plenty of water during the night before Suhoor to keep from dehydrating yourself the next fast.

