 To contour your nose you will need more than one foundation product, which might mean a trip to the store. You may already possess a foundation that closely matches your skin tone overall. If not, purchase one that is the closest possible match to your complexion. For beginners it is better to use powder foundation as cream can be more difficult to work with.


Choose one product 2-3 shades darker than your regular foundation.
Purchase a foundation that is 2-3 shades lighter than your skin tone.
If you just want to experiment at home, try matte brown eyeshadow in a few different shades.;
, Angled brushes that are small with firm bristles allow for greater control. A makeup sponge or a softer brush can help with blending. Often these can be purchased in small kits, or you may already have these to hand.


If you have used the brushes before, clean them with soap and water and allow them to dry fully before using them. Doing this will help you to avoid applying old makeup or introducing bacteria to your skin., Wash your face carefully to remove oils, dirt or old makeup. Gently apply the foundation that closely matches your skin tone over your whole face. If you only put makeup on your nose it will be noticeable.









Follow any other parts of your beauty routine that you do prior to applying foundation, such as putting concealer on blemishes.
 Using the angled brush, draw a line of darker powder down each side of the nose. For noses that are wide near the top, continue the line until it blends with the tip of your eyebrows.









Blow excess powder off the brush before using and apply a light amount of product. It will be easier to add more if necessary, but removing excess makeup can smudge your face or cause redness.Blend the darker powder so the line looks less prominent.
 Use the darker shade of foundation over your nostrils near the bottom of your nose to create the illusion of shadow. Remember that subtlety is is key.
 If the end of your nose is large or round, connect the two side stripes of dark foundation with an arrow shape. The tip of the arrow should be at the bottom center of the end of your nose.
 Use a fresh brush or carefully remove makeup from the first one. Using the lighter product, draw a straight line down the center of your nose. 







, Using a sponge or brush carefully dab your nose to blend the lines of makeup. Note that you do not want to blur or spread the two colors out of place. The goal is to have the makeup look like natural shadows rather than distinctive lines.









Ask a friend to tell you if your makeup looks obvious or if you have blended it successfully.
 The shine of oil is reflective under bright lights or when a camera flashes, making the nose seem larger than it actually is. One way to treat this is to use special facial cleansers that are designed to reduce shine. Be careful not to over-wash your face as stripping the oils can lead your body to produce still more.









Use finishing powder and reapply throughout the day to reduce shine.
Blotting paper, which can be found in most supermarkets or drug stores, absorbs oil. Dab your face with these small tissues throughout the day to remove excess oil., The eyes are often the first thing people will notice about you, particularly if you accentuate them carefully. If you are a beginner at using makeup, start by choosing eyeshadow that is close to your skin tone or that is the same color range as your eyes. Begin with a natural look and gradually experiment with edgier styles to see what is flattering and helps you to feel confident. Mascara is also a good product to start with for beginners.









Use liner to create a cat eye or to add the illusion of longer lashes.
Keep your makeup appropriate to the occasion. Smokey or sparkling styles may be beautiful for an evening out but look strange or out of place in the office.
Shape your eyebrows to frame your face in a flattering way, neither too thick nor too thin.
 Experiment with different lip colors and glosses. This gives you control over which of your features is most dramatic and eye-catching if you are self-conscious about your nose. Avoid lip-liner as this may look too harsh and make your other features seem correspondingly prominent.









Be careful using both bold lip color and dramatic eye shadow at the same time. It can work and be beautiful, but in some cases you simply look like you wear too much makeup. Ask a friend whose look you admire to be honest with you about your appearance.
 Parting your hair on the side, whether you are a woman or a man, can draw attention away from the center of your face and minimize a large nose. Sweep your bangs to the side rather than adopting a blunt style that covers your eyes and draws attention to your nose. A hairdresser can help you decide on long-term styling solutions.Pixie cuts and other short styles tend to accentuate your facial features.
Longer hair offers more options for styling. Layers will provide body that that will draw attention away from your nose., Use rollers or a curling iron to add soft curls that will balance distinctive features. Volumizing products like shampoos or mousse can add lift from your scalp. If your hair is naturally curly or wavy, embrace it and avoid straightening or pulling it back into a severe style.


Blowdry your hair upside-down, focusing particularly on the roots to add lift.Be cautious about teasing or back-combing your hair. This can cause damage or be difficult to untangle later.
 Glasses may draw attention to your nose, particularly if the frames are bold, oversized, or distinctive. Consider contact lenses or choose a more subtle frame. Adding scarves or jewelry to your ensemble may also help you to feel confident and that your overall look balances out distinctive features. .

