 It’s very important to have a healthy diet to help you grow and develop. Fruit should be a major part of your diet, as it will provide you with lots of the vitamins and minerals that you need to stay strong and healthy.


The recommended amount of fruit varies a little by age and gender, but you should generally aim to eat one or two cups of fruit a day.
A large banana, an apple, and a large orange, would each count as one cup of fruit.Try to have fresh fruit available around the house for an easy snack.;
, Vegetables are an essential part of your diet. Try to be aware of how much you eat, and ensure you are getting enough. The recommended amount of vegetables varies a little by age and gender, but in general you should be aiming to eat between 2 and 3 cups of vegetables each day.Vegetables come in many different types, and so you should try to get a good balance of the different sorts. This includes dark green vegetables, red and orange vegetables, beans and peas, and starchy vegetables.


Try combining fruits and vegetables with other ingredients to make delicious snacks.
Combine apples with peanut butter or honey.
Dip some carrot or celery sticks into a pot of hummus.
 Sugary snacks and drinks are a major factor in unhealthy diets for those of all ages. Kids might be especially susceptible to sweets and sugary drinks, so it’s important that you control your sugar intake to help you stay healthy. Snacks that are high in sugar and saturated fats can cause children to put on a lot of weight relatively quickly.


Limit the amount of sweets, chocolate, chips and other unhealthy snacks you eat.
Try to opt for healthier snack alternatives, such as fruit., Water is a major part of staying healthy. Drinking plenty of water provides you with lots of valuable minerals. It also quenches your thirst without all the extra sugars that most other drinks contain. Soda drinks, and even fruit juice, contain a lot of sugar which can have a detrimental effect on your health.


If you're feeling thirsty, try to choose water as much as possible. Aim to drink 8 glasses a day.Choose low fat or non-fat milk if you can.
Try to avoid having sugary drinks in the house as a rule., The key to a good balanced diet is variation and moderation. Don’t think you can only ever eat green vegetables to stay healthy, instead try and have a mixed, but healthy diet. The building blocks of your diet are fruits, vegetables, grain, proteins, and dairy foods. Try to think about all of these different groups and how you balance them out.


The US Department of Agriculture’s “myplate” website helps you to understand in what proportion you should be eating each of the different groups.
Visit the website here: http://www.choosemyplate.gov/MyPlate


, You should try to eat healthily, but you should also enjoy your food and your mealtimes. Don't eat too quickly, and make meals into a big event. Try to eat meals at a table with friends or family so you can combine eating with talking, relaxing and having fun. Research suggests that families who eat a table, and not in front of the TV or computer, are less likely to be overweight.