 If you want to make sure your money is safe in the event of a recession, invest wisely. You want to invest in companies that have been around awhile and have a good reputation. Such companies are less likely to take a harsh blow if a recession were to occur.Look into companies that have been around for awhile and have a reputation for providing a high quality product or service. These should be recognizable, brand name companies with a solid reputation.
Do some research on these companies when making investment decisions. A strong company should have little to no debt and very strong, solid cash flows. Such companies are likely to withstand a recession better, and your money will be safer invested here.;
, Consumer staples are goods and services that never go out of style. These include food, beverages, and basic household supplies. These products are unlikely to get cut from the average household budget, even during a recession. Invest in companies that produce such staples, as your money is likely to remain safer in such markets during difficult economic times., The stock market is volatile, and if you don't want to take the risk, look into a money market fund. This is an interest-based account that typically provides higher interests rates than a conventional savings account.Money market accounts do not always have a high return, and definitely do not have as high a return as the stock market. However, they are low risk, so it makes sense to take one out if you want to protect your money from a coming recession.
Talk to your bank and ask if they provide money market accounts. You may want to take a chunk of money from your savings or checking and put it into a money market account.
 An annuity can provide you steady cash flow in the event you're laid off during a recession. Life insurance and investment companies sell annuities to individuals. After a set amount of time, you begin to get regular payments from your annuity.Annuities can potentially provide some income for the rest of your life. While you will have to pay a chunk in the present to an insurance or investment company, the benefits may be worth it. In the event of a recession, you'll still have steady income.
Short term annuities, such as 5 year annuities, may be able to offset the effects of inflation.
 A mutual fund means pooling your money with other investors, putting it towards a variety of stocks, bonds, and other funds. You can buy mutual funds through banks, credit card companies, life insurance companies, mutual fund dealers, or investment firms.Pay attention to how a mutual fund has done in the past before buying it. You want to purchase a fund that has a long history of having decent returns on the investment.
One major drawback to mutual funds is they come with fees. This obviously diminishes returns slightly. See how high the fees are before deciding on a mutual fund.
 A traditional savings account is also a good idea. Not all your money should be tied up in the stock market, as this can translate to a disaster if a recession hits. It's a good idea to put some money in a traditional savings account that is insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration.Make sure your account is insured for at least up to $250,000.
You can find local branches of your bank that offer insured savings accounts, but you can also find online banks that offer the same.
You will not make as much money in a savings account as you will in the stock market, but in the event of a crash, having a good chunk in savings is vital.
 A diverse portfolio is also important when it comes to protecting yourself and your money. The more your money is spread out, the more likely portions of it will remain intact in the event of a recession.While investments are a good idea when it comes to possibly having some income during a recession, balance investments out with more solid financial endeavors.
In addition to placing some money in stocks, take out bond funds at your local bank and place money in savings.
 If you want protection for a recession, you should have quality insurance. If you lose your job during a recession, you'll want to know you have a buffer in case of emergencies. Some of your money should go towards paying for a solid insurance policy. This is a worthwhile investment in case of a recession.If you have a car or a home, make sure both are insured. Your car insurance should offer high liability coverage for accidents, and you should make sure homeowner's insurance is insured to replacement value. This means insurance would cover the full cost of repairs in the event of an accident or natural disaster.
A high deductible health-care plan is also important. If your employer does not offer insurance, take out a reasonably priced policy from the health insurance marketplace. Make sure major expenses, like emergency room visits, are also covered.
If there is someone depending on your income, like children or a spouse, you need a life insurance plan. In the unfortunate event anything happens to you, you want your family protected during a recession.
 Debt can be very difficult to pay off during a recession, and you do not want to end up dipping into your savings to pay debt during hard financial times. Therefore, eliminate as much debt as possible. Money you're putting towards debt is money that could be put towards an insured savings account or an emergency fund.Pay as much as you possibly can each month. This will help pay off debt faster and reduce the amount of interest you accrue. Write down your net monthly income, as well as all your necessary expenses. Figure out how much is leftover and put the bulk of that towards your debt. You should not put all of it towards debt, however, as you want some saved for emergencies.
Consider how you should prioritize debt repayment. You may want to pay off high interest or very large debts first. However, if you have multiple debts, you may get frustrated trying to pay them off. It may make more sense to pay smaller debts first, as you'll pay them off faster. The feeling of accomplishment can serve as a motivational factor to continue paying off your debts.
Keep careful track of when payments are due. Put a notification on your phone reminding you of due dates.
 Saving a high amount of money is one of the best ways to stay protected during a recession. You would be surprised by how many small tweaks can add up to savings, which you can invest in a stable market or put in an insured savings account. You can also use extra money to pay off debts.Look into ways to cut down on utility bills. Try turning off lights during daylight hours, unplugging electronics when they're not in use, washing dishes by hand, or running your dishwasher only when it's completely full.
If you have cable, consider cutting your cable package. You can rely on cheaper services, like Netflix and Hulu, to see most of the shows you enjoy.
Cut back on elective purchases. Limit splurges to once a month, and work on limiting how often you dine out.
 Having a high amount of savings is important during a recession. The more savings you have, the more buffer you have in the event of economic hardships. Work on drafting a budget that allows you to save more than you spend each month.Try to track your budget for a month and check for areas where you're spending extravagantly. You may, for example, find you spend a lot of money getting coffee out. You may want to opt to make coffee at home instead, saving some money in the process.
See if your bank offers automatic transfers. If you don't have the willpower to save, you may be able to automatically transfer a portion of your paycheck from checking to savings each pay day.
 Everyone should have an emergency savings fund, but it's particularly important during a recession. You do not want to dip into other savings, or remove money from the stock market prematurely, if an emergency occurs during a recession.To start, you should have at least $1,000 to $2,000 put away in an emergency fund. If you do not currently have that kind of money, make a plan to save a certain amount each month to put towards a starter fund.
Ideally, an emergency fund should be enough for 3 to 6 months worth of expenses. Add up what your monthly expenses are, multiply that amount by 3 or 6, and make this amount your goal.
It may take awhile to beef up an emergency fund to an adequate level, so be patient. You can ask your bank to transfer a certain portion of each of your paychecks into a separate emergency fund. If you have money coming in regularly from any investments, see if you can channel that into your fund.
 As many of the options for saving for a recession require extra money, it's not a bad idea to have a second source of income. Not only will this provide you with money you can put towards savings, it will also provide a buffer in the event of job loss during an economic crash.Look for a second job that's low-stress, like working at a bookstore part time. You can do this job on weekends or work a night shift.
You can also look into doing freelance work on the side. Offer your professional services to individual clients. In the event of a market crash, you'll have a variety of customers who may still call on you for work.
You can also look into low-key work, like mystery shopping, in which companies pay you to try out hotels, restaurants, and other services., If you're interested in getting specific advice about your financial situation, talk to a financial adviser. While this may cost you money, the money may be worth it. If you have specific circumstances that make saving and investing difficult, a financial adviser can really help.If you hire a financial adviser for a one time meeting, you may have to pay a fee out of pocket. Check to see if the fee is within your budget. If you want advice catered to your situation specifically, it may be worth the money.
If you want a long term financial adviser, some financial advisors do not charge a monthly fee. They may instead take a certain percentage of your assets.
 Some banks offer free financial advising for customers. If you're interested in longterm savings advice, call your bank and see what they offer in terms of consultation. If you can get a few free meetings with an adviser, you may find out about rewards programs and savings incentives offered by your bank.
 Your place of employment may offer financial advice on things like retirement planning, your 401K, and more. Talk to your human resources department and see if you're eligible for financial advising. You may be able to learn how to put a certain portion of each paycheck towards saving for the future.