 It is difficult to zoom in on a horse when time is short and your hands are shaking from nerves and excitement. With a wide angle binoculars, you can spot a horse's number quickly. With powerful binoculars, you could see the horse just as if you were a few yards away, which is very desirable because you'll get a better sense of the horse's behavior pre-race.;
, Besides looking at the horses and jockeys, look at the line at the counter. Depending on the length and ease of getting into the line, you'll need to be ready to dash to the betting window before the race starts.


It is also recommended that you situate yourself so that you can see the horses as they go around the track to the starting gate. Go as close to the fence as possible––this will let you see things that the people in the stands cannot.
 What you know in advance about the form of the horses is very useful. Before going the races, here are some things to have already studied:


Study the Daily Racing form.
Research the horses before going to the track.
Factor in the track conditions and the weather.
Compare the odds vs the payout.
Study all parts of horse racing. We make mistakes because we are human––but this also applies to horses and results can be spotty, so studying the horses intently and at the latest possible opportunity will give you great insight as to what will happen a few minutes into the future.
 Setting aside all that you've already learned about the horses, now simply observe them as you see them coming around the track toward the starting position. Be aware of your initial reactions and thought processes after viewing them. After each race, you will notice that the horses that stood out before the race were the ones that finished well. Horses are living, breathing creatures much like humans, and they have their ups and downs and unexpected occurrences. Their condition just prior to a race is up-to-date and if you take the time to observe them, you'll be able to use your senses to help interpret this condition for each horse viewed.
 Look, but not stare, at the horses with your inner eye and be insightful, then consider the following:


Horse racing is a group activity––is the horse you're looking at ready to run in a pack, ahead of it or behind it?
What is the inclination of that horse for the present moment?

Football and boxing are dangerous sports but horse racing is multiple times more dangerous for jockeys. It is safer for a horse to be in the rear, so use your sense to see whether the horse you're observing can overcome that fear and go to gun for the lead and be ahead of the pack.
 The list is long but you'll get better at checking it off very quickly the more you practice. Consider: bone structure, muscle size, height, weight, type of runner in relation to the pack, sweating, awareness, are the muscles pumped up, etc. Consider the disposition of the horses you'd like to bet on.


Apply the lessons you've learned from life apart from horse racing, looking for things that are similar. For example, can you put out maximal effort without warming-up? How does the horse look, is he cold, warm or too hot? And so forth.
 Although there are occasional exceptions, there are some things that you can use to eliminate horses from your choice. Here are some suggestions:


Eliminate any unruly horses. These are the horses that look like a child throwing a tantrum in public that the parents can't control. Look for inability to calm, snorting, kicking, stomping on the ground, etc.
Eliminate any horse that is complacent and docile. Differentiate between: 1) a complacent horse and 2) a horse that is controlled yet not moving but ready to run. You must concentrate and focus in on horses that are not moving, yet have potential.
 These should be your best choices as far as late considerations.
 A lot of money on the favorite is not normal. Another example of an abnormal odds are when the favorite's money is not large. Look at all the odds and you must decide fast because your time is limited. Bet only when you have an overlay. Additionally, you're not betting to win a race––you're betting mathematically to win money over a long period of time.
 Ask the cashier how to make your bet in as little words as possible. This will allow for more time observing, less time transacting., You want to spend the maximum of time in the final viewing of the horses before placing the bet but still have a short minute left to get ready to watch the race.

