 One point must be emphasized before discussing management of individual causes of palpitations one by one. All the palpitations which are not normal must be evaluated by a doctor, and you must begin a management plan as prescribed by your doctor.


If you do not know whether or not your palpitations are normal, scroll down to Method 3.;
, For management of palpitations caused by stress, anxiety, depression and panic attacks, your doctor may have prescribed you some medications. In addition to those medications, the following strategies have been tried with variable success. These strategies can help to stop palpitations from occurring.


The following steps can also be used to try to control palpitations caused by intense exercise.
 Holding your breath for a few seconds, or taking slow and deep breaths to calm yourself can help to control your palpitations. Breathing deeply can help you to feel relaxed. This can be a particularly effective method for people who experience fast, shallow breathing along with your palpitations.


Try to breathe in through your nose for four seconds, hold your breath in for two seconds, and then release the air slowly through your mouth for four seconds.
 Coughing can help to ‘reset’ your heart’s rhythm and can end spells of tachycardia.This is particularly effective for people who have panic attacks that cause palpitations.
 Taking a cold shower, jumping in a cold pool, or even washing your face with cold water can help to control your palpitations.


In particular, this can help if you feel like your heart is racing uncontrollably.The cold water can have a soothing effect on your body and slows your heartbeat.
 Tensing the muscles in your stomach, or the muscles all over your body, can help to focus your body and end your palpitations. The Valsalva maneuver may also help to do this:


The Valsalva maneuver involves forcefully exhaling against a closed airway. This is done by closing your mouth, pinching your nose, and then pressing out as if you are trying to blow up a balloon. This can also help with other forms of abnormal heart rhythm., If you are feeling palpitations during intense workouts, the most effective way to control them is to take break. Get a drink, take a slow-paced walk, and focus on your breathing. When you begin again, or trying working out the next day, you should warm up to help prevent palpitations.To do this:


Start with a mild exercise at the beginning of the workout, and then work your way into intense exercise. This will help your body transition into the intense exercise, so palpitations are less likely to occur.
 Palpitations caused by excessive consumption of coffee, tea, tobacco, alcohol and chocolateare usually short-lived and terminate automatically. To find fast relief, immediately stop consuming the substance that is triggering the palpitations. You should avoid excessive consumption of these substances in future.


However, if you have palpitations even when you only eat small quantities of these substances, you should talk to your doctor.

