 For subjective visual meditation, you will be focusing on a visual image inside your mind. It will be easier to focus on an imaginary scene if you do not have a tangible scene in front of your eyes to distract you.


If you begin to feel as though you might fall asleep, however, you should open your eyes. You need to be relaxed during meditation, but being that relaxed will prevent you from focusing on the exercise.
 Scenes that include water have a tendency to be especially relaxing. For instance, you could visualize a forest with a stream running through it or a sandy ocean beach.
 Once you have the basic image in mind, visualize smaller details to make the image more realistic.


If using a beach image, visualize bits of shells or stones that have washed up on shore or seagulls flying in the distance. Avoid visualizing people or man-made structures.
If using a forest scene, visualize various plant life. Imagine looking at the stream in your forest and peering down into the clear water and looking at the pebbles underneath.
 Once you have a clear visualization, give the scene greater life by imagining the types of sound you might expect to hear.


For a beach visualization, imagine the sound of crashing waves and seagulls.
For a forest visualization, think about the sound of the babbling brook, birds singing in the distance, or the breeze as it rushes through the trees.
 Smells can be a difficult sense to imagine, but if you chose a scene that you are familiar enough with in the real world, it will be easier to tap into your memory bank.


Imagine the smell of salt water at the beach or the smell of fresh flowers in a forest.
 The sense of touch is the final sensory detail you will need to complete the visualization exercise. Make full use of your sense of touch, imagining the way things feel on your feet, hands, or face.


When you visualize yourself on the beach, imagine the feeling of warm sand on your soles and brisk wind tickling the rest of your skin.
When visualizing yourself in a forest, imagine the cool soil and grass in between your toes. Bend down in your scene and feel the water in the stream with your hands.
 Once you have managed to complete the scene to the best of your ability, filling in as many details as possible, narrow your focus back down to one specific detail. Do not make it a broad, general object, such as the ocean or the stream. Instead, focus on a minor detail that you may not have noticed if you had not first expanded the scene. For example, you could focus on a small, luminescent stone lying on the shore of the beach or a tiny silverfish swimming in your forest’s stream.
 If any of the details you imagine trigger an emotional response, acknowledge the emotion and release it by refocusing your attention back on the visualization itself. In doing so, you release the feelings that leave you imbalanced, making your overall mental state more balanced in the process.

