 Pour both liquids into a deep bucket or similar container, being careful not to let them spill or splash. Aim for approximately one quarter of bleach for every three quarts of water you use. Stir the bleach solution using a wooden dowel.Chlorine bleach is a caustic chemical that can be extremely harmful if ingested, inhaled or contacted with bare skin. Whenever possible, wear gloves, eye protection and a ventilator or breathing mask when working with bleach.
Never combine bleach with hot water—the steam emitted from the water can carry bleach fumes with it, creating a potential breathing hazard. Heat may also partially neutralize the effects of bleach., Apply the bleach solution using a long-handled brush or roller. As an alternative, you could place the chlorine mixture in a sprayer to avoid making a mess and exposing your extremities to harsh chemicals. Pay special attention to spotted mildew growth and areas with especially heavy discoloration.Test a sample of diluted bleach on an out-of-the way area of the concrete to make sure it won’t leech the color out of a treated surface.
Be sure to work in a well-ventilated space. If your patio is partially covered, leave the doors and windows open and plan on spending no longer than about ten minutes at a time inside the enclosure.
 The stain-fighting power of the bleach should take effect very quickly. To be on the safe side, it’s a good idea to go somewhere else while the bleach is soaking into the concrete.
If even bleach isn’t enough to do away with trouble stains like hard water or rust, try using a sprinkle of trisodium phosphate.
 Finish by spraying the patio with a pressure washer to blast away any visible dirt or residue dissolved by the bleach. When you’re finished, your concrete should look as good as it did when it was first poured! Give the patio ample time to dry, then have a few friends over to enjoy your clean, inviting outdoor space.


A quick pressure washing or hosing will also help clear the air of irritating bleach fumes.

