 Doing so will help you determine which vacation ranch you can afford. They are all different and offer a variety of activities, so determining what exactly you want to do while you are at the ranch will also help you with your choice.;
, The location of vacation ranches and their terrains vary significantly, so make sure that you take that into account when you select a ranch. You don't want to pick a ranch with terrain so rocky you cannot ride safely, especially if you have children or you are a novice rider. Your choices include mountainous areas versus the plains. The climate you prefer would also make a difference in your overall experience, for example, some people prefer a ranch experience in a desert location, whereas others prefer horseback riding on the beach. Where some ranches offer an assortment of diverse terrain with quiet trails and scenic views, others are limited to less luxurious trails. Additionally, where some ranches are in remote locations, others are close to civilization, highways and noise. You need to take all of these factors into consideration when selecting a vacation ranch that is right for you and your family.
 If they are passionate about riding, show gentle compassion for their horses, and ride often; or if the ranch is family owned with those same attributes, they will likely offer a vacation program that is authentic, personable and consistent.
 The answer should be a determining factor when selecting vacation horse ranches. Resident horses are familiar with the location and the ranchers; in the same token, ranchers are familiar with the horses and their temperaments and capabilities. A rancher can better match you with a horse if he knows the horse, and he cannot know a rented horse, because it takes much more than 1 season to get to know a horse. Additionally, a ranch with a variety of horse breeds in residence can match you with the best horse for your riding level.
 Anything less than 2 horses per veteran rider will likely leave the horse exhausted before the season ends.
 If you have a preference to trotting, check what the ranch allows before making a final decision. You don't want to be stuck at a facility that takes large groups out on the trail and doesn't allow more than a walk. You could also opt for a ranch that tries to enhance each person's riding experience by offering diverse riding groups. These groups are customized to meet the individual's needs, and riders are matched to horses by ability.
 When calling ranches, ask the owner about how they match riders to horses and whether riders receive instruction on handling their horse. Ask too about the pace of rides and the experience and qualifications of ride leaders. Go further by quizzing ranch owners to summarize their safety policy; doing so will prompt you to ask further questions.
 If you are looking for the real western experience, select a ranch with working cattle. Some ranches allow guests to partake in team penning or sorting, but doing so may depend on your riding abilities.

