 Lots of all-natural herbal supplements are available commercially, whether in pill form or in tinctures. You can give them directly to your dog or mix them into a regular meal. Many of the same herbal supplements that have a soothing effect on humans will work on dogs as well.However, consult your veterinarian before giving your dog herbal supplements for proper dosage instructions and any warnings.


Often, mixed-herb supplements are sold with names like “Dog Calm” or other brands, and will involve some mixture of St. John’s wort and valerian. Also look for products which include calming ingredients such as oats, skullcap, and echinacea.;
, This is a sedative herb that is effective in treating excitability and dog anxiety.Generally, you can buy valerian in dried or capsule form and give it to the dog orally, wrapped in a piece of cheese, or with a treat. Treat dogs before situations during which they’re likely to become excited.Apply herbal tinctures or dried herb in an amount between 0.25 and 0.5 milliliters for every 30 pounds that your dog weighs. Administer 2-3 times a day over the course of several days.
 Oil mixtures often include the herb skullcap, which is used for similar calming purposes.Most commercial herbal mixtures involve some combination of ingredients, and they’re much cheaper while still being an effective way to calm dogs.

Passionflower has calming properties, but isn’t a sedative. It is effective in calming frightened animals quite quickly, and is good for travel and other stressful situations during which the dog is likely to get excited.Look for passionflower in pill or essential oil form at your local pet-supply or natural goods store.
 A few drops of all-natural essential oils on the back of the neck can help to calm dogs. Other people like applying a bit of oil to the bare skin inside the ear, but not in the ear canal itself. A variety of different oils and mixtures are used to calm down excitable dogs. Look for ointments that include sedative herbs including red clover, dandelion root, hawthorn, and echinacea.Your local pet-supply store should have useful ointment options, made up of a mixture of different natural oils, which are excellent for calming any animal.Lavender oil is commonly used for calming purposes, since it has aromatic therapeutic properties common to people and pets.
 A plug-in diffuser or collar pheromone diffuser releases a scent that’s undetectable to the human nose, but which the powerful nose of the dog is able to pick up. These pheromones help to make the dog feel “mothered” and calm by releasing chemicals similar to those produced by lactating females.Effective brands of pheromone diffusers will encourage calmness, and should be available at your local pet store in plug-in or spray delivery systems.

