 Every school has a different set of rules that outline what you are allowed to wear. Although these rules vary, most schools require you to dress on the conservative side, and never show your midriff. Check out your specific school rules in the school handbook, or by asking an administrator at the school., Although you might be tempted to wear your best Friday night outfit to school, you have to remember that school is not a party. You are better off dressing comfortably. Regardless of the dress code, conservative outfits that are cute and casual are always the best option. If you show up to school too formally, others might think you are trying too hard.Keep in mind, you want to dress in a way that allows your teachers to have respect for you and not be distracted by your revealing clothes.
 Any attention you receive for your clothes should be positive, and not because your shirt is ultra low, or your pants are too tight. You do not want to find yourself breaking school rules and getting in trouble for inappropriate clothes. School is a professional atmosphere, so you should dress the part. Always check your clothes throughout the year for a proper fit. A top that may have once fit you perfectly, might now be riding a little too high on your stomach. Use these steps to check your clothes before you leave the house:Raise your arms in the air, and if your stomach shows, do not wear it to school.
Bend over and touch your toes to check your pants. If you find that your underwear sits higher than the top of your pants, it may be time to get rid of them.
Bend over, and check the top of your shirt. If you have a lot of cleavage showing, pick a shirt that is more conservative.
Do not wear a shirt that shows your bra strap. Many schools require you to have at least three fingers of coverage on your shoulders.
Check the length of your skirt, dress, or shorts by putting your arms straight down by your side. If the length is shorter than your finger tips, it is not appropriate for school.

