 While you may occasionally need to transport items such as gas cans, lighter fluids, or propane gas, don’t leave these items in your car on a regular basis because doing so can lead to fire. Only make short trips while carrying flammables, and immediately remove them from the vehicle once you’ve arrived at your destination.


When you do transport flammable materials, take safety precautions. For example, gasoline should only be transported in small amounts that are secured in a proper container. You should also ventilate the vehicle.
Don’t place gas or propane in your passenger areas., Smoking cigarettes can lead to a fire if you accidently leave a burning cigarette in your vehicle or if hot ash falls onto flammable material, such as paper. Your risk further increases if you carry a lighter to light the cigarettes.
 Throw out trash and avoid storing items in your car. Allowing these items to remain in your vehicle can create a fire hazard. Not only do extra items, especially crumpled paper, act as fuel if there’s a spark, they also make it easier for you to accidentally leave a flammable item in your car.


For example, a flammable liquid could roll under a pile of trash, potentially resulting in a fire.
 A fire extinguisher and fire blanket can help you put out a fire. Purchase a fire extinguisher that is made for an automobile because the causes of a car fire are often related to electrical issues or combustible fuel, which require a different type of extinguisher.You can find fire extinguishers for automobiles at your local auto parts store, home improvement store, or online.
 Vehicle fires can happen as part of a car accident, so avoid reckless or aggressive driving.While it can be frustrating to give up the right-of-way or to drive slowly, making choices that keep you safe can help you reduce your risk of fire.


Sixty percent of deaths that occur due to car fires happen during a fire that was caused by a car accident., Be careful when driving around after a storm has occurred because you can encounter dangers like downed power lines. If the downed power line still contains an electrical charge, it could ignite materials in or on your vehicle.
 During an oil change, you may accidentally spill oil on part of your vehicle. If this happens to you, wash away the oil before you try driving again. Having any amount of oil on your engine can lead to a vehicle fire., The mechanical parts of your car can be hot, and parts of the system can ignite dry materials that they come in contact with. Make sure that you don’t park around high grass or in an area where materials such as trash can come in contact with your undercarriage or catalytic converter.Instead, choose a flat area that is empty of debris, such as a driveway or the street.

