 Be as specific as possible. Give reasons why you want to reach this particular goal and what you hope to get out of it. The better you can describe what you hope to accomplish and why, the easier it will be to do what is necessary to get there.Start a journal to write in every day as you achieve steps towards your larger goal.
Write your dream and main motivations for reaching it on note cards to keep in your bag or wallet. Take them out and read them whenever you don’t feel like working or feel discouraged.;
, Use pictures and motivational words or statements to represent your dream. Add trinkets or photographs that make you think of your goals and future success. Put your vision board in a place you will see it every morning when you wake up and evening before you go to bed.


Cut images from magazines or draw your own.
Look up inspiration quotes or write down words that have meaning for you in large, bold letters.
Focus on how you want to feel rather than material things you hope to have. Doing this helps you motivate yourself because you can feel successful every day., Use a calendar or planner to mark your due dates. Make sure these deadlines are realistic and update them as necessary if you discover they will take more time.Each time you succeed at a small goal, your brain releases dopamine, the “feel-good” chemical in the brain, making you want to achieve more!Mark these victories as you achieve them on your schedule.
Don’t forget to schedule free time too! You can’t work constantly and stay focused, so add a short break every day for doing something fun or relaxing.
 The best way to reach your dreams is to get guidance from someone who has accomplished something similar. Visit your guidance counselor for recommendations on where to find potential mentors in your chosen field. Your school may have mentorship programs in place ready to pair you with a willing participant looking to teach up-and-coming professionals.


If you know someone working in your field, ask to interview them about their career. If this goes well, ask if they would be willing to mentor you.
Look online for support services from non-profit or governmental institutions. There may be mentorship programs set up in your area already. Try findamentor.com.
Check out blogs written by people currently working in the field. Comment on their blog posts, ask relevant questions, and show interest in their work.Don’t ask someone you don’t already have a relationship with to mentor you unless they have previously expressed interest in mentoring., Internships are an excellent way to try out a future profession, gain experience for your resume, and make connections in the field. Ask your guidance counselor for companies requesting student interns, or look in the local newspaper or online job site.Online sites like internships.com, idealist.org, and experience.com are all great places to look.Internships are a great way to find mentors! Work hard, ask for increasing responsibilities, and show interest in the work of others to develop relationships.Make sure to log your hours and have a supervisor sign off on them in case they can be used towards college credits later.You will probably need to interview for an internship, even if it is unpaid. Prepare for it like you would any job interview so your future boss knows you are serious.

