 So what you need to do is to keep using it until the ammo is out. In round 1, shoot each zombies 6 shots with a pistol and knife them. It will kill them and you will gain more points. Just keep doing that until round 2.;
, To gain more points, shoot each zombies 8 times and knife them. Let some zombies in so you can get power-ups (Insta-kill, Double points, Nuke, Max ammo). If your pistol runs out of ammo and you didn't get Max Ammo, just buy a weapon.
 Do not open the stairs. DO NOT.
 Go camp in that area between the stairs and the Comm. Room. Camp there until round 9.
 Throw a grenade and make it crawl. Go ahead and get your perks. For this strategy, you need Juggernaut and Speed Cola. That's it. You can also get Double Tap id you want to. But Quick Revival is useless, because you have no teammates.
 People say the ray gun is the best weapon. It's not. When you reach high rounds, like 50 and above, the ray gun is not one shot one kill anymore. It can kill the dogs but it won't kill the zombies, especially when you reach 100 or more rounds. You can also kill yourself with the ray gun. When you reach high rounds, the only weapon that will kill the zombies, is the Wunderwaffe.
 Put betties in every corner in the main building. If you want, put it anywhere but it has to be on the main building where the mystery box is. try putting them in corners. It will help you kill Hell Hounds. Hell hounds emerge approximately every 5 rounds. Trench Gun is a good weapon for the hounds. It's a one shot one kill weapon (for the dogs). If dogs chase you, just go to main building where the betties are placed and let the betties kill the hounds. Another good strategy for hellhounds is to camp in the area next to the Comm. Room. It's a corner near the water and the hell hounds usually don't go on water. Just stay there.
 Room. Don't go inside the hut, keep running circles outside the Comm. Room until the zombies are all together and close together chasing you. Just shoot them with the Wunderwaffe and it will kill them. Every round there are about 24 zombies. Except the first 5-7 rounds.
