 Before you give a pedicure, make sure to remove any old nail polish from your toenails. Apply some acetone nail polish remover to a cotton ball and swipe it over your toenails until the nail polish is completely gone.








Removing your nail polish will give your nails a chance to breathe. It will also allow the water to soften the nails and allow you to smooth them out with a nail buffer.;
, Soaking your feet in a tub of warm water will soften the skin on your feet, soften your nails, and cleanse your feet. Fill a small, clean tub or bucket with a few inches of warm water.Make sure that the water is at a comfortable temperature for soaking your feet. Test it with your hand before you put your feet in. If it is too hot, then add a cup or two of cool water.
You can also add a couple of tablespoons of body wash or Epsom salts to the water, if desired.
Let your feet soak in the water for about 5 to 10 minutes., After 5 to 10 minutes of soaking, you can begin to wash your feet. Use a brush to wash your feet thoroughly. Scrub the bottoms and tops of your feet, as well as between your toes and around your ankles.








You can apply a little soap to the brush to help cleanse your feet.
Use a gentle, circular motion.
If you do not have a brush, then you can also use a washcloth or your hands.
 Rough spots on your feet may require some more intense scrubbing. You can use a pumice stone or a special foot scrubber to work on these areas.








Use a gentle circular motion to scrub tough areas of your feet, such as your heels, the side of your big toe, and the balls of your feet.Avoid scrubbing too hard or you may irritate the skin on your feet.
 After you have thoroughly cleansed your feet, dip them back into the tub of water and rinse them well. Then, remove your feet from the tub and wrap them in a clean, cry towel. Dry your feet thoroughly.After your feet are dry, apply a layer of moisturizer to them. This will help to protect your feet and leave them feeling extra soft.

