 A healthy diet that includes sources of vitamin C, vitamin E, carotenoids, omega 3 fatty acids and probiotics can help strengthen toddlers' immunity.


Limit sugar intake. Sugar and other sweeteners can actually suppress the immune system and may also lead to hyperactivity, compromising the toddler's sleep and nap schedule.
Make sure to feed the toddler at least 5 2-tbsp. (29.7 ml) size servings of fruits and vegetables each day. Include fruits such as strawberries, cantaloupe, blueberries, grapefruit, oranges, guava, papaya and mango. Boost immunity with good vegetable choices including sweet potatoes, broccoli, carrots, squash, kale and spinach. These fruits and vegetables are rich in vitamins and antioxidants and help increase white blood cell count and boost antibodies, as well as natural killer cells. Natural killer cells attack microbes and cancer producing cells.
Add fish or fish oil to the toddler's diet. Fish is a source of omega 3 fatty acids, which increase macrophage activity. Macrophages are white cells that eat bacteria in the body. Serve cold water fish varieties such as salmon, as these provide the greatest amount of omega 3. You can feed a toddler up to 3 3-oz. (85 g) servings per week, or you can mix the oil from 1 fish oil capsule into the toddler's food per day.
Serve foods containing probiotics. Probiotics are healthy bacteria found in the gut. Toddlers who eat probiotic foods like yogurt may have increased immunity to rotavirus and urinary tract infections.;
, Attend well child pediatrician appointments for the toddler. Your pediatrician will have a schedule for administering each recommended vaccine at the appropriate age and frequency. Vaccines provide immunity to many serious childhood illnesses.


Make sure your toddler gets a yearly flu shot in addition to the standard vaccines.
 Toddlers need 12 to 13 hours of sleep per day. Sleep is necessary for a healthy immune system. Sleep deprivation can decrease the number of natural killer cells in the body and make a person more susceptible to illness.


Schedule morning or afternoon naps into the toddler's daily routine.
Discuss sleeping problems with your pediatrician if your toddler has trouble sleeping. Your pediatrician should be able to provide suggestions for resolving sleep issues.
 Exercise can help increase a person's number of natural killer cells and is an important part of overall good health.


Organize family exercise time in addition to solitary play. Good activities include hiking, a biking outing with the toddler on a tricycle, and any outdoor games such as kick ball or wiffle ball.
 Children who are regularly exposed to secondhand smoke are at greater risk for bronchitis, ear infections, asthma and other respiratory conditions. Small children breathe at a faster rate and inhale more of the toxins than an adult, so even limited exposure to secondhand smoke can be more harmful than for adults.


Encourage all caregivers to quit smoking or cease smoking around the toddler.
Request that any visitors or family members who will not quit smoking only smoke outside, well away from the toddler.

