 This will help you determine how large to make your planet. While this isn't too important if you're only making one, if you decide to make a whole solar system of planets, you may want to make them somewhat to scale.


For example, you'd want to make Mars or Mercury much smaller than Saturn or Jupiter.
 If you're only doing one planet, make it whatever size you'd like, but if you decide to make an entire solar system, choose different sizes. This will allow you to accurately depict the scale of the planets.


For the Sun, use a 5 or 6-inch ball.
For Mercury, use a 1-inch ball.
For Venus, use a 1.5-inch ball.
For Earth, use a 1.5-inch ball.
For Mars, use a 1.25-inch ball.
For Jupiter, use a 4-inch ball.
For Saturn, use a 3-inch ball.
For Uranus, use a 2.5-inch ball.
For Neptune, use a 2-inch ball.
For Pluto, use a 1.25-inch ball.
 For a simple model, use acrylic to paint your planet with its predominant color.








For the Sun, use yellow.
For Mercury, use grey.
For Venus, use yellowish-white.
For Earth, use blue-green.
For Mars, use red.
For Jupiter, use orange with white striations.
For Saturn, use pale yellow.
For Uranus, use light blue.
For Neptune, use blue.
For Pluto, use light brown.
 If your planet has several colors, go back and dab the other color over the surface. If your planet has rings, attach wire or a styrofoam ring around the planet.









For rings, you can also cut the styrofoam planet model in half horizontally and glue an old cd through the center. Reattach the styrofoam halves with glue. The CD should appear as rings around the planet.For craters, you can chip out bits of styrofoam to make a craggy surface. You'll want to dab fresh paint over these areas.
 If you've made all the planets to scale, take dowel rods and cut them to size. This will ensure that the planets are the appropriate distance apart.









You won't need any dowel rods for the sun, since it will be the center of the system model.
For Mercury, use a 2.25-inch rod.
For Venus, use a 4-inch rod.
For Earth, use 5-inch rod.
For Mars, use 6-inch rod.
For Jupiter, a 7-inch rod.
For Saturn, use an 8-inch rod.
For Uranus, use a 10-inch rod.
For Neptune, use an 11.5-inch rod.
For Pluto, use a 14-inch rod.
 Using the trimmed dowel rods, stick the rod into the corresponding planet. Then, stick the opposite end of the dowel rod into the sun. Be sure to stick rods around the entire circumference of the sun. Start with Mercury, closest to the sun, and work outward.Here's a mnemonic to remember the order of the planets:My Very Excellent Mother Just Served Us Nine Pizzas.
=Mercury Venus Earth Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Pluto(If you aren't including Pluto, think My Very Excellent Mother Just Served Us Noodles instead.


