 There's no normal type of clothes to wear. Styles change all the time and it can be very difficult to keep up. Wear whatever is comfortable and affordable for you, but make sure the clothes are as flattering as possible.


Skinny jeans and crop tops may be in, but just because they're popular or "normal" doesn't mean they're necessarily right for your body type. Wear clothes that will flatter your figure and feel comfortable, not something that will leave you feeling unconfident or exposed. Don't be a wannabe.
Don't be afraid to have your own style. If you think throwback basketball jerseys and athletic shorts are cool, you're in good company. If you think rugby shirts and khaki pants look good, you're in safe waters. The important normal constant is that whatever you wear is clean and form-fitting.
 It's a good idea to pay attention to what other kids are wearing, not because you must conform and wear the same thing, but so you can at least have some concept of the average dress wear. Then, if you choose to go in another direction, you'll be aware of what you're doing and not end up wearing plaid grandpa pants and golfing shoes to school because you think it's normal.


You don't have to go to expensive stores to dress normally. Box stores like Target, Walmart, and other outlets usually have sale items that are affordable and current. At thrift stores, try to find the newest cleanest clothes available that are in your size.
In middle school especially, it can seem that all anyone cares about is getting the next "must have" clothes trend which are usually expensive and will be forgotten in another six months anyway.
 If you want to look normal, you don't have to do anything fancy with your grooming, however, a little effort will go a long way. Keep yourself clean and well-kept and your confidence will be higher knowing that you're looking your best.



Brush your teeth and floss. Your smile will be friendly and picture-ready with proper dental care. Having healthy teeth can up your confidence significantly.
Take a shower at least every other day, and every day that you exercise. Wash your hair with shampoo and clean your body with soap.
Keep your nails neatly clipped and clean. Normal girls and boys also enjoy painting fingernails sometimes, which is perfectly appropriate if you want. try to keep the paint fresh, and remove it when it starts becoming chipped.
Talk to your parents about when it's appropriate to start wearing make-up, if you want to. Use a small amount of natural coloring to highlight your beauty, if you choose to.
 Your hair is just as important as any other part of your body: it takes some work to keep it healthy and clean. Your hair should be washed at least every 2-3 days to keep it strong and lustrous. Both boys and girls should comb their hair regularly to keep it untangled and healthy.



If you use products, don't go overboard. A little mousse, gel, or hairspray can go a long way. You don't want a crispy frosted flat-top like it's 1996. Aim for a natural look that highlights your normal hair.

Experiment with new haircuts, going for a buzz or growing it out like a rocker if you want. Being a teenager is the one time you can experiment with your personality and your identity.
 When you're young, it seems like you're invincible. You can eat like there's no tomorrow, stay out all night and go through your day like it's nothing, and recover from injuries super-fast. Unfortunately, it won't last. It's important to build the good habits that will ensure your health throughout your teenage years and further on too.


Pay attention to what and how much you're eating. Most teenagers have crazy-high metabolisms due to growth spurts, meaning that you'll be able to eat lots and lots of high-calorie food without gaining extra weight, especially if you're physically active and play sports. When that high metabolism ends, though, or you stop playing sports, it's possible to suddenly gain lots of weight. It's important to develop a love of physical activity early on, so you can build the good habits that will keep you healthy in the long run.
You don't have to be "one of the jocks" to enjoy exercise. If you love basketball but don't want to play on the team, go to the park and shoot hoops. Who cares if you miss more than you make? If you don't love playing any competitive sports, try out hiking around the woods and getting into nature, or see if you don't enjoy rock climbing or other solo adventures.

