 If you are directly quoting from an article, include the author of the article, the year of publication, and the page number (preceded by “p.”) at the end of the quote.


For example: He noted: “After an unequivocal experience of the inefficiency of the subsisting federal government, you are called upon to deliberate on a new Constitution for the United States of America.”(Hamilton, 2001, p. 23)You would use 2001 as the date because the source you are using (Alexander Hamilton, Federalist No. 68, in The Federalist, ed. George W. Carey and James McClellan (Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund, 2001), 351–52.) was published in 2001.
 APA style does not encourage the use of footnotes or endnotes. But if you feel you need to use notes in your text to prevent plagiarism, APA style has two types of footnotes:Content footnotes: these notes provide supplemental, or extra, information to your readers. Be brief and try to limit the footnote to one small paragraph. You should also point readers to information that is available in more detail elsewhere.
For example: 1 See DeWeese (2000), especially Chapters 1 and 2, for an insightful analysis of Hamilton’s article.
Copyright permission notes: If you quote more than 500 words of published material, or think you may be in violation of “Fair Use” copyright laws, you must get formal permission from the author(s). The other sources can appear in the reference list at the end of your paper or document. Follow the same formatting rules as the content footnote. Then, attach a copy of the permission letter to the document.
Begin the copyright permission footnote with “Note”. The format is: Note: From Article Title by Author, Journal Title, Journal Number, page number. Copyright Date by Copyright Holder. Reprinted with permission.
For example: Note: From The Federalist Papers: A Study by D. DeWeese, 2000, American Letters, 20, p. 122. Copyright 2000 by Flag Publishing. Reprinted with permission.
For both types of footnotes, always insert the number in superscript at the end of the sentence, after the punctuation mark. If the footnote appears in a sentence in parentheses, the footnote should appear within the parentheses.
 According to the APA guideline, your citation should make reference to the author and year of publication in the text. APA style also encourages you to provide the page number for the source, but this is not required.For example: According to Hamilton (2001), the union is crucial to the Constitution.
The citation of a summary or paraphrase could also appear as: He argued that the union is crucial to the Constitution. (Hamilton, 2001, p. 99)

, Just like in Chicago Style, you will need to cite The Federalist Papers as a source in your bibliography for your paper in APA style. If you used a specific article in your paper or document, you will need to specify this in your citation.The citation should appear as: Author (Year of publication). Title of chapter. Editor (Eds.), Title of book (pages of chapter). Location: Publisher.
For example: Alexander Hamilton (2001). Federalist No. 68, ed. George W. Carey and James McClellan, The Federalist (351–52). Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund.
If you are just using The Federalist Papers as a whole, you can cite it as one source. So the citation would look like: Author or editor, (Year of publication). Title of work. Location: Publisher.
For example: Carey, George, and James McClellan, eds. 2001. The Federalist. Indianapolis, IN: Liberty Fund.

