 The amount of alcohol considered low-risk is different based on your sex. Your alcohol use may be considered “heavy” or “at-risk” if you are drinking:


More than four drinks on any day or fourteen per week if you are a man.
More than three drinks on any day or seven per week if you are a woman.Make sure you are measuring standard-sized drinks. You may be drinking more units than you realize. A standard serving is 12 ounces of beer, 8 – 9 ounces of malt liquor, 5 ounces of wine, and 1.5 ounces of liquor. In order to know how much you are drinking, try keeping a log of your drinking behavior over a period of a week or two. Keep track of both the number of drinks you have and how many days a week you are drinking.
 There are several different self-administered tests available online that can help you determine if you, or someone in your life, is drinking too much. One simple test is the CAGE questionnaire, which is used around the world to help identify alcohol addictions.Note that answering yes to one question indicates there may be a problem, and yes to more than one question indicates that you need to get help.Have you ever felt you should cut down on your drinking?
Have people annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?
Have you ever felt bad or guilty about your drinking?
Have you ever had a drink first thing in the morning to steady your nerves or get rid of a hangover?

, There are specific criteria outlined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), which is a manual used by mental health professionals, that mean you have alcohol use disorder, or AUD. This diagnosis can only be given by a mental health professional, but the guidelines may be helpful if you are unsure whether or not you have a drinking problem. Ask yourself if, in the past year, you have:Had times when you ended up drinking more, or longer than you intended?
More than once wanted to cut down or stop drinking, or tried to, but couldn’t?
Spent a lot of time drinking? Or being sick or getting over the aftereffects?
Experienced craving — a strong need, or urge, to drink?
Found that drinking — or being sick from drinking — often interfered with taking care of your home or family? Or caused job troubles? Or school problems?
Continued to drink even though it was causing trouble with your family or friends?
Given up or cut back on activities that were important or interesting to you, or gave you pleasure, in order to drink?
More than once gotten into situations while or after drinking that increased your chances of getting hurt (such as driving, swimming, using machinery, walking in a dangerous area, or having unsafe sex)?
Continued to drink even though it was making you feel depressed or anxious or adding to another health problem? Or after having had a memory blackout?
Had to drink much more than you once did to get the effect you want? Or found that your usual number of drinks had much less effect than before?
Found that when the effects of alcohol were wearing off, you had withdrawal symptoms, such as trouble sleeping, shakiness, irritability, anxiety, depression, restlessness, nausea, or sweating? Or sensed things that were not there?
If you answer yes to one or more of these questions, speak with your physician or a mental health professional about being evaluated for AUD.
 You may be experiencing some physical side effects to drinking that are beyond typical hangover symptoms. These symptoms can start to occur when your drinking still may seem quite “normal” to others, but can indicate that your liver is having a difficult time processing the excess alcohol. You may notice:


Looking tan in spite of staying out of the sun. This can be a sign of mild jaundice.Forgetfulness. This goes beyond forgetting how much you drank or blacking out, and includes mild day-to-day forgetfulness. Alcohol disrupts a chemical in our brains that helps with memory. Cravings. If you experience a strong need or urge to drink, you may be dependent on alcohol.Poor sleep. Insomnia is extremely common among heavy drinkers, because alcohol interferes with neurotransmitters that help us sleep.Diarrhea. Loose, watery stools can indicate that your liver is not processing fat efficiently; it is too busy processing the alcohol., Perhaps your family and friends have previously indicated to you that you are drinking too much. They also can help you hone in on any problem drinking behavior.


For example, you could ask, “Can you tell me honestly if you think I drink too much? I had a rough weekend, and I’m beginning to get concerned I have a problem.”
Ask them to tell you about your behavior while you are drinking. You might not be aware if your behavior is obnoxious, aggressive, or depressed.
You may also not be aware how much you are drinking. Since alcohol lowers your inhibitions and impairs your judgement, you may not realize that your plan for two drinks at the bar easily turned into four.