 Pay attention to your friends and how they make you feel. Surround yourself with people who don’t criticize or judge you because it can negatively affect your body image.Friends can even help you work towards your health and fitness goals, which may help you feel more confident in your looks as well. Find a gym partner or a hiking buddy.
 As easy and obvious as it sounds, smiling, even when you are forced to do it, can lower stress and make you feel better about yourself.Furthermore, people will see you as approachable and trusting., If you get a compliment, don’t deflect it, take it!If you are uncertain about your looks, it may feel awkward to get compliments and your anxious reaction might be to deflect or down-play the compliment. For example, if someone compliments your shirt, you might tell them it is a hand-me-down that you only wore because all of your other clothes are dirty. This is a reflection of your anxiety about your looks and can make both you and the person who complimented you uncomfortable. Instead, just say thank you and fully enjoy the compliment you earned.
 Whether or not exercise actually changes your physical appearance, it can change your perception of yourself, which can lead to increased self esteem. A national survey of physical activity and weight has shown that people who were not satisfied with their body size were less likely to be physically active, regardless of how much they actually weighed. This finding suggests that just being physically active can be related to a better self-image. The amount of exercise needs to be enough to give you a sense of accomplishment and needs to be regular, but does not need to be any specific type of exercise or be done for any specific amount of time.
 Certain foods, such as those high in carbohydrates and sugar, can cause you to become sluggish and negatively affect your mood. Foods that can improve your mood are those that are low in fat and release their energy slowly. These foods give energy for sustained periods of time and do not carry the risk of weight gain, bloating, and irritability; they can also lead to stronger hair and nails, which can improve your overall self-image.Avoid eating foods that are sugary, fried, or overly processed.Eat more nuts and seeds, legumes, and fresh fruits and vegetables, particularly produce with vibrant, rich colors.