 Though you may feel that you have done nothing wrong, determine if there is anything at all that you can improve on. You might yell at her sometimes or rarely clean up after yourself. Though you can’t control your mom, you can control yourself and work to minimize the issues you have with her., Domineering mothers often have a hard time letting go of control of their children and letting them be adults. Show your mother that you are responsible so that she feels comfortable letting you make your own decisions.

Complete your chores, take on more responsibilities in the home, and keep your promises to your parents.
 Your mom’s control might stem from simply trying to be involved in your life. Though she displays this desire in an unhealthy way, try to find a way to let her in. See if she’ll let you stay out later on Saturday night if you do more chores that morning.If she is nervous about you going away to college, set up a communication plan and safety plan so she feels more secure.
 Your mom might be so domineering that you feel scared around her at times. However, begin to establish assertiveness in small ways. Look her in the eyes during conversations. Speak up, keep your voice strong and steady, and hold your head high., Your mom’s control over you is probably so frustrating at times that you want to scream. Instead of lashing out at her or others, find a more productive way to channel your anger. Take up a hobby like painting, drawing, or writing poems. Sit in a hot bath to soothe yourself or meditate.You can also vent to someone you trust.
 Perhaps your dad, second mom, or step parent is far less domineering than your mother. Sit down and have a talk with them to see if they can help you or give advice. They might be able to talk to your mom for you or have a tip on how to deal with her.

Pull them aside and say “Hey Dad, I’m not trying to go behind Mom’s back or anything, but I’m starting to feel smothered. She won’t even let me close my bedroom door to do homework. Do you have any advice or can you talk to her for me?”

