 Food is a powerful motivator for most dogs. Praise, in addition to a reward that is valuable to your dog, can be used to communicate to your dog that they have performed well.


The timing of the reward is extremely important. Your praise and reward will need to come within two to three seconds of the behavior you are reinforcing. If the dog does something else in between the desired behavior and the reward, you are rewarding the last thing that the dog performed.
Treats should be small and tasty. Consider three types: Low-, medium- and high-value treats. Keep these in your arsenal to help your dog learn commands.
 This includes rawhide bones as well as soft toys. By alternating toys you give your dog different textures to experience and hopefully keep your household items and trash safe from being chewed on or ingested.


You can also use toys as a motivator for other kinds of training. Dogs with a high prey drive respond well to toys as a reward.
 Multiple shorter training session are generally more effective than one long one, particularly for puppies under six months of age. Their attention span is short and puppies get tired; your patience will be worn thin trying to train an over tired puppy.
 Training has to be upbeat and happy in order to get the maximum response from the dog. Play with the puppy in between and help them understand that people are fun and not all about “school” all the time.
 Potty training a puppy requires a consistent bathroom schedule. Praise your puppy every time they go to the bathroom outside.


If there is a potty accident in the house and you catch the puppy in the act, let them know that it's not good behavior by saying "no." Then take your pup outside until they potty.
Take the puppy out every 20 to 30 minutes to increase the chance of their going outside. Then reward this behavior with a treat. The ideal situation is to take the puppy out after every nap; however, no matter how much you take them outside, your pup will probably still have messes inside the house.
Keep your dog close to you during the months of potty training. Do not let the dog have run of the house because if you are not paying attention, your dog can sneak off and do their bathroom business without you noticing.

