 In this experiment, you will use electricity to separate hydrogen and oxygen gasses in molecules of water.To collect hydrogen using electrolysis, you will need: a 9 volt battery, a pencil, two test tubes, a plastic container, water, baking soda, two large rubber bands (optional), and a battery clip with clamps at the end.


The pencil must have graphite in them for this to work. A number 2 pencil is perfect. Two small pieces of graphite will also work for this.
A small food storage container or bowl is sufficient.
Make sure the battery clip can fit a 9 volt battery and that it has a red and black wire with alligator clamps at the end. These clamps will be used to hook up your system to the battery.
 You need two pieces of graphite, one for the positive end of the battery and for the negative end of the battery. Sharpen both ends of each piece of the pencil to a point. Make sure the graphite is well exposed.This step can be skipped if you already have two pieces of pure graphite.
 This step is optional, but is an easy way to keep the test tubes in place while the experiment is running. Stretch one rubber band over the container and stretch a second rubber band over it so that it crosses over the first, forming an X.If you don’t use rubber bands, be sure to secure the test tubes with tape or string so that they stay upside down during the experiment.
 Dissolving baking soda in water will help the electricity be conducted in the system. The exact amount of baking soda added is not important, but about 1 teaspoon per 1 cup of water should be sufficient. Stir until completely dissolved.Use warm water to speed up the dissolving of the baking soda.
 The container needs to be large enough to hold both of the test tubes. Add enough of the solution to fill the container about three-quarters full. Submerge the test tubes in the solution of the container and flip them upside down. Place each tube in the cross of the rubber band X to hold it in place.It is very important that both test tubes are completely full of water and no air bubbles remain.
 Take one clamp from the battery clip and attach it to the end of one of the pencils. Make sure it is touching as much of the graphite as possible. Do the same with the remaining alligator clamp and pencil piece.One pencil should be attached to the red clamp and one pencil to the black clamp.
 Keeping the test tube completely submerged, tilt it slightly so that you can slide the unclamped end of the pencil into the tube. Repeat this process with the other pencil and the other test tube.


At this point, everything should be under water and there should be one piece of pencil inside each test tube.
Keep the end of the battery clip that attaches to the battery out of the water.
 With everything setup, you are now ready to apply the electricity provided by the 9 volt battery. The end of the battery clip should be sticking out of the container so simply clip the battery in place. Once the battery is attached, you should notice bubbles rising from the end of the graphite and floating to the top of each test tube.If you don’t see bubbles produced, check to make sure the alligator clamps are firmly attached to the graphite of the pencil. Also, check that your battery is fully charged.
The test tube with the negative wire attached to the pencil will be producing hydrogen, while the test tube attached to the positive wire of the battery will be producing oxygen., Remember, the tube connected to the negative end of the battery will have the hydrogen.Remove the test tubes from the jar, one at a time. Keep them upside down and let the water drain out. The gas in the tubes will remain even though you can’t see it.
 You can test for the presence of hydrogen by striking a match and holding the flame up to the gas. It will make a very distinct “squeaky pop” sound if it is hydrogen. You can also use a lit candle instead of a match.To test for oxygen in the test tube that was connected to the positive side of the power source, blow out a lit match (or candle) and place the still glowing end under the test tube. If the candle reignites, oxygen is present.

