 For example, if you are tall and skinny, give yourself curves by wearing a flowy skirt or dress.


Highlight your best features. Once again, if you are tall and skinny, wear a flowy dress that will give you curves, but also, show off your long legs.
Avoid highlighting the features you do not like. For example, if you have do not like your stomach fat, do not wear a tight tank top.
 For example, if you are going to be in the cold outdoors, wear your best pair of jeans and a cute jacket. Do not, however, wear the new sandals and shorts that you recently bought.


Check the weather before you go out. Find out if the weather is forecasted to change throughout your date. Check to see if it might rain, and pay attention to other weather conditions, like wind speed. Plan your clothes accordingly.
If you don't know what to wear for an occasion, ask someone. Don't be afraid to ask your date, or someone else who is attending the event, what dress is appropriate.
 It may be tempting to grab something from your hamper, but do not wear dirty clothes. Instead, plan in advance. Do your laundry before your date.


Wash your clothes every two to three days to avoid getting stuck wearing dirty clothing.
Wash all your clothes before your date so that you have options to choose from.
Iron your clothes before you go out, if they are wrinkled. Ironing only takes a few minutes, and it can make a big difference for your outfit. Ironed clothes give a good impression of cleanliness and make you seem well put together.
 Your style should make you stand out, but a first date is not the time to get overly ambitious in your style.


It is good to be confident on a first date, however, choose to be confident in your personality.
Do not take risks with the clothes you decide to wear on a date.
 You do not want to spend all night fixing your strapless bra or tube top.


Do not show too much skin. There's nothing wrong with showing some skin but showing too much might be off-putting on a first date.
Do not wear clothes that are too tight or too baggy. Find a balance between style and comfort. For example, avoid both sweatpants and your tight fitting jeans. Instead wear clothes that have that Goldilocks “just right” feeling of being both stylish and comfortable. , Keep it light, dainty, and don’t overdo it. Choose one or two pieces of jewelry that you like and that go with your outfit.


For example, if your wrists are bare, put on a watch or simple bracelet. If your neckline is open, wear a pretty necklace or a chain. If you are unsure about your jewelry, don’t wear jewelry. Guys are typically not attracted to women because of the jewelry they wear. However, they may notice if you are wearing too much jewelry or if it is too loud.
 Choose colors that will complement your natural complexion. These colors will accent your good looks and make your skin, hair and eyes glow.


People with cool complexions (with red or pink undertones) look good wearing jewel colors: pink, lavender, rose, emerald and sapphire.
People with warm complexions (yellow and green undertones) look good wearing peach, orange, brown, gold and copper.
Additionally, dark colors like black and gray are slimming.

