 Explain that if the computer is in a central location – the family den or a shared office, for instance – you’ll be able to monitor what they are doing. Tell your child, “You will be less likely to engage in unsafe social media usage if the computer is in a central location, and I will have a better understanding of how you use your social media accounts.”, Tell your child, “I am interested in your social media accounts because social media use can be dangerous.” If you have an older elementary school-aged child or middle-school aged child, ask, for instance, “Will you show me how IMbee works?” For older teens, you should say, “I’d like to look at your social media chat log together today. Let’s take a look.”Check your child’s friends list. Request that your child delete people you disapprove of. Say, for instance, “I am uncomfortable with this online friend. Please block them and do not contact them again. Let me know if they try to contact you.”
Check your child’s profile as they see it, too. Some content can be hidden from certain users while remaining visible to others.
If your child chafes at the idea of you checking their social media accounts, say, “It’s quite reasonable. I get to know your friends at school, and I want to know your friends on social media, too.”You might also want to check your kids’ text messages and emails. Say, “I’d like to check your emails and text messages. Let’s view them together.”
View your child’s entire web history on all their devices. Look for social media networks that they might secretly have accounts on.
 When your child comes home from school – or when you come home from work – ask your child, “Have you been on social media today?” If they answer that they have, ask relevant follow-up questions. For instance, you might ask, “What social media apps did you use?” or “Did you post anything?” Letting your children know that you’re interested in their social media usage is the a good way to let them know that you're monitoring their behavior, which will inspire them to use care online.When your child first starts using social media, you should be monitoring their activity by checking their accounts frequently. This will allow you to understand what types of things your child is posting. If there is something potentially dangerous or embarrassing, you can talk to them about it. In their last few years as minors, check their accounts less frequently but still talk to them often about the dangers of social media.
Your child may react with anger, irritation, or defensiveness when you ask questions about their online use. In these situations, stay calm. Remind them that this is a part of the privileges of getting to own a phone or use social media. If they do not follow the rules, they will have to lose their internet and technology privileges.
 Monitoring software allows you to see what your kids are doing online, even when you’re not around. You can retroactively browse their web history, including what social media they were using. This is a great way to ensure they are not using social media too much (as well as guarantee that they are staying out of trouble in other corners of the internet). Being frank about what you can do to ensure your kids are using social media safely will discourage them from engaging in unsafe use.Say, “The monitoring software on your device will alert me to any unsafe social media usage. This is my way of looking out for you.”
Popular monitoring software for PCs includes Net Nanny and PureSight.
Phone monitoring software includes apps like My Mobile Watchdog.
Emphasize that privacy is earned through trust and good behavior. You can say, "I only want to make sure that you are safe. Once you are old enough and have demonstrated that you are responsible, I won't need to check your accounts as often."

