 There’s only one requirement in order for your Knight character to become a Lord Knight, and that is to reach level 40. Complete job quests specific for Knights that can be found all over the map in different towns, like Prontera, as this will let you gain more XP points, which you need in order to level up. You could also choose to complete side quests; these will give you large amounts of XP points and get you to level 40 quickly.;
, If you don’t want to complete quests, you can always choose to “farm” your way to level 40. Farming is when you simply hang out inside random dungeons and kill the enemy creatures inside to get XP points. This can be much faster than to completing quests because you don’t need to roam around the map to meet quest objectives, allowing you to save more time. On the flip side, this can be a bit too repetitive if you do it for several hours.
 Teaming up with other players lets you take down higher-level enemy monsters that are impossible to defeat on your own. This allows your character to earn more XP points compared to killing monsters that are on equal level as your character. This, by far, is the most effective and quickest way to level up., Juno is the city found on the northernmost end of Midgard. You can get there either by walking northwards from Al De Baran or by talking to any Warp Master NPC (non-playable character) inside any town and using the Warp Portal. Take note that using the Warp Portal costs some Zeny, and the cost differs from town to town.
 Walk to the northeastern corner of the city from Juno’s center, and you’ll find a door. This is the Sage Castle. Walk through the door to get inside the building.
 Inside the Sage Castle you’ll find a male NPC named Metheus Sylphe. Walk past this NPC to the room behind him, and you’ll find the Book of Ymir on top of a pedestal. Click on the book and it will teleport you to Valhalla.
 Valhalla is a castle in the sky where different NPCs for job changes live. Look for the Lord Knight NPC (a male NPC wearing a long brown cape). Click the NPC and he will give a short speech. After that he will change your character to the transcendent job Lord Knight.