 When you meet someone new, make it a point to cement that person’s name in your mind. Write the person’s name down if you have to. The next time you see them, say hello and use their name. It sounds like such a small thing, but people feel recognized and important when they hear their own names.When you are in conversation with someone, sprinkle their first name in a few times. Do it smoothly and simply. Saying things like, “Hi, Erin! Did you do today’s reading assignment?” and “Michael, what do think about the new history teacher?”
Using someone's name is one of the very easiest ways to get someone’s attention and it makes them feel respected and remembered.
Use the name that someone gives you, not a nickname. For instance, if someone introduced himself as “Robert” don’t call him Rob or Bob unless he invites you to.
Don’t avoid saying someone’s name because you are unsure of the pronunciation. Instead, just go for it and say, “Please let me know if I’m not pronouncing that right.”

, Avoid saying things just to feed someone’s ego or get their attention. When you give someone a real compliment that you honestly mean, that person can feel that it’s genuine. Not only will the person feel flattered, but they will remember you for it.


Get in the habit of noticing the small things about others and pointing those things out rather than delivering vague compliments. If you can, combine a compliment with a question, which will get a conversation started.
Instead of, “You look really pretty today, Jennifer” try something more specific like, “Your hair looks so good today! How do you get it like that?” or “I love that shade of lipstick, where did you get it?”

, One of the best ways to start conversations and make friends is to relate to the person you are talking to. When you steer a conversation in a direction that allows you to relate to someone, it creates the feeling of sharing something. It forms a kind of bond between the two of you, and even if it’s a small one, it’s a start.


For instance, perhaps someone you'd like to get to know better is talking before class about not understanding last night’s algebra homework. Join in the conversation by saying something like, “I didn’t understand it either! I’m definitely going to ask the teacher about it today,” or something to that effect.
 You aren’t going to be interested in everything that people say to you all the time. It’s just not possible. But make an effort to at least appear interested and engaged in the conversations you’re having.


Smile, nod, and ask a simple question every now and then to show that person that you’re listening to them.
By making yourself available and open to listening to what they have to say, they will feel closer to you. Sometimes people just need to be heard.
 Getting in the habit of small talk and chatting takes practice, but don’t let it become an empty gesture. Be lively, make jokes when appropriate, and talk about topics you genuinely find interesting whenever possible. This makes chatting with others so much easier, and you’ll find that both of you will start looking forward to future conversations with one another.

