 Your doctor will determine what type of acne scars you have. The severity of your acne will vary the type of treatment applied. Acne scars can be divided into several types:Hyperpigmentation (darker areas of the skin) is not scarring, but can benefit from the same treatments as acne scarring.
“Ice Pick” scarring are small, pitted scars.
“Box Car” scars are distributed at an angle and look a lot like the scars left by chicken pox. They are shallower pits than the “ice pick” type of scar.
“Rolling” scars represent deeper skin damage. They are wide and shallow and look like “waves” moving across the skin.
Hypertrophic scars (keloids) are a type of scarring that occurs when the skin over-reacts during the healing process. They are raised and lumpy. These scars are most commonly the result of severe, cystic acne.
 Your dermatologist might even suggest an over-the-counter treatment before you ask about them. Over-the-counter treatments for mild acne usually contain benzoyl peroxide or salicylic acids., Your dermatologist should give you several options, as there are a number of dermatological treatments for light acne scarring. Options include:


Topical treatments: these include topical creams that usually containing retinoids or silicone. These are also very commonly used along with other treatments.
Dermabrasion: removes the top layers of skin and is used for small scars. It is the most common treatment for acne scars.
 Scarring that is severe will take more intensive treatment to heal. Resurfacing may be needed to treat severe acne scarring.


Chemical Peels can be used to remove the topmost layer of skin.
Laser resurfacing and light therapies are high-energy light beams can be used to burn away damaged skin. Raised acne scars can be treated with a pulsed dye laser or an intense pulsed light.
Cryotherapy freezes the scar tissue, which eventually falls off. There is a tendency for the skin to lighten up after cryotherapy.
 Sometimes your doctor will need to treat the acne scarring from beneath the skin. There are a variety of ways your dermatologist may go about this:


Dermal Filler Injections can be used for the “Ice Pick” scars and others. Collagen is injected under the skin to “fill in” the pits.
Punch grafts are small skin grafts. The dermatologist will punch a hole to remove the scar and then replace it with your own skin. Punch grafts are most commonly used to help treat deep acne scars.
Subcutaneous incision, also called subcision. The dermatologist will use a surgical probe to pull apart the skin and scar tissue. This results in the scar flattening and is used for pitted acne scars.
Autologous fat transfer. This procedure fills in any pits by transferring fat from one site in your skin to another and is most commonly used to treat deep, pitted scars.
Injections. A steroid is injected directly into a raised scar. This makes the scar get softer and flatter.

