 Before you begin creating this hairstyle, it's helpful to add texture and grit with a spray. This is particularly important if have fine, silky hair that slips through finger easily. By adding a bit of texture to your hair, you'll make the braiding process easier and ensure your braid stays in place all day. Grab your spray of choice and spritz it through your hair, running your fingers through your hair to help distribute the product.






;
, The easiest way to do this hairstyle is by creating two braided pigtails. First, part your hair straight down the middle. Then, gather your hair into two sections, one on either side of your head. Clip one pigtail out of the way as you start with the other.
 Before you begin braiding your hair, make sure you pull out any bangs or strands of hair in the front that you want to frame your face. Then, split the section of hair into two even pieces. Unlike a traditional three-strand braid, a fishtail braid is created with two strands.
 Cross it over and join it with the opposite section of hair. Do the same thing on the opposite side: grab a small section of hair from the outer edge of the other strand, cross it over, and join it with the opposite section. Between each of these movements, you will only have those two original sections of hair. Make sure you hold these tightly so that the braid remains taut.









Creating a perfect fishtail braid takes a bit longer than a traditional braid, but is not complicated. You should be good to go after a bit of practice!

, Continue crossing strands of hair and joining them with the opposite section. Before long, you will see the intricate-looking pattern forming. Hold the two sections tight and continue doing this until you have no hair left to braid.
 When you reach the end of your hair, hold the end in one hand firmly. With your other hand, gently pull apart the braid. In other words, pull on the edges of your braid to add volume and width to your braid. You want your finished fishtail braid to look big and loose, rather than tight and perfect. When you are satisfied with how it looks, secure the end with a clear elastic hair tie.
 Unclip the second section of hair on the other side of your head. Split this section into two pieces and begin fishtail braiding it. When you reach the end of your hair, loosen your braid with your fingers and secure it with a hair tie. You should now have two loose fishtail braid pigtails.
 Once you are finished creating your two pigtails, it is time to create the crown. Lift up one of your pigtails – it doesn’t matter which – and stretch it over your head like a headband. Use bobby pins to secure the end of the pigtail in place on the other side of your head.
 Once the first pigtail is pinned in place over the top of your head, it’s time to complete the full crown. Take your second pigtail and wrap it underneath your head. In other words, the two pigtails will end up forming a full circle around your head – the “crown”! Like the first braid, pin this second braid in place with bobby pins.
 Once you have pinned your pigtails into place, use a handheld mirror to examine the back of your hairstyle. Make sure you like how everything looks, and re-pin your braids if necessary! Then, spritz your entire style with hairspray. This will help hold your braids in place as well as to reduce the chance of frizz and flyaways.








