 When it comes to dressing during pregnancy, comfort and style are key. What feels right in week 9 may feel downright wrong by week 14.


What perfectly flatters your curves during the second trimester may become rather indecent by the tail end of your pregnancy. Buy the right size for your changing body. Do not buy larger clothes then you need unless you like how they look.
Purchase clothing designed for maternity wear when you start to show if you wish. This clothing will be built for greater comfort, and it’s usually a better idea than purchasing regular clothing in bigger sizes. If cost is an issue, check thrift stores. You can usually wear regular clothes for the first three months.
Avoid the temptation to just buy much larger clothes unless you want to. The problem with just buying larger clothes is it can make you look, well, larger. Maternity clothes will be fitted in the right places while allowing room for the bump, so they can help you retain a sense of shape.;
, Different people carry their babies different ways. Some people have high pregnancies, for example, and some people carry the baby lower.For those carrying their babies low, clothing that’s soft on the waistline will be more comfortable. Shirts cut below the bump can look attractive.
If you’re carrying high, you can try to create a line between the breasts and bump by adding high belts and ties.
Don’t give up. Just because you’re pregnant, doesn’t mean you can’t retain your typical style. You don’t always have to go for the sweatpants, either., In the first trimester, the challenge for many is to keep the pregnancy under wraps. Many people don't want to divulge their growing secret until at least the second trimester. Thus, you can usually stick to non-maternity clothing for the first three months.


What to do: Go into your closet and put aside anything that feels too tight or clingy. Stick with silhouettes that flow over belly, hips, and thighs that can camouflage the few pounds you may gain in the first months.
Wear soft knits, A-line skirts, empire-waisted tops and frocks, wrap shirts and dresses all work well. Another great piece for the first trimester: a "blouson" style top – that is, one that has a fitted waistband at the bottom but some roominess above the band. The fabric falls loosely over your belly while the fitted waistband keeps the look more tailored.
Throw on a pair of boot-cut stretch jeans for a comfortable, pulled-together look. Most maternity clothes have too much fabric for your barely there bump, but you've grown enough in other places that your pre-pregnancy clothes just don't fit. What to do: Stretch your wardrobe with a couple of key additions.
 The challenge: You feel like every few weeks you're a new size and don't want to blow your budget on new clothes every month.


What to do: Invest in a few items that will grow with you. Look for pieces that have details like ruching, tie-backs, buttons or gathering at the sides, and wraps, which will all let you adjust your clothing as your body grows and changes.
What's more, they will let you flatteringly flaunt your bump, which usually pops out during this time.
 When you're further along in your pregnancy, try buying fashionable t-shirts, only a couple sizes larger.


Maternity pants are go-to super comfortable, and fashionable during pregnancy. Consider ditching heels, as they may lead to back problems. Try comfortable flats or boots instead.
If you're feeling self-conscious about ugly maternity wear, try adding scarves or jackets, belts, necklaces, etc.
It’s all about the pants. Find comfortable pants that fit well. You can wear your shirts for most if not all of your pregnancy as long as you like how they look, they and won't be stretched so you can't wear them again. If you do buy pregnancy shirts, make sure that they work for nursing so you double or triple the amount of time you use them.
 You can place this band at the top of your jeans, over the waistband that will no longer button or zip. This will work for earlier stages of pregnancy before you transition into maternity pants.


The band will keep your pants up, and no one will know they're unbuttoned.
In a pinch, you can also use a rubber band looped over the button and through the buttonhole to do the same thing, minus the smoothing effect of the band. You could use a big safety pin too.