 Most environmental and/or public health inspectors are employed at the state or local (i.e. county or city) level, and each of these jurisdictions may require a slightly different level of education. The best location to find required qualifications is on that state’s department of health website. We’ll use New York State for our examples.


Search for and go to the state’s department of health website.On the health department’s website, look or search for the careers section.Look or search for careers in any inspector positions. Each state and local authority may name the position slightly differently, but it will usually always include the word inspector.Review the specific educational qualifications required by that department of health. In the case of New York State, public health inspectors need an associate’s degree OR 60 credit hours of post-secondary education. Twelve credit hours of either qualification must be in the natural sciences (i.e. biology, chemistry, physics, etc.).;
, Various health departments at the state and county/city level offer internships for post-secondary students. These internships are highly valued by future employers and you should apply for internships as often as you have time available.


Normally these internships are only open to students and not recent graduates.
Many of these internships are unpaid, so you’ll need to obtain funding via another source, or budget for being a volunteer instead of employed.
 Some states have specific rules, based on their laws and statutes, that all civil service employees must follow. In most cases, the state rules will apply at the local level as well.New York State requires all civil service employees to take an examination based on the type of position being applied to.You can register and pay for examinations in New York State via their online portal.Examinations are then held periodically throughout the year at locations throughout the state.Once you’ve completed the examination, you will provided with your score and your name will be put on an eligibility list that can be shared with the appropriate state departments. As vacancies arise, you may be considered for the position based on your score and ranking compared to other candidates., Even if you have a high score on your examination and are at the top of the list, it does not guarantee you a job. You will also need to show your potential employer you’re the perfect candidate for the position. Review any potential interview questions you may receive and practice your responses.Make sure you bring at least two printed copies of your resume with you to the interview. One to give to the interviewer, if required, and the other for you to reference while answering questions.
Review the employer’s website and ensure you know the proper attire to wear for the interview. When it doubt, assume business formal attire.
Practice your interview with a friend or career professional. This can include the career center at your post-secondary institution. Career centers may also offer seminars on interviewing skills which may be helpful., Professional certification is not required for environmental and/or public health inspectors in the United States. Some jurisdictions, however, may require certification for some inspector positions. If certifications are not required, it is nevertheless a beneficial qualification to have on your resume.


The National Environmental Health Association (NEHA) offers certifications in a variety of environmental health professions, including the Certified Environmental Health Technician (CEHT) and Registered Environmental Health Specialist / Registered Sanitarian (REHS/RS).
Different levels of certification require different levels of education. If you’re considering certification, make sure to apply for certification at the highest possible level that your education and/or experience will allow.

