 Hyacinths, crocuses, daffodils, snowdrops and scillas that are grown in soil or soil-like mediums can usually be replanted for later use in the garden. Keep in mind though that sometimes even the best efforts can’t save spent plants.


However, amaryllises are widely known for their ability to flower on a yearly basis.;
, You will not be able to replant certain forced seasonal bulbs, such as the following:


Plants that are grown in water should be thrown out because the process saps their strength and they are unlikely to bloom again.
Tulips are less likely than any other plant to return after being forced so they should be thrown out.
Gardeners in extremely cold areas may also have difficulty getting certain tropical daffodil species to re-bloom.
 Once the blossoms have died, gardeners can trim off the flowering stalks but they should leave the greenery alone if they want their seasonal bulbs to flower in the following year. The leaves are essential for helping the plants obtain the nutrients that they will need to survive dormancy and return in the spring.


On amaryllises, the cut flower stalk may emit a large amount of sap after being cut but this is perfectly normal and no cause for alarm.
 Gardeners will need to place the pot with the green foliage on a cool (about 60 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit or 15.5 to 18.3 degrees Celsius) sunny windowsill so it can more easily store up nutrients for later use.Applying 5-10-5 fertilizer to the bulb plants every two weeks to help the plant store the nutrients it will need for the winter.
 After the leaves begin to turn brown, the bulbs no longer need water or fertilizer because they have entered dormancy. Their soil should be allowed to dry out completely so that rot doesn’t take hold.


At this point, the leaves can be trimmed off if any remain. The plant can be stored in its container or the bulb can be dug up for storage purposes.
 Amaryllises are the exception to the aforementioned scenario. They should be given ample sunlight and kept watered for the entire winter. They are often placed outside for the warmer months of the year.


Amaryllises can either enter a forced dormancy around August for Christmas blooms or be left outdoors until the late autumn months when temperatures begin to drop. At such times, they should be allowed to dry out.
They will store best at temperatures of around 55 degrees Fahrenheit (12.7 degrees Celsius), either in their pots or in the ground. After about two months in storage, these plants will send up shoots. When this occurs, they can be shifted to a warmer spot indoors (about 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit) for winter blooms.
 All other bulbs should be allowed to dry out. Take the time to gently dust the dirt off of the bulbs. Once cleaned, these dormant pants can be kept in paper bags in a cool, dry place.


These sacks can also be filled with dry sand, vermiculite, or sawdust to prevent the bulbs from drying out.
Gardeners will also need to label their bulbs, because otherwise they may get their plants mixed up while they’re in storage.

