 Hydrocortisone is a topical corticosteroid that can be spread over the rash. It will not cure it, but it will reduce itching. Hydrocortisone can be obtained in a very low dose over-the-counter and thus should generally be the first medical solution you try.Apply four times a day for no longer than seven days. If you have shown no improvement by then, you should speak with your doctor.Do not begin use of any other hydrocortisone product until you have spoken with your doctor.
 These are stronger steroids that can be applied directly to the rash during flare ups. They can effectively reduce itching and irritation. Topical corticosteroids are not meant for long-term use, as they can cause serious side effects.


These creams can cause the skin to thin and produce stretch marks.These medications must be prescribed by a doctor. Always apply strictly as recommended by your doctor. Do not use more often than recommended.
Your doctor may suggest mixing your steroid cream with a good, thick moisturizing cream or ointment to reduce dose and manage flares — you want to use as little of this product as possible to reduce side effects.
 These are also topical creams that reduce itching and rashes. They do not include steroids and thus do not cause thinning of the skin or stretch marks. These, however, are only recommended if other therapies have failed.


Two name brand creams that are currently on the market are Elidel and Protopic., Phototherapy involves prolonged exposure to artificial light that reduces itching, and inflammation, while increasing the ability of your skin to fight bacteria. It has been effective in 60–70% of patients who did not respond to topical solutions.


Although these treatments remove much of the UV light that causes the negative effects you would experience in a tanning bed, you still may experience some of the consequences associated with prolonged exposure to light. These risks include aging, burning, and even skin cancer.
This treatment also requires two to three visits to the doctor per week, for a period of a month to two months. Thus, it can mean a substantial time commitment.To receive phototherapy, you will likely need to talk to a dermatologist who can refer you to a hospital that has the appropriate facilities.Do not attempt at-home treatments. Proper facilities will remove much of the dangerous UV light. If you try to replicate this treatment with prolonged exposure to sun light or sun tanning beds, you will put yourself at considerable risk for skin cancer and other skin problems.

