 Every artist needs a portfolio -- the place where potential buyers or clients can see you work. Luckily, the internet is making it easy as website design spaces like Wix.com, SquareSpace, and Wordpress all have templates designed for artists portfolios. All you have to do is customize the name, color, and bio, then import images or videos of your art.


Purchase a custom domain name if you are looking for professional clients. A site like www.MyPortfolio.wordpress.com looks much less professional than www.MyPortfolio.com.
When done, attach this portfolio to all your social media accounts to make it easy to find.
Consider printing (or drawing/designing, for memorable flair) some business cards to get the word around., Contact small galleries near you to see if you can put some work up. Look into that restaurant or coffee shop that puts work on the walls. And, if all else fails, throw your own art show. All you need is a space to hang everything, some refreshments, and friends willing to come and support you.


Try to host shows with multiple artists when possible. That way, everyone brings their own friend groups so each artist can meet new fans.
You never know if you can display your work unless you ask. Don't be intimidated -- they absolute worst thing that happens is the word, "no."
Consider hosting "open studio" session once a month, where friends and curious spectators can watch you work and talk about your process., Few, if any, artists are so skilled that they can't benefit from some kind of formal instruction. Art classes can help you get past problems with your work that you haven't been able to solve on your own, identify areas in which you could improve, or just give you some direction and a regular time to devote to working on art. There are courses available for all skill levels at colleges, community centers, local arts centers, and numerous other places.


Your teacher and fellow students are essential contacts as you build your career. They can point to new opportunities, team up with you for shows, and support your work in the difficult early years when you're still unknown.
Never discount a connection or friend. In the word-of-mouth driven art scene, a wide, strong social network is king., It isn't always a ton of fun, but it is absolutely essential if you intend to be a professional. No one wants to champion your art but you. And, in it's own way, this is a good thing-- you no longer have to hope the "right" person shows up in your gallery. Instead, hard work online can get your work into many corners of the internet, and even make some money.


If you make smaller, sellable art pieces, consider a shop on Etsy or eBay.
Instagram, Tumblr, and Pinterest, with their large pictures and big art networks, are great places to share and see work.
Pick 1-2 social media accounts to run and stick with those. Trying to work on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, etc. all at once is impossible to do well without spending all day on the internet., Artist need to stick together, and many of the greats have come from collectives and groups. It is no mistake that many famous artists knew each other before striking it big, and some of the greatest moments in art (Paris in the 40's, NY in the 80's) come from shared creative communities. So go to local shows, enroll in classes, and collaborate with other artists. A rising tide carries all boats, so get out there and make some waves.


If you're struggling to find a community, look online. There are tones of forums, sites, and communities (like the famous DeviantArt) that allow you to showcase work.Pay attention to your contemporaries, supporting their own shows and work. When you are first starting out, your best network will be artists in the same situation.
 If you don't make art a daily priority, then it's going to be really hard to be a good artist. That is just the reality of practice-- all the talent in the world doesn't help if you don't sit down and make art. Honestly, this may require some sacrifices in terms of work hours, salary, and living situation. But if you want to be a professional artist, none of this should matter. You get to make art every single day!


Always remember, especially in the early yeas of practice, that all of your favorite artists went through the same process.