 If you are a child or teen, then that means doing the chores or helping your parents or older siblings with tasks like taking out the garbage or cleaning the dishes. As an adult, you can do your best to create a positive environment for your family. You could prepare a freshly cooked meal, buy flowers to lighten up the mood, or make improvements on the house to improve everyone's life.


Clutter can create stress and tension. Make sure that you clear away clutter and do things around the house to improve your family's mood., Getting family members surprise gifts can lift their spirits and put them in a good mood. Buy something that they enjoy or something that they told you they wanted. A gift that has sentimental value will remind a person that you care and appreciate them.


Gift ideas include chocolate, flowers, a new video game, an instrument, or a Blu-ray of their favorite show.
If you don't have any money you can make a card, write them a note, paint them something, or pick a flower from a garden.
 When you realize you've done something wrong, it's important to apologize. Instead of letting time pass, approach the person you hurt and say you're sorry. Don't think about the act and whether you think it's justified or not. Instead, concentrate on how your actions made the other person feel. Take personal responsibility  for your actions and don't place the blame on others.


You can say something like, "I'm really sorry about forgetting to let out the dog yesterday. It was really my fault and I'll try not to do it again."

, Everyone goes through tough times and needs support. One of the best places to receive that support is through your family. Try to understand your family member's perspective and consider how they feel and why they feel that way. Give whatever support you can, but don't push the issue. Make them realize that you're there for them whenever they are ready to talk.


If you are an adult, try to stay away from being dismissive or saying things like "get over it" to younger family members. Even though the issue may seem trivial to you, it could be causing them immense stress.
If you are child or teen, try supporting older family members through rough times by helping out more around the house and doing nice things for them.
Be on your best behavior when your parents are working a lot or someone in your family is sick.
If a younger family member needs advice, make sure to be there for them.

