 One of the best ways to learn about Ancient Rome is to visit your local library or book store to find books on the subject. At a library or book store, you’ll be able to browse through a wide variety of books on a number of subjects related to Roman history and life. Finding books to read on Ancient Rome is perhaps the best way to learn about the subject.


Consider classics like Edward Gibbon’s History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (1776).
Look at books on different aspects of Roman history and society. Consider religion, government, language, military history, and more.
Think about eBooks or other books online. There are a wide variety of websites that offer free digital copies of classic works on a variety of subjects.;
, Another great way to learn about Ancient Rome is to enroll in formal education courses that focus on the subject. By enrolling in a class at your local college or taking a class online, you’ll have the benefit of learning about Ancient Rome from experts who have dedicated a large part of their lives to studying the subject.


Look into courses at your local community college or at a university.
The types of courses you might investigate include introductory classes to world civilization, higher level courses specifically on Ancient Rome, or graduate courses that focus on specific parts of Roman life and/or history.
Remember that you don’t need to pursue a degree to attend or audit a course. You might even be able to attend lectures for free – talk to the professor who teaches the course.
Consider open courses through various universities. Yale University has a number of courses posted online that include syllabi, video-recorded lectures and more. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology also has a similar program. Take a look at an Open MIT course on Ancient Rome here: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/history/21h-302-the-ancient-world-rome-spring-2005/


, You can also learn about Ancient Rome through film. Film is a great medium to watch for learning and for entertainment. As a result, film is a great way to soak in information in a very low stress way.


Consider documentaries like the BBC's The Story of Ancient Rome.

Consider historical fiction movies like Gladiator.

Consider television shows like HBO's Rome.

When watching historical fiction in film or on TV, make sure to choose historically accurate works. Read reviews on popular review sites for an idea of the accuracy of any given film or TV show., The internet is full of great online resources that will help you learn about Ancient Rome. Many websites have full pages, sections, or other offerings dedicated to Roman history. Consider:


Online encyclopedias.
Online databases like JSTOR.
Websites specifically dedicated to the history of Ancient Rome.
 One great way to learn about Ancient Rome is to travel to Italy. As the center of the Roman Republic and later the Roman Empire, Italy contains a vast number of ruins and other cultural resources.


Make sure to tour Rome to see major Roman architectural wonders like the Coliseum.
Visit museums that showcase Roman history and art. Think about visiting the Museum of Roman Civilization (in Rome).
Consider visiting places like Pompeii to get a better idea of what Roman towns looked like.