 Sit down with your partner (if you have one) and talk about how you want to adopt and which children you will consider adopting. Evaluate the following:


You can adopt a child born in the U.S. or one born in a different country. If you’re worried about a birth mother changing her mind, you might want an international adoption.
You can adopt a baby or an older child.
You can adopt a child that is the same race and religion as you, or not. Depending on your choices, you might have to wait longer.
You can adopt a family member or a stepchild. You’ll work with a lawyer to complete this process.;
, Many people seeking a domestic adoption will work with an adoption agency. You can find a list of agencies at the state’s Department of Family and Protective Services website: http://www.dfps.state.tx.us/Adoption_and_Foster_Care/Adoption_Partners/private.asp. Agencies differ, so you always want to call and talk to someone before sending in an application. Check the following:


Are they certified by the state?
Can you get references from parents who adopted?
What are the costs? Some agencies offer sliding-scale fees, depending on your income.
 If you’re interested in an international adoption, then you should get an agency that specializes in them. Most children adopted from abroad come from Eastern Europe, Asia, or Latin America.

International adoptions are much more complicated than domestic ones. You’ll probably need to travel to the foreign country, perhaps multiple times. Ask if the agency has someone who will travel with you who speaks the language.
Check whether the agency has been accredited by the Council on Accreditation., Texas has over three thousand foster children who are available for adoption.They range in age from infancy to 18 years of age. You should contact DFPS if you are interested in adopting a foster child.

Many foster children have special emotional, physical, and medical needs. Families who adopt special needs children may qualify for adoption assistance., If you want to adopt a stepchild or a family member, the adoption process is a little different than the process described in this article, but a lawyer will help you. All other adoptive parents might benefit from working with an adoption attorney as well.

You can get a referral by contacting the Texas Bar Association at 800-252-9690, Monday through Friday, 8:30 am to 4:30 pm.You can also find Texas adoption attorneys at the American Academy of Adoption Attorneys website: http://www.adoptionattorneys.org/aaaa/state-directory/tx-texas.
 Ask agencies about their eligibility requirements. They may have different requirements regarding age and religion.If you want to adopt a foster child, then you must be at least 21 years of age.
 Get comfortable with the requirements before you start the process. If you’re interested in working with a private agency, then call one up and ask any questions that you have. You should also ask for written information about their adoption program.DFPS puts on an information session for those interested in adopting foster children. Visit https://www.dfps.state.tx.us/Adoption_and_Foster_Care/Get_Started/Information_Meetings/default.asp to find a session near you.
 Each private agency sets its own fees, so ask for written policies ahead of time. Review them carefully and ask questions if you have any. Financial disputes between adoptive parents and agencies are the most common disputes. Don’t sign up with an agency unless all of your concerns are addressed., DFPS and private adoption agencies will ask for basic information to start. For example, you will need to provide information about your age, education, employment, and income. There may be an application fee., Throughout history, closed adoptions were the norm. You never knew the birth parents’ identities, and they didn’t know yours. After the adoption, you had no contact with them.Things are different today. You can certainly still choose a closed adoption, but you should consider an open adoption.
Open adoptions vary. For example, you might exchange letters or cards, or even meet yearly. It’s up to you, but you should give serious thought to how much involvement you want with the birth family before getting too far in the adoption process.
 Parents adopting foster children must attend a PRIDE training program, which stands for Parent Resource Information Development Education. The course covers topics such as loss and grief, child attachment, and how adoption affects a family., You’ll have to provide the case worker with information about your family. Check what you need to provide. Typically, you’ll need to provide birth certificates for every family member, along with a marriage certificate if you are married.Ask for a checklist so you can get documents in a timely manner.

You’ll probably also have to provide references. Choose people who know your family well, such as your neighbors or a faith leader.
 The social worker will also need to walk through your home to make sure it is safe enough for a child to live with you. Prepare by walking through and correcting any obvious hazards, such as exposed wires or broken windows.

Make sure dangerous chemicals are stored safely outside the reach of children.
Store firearms properly in locked cases, and keep the ammunition separate from the firearms.Clean the house as best you can. Remove trash, old magazines, cigarette butts, and animal droppings.
If the social worker identifies problems, you can work to fix them.
 You’ll discuss a variety of topics at the meeting, such as the following:Why you want to adopt and how everyone in your family feels about the adoption.
Any health problems you or family members have.
Your family relationships, including your marriage.
Your thoughts on disciplining children.
Your memories of your own childhood, including any history of abuse or neglect.
 DFPS must perform a criminal background check on adults in the household. They will also need to perform an abuse/neglect check, to see if any allegations of abuse have been lodged against any adult.For these purposes, an adult is someone 14 or older who either lives in the house or regularly visits it., Once the agency approves you, you must sign a contract. Review this document carefully, and show it to a lawyer if you have questions., The selection process will differ, depending on the type of adoption you are pursuing. If you are adopting a child in state custody, you can look for children at the DFPS website here: https://www.dfps.state.tx.us/application/TARE/Search.aspx/Children.
 Once you have completed all of the pre-placement and home study requirements, DFPS or your adoption agency will make arrangements for you to bring your child home.


Generally, mothers have up to 10 days to revoke their consent. However, they can choose to give irrevocable consent, meaning they can’t take it back., The judge will need to sign off on the adoption decree after a hearing. Generally, the child will have to live for you for six months, but the court might waive the requirement if it’s in the child’s best interests.You and your spouse, as well as your children, should all attend. The judge will ask you a few basic questions and review the file to ensure everything is in order.
 Complete a certificate of adoption form, which you can get at the district clerk’s office. It costs $25 to file and $22 to get a certified copy of the new birth certificate.If you completed an international adoption, then you should consult with an attorney.
 Your adoption agency might offer post-adoption counseling or information, including support groups you can attend.Check what is offered.

If you didn’t use an agency, you can still search for support groups on your own. Look online.

