 It can be tough searching for a new friend when you’re also adjusting to your new role as a mom or dad. Instead of going outside your regular routine to cultivate friendships, look for opportunities in things you already do, or in activities that are relevant to your new role. One great place to seek out new friendships is a parenting group offered in your local community.


You may already be signed up for a “Baby and Me” class. Here, you have a wide selection of prospects to choose from because everyone attending is probably a new parent like you.
Also, consider nursing, music, or other parenting classes offered by nearby universities, hospitals, churches, or libraries. You may be able to find such groups by checking noticeboards at your doctor’s office, at baby stores, or at the daycare center.;
, Again, you are more likely to have the time and energy to dedicate to a new parent friendship if this connection fits into your routine somehow. If you typically take your infant on a late-afternoon stroll to the park, keep an eye out for other moms or dads with babies in strollers.You will busy enough as it is adjusting to the new baby. A prospective friendship is likely to crash and burn if you count on yourself having the time to take up a new hobby or take a non-parenting related class.
In addition to the park, consider other places you go with your baby, such as the pediatrician’s office, the infant aisle at your neighborhood grocery store or the play area at a local restaurant. Aim to get out more, which increases your odds of bumping into another new parent.
 If you are a mom or dad who's hoping to enhance your physical fitness by hitting up your nearby gym, look for friends inside. Many gyms have daycare centers where you can leave your baby during your workout. If this is the case, watch for other parents who are checking in their infants and strike up a conversation.


Finding a new parent friend at the gym can serve double-duty as a workout partner, too. Ask the other parent when they usually visit the gym and make an effort to coordinate your schedules for company during your sweat session., In the age of technology, there are abundant resources on the web for forging friendships as a new parent. You can create a profile on a range of parenting websites and search for moms or dads in your area this way. You can also sign up for New Parent Meetups by checking for groups in your community.Finding a group of new parents can reduce the pressure of meeting one-on-one. What’s more, meeting up in this manner enhances your social life by providing you with a selection of potential friendships—you can make one friend or five. Plus, many new parent groups focus exclusively on parenting tips, while others include other grownup social activities like playing sports together or going out for drinks when you have a babysitter., To feel better prepared, come up with one or two questions you can ask another parent to get a conversation going.


Good conversation-starters may include asking “How old is your baby?” or “What’s his name?”
Try to relax as you start connecting with other parents. This should be easier to do than engaging in a more stressful situation, such as on a date.
 All parents turn googly-eyed when admiring their children; new parents are no different. A terrific way to break the ice with another new parent is simply to compliment them on their baby.You can say something like “I know you must hear this often, but your baby’s smile is infectious” or “That dress is absolutely adorable. May I ask where you got it?”

, There’s a chance you’re a relatively shy or introverted person. If this describes your situation, you may feel awkward approaching a stranger.One way to reduce the pressure is to look for naturally-occurring ways to start a conversation with another new parent, such as when your babies “talk” to each other at the doctor’s office or when one infant’s crying sets off another.


During such situations, it can be slightly easier to say to another mom or dad “Well, look at that. Someone’s made a new friend” or “He’s teething and really fussy lately. Is your baby teething yet?”

, Shake off your first-date jitters with the knowledge that you aren’t alone in this journey. While you may feel a little awkward trying to “pick-up” a stranger, the other parent will likely be grateful for a chance to chat or plan a play-date.


Keeping this knowledge at the forefront of your mind makes forging a new parent friendship easier. Plus, if a connection doesn’t pan out, there’s no need to take it personally. The other parent may already have too many friends and not be in the market for new pals.
Also, keep in mind that that all first-time parents are going through a similar transition. You may even want to acknowledge that up front as an icebreaker when meeting another new parent.
 Focus on the common ground between you in order to take a potential friendship to a new level. Most friendships start and grow through the shared experiences or details of the individuals. Highlight your similarities to emphasize the likelihood of you two hitting it off.For instance, you’re at the grocery store and see another mom with an infant. You might ask “How old is your baby?” If your infants are close in age, you might say “Oh, my baby was born the week before yours!” Then, you can strike up conversations about shared developmental milestones or ask for suggestions on baby equipment.
 Don’t let a potential friendship candidate walk away without getting his or her contact information. After the two of you have shared birth stories or talked for a few minutes about your baby’s sleep patterns, make the next move.Say something like “It’s so nice to meet another new mom in the area. I should get your number so we can stay in touch.” Or, you can even try a more subtle approach of “Why don’t you text me the name and number of your pediatrician? He sounds awesome!”
You might also ask to add the person on social media. Say “I’m in this really fun support group for new moms on Facebook. Give me your info so that I can send you an invite.”

, Once you have shown interest in connecting with the other parent in the future, it’s important to follow through.After you’ve exchanged numbers, reach out to your prospective friend and try to set up a playdate. Or, if you’re too shy to go for a one-on-one meeting right off, invite the other parent to a group or class that you’re involved in.


If you do plan a playdate, select a time and place that’s most appropriate for the temperament and age of your babies. For instance, if your baby is usually very fussy in the afternoons, schedule a morning meeting. That way, you are actually able to socialize rather than spending the entire meeting soothing your baby.

