 You technically can request a writ of habeas corpus hearing at any time, including during your 72-hour hold. However, if you request a hearing before a certification review hearing, you lose your right to a certification review hearing.Generally, you want to take advantage of the certification review hearing. The entire process is much less formal than a writ hearing, and strict court rules of evidence and procedure do not apply.
Additionally, there is a possibility that you will be released following evaluation during the 72-hour hold.
This period gives both you and the mental health professionals who evaluate you the opportunity to further assess the situation and make an informed decision.
 Habeas corpus hearings, also called judicial review hearings, are not scheduled automatically. If the hearing officer decides you should be committed for a longer period of time, and you want that decision to be reviewed, you must request a hearing.If you want to request a habeas corpus or judicial review hearing after the hearing officer at your certification review hearing finds probable cause to have you committed, let the hearing officer know.
The hearing officer will prepare a request form for you that you must sign. The request form must be filed that day. The hearing officer will file it for you.
According to state law, your hearing must be held within two days of the date your request is received.
 Your hearing will be held in a courtroom at the superior court of the county where you're located. At your habeas corpus hearing, you are entitled to be represented either by a private attorney of your choosing or by a court-appointed attorney (if you can't afford to hire a private attorney).Make sure you're given the appropriate opportunity to shower and groom yourself before the hearing, as well as change into appropriate attire.
While you may want to dress slightly more formally for your courtroom appearance, more casual attire generally is appropriate as long as your clothing is clean and presentable.
Try to arrive at the courthouse at least a half hour before the time of your hearing. It will take time to go through security at the courthouse and find the courtroom where your hearing is being held.
When you find the courtroom, you typically will take a seat in the gallery. The judge may be hearing several other cases the same day as yours.
 At your habeas corpus hearing, you will have the opportunity to tell the judge why there is no probable cause to continue to detain you involuntarily in the mental health facility.Focus on evidence that indicates you do not present a danger to yourself or others. You probably want to speak on your own behalf, but you also can call witnesses if you want.
Any friends or family members who have agreed to shelter you or provide support and assistance after your release can make very strong witnesses.
If you were seeing a counselor or therapist before your commitment, they can provide excellent evidence in support of you as well.
Another point that works in your favor is a willingness to continue treatment voluntarily. Make it known to the judge that just because you are fighting commitment doesn't mean you don't want help. You just want to seek help on your own terms.
 The director of the mental health facility, as well as others such as possibly the state district attorney, also will have the opportunity to justify the facility's finding that you should be committed for further treatment.You will have the opportunity, through your attorney, to question anyone who speaks in favor of your commitment.
Your attorney's goal will be to introduce doubt or uncertainty in the minds of the mental health professionals who made the decision to commit you.
Pay attention when the other side is speaking. Don't shout out or interrupt, and watch your body language. Keep in mind that the judge will be watching you as well as listening to them.
 After hearing from both sides, the judge will decide whether to continue your commitment or release you. You will find out the judge's decision immediately after the hearing has concluded.If the judge decides there is no probable cause justifying your commitment, you will be released immediately.
However, you do have the right to stay on as a patient at the same facility if you so choose. You also can seek treatment at another facility of your choosing.
If you have a family member who has agreed to house and look after you, you will be released into their care.

