 There are quite a few basic essentials you'll need to buy for your Border Collie so that it will have everything it needs at your home. You should purchase a leash, collar, dog food, food and water dishes, toys, a crate, and a dog hairbrush.The leash should be an appropriate length for your Border Collie, and comfortable for you and your dog. This means that it should be long enough to allow your energetic Collie some freedom of movement, but short enough to still maintain control over your dog.
Avoid retractable leashes as these may encourage your dog to pull. Instead, opt for a long line leash while training your Collie and getting to know their personality better.
The collar must have an ID tag with your phone number and/or address on it.
The food and water dishes should be stainless steel if possible.
Purchase "indestructible" dog toys such as Kong brand toys. Since Collies tend to vigorously chew their toys, this kind will last longer (though most will be destroyed eventually) than stuffed toys or dainty rubber squeaky toys.If you want to crate train your Border Collie, be sure to get a crate that is big enough for your pup. The recommended crate size is typically 36 in (91 cm) x 30 in (76 cm).;
, Border Collies have long, beautiful coats that require a bit of maintenance. You’ll need to brush them regularly (at least once a week) and give them a bath every 4-8 weeks to help keep their coat clean and healthy.Be sure to purchase grooming tools, especially those appropriate for long-haired dogs. This includes a dog hair brush, hair comb, and nail clippers.
Trim their nails once every 4-6 weeks.
 Because of Border Collies' enormous amounts of energy, at least an hour of exercise every day is a requirement. A daily walk is necessary. And it is preferred to let your Collie run around freely if you have a big fenced in yard.You can also burn off energy in more engaging ways such as competing in dog sports like Agility or Flyball, hiking, swimming, or visiting dog parks.
 Though it can seem expensive to take your Collie to the vet, it really is in their best interest and it will save you money down the road. Give your puppy vaccinations. These are absolutely necessary for their health; consult your veterinarian for information on required vaccinations and appropriate ages at which to give them.You should also take your Border Collie in for annual veterinarian checkups once they reach adulthood.
Some common medical conditions Border Collies suffer from include hip dysplasia and several eye/cornea disorders.Fix (spay or neuter) your dog. This is a relatively simple operation that will help stop or prevent bad behavior, accidental litters, and certain health issues., A microchip is a very small device that stores your contact information so that if your Collie escapes, the shelter or another vet can scan it and contact you to reunite you with your lost pet. Because of Border Collies' intelligence and agility, the chances of your dog escaping is high enough that a microchip is a useful precaution.Microchips are relatively inexpensive and can be implanted by your veterinarian.
Vets usually prefer to implant microchips at the same time as another procedure (like spaying or neutering) to kill two birds with one stone and avoid putting your pet through any additional discomfort.
 Avoid cheap or "bargain" foods – these can lead to health issues down the road like obesity, dental problems, or even kidney disease. Good food is a necessity for your dog, especially a high energy dog like a Border Collie.Don’t choose cheap food brands with grain by-products (corn, cornmeal, wheat, etc.) as the first listed ingredient.
Instead, feed your dog high-quality foods with meat as the main ingredient. Look for foods that contain meat, poultry, or fist as the first listed ingredient.Use the serving sizes outlined on the food package as a guideline for how much to feed your dog. Check your dog's body each week, and slightly adjust the amount of food you provide if you notice them unhealthily gaining or losing weight., It might need an hour and a half of exercise every day, shred your expensive shoes, herd the neighborhood children, or otherwise make a menace of itself, but one thing is for certain: if you're a responsible and educated owner, your Border Collie will be your best friend.


Border Collies are typically great around children and other pets, especially if they have been raised around them. They might be a bit hesitant around strangers.

