 Use a calendar, erasable marker chart, or apps and other digital reminders to help your kids stay disciplined. Place the calendar or board in a highly visible area like, for instance, the front of the fridge where your kids will always see it. Use these reminders to remind your kids of their responsibilities.For example, you might write a few chores on the calendar each day so that when your child comes home, they’ll be able to check it and know what is expected of them.
You could also send an email or text message to your child directly in order to help them maintain proper discipline.
 After a divorce, children may lash out at their siblings, peers, or caretakers because they feel betrayed or saddened by the divorce. In order to respond appropriately to the child’s behavior, you need to first understand why they are acting the way they are.Of course, children who are not divorced might engage in these behaviors, too. But it’s important to factor in the divorce as a possible underlying cause for bad behavior when disciplining your child as a divorced parent.
If a previously good child starts engaging in negative behavior following the divorce, it’s probably due to the trauma of the divorce.
If your child is hesitant to open up with you (as children often are) you might need to enlist help. Have your child see a child therapist. Armed with their special training in psychology, child therapists can help your child explore his or her feelings and discover the causes underlying their behavior.
 As children grow, their understanding about what kinds of behavior are right and wrong becomes more complex. Therefore, kids of different ages should have different sets of punishments. For toddlers and kindergarteners, calmly saying “No” followed by timeout for a few minutes is usually effective. For older kids


As your kids age, allow them new privileges, but also let them know that with their new privileges come new responsibilities and consequences. For instance, let your child know that if they’re cyberbullying, they will lose phone privileges for a time.
Don’t dish out unrealistic disciplinary action when you’re angry. For instance, if you say, “You’ll never play that videogame again!” and then later allow your child to play videogames, they will come to take what you say about disciplinary action less seriously.
Never use physical violence – including spanking or slapping –against your child. This will only lead them to develop anger and doing so teaches your child that physical violence is an ok way to work through conflict, which can cause problems for your child later in life. Using physical violence against your child can also reduce the strength of the trust and bond between you.
 Divorcees often project their feelings onto their kids, or take the stress of a divorce out on them. For instance, you might discipline your child for doing or saying something similar to what their other parent often says, or for saying something in a way that their other parent may have said it. You might unconsciously express any lingering resentment toward your ex by being hard on your child. For instance, if you discipline your child for vague violations like their “tone of voice” or “attitude,” step back and examine exactly what you mean by that.
One big red flag should be if your child does not understand why they’re being punished. Good discipline should be based on clear, understandable rules and expectations.
If you’re having trouble confronting your emotions about the divorce, seek professional help. Visit a reputable therapist to work through your issues.
 When you’re weighing the validity of a disciplinary action that your ex is proposing, try to separate the proposal (or punishment) from the person (your ex). Imagine that your mother or a neighbor was watching your children and had the same rule, and reacted the same way your ex did. How would you feel? What would you say to them?If you can imagine someone else enforcing a certain rule and think it would be reasonable in their case, you should also accept when your ex does it.
If you and your ex ended things on a particularly bad note, mentally substituting another person for your ex in this way can help you stay objective about whether they are being a good parent or not.

