 It is important that the child's teacher understands their social struggles. The teacher can help encourage them to interact in a healthy manner with other children.You might say, “John is having difficulty making friends at school because of his ADHD. I was wondering if there was anything you could do to help.”
You might want to ask the teacher, “Have you noticed the ways that Marie interacts with other children in the classroom? What social skills do you think she needs to work on?”
If you know the specific reason your child struggles making friends, explain it to the teacher so that the teacher can identify this problem when it occurs. For example, you might say, “I know Charlie can get pushy and bossy around other kids. We are trying to work on his cooperation skills.”
If the child is doing group work, the teacher may be able to put them in a group with children of a similar temperament.
 Social skills groups are often run by child therapists or psychologists to teach children important social skills. They are ideal for children with ADHD as they will help them learn to interact with other children who are also struggling to make friends.Ask your child's pediatrician, psychologist, or behavior therapist if they offer this program or if they can refer you to one.
 If the child is seeing a counselor to help with their ADHD, make sure you talk to them about the child’s specific struggles with making friends. Not only can the counselor teach the child how to make friends, but they can help you encourage cooperation, patience, and sharing at home.


You might tell the counselor, “I know Lisa is struggling to make friends. She often complains that the other children are mean to her. What would you recommend we do?”

, If you have tried other options without success, you may need to consider medication. Children who cannot interact with other children may benefit from medication, which can help them pay attention to what others are saying and reduce aggression. Talk to your pediatrician or therapist.Medication is most effective for children when it is combined with behavioral therapy. Make sure you talk to your child’s psychologist to work out the best plan for your child.There are many types of medication for children with ADHD, including stimulants, non-stimulants, and antidepressants. It may take a while to find the right combination for your child.
Some ADHD medications can cause loss of appetite, sleeplessness, emotional outbursts, stomachs, and headaches.

