 You need to put some thought into it and make a decision before you do it. You want something that will enhance your portrayal of the subject and not detract from them. What are you trying to 'say' with the photograph? A happily married couple with their children, a college graduate...they all have different requirements.


Be sure that traffic isn't whizzing by or there are a lot of crowds. You want your client able to hear you and concentrate on your instructions. Having to yell at each other will do nothing for the actual photograph.;
, Be sure that when you shoot your subject (with the camera, of course), that you want them to be tack sharp, but you want the background out of focus.
 Be sure that there are not busy or overwhelming patterns in their attire. Take into consideration what the location looks like and be sure that they don't clash or blend in.


If this is going to be a group portrait, be sure that everyone knows it and that their clothing will match somewhat. Darker colors are a good idea because this allows you to be sure their faces are what is seen and noticed in the photograph.
 Get in the trenches with them, so to speak, and show them how you want them to sit. It is a lot quicker and easier to do that, than try to verbally explain to them what you want them to do.
 Obviously your 5'4" mother needs to be in front of her 6' son.
 That is always necessary. This will have the camera in one location while you move around and position the subjects the way they need positioned. It will also ensure that your image is as sharp as it can be.
 Unless going for an 'artsy' look, you will always want the eyes to be sharp. That is where people will look first most of the time.
 That would be early morning or late evening, but not dark yet.


Shooting at this time will reduce harsh lines and squinting from the sun.
 With it, you can direct the light where you want it. You will probably need an assistant to hold it and maneuver it, but it is a much better solution than using a fill flash.
 This will help to diffuse the light if it is too harsh. There are ways to make your own, if needed., You want to make sure that your depth of field is what you want.
 RAW is your image BEFORE it becomes an image. When you open a JPG, it has been converted with software from a RAW file. This will allow you to make a lot more tweaks and adaptations, if needed.

