 No matter what type of fruit you're drying, the flavor and texture will hold up best over time if you use fruit that's perfectly ripe. Discard fruit that's overripe and bruised, and leave out fruit that's not quite ripe yet.
 Dried fruit usually still has its peel or skin intact, but you can remove these if you don't like them. Regardless of what you do with the peel and skin, pits and seeds should be removed.


To peel apples, pears and other fruits with a tough peel, use a vegetable peeler or slice off the peel with a paring knife. Remove the seeds using an apple corer or by slicing out the core with a knife.
To peel peaches, plums, nectarines and other fruits with a thin skin, use the following process: slice an "x" in the skin at the top of the fruit. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Boil the fruit for 30 seconds, then remove it from the pot and place it in a bowl of ice to cool down. Once cool enough to handle, pull off the peel with your fingers. Remove the pit by slicing the fruit in half and prying it out.
 Use a paring knife to cut the fruit into equal-sized slices for easier storage. Fruit dried whole may dry unevenly or take forever to completely dry out, so it's better to cut the fruit first.


Small fruits are the exception; there's no need to cut blueberries, raspberries, grapes or small strawberries before drying.
 It's best to dry fruit at a temperature of 200ʡF (93ʡC) or lower. If you use a higher temperature the fruit may end up baking instead of drying.


If you have a food dehydrator, use it according to the manufacturer's instructions.
 Spread it out in one even layer to cut back on the time it takes for the fruit to completely dry. Use a nonstick baking sheet to keep the fruit from sticking., The amount of time it takes to dry varies by the type of fruit you're using, how how your oven is running, and other factors. It could take as little as eight hours or as long as two days to completely dry the fruit.Test the fruit periodically to see if it's finished. Fully dry fruit should have a pleasing chewy texture and be completely devoid of moisture.
 Place it in an airtight storage container and store it in a cool, dark place. Dried fruit will keep for several months.

