 Going to bed still wearing makeup, as well as any dirt and debris that may have collected on your face during the day, is a sure way to clog your pores. If your pores routinely look large, this could be part of the problem. Get into the habit of cleansing your face each and every night so your pores will be less likely to get clogged.









Use warm water, rather than hot or cold, so your skin will be less likely to get irritated.
Pat your face dry with a soft towel.;
, Many cleansers contain harsh ingredients that cause dry, irritated skin. When your pores are irritated, they look wider and more "open." In order to keep them closed, it's best to use a gentle cleanser that washes away dirt without causing your skin to dry out.









Choose a cleanser that's sulfate free. Sulfates are harsh cleansers that can strip the skin of its natural oils and leave it dry and itchy.
Avoid using a cleanser with scrubbing beads on a daily basis. The beads could be irritating to your skin, and should only be used sparingly.
 It's becoming increasingly popular to replace soap with oil as a facial cleanser. It might sound counterintuitive to use oil to wash your face, but it's actually quite effective. The oil binds with your skin's natural oils and gently washes away dirt, sweat, and makeup without the need for harsh chemicals. Just smooth it over your skin and use a wet washcloth to wipe it off using a circular motion. Here are a few oil combinations to try out:








For oily skin: Mix 1 teaspoon castor oil and 2 teaspoons jojoba oil.
For combination skin: Mix 1/2 teaspoon castor oil and 2 teaspoons olive oil.
For dry skin: Mix 1/4 teaspoon castor oil and 2 teaspoons coconut or olive oil.
 After getting a good night's sleep, it feels refreshing to splash your face with water. Since you don't wake up wearing makeup, there's no need to wash your face using a cleanser; in fact, it's better for your skin to give it a break and just use water. Pat your face dry with a soft towel.
 Dead skin builds up on the surface of your skin, mixes with sweat and dirt, and ends up clogging pores. Exfoliating your skin regularly will prevent your pores from getting clogged so quickly. The result will be closed, small-looking pores as opposed to clogged pores that look big and open.









One of the best ways to exfoliate is by simply using a washcloth. Wet your face and scrub it gently using circular motions.
You could also use a facial loofah pad, which digs slightly deeper to remove dead skin.
Facial scrubs are also good. Try a mixture of ground almonds and honey.
 This is a great way to open your pores so you can get rid of the small plugs of dead skin and dirt that are making them appear large and open. Heat a small pot of water until it begins to steam, then hold your face over it and drape a towel over your head. Let the steam bathe your face for three to five minutes, then rinse your face with cool water.









Steaming your face opens up your pores, allowing them to become unclogged.
Rinsing afterward gets rid of the debris, leaving your pores fresh and clean. Use cool water to close your pores.
 Clay is a natural element that draws impurities out of the skin as it dries. When you do a clay mask, dry clay is mixed with water to form a paste, which you smooth over your face. Let it dry completely, then rinse it away with cool water.









Storebought clay masks are available in most beauty supply stores. Look for a mask designed to unclog pores.
You can make your own clay mask by mixing a tablespoon of clay cosmetic powder (white or green), a teaspoon of honey and a teaspoon of water.
 A seaweed mask, like a clay mask, will draw impurities from your pores as well as helping them close back up. Buy a seaweed mask from the beauty supply store, or have one done next time you go to the spa.
 Whether you steam or use a mask, always remember to rinse away the dirt when you're finished. Follow up by using a toner on your face. Toner helps restore your skin's pH balance after cleansing, giving it a youthful, glowing appearance and helping to close pores.
 Beauty supply stores carry many different toners. Look for one that works with your skin type, but avoid toners with excess chemicals, perfumes, and dyes that could irritate or dry out your skin. These toners will do more harm than good, and your pores will end up looking larger instead of smaller.Avoid toners that contain alcohol, which can dry out the skin.
Avoid toners that contain glycerin and fragrances, since these can cause allergic reactions.
 Apple cider vinegar is made from fermented apples, and is a gentle, natural toner for any type of skin. Mix 1 tablespoon of apple cider vinegar and 1 tablespoon of water, then use a cotton ball to apply it to your skin after rinsing. Let your skin dry, then moisturize it., Plain, raw honey is an excellent toner for skin. Simply spread some on your face and let it sit for about ten minutes, then rinse it away with warm water. Your pores will tighten up and your face will feel fresh and youthful.
 Using a good face moisturizer is key to keeping your pores closed, since dry skin can become irritated and lead to large-looking pores. Chose an alcohol-free moisturizer that doesn't contain perfumes and excess chemicals so you make sure you don't irritate your skin.








