 Adding a Comments Box to your website allows Facebook users to comment directly on your website's content.


When users comment on your website, they also have the option of sharing that comment to their friends' news feeds.
Since users need to be logged into an active Facebook page to leave a comment using this plugin, it can help reduce the amount of spam comments you receive on your website.
 The simplest way to access the code for this plugin is through Facebook's special configuration page. You can customize the code to your needs on that page.


Navigate to the page here: https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/comments


, You'll need to type the URL of the exact webpage you want users to be able to comment on in the box marked "URL to comment on."


You can use any URL linked to an external webpage for this field. Note that it should be the exact URL of the specific page you want to Comments Box to appear on.
 You should also specify the width, number of posts, and color scheme of the Comments Box.


If you don't make any changes to these settings, Facebook will use the default values.
The "Number of Posts" field indicates how many posts will automatically show beneath the comment box. Regardless of the value you input, users will have the option of viewing more posts by hitting the "View more comments" button beneath the last comment.
 When you're satisfied with your chosen settings, hit the "Get Code" button beneath the form to generate the plugin code.


A pop-up box with two sets of code should appear within seconds.
 The first code is JavaScript SDK code. You'll need to copy it from the generated code window and paste it into the HTML editor of your website, preferably following the <body> tag.


This section of code doesn't create the Comments plugin itself, but it sets up a framework that allows the Comments plugin to actually work.
 Return to the generated code window and copy the second batch of code. This is the code that actually creates your customized Comments Box. Paste this code into the HTML editor of your website, as well.


You should paste this code within the body of the website HTML, placing it wherever you want the Comments Box to appear. The most common place for the box is at the bottom of the webpage.
 Save any changes you made to the HTML of your page before viewing it. The Comments Box should appear where you placed the code.


If the plugin doesn't work, you'll need to troubleshoot the issue by reading the tips and information provided on the original configuration page.

