 If you are baking or eating apples fresh, you may want to buy different kinds. If you want to bake a pie but you choose apples that don’t bake well, your food won’t turn out. If you plan ahead what purpose the apple will serve, you can make a more informed decision about which to buy.Fuji, Goldrush, and Red Delicious are great options for salad because they don’t visibly brown quickly.
Jonamac, Spigold, and Cortland are recommended for apple butter because they retain flavor during cooking and pair well with the spices used.
For making applesauce, use Jonagold, Cortland, and Yellow Delicious. If the skin in red, you can leave it on for pink colored applesauce.
 Learning apple varieties will help you know better what to use different apples for. This is also helpful for personal preference, as some people like extra sweet apples and some prefer tart. Some apples are more crunchy and others are softer.For example, Red Delicious are a classic for snacking, but are not recommended for baking or using in sauces. On the other hand, Golden Delicious are great for both eating fresh and for pies and baking.
Sweet apples include Ambrosia, Honeycrisp, and Fuji. Granny smith and Jazz apples are known to be a little more tart and tangy.
 While people usually buy apples in the store, which is easier and more convenient, getting apples from an orchard guarantees they are fresh. If you are able to get to an orchard, it might be worth the extra effort to get apples that are not weeks or months old, as store apples tend to be.


Look online to find out if there is an orchard within driving distance of you and plan a trip. This can be a great activity for the whole family, not just a necessity trip.
 Apple growers tend to use a lot of pesticides to keep the trees free of bugs. So non-organically grown apples carry a lot of pesticides with them to the store. Organic apples are free of pesticides and are therefore healthier for you.Farmer’s markets are a great way to get fresh apples. There’s also a good chance they come from smaller orchards which might mean they are tended more carefully.
Buying locally also means a better chance of getting fresh apples because they don’t have to be transported from far away.

