 If you can't completely become a vegetarian, try to eliminate meat for a few days a week, or at least a few meals a day. The meat industry uses a lot of energy to raise the animals, process the meat, and keep it from spoiling, all before it even makes it to your kitchen. Growing vegetables requires less energy.


Buy the meat you do eat from a local farm.
Consider raising chickens so you have access to your own meat and eggs!

, Instead of buying pre-packaged meals, which require a lot of energy to manufacture, make as much from scratch as possible. For example, if you want to have tomato sauce for dinner, make it from fresh tomatoes and garlic instead of buying a jar. It's better for the environment and healthier for your body, too.


You could even grow your own tomatoes and garlic if you get really into the idea of making things from scratch.
 The practice of mass-producing, packaging and shipping goods to make them available in stores is responsible for major industrial emissions, and making your own stuff allows you to avoid all that. You don't have to go all the way back to Little House on the Prairie, but consider making some of your household goods instead of buying them. For example,


Make your own soap
Make your own shampoo
Make your own toothpaste
Make your own deodorant
And if you're really ambitious, Sew your own clothes


, If something was made close to your home, that means no emissions were produced to transport it to a store near you. Buying food that was locally grown and other items that were made nearby is a great way to reduce your carbon footprint. Here are some ways to do it:


Shop for food at farmer's markets
Cut back on online shopping, since the shipping always requires multiple vehicles
Support local businesses

, The plastic, cardboard, and paper used in packaging is manufactured in great big emissions-spewing factories, so try to buy items with as little packaging as possible.


For example, if you need to buy some rice, buy it in bulk instead of getting several smaller boxes.
Bring a reusable shopping bag to the grocery store instead of taking everything home in bags.
Buy loose, fresh produce instead of canned or frozen.
 These are all great ways to cut back on the trash your household produces and reduce your carbon footprint. Once you get into the habit of using these three strategies, you won't want to go back to throwing everything away.


Anything made of glass can be reused over and over again. Beware reusing plastic too many times, since it can degrade over time and contaminate your food.
Follow your jurisdiction's recycling policies to recycle your glass, paper, plastic and other items.

Compost your food scraps and yard waste by placing them in a designated bin or pile, and mixing it every few weeks to help it degrade faster.

