 What do you actually do? Sometimes, getting a fresh sense of your job can help you to forget the day-to-day annoyances which threaten to sap your motivation, and helps you concentrate on actually doing the job. Are there jobs you feel like you could do well? Are their projects that you want to tackle? Think about why you are working and why you are well-suited for the job.


Where do you see yourself working in 1-2 years? How is your current job helping you reach that goal?;
, If your job doesn't quite suit you passion or skill set, find a way make it fit. For example, if you love to write you might offer to draft the company newsletter, or offer suggestions to your boss about ways to improve the copy on your website. Input a bit of your own personality in your work and you'll find that the motivation takes care of itself.
 One quick way to stay motivated at work is to look at what you have completed. Ticking off the to-do list is a good way to show you how much you have done in a day. It is also a great way to keep track of overall goals and show yourself how small, seemingly unimportant tasks come together to complete a larger project.
 Working isn't always fun. But the best way to stay motivated when doing tedious or tough tasks is to remember the end-goal. The best goals are personal ones that mean a lot to you, making it much easier to motivate yourself.


After you complete a milestone, like finishing the first chapter of a manuscript or completing expense reports on time, reward yourself. Celebrate your accomplishments and they will become much more meaningful.
Your goals don't have to be related to your current job. You could be saving up to go back to school or working your way up the company ladder to a better job, too.
 Negative thoughts have a way of festering, growing, and getting worse the more you think and talk about them. Instead of always venting about a terrible boss, difficult tasks, and annoying coworkers, think about the things you do enjoy. Make a list of the positives in your work and try to think about them every time you hear yourself complaining or thinking about the negatives.
 Don't force yourself to re-motivate for work every morning. Instead, make your work a matter of habit -- something you do and get done in a set amount of time. Having your work scheduled out and sticking to that schedule teaches your body and mind to turn on "work mode" when you need to work, getting you to your desk and completing tasks much faster.


Organizing your desk and tidying up your workspace is a great way to make work more manageable. An organized workspace is key to an organized headspace.
 Time will only seem to move slower if you're checking the clock every 5 minutes. Instead of counting down the amount of time you have left in the day, use your checklist to see how many tasks you have left and how many you can cross of. Make yourself goal oriented, not time oriented, to find more motivation.
 If there is nothing holding you to your old job, and you can't find any motivation in what you're doing, then it is time to start looking elsewhere. Work you enjoy or find meaningful will motivate you by itself. If you can't find the will to keep working your job for weeks on end, and you have no long-term prospects that might improve things, then you should consider moving on to a new position.

