 Calendula is a plant whose flower is used to treat physical symptoms. It is useful on the skin to treat swelling and inflammation.It’s also an antiseptic, which treats the bacteria that make blemishes grow. Ultimately calendula reduces redness.Use a tea brewed with calendula flower the same way you would use any face wash: let the tea cool so that it doesn’t burn your face, then splash it gently on your skin.
Prepare calendula flower tea by placing one tea bag of dried calendula flowers into a mug. Cover it with boiling water. Allow to steep for three to five minutes. For use as a face wash, allow to cool to room temperature.;
, Green tea is rich in antioxidants that prevent the skin from producing oil. It also eliminates inflammation. The result is in an herbal treatment that reduces oil production and calms breakouts.Simply dunk a clean, dry washcloth in a mug of cold green tea. Press this cloth onto the problem areas for one to two minutes, repeating this four or five times.
 Bark from the willow tree contains the chemical salicin,a source of salicylic acid. Salicylic acid is contained in most over-the-counter acne medications. This herbal source of the anti-acne acid eliminates dead skin cells, which allows pores to stay clear.


Brew one tablespoon of chopped up bark in 2.5 oz (70g) of boiling water. Mix this with 1.7 oz (50g) of witch hazel, one teaspoon (5 ml) of vegetable glycerin, 10 drops essential oils of choice, an equal amount of castor oil, and a preservative like gluconolactone and sodium benzoate to make a toner.Willow bark also brings down redness and acts as an astringent/toner.The FDA warns against internal consumption of willow bark extract because it can cause toxicity in various organs.
It is often used as an ingredient in commercial products.
 You use aloe vera to soothe sunburns—why not use it to soothe the inflamed skin of a cystic acne breakout? Aloe vera plants, when cut open, reveal a gooey interior rather like a naturally-occurring gel that can be rubbed onto the skin. Aloe vera gel has aloesin and aloin, both of which are anti-inflammatory.Try to use the plant itself rather than a commercial gel because they usually have additives.
 Turmeric comes in a bright orange powder and contains the ingredient curcumin. Curcumin has a variety of benefits for cystic acne: it is antiseptic, anti-inflammatory, and astringent. It can be rubbed directly on the face.Take one to two teaspoons of powder and mix it with enough water to make a paste. Cover your cysts with this paste, wrap it in gauze, and leave it on for 30 minutes or overnight.
Be aware that the bright orange color tends to stain, so keep it away from clothing.
 Keep in mind that you aren’t limited to only herbs. You can treat cystic acne with a myriad of other natural remedies, such as lemon juice, apple cider vinegar, even honey. Liquid remedies you can simply rub onto your face and wash away, while powdered remedies are best mixed into a paste.Also try blue tansy oil, neem oil, or an essential oil like tea tree oil.
Make sure you dilute an essential oil in a carrier oil like coconut or olive oil first.

