 Learning as much as you can about the triggers and treatments for your loved one's BPD is a good idea. Educating yourself about BPD can help you be more prepared to help when he or she has an attack, know what to do if he or she needs help, and help you empathize with the situation. However, remember that learning about BPD will not solve all of your problems or cure your loved one.You can ask your loved one's doctor for information about BPD or ask your loved one's therapist about triggers to avoid.
You can also use reputable online resources, such as the Mayo Clinic and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), for information.
 When you are helping a loved one who has BPD, you may get overwhelmed and feel like you are all alone. This is not the case. The rest of your family and your close friends are there to support you. Turn to them for help as well as emotional support when you are feeling down.Dealing with a loved one that has BPD can bring your spirits down. Take time after you've been with your loved on to recharge with other family and friends.
 When you are dealing with a loved one that BPD, it can be helpful to talk to others that also have family members with BPD. These people will understand exactly what you are going through and you'll be able to look to them for advice and support.Look for a support group in your area. You can ask your loved one's doctor if there is one nearby.
If you can't find an in person support group, look into online support groups for some additional help.
 When you see your loved one suffering, you may be tempted to try to fix his or her problems. Although being supportive and there for your loved one can help, there is no way you can cure your loved one's BPD. It is a mental disorder that your loved one must seek treatment for.You also cannot control how your loved one acts or how the BPD will progress. You just have to learn to work with your loved one to help.
 When your loved one has borderline personality disorder (BPD), he or she is suffering from deep emotional pain. All destructive or hurtful behaviors exhibited by your loved one are related to the disorder and are not a direct reflection of something you did.When your loved one does say something hurtful, it is a coping mechanism to try to stop the pain he or she is feeling, not a deliberate attack on you. Try not to let it get to you.

