 Most states have an online license verification system in which you can input basic data to verify a professional license. Depending on your state, you may need to gather different information. This is because state license verification systems are not standardized and information requirements vary from state to state. The most likely information will be:


Your veterinarian’s full name.
Your veterinarian’s physical address.
Your veterinarian’s license number. In almost all cases, your veterinarian will post his or her license in a visible location in the lobby of their business.;
, In the United States, individual states are responsible for licensing and regulating veterinarians that practice within their borders. As a result, the first thing you need to do to verify a veterinary license over the internet is to search for your state veterinary license board.


Each state’s website will vary. Often times, veterinary licensing boards will fall under the state department of business and/or professional regulation.
The easiest way to find online verification for your state is to search for the term “verify veterinary license .” In most cases, one of the first results will link you to a verification page for your state.
If searching for “verify veterinary license ” does not work, search for “veterinary license information .”
If you still are having trouble finding your state’s license verification page, search for your state’s department of business regulation website. From there, search that website for veterinary license verification., Once you’ve found your state’s online license verification system, you’ll need to fill out on the online search verification form.


Use the information you gathered to populate the form.
Make sure you have selected all of the appropriate boxes. Some forms may require you to select the licensure board in order to go ahead with the search. In this case, you’d search for a veterinary licensure board.
Hit enter., Once you’ve entered the required information and hit enter, the website will generate a list of licenses that match the information you’ve provided. From there, identify and verify your vet’s license.


The website may show several licenses for the same person. Depending on the state, it may generate a veterinary license and a business license for your vet.
Make sure that the veterinary license is “current.” It may also show “active.”
If the license shows as “expired,” “suspended,” “in process,” or anything similar, your vet may be practicing illegally.