 Perhaps the most fundamental rule in avoiding danger is not letting strangers into your personal space. Though most people are harmless, the only way to assess this fact is time. You should avoid letting anyone into your home or car who you do not know. By controlling who does and does not enter your home, you can further assure your safety.

Before opening the door, verify their identity through the window or a peephole.;
, Another way to stay safe is by making sure that your home is secure. Make sure that all of your doors and windows are locked at all times, even when you are home and even if you live in a safe neighborhood. You cannot hope to keep danger out if you are leaving your doors open to strangers.Make it a habit of locking the doors behind you anytime you enter or exit your home.
Before you go to sleep at night, make sure the doors are all locked.
 One way to make sure that your home is secure while you are sleeping or away is to invest in an alarm system. If an intruder comes in while the alarm is enabled, a loud siren will sound and the police will be alerted. This helps assure that danger does not enter your home without you knowing.Select a code for the alarm that won’t be easy to guess.
Consider also getting motion detection lights. Anytime someone is walking in your yard, a light will come on, alerting you to their presence.
 Your neighbors can be vitally important should an issue arise. Take some time to get to know the neighbors next to you so that they can look out for your home when you are not around or when you are sleeping. Also, should an issue arise, you might want to call your neighbors to alert them so that they can protect their house from danger as well., In the event that an intruder does enter your home or should a fire breakout, you should have a plan in place for you and your family to get out safely. That plan may include everyone coming to your room and then leaving through the window. Talk to your family about this plan so that everyone is on the same page., Dogs are a great way to be alerted to danger. Often times, before someone even rings your doorbell, they are aware of their presence. They can alert you to that so that you are prepared to be visited by strangers or potential intruders. In addition, should an intruder find their way in while you are away, many dogs will attack that intruder, which will stunt them from attacking you or taking your belongings.In addition, dogs can be caring, loving and very loyal.

