 Some diseases and conditions can predispose you to kidney disease or may even make kidney disease worse.Try to get yourself as healthy as possible to help your kidneys repair themselves.


For example, if you have high blood pressure, then talk to your doctor about what you can do to lower your blood pressure. If you have diabetes, then do what you can to get your diabetes under control.
A family history of kidney disease may also predispose you to kidney disease, so make sure that you take extra precautions if you have a parent, sister, or grandparent who has kidney disease.
 Getting regular exercise can help you to stay in good overall health, prevent weight gain, and reduce blood pressure.If you are healthy enough for exercise, then you should try to get 30 minutes of physical activity five days of every week.Check with your doctor to be sure that exercise is a good idea for you.
Try to find something that you will enjoy so that you will stick with it. For example, you might find that you enjoy swimming, biking, hiking, dancing, or a combination of these activities.
 Smoking damages your blood vessels and decreases blood flow to your kidneys. Since blood is necessary for healthy tissues, a lack of blood can cause damage and may also make it hard for your kidneys to repair themselves. Smoking also increases your risk of developing kidney cancer, as well as other conditions such as high blood pressure.Ask your doctor about smoking cessation programs and medications that may help you quit smoking.
 When taken too often, ibuprofen, naproxen, and other over-the-counter pain medicines can lead to kidney damage.If you take these medications on a daily basis, talk to your doctor about other options to manage pain.


Keep in mind that it is okay to use over-the-counter medicines for occasional pain, but frequent use can lead to kidney damage.
 If you are concerned about your kidney function or if you are at risk of developing kidney problems due to a family history of kidney disease, then ask your doctor for regular kidney screening tests.These tests can show if there is a problem so that you and your doctor can start treating the problem before it becomes worse.

