 You should try to create a history, or backstory, for a character that is distinct and detailed. Characters with detailed backstories are often more interesting to read about and come across more developed. Creating interesting backstories for your characters will also require you to get creative.You may decide to do character profiles of each character that includes the major details of their lives, from their profession to their favorite color to their favorite food. Though you likely will not use all of the details in the profiles in your writing, knowing more about your characters than the reader does will make them feel well-rounded and detailed.You may also create backstories for characters that focus on distinct traits, such as a preference for a particular music star or a fear of caterpillars that stems back to childhood. Adding distinct traits to your character’s backstories will allow you to get creative and think of interesting details you can give your characters.
 You should strive to create characters who feel unique and distinct on the page, as this is how your writing will stand out and feel creative. Whether you are writing fiction, non-fiction, memoir, or poetry, you should have characters who are going to be memorable to your readers. One way of doing this to give your character physical markers that are unique and make them stand out.For example, maybe you have a character who has a distinct scar on her neck. This scar may be a symbol of trauma she experienced as a child and make her stand out in group settings around other characters. You should describe your character’s scar to the reader so they know it is important to the story and so they remember the character’s physical marker.
 You can also create strong characters that are interesting and unique by giving them specialized language. This could be slang, a regional vernacular, or a distinct way of combining English with other languages. Having your characters express themselves in a certain language or style can really deepen their character and allow you to get creative.For example, maybe you have a character who grew up in a household where Spanish and English were spoken by her parents. She may then speak a mixture of Spanish and English when she is with her friends and try to use “proper” English when she is in school. Having these different languages for her character can give her more depth and range as a character in your story.
 You can also get creative with your characters by considering how they might describe an object or an event from their point of view. You could then create a voice for your character that feels distinct on the page and use this voice when your character is narrating the story. Giving your main character a unique narrative voice will add depth and creativity to your writing, especially if your story is in the first person.You may consider how you can make the main character’s narrative voice distinct using punctuation, such as a character who uses question marks a lot. Or you have use certain words or terms when you are writing in the voice of the character.

