 This portion of your statement will show the totals for the charges, fees, and other transactions made during the billing period covered. Here, you’ll see the totals of the payments you made to the credit card company, credits your account received, and purchases you made with the card. You will also see the totals of balance transfers and cash advances to or from the account.As the name of the section implies, this is a summary of the rest of the information included in the statement. There are separate sections that will list each specific thing that happened to your account, such as each purchase (or type of purchase) you made.
 Your payment information includes the total amount of money you owe (your balance), the minimum payment, and the date your payment is due. The minimum payment will tell you the least amount of money you need to pay by the payment due date.A “late payment warning” will also be included. Here, you’ll find information about the additional fees and change in interest rate that may apply if you miss a payment deadline.
 Changes in your interest rate are extremely important, as they will affect the amount you pay in interest on the money you borrow with your card. Penalty rates will apply if you pay the bill after the due date or if you spent more than your credit limit.Your credit card may also simply change your base interest rate – though they must tell you before they do so. You will have at least 45 days’ notice before a non-penalty rate change.
Note other changes as well. The credit card company may also raise the amount of certain fees or make other changes that could affect your account. If they do so, this information will also be included on a statement 45 days before the changes go into effect.
 You are much less likely to be held responsible for unauthorized charges on your account if you report them quickly. Upon receiving your statement, look at the transactions section of the statement. Ensure that there are no unauthorized or potentially fraudulent charges on the statement. If there are, report them to your credit card company as soon as you are able to do so.The transactions section will also include each cash advance or balance transfer to or from your account. Transactions may be grouped by type, or they may simply be listed in chronological order.
If you and another family member each have a card associated with the same account, the specific cards used for each transaction will be noted.
 The amount of money you can wind up owing your credit card company can add up surprisingly quickly. Refer to the statement's small print to ensure that you are not caught by surprise. The different specific interests and fees associated with your account will also be included in your statement.You’re likely paying different amounts of interest on each type of transaction. Identify which types of transactions lead to the highest interest charges and try to minimize these sorts of transactions.
If there’s a particular fee you keep paying, focus on changing your credit behavior to reduce the money you have to give your credit card company.

