 Don't borrow them from a library - buy them. It is essential to own the series. Read all of the books from 1 to 7 + Cursed Child and the textbooks. Be sure not to skip paragraphs, this is a common method of reading, but with Harry Potter, you might miss out on major plot details, or just interesting pieces. Make sure you read the information on the cover, as you'll learn all sorts of interesting facts by doing so. Get autographs from J.K. Rowling or the cast of Harry Potter.;
, The series is usually sold in special packs, but you can also purchase the movies individually. Try to get your hands on the special editions - they have extra discs in which you can view cast interviews and other exciting features. Make sure you are comfortably familiar with all of the movies.
, This is a great place to talk with other people about Harry Potter! You could join and read Mugglenet, the Harry Potter wiki, or even attend LeakyCon! J.K. Rowling has also, with the help of Sony, created an official Harry Potter fan/game site for Harry Potter called Pottermore.
 They are both musicals performed by a very funny and extremely talented acting troupe, called Team Starkid. Though they do combine many plot details together, they are extremely funny and popular among Potterheads.
 This is extremely important. You can't call yourself a Harry Potter fan if you don't remember their names, even if they only appeared once in the books or the movies.
 Stick Harry Potter posters up in your room - they aren't hard to find. You can also cut magazine and newspaper clippings out and make a collage. Try to get a Harry Potter desktop wallpaper, and as many Harry Potter products as you can - though pricey, there's a wide range and they are very worth it. You can also collect POP! Vinyls, since there are HEAPS of HP POP! Vinyls!

, Get your hands on the actors' addresses and write them fan mail - tell them how much you love them and how awesome you think they are. Try to be charming and polite, and you may be lucky enough to get a reply. Remember that your letter will probably go through the Actor/ess's agent/s,, Get all the information you can! The Harry Potter series is hugely famous, so you won't have too much trouble. Look it up on Wikipedia, or, better yet, go to the Harry Potter Wiki, a wiki that literally has everything about Harry Potter. http://harrypotter.wikia.com/wiki/Main_Page and spend some quality time on the the official movie site, JK Rowling's website, and fansites. Try listening to podcasts or reading other books about Harry Potter, such as "Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them", "Quidditch Through the Ages", or "The Tales of Beedle the Bard". Now that all the books have come out learn how to survive.
 The movies may not be as good as the books, but they are important to Harry Potter culture. You should watch them all, again, preferably in order. Try to watch them more than once, as to really take in all the information. Avidly follow the progress of each movie.
 If you you were just a tad bit disappointed with how any of the the books or movies ended, create your own happy ever after! The possibilities are endless. Join popular fanfiction websites and read, and try a dab hand at writing your own unique ending., You can choose one, acting like them and quoting them randomly, or adopt multiple characteristics.


Harry Potter
Ronald Weasley
Hermione Granger
Luna Lovegood
Fleur Delacour
Rita Skeeter
Ginny Weasley
Fred and George

, It is a great experience, and you can see inside the castle and really feel like you are in Hogwarts.
 Stick up for Harry Potter when no one else will. Defend the books and movies, as there will people who oppose them. Do so respectfully, however. Never stop being involved in the Harry Potter fandom, and never be ashamed to call yourself a Potterhead!

