 While having a muse can give you a new creative perspective, one's art shouldn't be dependent on someone else's influence. You can be your own inspiration if you set your imagination free. What creative ideas can you come up with by simply exploring the depths of your own mind? Do exercises that help release your creativity.


If you're feeling uninspired, shake things up in your life and try something completely new. Take a dance class or switch from painting to photography for awhile. Sometimes expressing yourself in a different way can open up new wells of creativity.
 Instead of going along with others’ way of thinking, or judging your thoughts and casting them aside, model your art around your original ideas. Don’t let yourself be bound by constructs imposed by society or the institutions you were born into. Pursue all of your ideas, even the seemingly bad ones, to see where they lead. Be your own muse by letting yourself run with even the strangest concepts you come up with.
 It's easy to stunt our own creative drives by refusing to let our emotions get the best of us. But some of the best art puts emotion on full display. Baring your soul's deepest feelings helps you connect with your audience in new and creative ways. Instead of trying to regulate your emotions to make them more manageable, let yourself feel them completely. Try making art when you're having a strong emotion, and see how your despair, anger or joy influences your work.
 Thinking out of the box will help you feel more creative. If you stick to a strict schedule and your days are mostly predictable, when do you have time to be creative and free? Give yourself more opportunities to feel uninhibited creative energy instead of following the rules all the time.


If you could live on a little less money, consider giving up your nine to five job for something that gives you more flexibility.
Spend time with other people who value creativity as much as you do, so you don't feel you're doing something wrong by having a lifestyle outside of the social norm.
 Do you pay attention to your dream life? You can’t control your dreams (unless you’re adept at lucid dreaming), but paying more attention to them is a good way to tap into the side of your brain that’s free to be strange and unique.


Try writing down your dreams as soon as you wake up. That way you'll remember them better and you'll be able to use them as source material for your art.
Connect what happens in your dreams to waking life experiences and emotions, and see what you can learn from your dreams.
 Your relationships, routines, encounters, reactions and observations can all feature into your artwork. Find original material in your daily existence. Explore your memories and history, your personality and preferences, and get inspired by your own way of seeing the world. There's no one else in the world quite like you. Tap into what makes you unique and be your own muse.