 Learn which items are safe to choose from. Clothes that are safe to pick from include:Men: blazers; button-down shirts; t-shirts; nice jeans; chinos; tailored shorts; casual sneakers; boat shoes; loafers, brogues; boots; dress shoes.

Women: wrap dresses; summer dresses; nice jeans; linen pants; tank tops; fitted tops; sneakers; flats; boots; low heels; sandals.;
, Aim to strike the perfect balance between casual and stylish. Imagine two extremes: a fancy ‘60’s cocktail party and a rough-and-tumble day at the beach. When picking items to wear, imagine wearing them to both occasions. Aim for an outfit that would look slightly too relaxed and casual to fit in with the cast of Mad Men, but too nice to risk scuffing up outdoors.


When in doubt, err on the side of fitting in more with the cocktail party folks than the beach bums., Avoid clothes made from fabrics that wrinkle easily, like cotton, rayon, and silk. Remember: you want to look casual but stylish, so you still want to look sharp. So unless you’re able to change outfits throughout the day, stick to fabrics like:Cashmere
DenimKnit
Leather
Lyocell
Polyester
Wool

, Rest assured: you don’t need a whole collection of individually stunning garments to impress people visually. Instead, create a more interesting look by simply layering the clothes you do have. Make them work as a team for a “sum-is-greater-than-its-parts” effect. For instance, you can layer:A vest or sweater over dress shirts.
A blazer or light jacket over a t-shirt.Tasteful bras and bralettes under any tops or dresses that offer a glimpse underneath.Stockings, tights, or leggings under skirts and dresses.
 Catch people’s attention by avoiding a totally uniform appearance. Vary your look by adding one or two touches that will either stand out from the rest or juxtapose other elements. For example:If, say, you dress all in black, wear a pair of white shoes (or a belt, or a tie, or all three).
Pair a skinny pair of pants with a loose-fitting top.Wear a tighter top or jacket with a billowy skirt or dress.Pair dark bottoms with light tops, and/or dark tops with light bottoms.