 Stimulating your scalp with massages, pinching, or brushing with a soft bristle brush can promote hair growth. This increases blood flow to the hair follicles, which brings needed nutrients to your hair. This can also help to reduce headaches brought on by the too-tight hairstyles mentioned above. Try one of these common scalp massage techniques:


Effleurage: This technique is meant to warm the muscle tissue and improve circulation to the scalp. It involves gently stroking the scalp with the fingertips or palms of the hands.Petrissage: This massage involves kneading the scalp, resulting in a deeper massage than the gentler effleurage technique. Petrissage relaxes and stretches the muscles, and also improves circulation to the scalp., Eating healthy will have a huge impact on hair growth. Your diet affects the nutrients in your body, and those nutrients are used to build new hair. If you do not have the proper nutrients, your body cannot build hair as quickly or as strongly. Eat a proper diet with the correct nutrients to promote hair growth.Protein: Hair is made mainly of proteins, so your body cannot build good strong hair if it does not have enough. Make sure you are getting complete proteins, either by eating meat, soy products, or multiple alternative sources of protein. Beans, seeds, nuts, milk, and seaweed are good alternative sources of protein but must be eaten in combination to produce a complete protein.
Omega-3 Fatty Acids: Your body needs these to produce hair. Hair is made up of 3% fatty acids such as these. However, your body can’t produce these on its own, so you need to be sure that your diet includes these. Fish (such as salmon) and nuts (such as walnuts) are an excellent source of these healthy fats, as well as protein.
Zinc: Without zinc, your scalp will become dry and itchy. This can lead to poor hair growth or even hair loss. Get more zinc in your diet by consuming fortified cereals and grains, oysters, and eggs.
Vitamin A or beta carotene: Consuming beta carotene allows your body to produce vitamin A. Vitamin A serves many functions in your body but also helps to regulate the oils on your scalp. Without these oils your skin will become dry and your hair will become damaged. Increase beta carotene in your diet by eating lots of sweet potatoes, pumpkin, apricots and carrots.
Iron: Iron is necessary for helping oxygenate the blood. This oxygen is necessary for healthy hair. Low iron is a major cause of hair loss, especially in women. Get more iron in your diet by eating dark greens, eggs, and meat.
Vitamin B: The entire vitamin B class will help promote healthy hair. Vitamin B5 is necessary to process the fatty acids mentioned above and B7 and B12 are used to process proteins. B9 affects cell growth directly. Get more B vitamins in your diet by consuming turkey, tuna, and lentils.
Vitamin E: Vitamin E is absolutely essential to healthy skin and healthy skin means a healthy scalp. It also helps to protect hair. Get more vitamin E by eating sunflower seeds, nuts, and avocados.
 Taking vitamins will help ensure that your body has the nutrients it needs to produce healthy hair. While eating a well-balanced, healthy diet should allow you to have the proper nutrients, vitamin supplements can help you ensure that you are getting the proper amount of each vitamin. Prenatal vitamin supplements are probably best suited to promoting hair growth, as these contain the vitamins most commonly associated with healthy hair.


Not everyone reacts to vitamin supplements in the same way, or has the same dietary needs. Consult your doctor before starting any dietary supplement.
 Applying a couple tablespoons of olive oil and coconut oil every couple weeks will flush your hair with antioxidants to fend off decay from free radicals.


Mix the oils together and heat the mixture up until it's warm. Make sure it won't burn your scalp.
Comb the mixture through hair. Make sure to get both the ends and the roots.
Let your hair sit for 20 to 30 minutes, then wash thoroughly and air dry.
 Drinking water will promote a healthier scalp and healthier hair. When your body doesn't get enough water, it begins to dry out. The skin and hair are the first and most noticeable areas of dryness from dehydration. Eight glasses of water per day is the typical recommended amount for an adult.
 Regular sleep cycles help your body regulate melatonin and cortisol levels, both of which affect hair growth. Also, sleep is necessary to maintaining your body in general. When your body doesn't get enough sleep, it begins to shut down side processes like hair production. Each person is different in how much sleep they need, so be sure to get the right amount for your body.