 When cold bacon hits a hot pan it doesn't have time to naturally heat up, allowing the grease to leave the meat and cook the bacon. Take your strips out of the fridge for 5-6 minutes before you start cooking.;
, Lay the bacon out on the pan so it is flat and none of the edges overlap. Heavy bottom pans, like cast iron, are best, but any pan will work.


Don't try and cook only 1-2 pieces at a time. They will often lack enough grease to coat the pan, leading you to burn the bacon. Fill the pan up with strips., Bacon cooks best when started in a cold pan, so don't preheat anything. Turn the heat on medium-low and let the bacon start to crackle slowly.
 The familiar, wavy bacon shape is a good sign your meat could use a flip. Turn it over and let it keep cooking, undisturbed. This usually occurs after 7-8 minutes.


If you are having trouble with splattering, place a mesh or wire pan covering over the top. You need to let the steam and air escape, but this will trap a lot of grease., Bacon cooking is less of a science as an art, so make the meat you want to eat. As the meat heats up, it will brown and harden. Do not, however, let it get past a dark, bark-like brown, as the next step is usually burning.


Bacon continues to cook in the hot oil after removing it from the pan, so be careful handling it.
 Remove any excess grease by placing the bacon on a plate with paper towels, then gently pat the grease off of the top with another paper towel.


The hotter the bacon is, the thinner the grease will be and the easier it is to remove, but you should still be careful. Cooking tongs are often the best way to remove the bacon.
 You should not pour grease down your drain, as it will solidify when it cools and can cause a clog. Luckily, bacon grease is an incredibly cooking oil that lends a rich, smoky taste to any meal. Let the grease cool in the pan for 2-3 minutes, then pour it into a glass jar to save. It will harden and can be used in place of butter, lard, or cooking oil.Drain the grease if you plan on cooking more bacon, as the new strips will add more grease to the pan. You don't have to let the grease cool, but you should prepare your glass jar by warming it up with hot water and draining it right before pouring in the grease to prevent shattering.
A bulb baster is a safe, easy way to remove hot grease while keeping the pan hot.

