 Eating disorders can have a negative impact on your sexual intimacy. Eating disorders can reduce sex hormones, and your negative relationship with your body may make it difficult to enjoy intimate activities. Tell your partner you want to build the intimacy in your relationship. Let them know your boundaries and what they can do to help make you feel comfortable as you work through it.For example, you may explain that you don’t feel comfortable being touched or being naked with another person. Instead, you can tell them that you want to start with hand-holding, cuddling, and kissing. Tell them which parts of your body you feel comfortable with them touching and move forward from there.
 Your partner may think that they can help you feel better about yourself by either offering advice or complimenting you. Your partner means well, but you should explain that advice and compliments won’t help you. It’s not that you feel bad about yourself, but a serious mental illness.For example, you should tell your partner that saying things like “Why are you having trouble eating? I think you look amazing” doesn’t erase the fear or impulse.
Also explain that trying to help you by giving advice or trying to help you realize that eating food isn’t a big deal doesn’t help you. Tell them not to say things like, “Come on, it’s just a cookie. It’s not going to kill you.”

, Though most mental illnesses are taken seriously, some people think eating disorders are only people wanting attention, people who want to be thin, or people who should just learn to portion control. However, eating disorders are serious mental illnesses. Ask your partner to take your eating disorder seriously and not to treat it lightly.Let your partner know you feel bad when they are dismissive of your feelings and struggles because it is a big deal to you.
For example, tell your partner not to say things like, “It’s just food. What’s the big deal?” or “I can’t believe you get this upset over a small cookie!”

, Your partner may think that to help you, they should watch what you eat closely. This means keeping tabs on how much food is in the house and watching how much food you consume in a meal. However, this hurts more than helps because it leads to feelings of guilt and shame, which can lead to destructive behavior.Ask your partner not to comment about your eating habits. It may trigger you into unhealthy behavior.
Tell your partner to let you know if they see serious or harming behavior, and to help you get help from your doctor if that is the case.
Say, “I know you may want to help me with my eating by encouraging me to eat/not binge, but that only makes me feel guilty, ashamed, and like I’m not good enough.”

, Focusing on your body can be harmful for you, and comments about your body, good or bad, may be triggering. Ask your partner not to put the focus on your body or physical appearance. Instead, ask your partner to accept you for who you are at this moment, regardless of how your body looks.You may want to suggest that your partner be mindful of objecting other people’s bodies as well.
Tell your partner never to tell you to lose weight or make negative remarks about your body. This could be very damaging for you.
Suggest that your partner accept their body. If they are dieting, starting a new workout plan, or unhappy with the way they look, ask them to limit that kind of talk about you.
Tell your partner, “It triggers me whenever I hear you talk about my body/your body, even if it’s a positive thing. Can we focus on other characteristics instead of the physical?”

, If your partner is struggling coming to terms with your condition, you may suggest that the two of you go to couples counseling. You may ask your partner to consider going to counseling to learn more about eating disorders, how to support someone with an eating disorder, and learn more about the disorder and coping process.There are support groups for people with eating disorders, such as Overeaters Anonymous or Anorexia and Bulimia Anonymous. There also may be groups for the families of people with eating disorders in your area. Talk to your doctor, therapist, or local hospital about what’s available in your area.

