 The first thing you should do is find the right keywords and keyword phrases to promote your website. You should think in terms of what you have to offer on your webpage. What words would a user apply to a search engine to find the type of content you provide?
There are various free online tools to help you find the right keywords including Google’s AdWords Keyword Tool. These tools will show you just how popular your keyword is and how effective it can be. They will also tell you the level of competition for relevant keywords.;
, When you have identified the most relevant keywords that you would like to use for promoting your website, apply the keywords to the site. Keywords should be included in meta and title tags as well as page content. It is important to avoid repeating the keywords too many times. Search engine categorize this as overstuffing a webpage.
 Because you are promoting a single page website, you will not have as many opportunities to upload fresh content as a multipage website. However, fresh content that is engaging and informative is still vital for promoting your brand online.
Creating a blog will allow you to meet your website’s objectives without having to create multiple pages on the site. You can easily increase traffic to your one page website by simply creating a blog where you can upload fresh content regularly.
Be sure to optimize the content you post on your blog with the relevant keywords you selected in the first step. Ensure that the content you post is informative and engaging to readers.
 Advertising is still an effective way to promote a website. Google AdWords has become especially popular as a means for advertising online. It allows you to advertise your website on search engine results pages that are related to keywords that you’ve selected. You are therefore able to draw users who are already interested in what you have to offer. This is therefore a great option for driving up sales and conversions.
It is important to search for as many opportunities as possible to promote your website. Be aggressive to make your efforts count.

