 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a red background with an icon of a camera on it. Tap on it.;
, On the welcome screen, enter your email address, or username, and password. This is the same one you use for your IFTTT account. Tap the “Sign In” button. If you’re already logged in, skip this step.


If you don’t have an IFTTT account yet, it’s easy to create one right from the app. On the welcome screen, enter your email and password, then tap the “Create Account” button. That’s it.
 DO Camera needs access to your device’s camera in order to work. A dialog box will appear asking for your authorization. Tap the OK button to allow it. If you’ve already done so previously, skip this step., The recipes are the tasks and channels that DO Camera will execute with a tap of a button. Tap the mortar and pestle icon on the lower-right corner to view them. Your recipes will be displayed.
 Tap the plus button on the header. You will be brought to the “Add a Recipe” screen where you can find and choose the recipe you need. There are hundreds of tasks and channels to choose from, and you can find one you need.


Browsing by Collections—Tap the Collections tab to view the recipes categorized by their purpose. You can see recipes categorized by Essentials, Home, Work, Play, and Families. Tap on the category you want to see the recipes under it, then tap on the recipe to add it.
Browsing Recommended recipes—Tap the Recommended tab to view the recipes that are highly popular. A shortlist of recipes will be displayed. Tap on the one you’d like to add.
Browsing by Channels—Tap the Channels tab to view the recipes by channels. Channels represent the product or service that DO Camera connects to. Some popular channels include Dropbox, Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, and Email.
Searching for recipes—If you know the recipe you’d like to add, tap the magnifying glass button on the top right corner to search for it. Type the title or keyword for the recipe you want and view the matches that will appear, then tap on the one you’d like to add.
 The selected recipe will be displayed. Here, you can learn more about the exact description of the recipe and what you can expect from it. Depending on the recipe, you may need to input certain details to complete it. Once you’ve completed any additional information it will require, tap the “Add” button to proceed.
 If the channel you’ve selected hasn’t been authorized with your IFTTT account, you will need to connect it first before you can use it as a recipe. Tap the “Continue” button for the channel to be connected. If a channel requires your account info, you will be asked to log in to authorize or allow the connection., The recipes are the tasks and channels that DO Camera will execute with a tap of a button. Tap on the mortar and pestle icon on the lower right corner to view them. Your recipes will be displayed.
 Each of the recipes has a pencil icon on the right side. Tap on it to edit one. The recipe’s screen will appear. You can edit the details from here, such as the description and album name. Tap the “Save” button on the top right corner to save your changes.
 Swipe left on a recipe you want to remove. A “Delete” button will appear. Tap on it, and the recipe will be deleted.
 From the list of recipes, tap on the one you’d like to use in your next photo. The selected recipe’s icon will be placed on the big round button on the bottom part of the screen, which you use to take a photo and execute the recipe. For example, if the recipe you’ve chosen deals with Facebook as the channel, the Facebook logo will be placed in the button., Position the camera and aim it. Tap on the big round button on the bottom part of the screen to take the shot. A single tap on the round button will execute the recipes you have for the photo you just took.
 If you’d like to draw or write on the photo before executing the recipes, tap and hold on the big round button instead of just a single tap. A short menu will appear with a pencil button and a text button. Tap on either one to edit the photo. The pencil will allow you to draw on the photo, and the text will allow you to type on it. Tap the “Send” button on the top right corner to send the edit photo using the recipes you have.
 If you have an existing photo from your media gallery that you want to apply the recipes on, tap the small box on the lower left corner to bring out your gallery. Tap on the photo you’d like to use. The selected photo will be brought to your screen. Tap the big round button on the bottom part of the screen to execute the recipes.