 The Ides of March corresponds more or less to March 15th on the modern calendar. This is the date when Julius Caesar was assassinated in 44BC. .


The death of Caesar Many is an important turning point in Western Civilization, bringing in an era of emperors and forever away from a Republic.
The Ides of March also marks the first day of the Roman new year and the first day of spring in the Roman calendar.
People have been studying the controversies, intrigue, and drama of this event for almost a thousand years. William Shakespeare wrote an entire play about this.;
, It is not an easy read, however, so often it helps to discuss in a literary group. Even better, visit a live stage production However, this work was never meant to be read, rather it is supposed to be performed. Think about what lessons can be learned from this play.
 They are The First Man in Rome, The Grass Crown, Fortune's Favourites, Caesar's Women, Caesar, The October Horse and Antony and Cleopatra.
 Assassin is a word with fascinating origins. First used in the 1520's , the word is believed to be derived from a secret society called the Hashshashin, a group that was said to have murdered others., There are actually many versions of "assassination games" and many feature made-up rules specific to the people or the organization (like a school). Most rules tend to center about how people can be "safe". (Such as not in class, or during an assembly). But it is a fun if somewhat paranoid way to play out how assassination attempts affects the way one interacts in the world., Romans wore a variety of clothing but the toga is perhaps the best known and the tunic is the easiest to make.Be aware that "toga parties" were originally revived by college party-goers in the mid-20th century and had a rather racy and sexual connotation to it. (Watch the movie "Animal House" and that is not too far off). Collegiate toga parties done off-campus are typically not students soberly talking about the finer points of the works of Ovid.
Wearing toga made out of bedsheets in your parochial school's Latin class with modest-protecting garments underneath is, of course, different.
 Serve with some apples, figs and grapes.


Try a selection of Italian food--but no pasta. Not everything at your grocery store may be absolutely authentic to 44 B.C., but olives, cheese, grapes, bread, asparagus, broccoli, pears, nuts, apples and various Italian-style deli meats is a delicious and healthy repast. Pasta did not come to Italy until well into the Middle Ages.
Serve French Toast. According to Apicius, one of the first known authors of a cookbook, Romans enjoyed what we call French Toast as a dessert...with honey.
 The Romans enjoyed their wine, so this is a good excuse for a glass or two on the Ides of March. But they (and Greeks too) usually didn't drink pure wine, but mingled it with water., If you've been thinking about visiting Rome and Italy, maybe the Ides of March is a perfect day to make that booking.
 Best to start with Caesar-related stuff like the famous "Et tu, Brute", "Alea iacta est" et cetera. Or maybe you'll even impress your friends by learning a piece of Caesars "De bello Gallico" by heart? (Gallia est omnis divisa in partes tres...)

, If you are good at telling stories, entertain people with anecdotes of Caesar's life.

