 Mudpuppies are found throughout much of the Midwestern United States, and particularly the Great Lakes Basin. They are limited by the Appalachian Mountains to the east, but follow river systems outside their normal range. They reach:

West into eastern Kansas and Oklahoma,
East into New York State,
South into Louisiana,
North into Southern Manitoba, Ontario, and Quebec.;
, In some regions, mudpuppies may be endangered or threatened, and federally protected as a result. Verify with your state's Department of Natural Resources if a permit is required, or if they are protected. In addition, make sure you are not within a state or national park, as it may be illegal to catch anything within the park., Mudpuppies can be found in lakes, streams, rivers, and large ponds. As they are completely aquatic, the body of water must be permanent, and cannot be manmade. The more isolated or undisturbed the better, due to less activity and pollution.
 Mudpuppies, like any species, live best under certain conditions. A body of water that meets these conditions is most likely to have mudpuppies in it. Here are some attributes preferred by these salamanders:


Mudpuppies require cover. During the day, they will hide underneath rocks, logs, and plants at the bottom of the water source. This cover is necessary for their survival.
Mudpuppies require clean freshwater. You will not find mudpuppies in polluted environments or salt water. They are very fragile, and susceptible to manmade chemicals in the water.
Mudpuppies prefer cold water. Colder water holds more oxygen, and allows them to breathe easier. As such, they can sometimes be caught while ice fishing in the Great Lakes.
The depth of the body of water required changes with water temperature. They can range from being found at 12" (30.5 cm) to 88' (27 m).
Mudpuppies can be found year round, but will retreat into deeper water as temperatures increase in summertime. In spring and fall, they will be more likely to be seen as a result.

